Skip to Content Search Search Search﻿﻿﻿ ﻿ Cornell University Registrar﻿ Office of the University Registrar Cornell University, B07 Day Hall. Ithaca, NY 14853 ‌Get Directions ‌ univreg@cornell.edu ‌ (607) 255-4232 ‌‌ (607) 255-6262 If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. Cornell University Courses of Study 2020-2021 Select a Courses of Study Courses of Study 2021-2022 Courses of Study through eCornell 2021-2022 Courses of Study 2020-2021 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2019-2020 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2018-2019 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2017-2018 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2016-2017 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2015-2016 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2014-2015 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2013-2014 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2012-2013 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2011-2012 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Jun 01, 2022 HELP Courses of Study 2020-2021 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Architecture Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) In the College of Architecture, Art, and Planning . Bachelor of Architecture B.S. in History of Architecture and Urban Development Architecture Minor (For Non-Departmental Students) Graduate Study in Architecture Master of Architecture (Professional) Expected Supply Fees Note on Professional Accreditation Course Offerings Bachelor of Architecture (B.Arch.) B.Arch. Curriculum Concentrations Rules Governing Architecture Courses and Curriculum The undergraduate professional program is normally five years in length and incorporates both a general and professional educational base. In the first three years, the student has the opportunity to establish a foundation in the humanities and sciences through electives. During the fourth and fifth years, this base may expand through further detailed studies in these areas. Within the professional program a basis for understanding architecture in its contemporary and historical cultural contexts is established. B.Arch. Curriculum: For Students Matriculating in Fall 2020 The following curriculum applies to students matriculating in fall 2020. Students who matriculated in prior years should follow the curriculum in the Courses of Study catalog for the year in which they matriculated. First Year: Fall Semester ARCH 1101 - Design I (6 credits) ARCH 1501 - Representation I: Freehand Architectural Drawing (3 credits) ARCH 1611 - Environmental Systems I: Site and Sustainability (3 credits) ARCH 1801 - History of Architecture I (3 credits) Out-of-Department Elective (First-Year Writing Seminar suggested)* (3 credits) Physical Education (1 non-academic credit) Total: 18 academic credits + 1 non-academic credit Spring Semester ARCH 1102 - Design II (6 credits) ARCH 1502 - Representation II: Media of Representation (3 credits) ARCH 1612 - Structural Concepts (3 credits) ARCH 1802 - History of Architecture II (3 credits) Free Out-of-Department Elective* (3 credits) Physical Education (1 non-academic credit) Total: 18 academic credits + 1 non-academic credit Second Year: Fall Semester ARCH 2101 - Design III (6 credits) ARCH 2301 - Architectural Analysis I: Buildings, Drawings, and Texts (3 credits) ARCH 2613 - Structural Systems (3 credits) ARCH 2614 - Building Technology I: Materials and Methods (3 credits) Free Out-of-Department Elective* (3 credits) Total: 18 Spring Semester ARCH 2102 - Design IV (6 credits) ARCH 2615 - Building Technology II: Structural Elements (3 credits) ARCH 2616 - Environmental Systems II: Building Dynamics (3 credits) Out-of-Department Elective (MQR suggested)* (3 credits) Free Out-of-Department Elective* (3 credits) Total: 18 Third Year: Generally, during the third year, half the class is at Cornell in Rome each semester taking the core studio and ARCH 3301 . Those not in Rome are primarily in Ithaca taking the Ithaca-based design studio. Rome: Fall or Spring Semester ARCH 3101 - Design V (fall)/ARCH 3102 - Design VI (spring) (6 credits) ARCH 3301 - Architectural Analysis II: Architecture, the City, and Landscape (3 credits) Out-of-Department Elective (art suggested)* (3 credits) Departmental Elective (architectural history suggested)* (3 credits) Total: 15 Ithaca: Fall or Spring Semester ARCH 3101 - Design V (fall)/ARCH 3102 - Design VI (spring) (6 credits) Free Departmental Elective* (3 credits) Free Departmental Elective* (3 credits) Free Out-of-Department Elective* (3 credits) Free Out-of-Department Elective* (3 credits) Total: 18 Fourth Year: Fall Semester ARCH 4101 - Design VII (6 credits) Departmental Elective (architectural history suggested)* (3 credits) Departmental Elective (theory suggested)* (3 credits) Out-of-Department Elective (MQR or PBS suggested)* (3 credits) Out-of-Department Elective (Art suggested)* (3 credits) Total: 18 Spring Semester ARCH 4102 - Design VIII (6 credits) ARCH 5201 - Professional Practice (3 credits)** Departmental Elective (architecture, culture, society suggested) * (3 credits) Free Out-of-Department Elective (required directed elective suggested)** (3 credits) Free Departmental Elective (required directed elective suggested)** (3 credits) **Notes: ARCH 5201 can be taken in the fourth or fifth year without petition. The required directed elective (RDE) is a Free Departmental or free Out-of-Department Elective. It can be taken in the ARCH 4101 , 4102 , or 5101 semester without petition. The RDE must be completed before thesis. Total: 18 Fifth Year: Fall Semester ARCH 5101 - Design IX (6 credits) Out-of-Department Elective (humanities suggested)* (3 credits) Free Departmental Elective* (3 credits) Free Out-of-Department Elective* (3 credits) Free Departmental Elective* (3 credits) Total: 18 Spring Semester ARCH 5902 - Design X Thesis (8 credits) Free Departmental Elective (3 credits) Free Out-of-Department Elective (3 credits) Free Out-of-Department Elective (3 credits) Total: 17 Total Academic Credits: 176 * Elective courses may be switched between different semesters, as long as total distribution requirements are met (except that the First-Year Writing Seminar and Physical Education classes should be satisfied in the first year). Required Departmental Non-Elective Courses: Semesters Subject Course Numbers Credits 10 Design ARCH 1101 , 1102 , 2101 , 2102 , 3101 , 3102 , 4101 , 4102 , 5101 , 5902 62 2 Structures ARCH 1612 , 2613 6 2 Environmental systems ARCH 1611 , 2616 6 2 Building technology ARCH 2614 , 2615 6 2 Analysis ARCH 2301 , 3301 6 2 History ARCH 1801 , 1802 6 1 Professional practice ARCH 5201 3 2 Architectural representation ARCH 1501 , 1502 6 ______ 101 Electives: Required Departmental Electives: Semesters Requirement Credits 2 History of Architecture 6 1 Architectural Theory or 6000-level design-related course 3 1 Architecture, Culture, Society 3 5 Free Departmental Electives* 18* _______ 30 Required Out-of-Department Electives: Semesters Requirement Credits 2 Art: any studio courses 6 1 First-Year-Writing Seminar (FWS) 3 1 Mathematics/quantitative reasoning (MQR) or physical/biological sciences (PBS) 3 1 Humanities (CA, HA, KCM, LA, SBA) 3 1 Mathematics/quantitative reasoning (MQR) 3 varies Free Out-of-Department Electives 27* ______ 45 *The required directed elective is applied toward the free departmental or free out-of-department elective credits, depending on course enrollment. Note: In addition to the above academic requirements, all Cornell Undergraduate students must successfully complete two Physical Education (PE) classes and successfully complete a basic swimming and water safety competency requirement. Total Academic Credits: 176 Architecture Concentrations for Majors The following concentrations in architecture are offered within the department for B.Arch. candidates only: Architecture, culture, and society: required elective, plus 9 credits in this area. Architectural science and technology: ARCH 1611 , 1612 , 2613 , 2614 , 2615 , 2616 , plus 9 additional credits in this area. History of architecture: ARCH 1801 , 1802 , required history of architecture department electives (6 credits), plus 10 additional credits (including a 4-credit 6000-level seminar course) in this area. Theory of architecture: ARCH 2301 , 3301 , required architectural theory electives (3 credits), plus 9 additional credits in this area. Visual representation in architecture: ARCH 1501 , 1502 , plus 12 credits in this area. Note regarding independent study work: A maximum of 8 credits of independent study coursework can be applied toward concentration requirements. Courses cannot double count for more than one concentration, nor towards both a major requirement (other than the free departmental elective requirement) and a concentration. Students wishing to receive recognition for a concentration must submit a completed Verification of Concentration form, which can be found online on the AAP Academic Forms page, to the Department of Architecture office. For a course to count toward a concentration, the student must receive a grade of C or better. Rules Governing Architecture Courses and Curriculum 1.0 Sequence and Credit Hours 1.1 Students should make every effort to follow the semester-by-semester required curriculum outlined in this catalog in order to graduate with a B.Arch. degree in five years. Students are permitted to switch the position of elective courses within their program as long as the total credit hours within each semester remain unchanged. In addition, ARCH 5201 can be taken in the fourth or fifth year, and the RDE can be taken in the ARCH 4101 , ARCH 4102 , or ARCH 5101 semester. However, required non-elective courses must be taken in sequence during the semester indicated. To continue in the B.Arch. program, students deviating from the schedule of non-elective courses must have an adjusted curricular plan approved by petition. In particular, students who wish not to take a design course for any one semester, for any reason, must petition for permission to do so, including an adjusted curricular plan in their petition. The petition form can be found online on the AAP Academic Forms page. In addition, students who wish to enroll in a required course during summer must petition for permission to do so. 1.2 Students may not take more than 20 credit hours per semester in Ithaca, New York City, or Rome. 1.3 During any summer session, students may not take more than 12 credit hours. 2.0 Independent Study Courses and Credit 2.1 Students wishing to pursue an independent study (in-department or out-of-department) must be in good academic standing . Students may enroll in an independent study class for a maximum of three credits. In addition, a maximum of eight credits of independent study will be applied toward B.Arch. degree requirements. All independent study credit is applied toward free elective credit requirements only. 2.2 In-department independent study: Students wishing to pursue an architecture department independent study course must complete a Request for Independent Study-B.Arch. form, which can be found online on the AAP Academic Forms page, endorsed by the course supervisor (i.e. instructor) in the department and faculty advisor, and submit it to the Department of Architecture office in accordance with enrollment deadlines. In all cases, something to be reviewed must be produced. Credit will not be awarded for experience alone. Credit from independent study courses is applied as free departmental elective credit only; independent study credit cannot be applied toward required departmental elective requirements. 2.3 Out-of-department independent study: Students wishing to pursue an out-of-department independent study course must enroll according to the procedures of the offering department and in accordance with university enrollment deadlines. Students may enroll in an independent study class for a maximum of three credits. Credit from out-of-department independent study courses is applied as free out-of-department elective credit only. 3.0 Design Studio Courses 3.1 Advancing Grades in Studio 3.1.1 For all years, a minimum grade of C must be achieved for the student to advance in the design sequence. Design courses with university passing grades (D- or better), but below C, will be applied toward the free departmental elective requirement. 3.1.2 Students receiving less than a C in any sequence design studio except thesis (ARCH 5902 ) must repeat that studio and obtain a grade of C or better before proceeding with their design sequence. B.Arch. students who do not earn an advancing grade in ARCH 1101 will be design-free in the spring semester and must re-enroll in ARCH 1101 in the following fall. ARCH 1101 will not be offered during the summer. 3.1.3 Students receiving less than C in design studio may petition to be allowed to continue in the design sequence. The petition must be supported by a written positive recommendation from the faculty member who granted the non-advancing grade and approved by the design faculty; only then will the student be unconditionally allowed to continue. 3.1.4 B.Arch. students receiving less than C for ARCH 5902 must register for ARCH 5104 , taking an advanced studio (i.e., sitting in ARCH 4101 , ARCH 4102 , ARCH 5101 ) to complete their design sequence. ARCH 5104 may not be taken in a non-Ithaca-based summer program. As ARCH 5104 has two fewer credit hours than ARCH 5902 , students required to take ARCH 5104 may graduate with 2 credit hours less than otherwise required for total design sequence credit and for total credit hours, if an F was earned in ARCH 5902 . 3.1.5 A student may repeat any given semester of design twice* (for a total of three semesters). If, at the end of the third attempt, the student does not achieve a grade of C or better, the student is automatically denied permission to enroll in design, the effect of which will be to withdraw the student from the professional degree program. To continue studies at Cornell, the student would need to successfully internally transfer to another degree program. *Exceptions: ARCH 5902 may not be repeated and ARCH 5104 may only be repeated once. 3.1.6 Students may not repeat a semester of design by enrolling in a summer non-Ithaca-based design studio. Design courses taken in such circumstances will be credited only as free departmental elective credit and not for design sequence credit. 3.2 Studio Venues and Options 3.2.1 First- and second-year design (ARCH 1101 , ARCH 1102 , ARCH 2101 , and ARCH 2102 ) must be taken in Ithaca. 3.2.2 Summer Ithaca-based design studios are typically offered for all sequence design courses except ARCH 1101 , ARCH 1102 , ARCH 2102 and ARCH 5902 . Only one semester of first- or second-year design (generally ARCH 2101 ) may be taken during the summer. Enrollment in summer studio requires an approved petition with an academic plan. 3.2.3 Summer non-Ithaca-based programs, when available, are offered as advanced studios (ARCH 4101 , ARCH 4102 , ARCH 5101 ). No more than one such summer non-Ithaca-based design studio can count for design sequence credit. Any design credits earned at a subsequent summer non-Ithaca-based design studio will be applied to free departmental elective credit. Third-year students in good-standing and with an average design studio grade of at least 3.0 may petition to take a non-Ithaca-based summer studio, enrolling in ARCH 3109 and getting sequence credit for ARCH 4101 after successfully completing their third-year core design studio requirements. Students with a non-advancing grade in their prior studio cannot take an off-campus summer studio for sequence credit (only for free departmental elective credit). In addition, all student participants are expected to enroll in no less than 12 credit hours; approved petition is required to enroll in more than 12 credits, up to a maximum of 15 credits. If enrolling in variable credit courses, 3 credit hours are recommended. 3.2.4 Rome: Generally, third-year students spend one semester at Cornell in Rome. Students with exceptional extenuating circumstances may petition to study in Ithaca instead of Rome. Such students, as well as students repeating the studio after having received a non-advancing grade in the studio in Rome, will be assigned to an Ithaca-based design studio. Students may spend no more than one semester in Rome. For more information, visit the Cornell in Rome website. 3.2.5 New York City: Students may apply to spend one fall semester during the fourth or fifth year at AAP NYC, taking one of their fourth- or fifth-year studios in New York City. Application is made in the academic year prior to participation. Detailed information can be found at on the AAP NYC website. 3.2.6 Advanced design studios: Students must take at least one advanced design studio (ARCH 4101 , ARCH 4102 , ARCH 5101 ) during the academic year (fall or spring) on campus in Ithaca. 3.2.7 No more than three semesters of design may be taken away from Ithaca. 3.2.8 Design credits earned at any non-Cornell study abroad program will be applied as elective credit only. 3.3 Thesis Requirement 3.3.1 Thesis Prerequisites: The pre-requisites for ARCH 5902 - Design X Thesis are ARCH 5101 and the Required Directed Elective (RDE). The RDE is a required, free elective course related to the student’s proposed thesis. This course can be in- or out-of-department, but it must be approved by the student’s faculty advisor in order to fulfill the RDE requirement. The RDE should be explicitly related to the student’s thesis interests and research. An RDE will bring depth to a particular area of interest for which a foundation has been established in previous coursework. As such, the RDE is a co-requisite for ARCH 4101 , ARCH 4102 or ARCH 5101 and a pre-requisite for ARCH 5902 . The RDE must be officially recorded through an approved Required Directed Elective form, which can be found online on the AAP Academic Forms page, no later than the add deadline during the ARCH 5101 semester. 3.3.2 Thesis Submission: Each student shall have an advisory faculty committee appointed by the department chair with the recommendations of the student and faculty. Advisors from outside the Department of Architecture may be added, at the student’s discretion, to serve as non-grading advisors. A thesis statement is to be developed independently by the student, and a draft will be submitted at the end of the student’s ninth (ARCH 5101 ) semester. The final thesis statement and program will be developed and finalized with the advice and input of the student’s thesis advisor/s during the first three weeks of the thesis semester. This intensive period of engagement with and development of the thesis proposal under the guidance of your thesis advisors should provide for a productive and focused engagement with the thesis topic. Prior to the final thesis review, students must complete a Thesis Presentation form indicating the specific content of work to be presented. A draft of this form should be discussed with the student’s committee at least one week prior to the final submission. Presentation content indicated on the form must be validated by a committee representative at a designated time before the final review, after which time the material to be presented at the final review can be neither added to nor altered in any way. Late work will not be considered for review. Forms are collected by the department chair or a representative designated by the chair. Students may be asked to store physical presentation objects (e.g., drawings, models, or photographs of objects impractical to store) as well as files for any digital content in a secure location designated by the department. The thesis may be excluded from review altogether if the material submitted is substantially incomplete, in which case the project will receive a mandatory grade of F. Thesis students may receive assistance in the production of their final review material from a maximum of two current non-thesis students in the B.Arch. or M.Arch. programs; no other assistance will be allowed. All work performed by these assistants must be given proper credit at the final review, as well as in the thesis publication. 3.3.3 Thesis Grading: While critical evaluation is the primary focus of a final thesis review, the actual grading of a thesis project shall be the responsibility of the student’s thesis committee. Additional examining faculty in attendance at the review will be asked to submit recommendations for grades; these recommendations may be used by the thesis committee in determining the final grade. 3.3.4 Thesis Book: As a part of the thesis requirement, each student must submit a hardbound thesis book including representations of the final project for deposit in the Fine Arts Library. The book shall include a title page that lists the student’s full name, the title of the thesis project, the degree (i.e., B.Arch.), and the expected date of graduation (i.e., May, August, or January; plus year). This book must be approved by a member of the thesis committee (or, in the absence of a committee member, by the chair) before the student’s final grade is submitted to the registrar. Approval is noted on the title page (signature of faculty member and date of receipt). Larger pages may be folded, and all pages must be numbered. 3.4 Studio Attendance All students are provided with workspace and are expected to be present during regular class hours for instruction and criticism. 3.5 Studio Culture The department’s Studio Culture Policy is available online at the AAP website. 4.0 History of Architecture Courses Students with an average grade of B+ (3.3) or higher in ARCH 1801 , ARCH 1802 , and a 3000 level elective history course may substitute a 6000 level history elective for the second required 3000 level elective history course , subject to permission of the instructor of the 6000 level course. 5.0 Introduction to Architecture Courses Students who successfully complete the Cornell University Summer Introduction to Architecture Program and subsequently enroll in Cornell’s B.Arch. program will automatically receive departmental free elective credit for the courses they have taken. 6.0 Advanced Placement Courses Advanced placement credit may be applied only as free out-of-department elective credit and may not be applied toward any required out-of-department electives. 7.0 Out-of-Department Required Courses 7.1 Art: This requirement can be satisfied with any two of the following studio art courses: ART 1505 , 1602 , 2201 -2701 , 3092 , and 3201 -3799 . A minimum of two courses totaling a minimum of six credits is required. 7.2 First-Year Writing Seminar (FWS): This requirement can be satisfied with any approved writing class totaling 3 credits by the end of the first year in the program. Approved writing courses include all First-Year Writing Seminars (FWS), ENGL 2880 - Expository Writing , and ENGL 2890 - Expository Writing . 7.3 Mathematics and Quantitative Reasoning (MQR): This requirement can be satisfied with any one approved MQR course. See the list of course classification codes that can be applied toward the mathematics and quantitative reasoning requirement. 7.4 Physical & Biological Sciences (PBS): This requirement can be satisfied with any one approved physical or biological sciences class or an additional MQR course ; See the list of course classification codes that can be applied toward the PBS requirement . 7.5 Humanities: This requirement can be satisfied with any one approved humanities course. Humanities courses are those designated under the categories cultural analysis (CA), foreign language (FL), historical analysis (HA), knowledge, cognition, and moral reasoning (KCM), literature and the arts (LA), and social and behavioral analysis (SBA). If a course has been classified as a humanities course, the code will be included in its course description. See the AAP definition of the humanities categories . Note: The following AAP courses can be applies towards the humanities requirement: ART 3803 , CRP 1100 , CRP 1101 , CRP 2000 , and CRP 2010 , and any additional approved art studio course of three or more credits (see art requirement above). 7.6 Physical Education & Swim Test: All undergraduate students must successfully complete two Physical Education (PE) classes and a basic swimming and water safety competency requirement. These requirements should be completed in the first two semesters of study. Students who transfer to Cornell from another institution are not held to the PE or swim test requirement. 8.0 Transfer Credit 8.1 Transfer students are responsible for completing that portion of the curriculum which has not been covered by equivalent work. B.Arch. applicants who have had no previous work in architectural design must complete the 10-semester design sequence. Students currently pursuing a degree in architecture at another institution should be aware that they may lose standing upon a transfer to the B.Arch. program at Cornell due to the rigor, specificity, and sequence of the curriculum. Placement in the design sequence is based on review of a representative portfolio and determined at the time of admission. 8.2 The AAP Office of Student Services reviews all transfer credit to ensure that it meets the minimum college and university transfer credit criteria . If so, transfer coursework will be automatically applied as free elective credit. Students wishing to receive credit toward a specific degree requirement must have the coursework reviewed by the designated Cornell faculty member in the appropriate subject area. Consult with the AAP Registrar regarding this review process. Please note that First-Year Writing Seminars (FWS) and mathematics and quantitative reasoning coursework (MQR) have their own review and approval processes. More information is available at the following links: FWS Transfer Credit: https://knight.as.cornell.edu/ MQR Transfer Credit: https://math.cornell.edu/transfer-credit Questions about transfer credit should be directed to the AAP Office of Student Services. 8.3 Transfer students must complete a minimum of 90 credits and six semesters in residence, taking 45 of the 90 credits (including four semesters of design) in the Department of Architecture. Incoming transfer students should meet with the AAP Office of Student Services during orientation to ensure a timely transfer of credit. 8.4 Current students wishing to complete transfer credit during summer or winter sessions or while on an approved leave from Cornell should consult with the AAP Office of Student Services prior to enrolling in courses to ensure compliance with department and college transfer credit policies. 9.0 Deviating from Rules or Curriculum 9.1 Students wishing to deviate from the prescribed curriculum, enroll in fewer than 12 or more than 20 credit hours, seek a substitution for a specific graduation requirement, or adjust course enrollment after the add/drop period must petition for permission. Petiton forms can be found online on the AAP Academic Forms page. Petitions must be submitted prior to the act to the AAP Office of Student Services, 235 Sibley Dome. Petitions should be submitted only if there are clearly extraordinary circumstances that merit special consideration. Once submitted and acted upon, petitions can only be reversed by subsequent petition. 9.2. Appeals. A student has ten days from the time of the petitions decision to appeal the decision in writing. Appeal forms can be found online on the AAP Academic Forms page. Appeals should be submitted directly to the Department of Architecture, 139 East Sibley Hall, for review and vote by the full tenure/tenure-track architecture faculty. The faculty decision on the appeal is final. No further appeals will be considered. B.S. in History of Architecture and Urban Development The history of architecture and urban development major leads to a bachelor of science degree (B.S. HAUD). The major is intended for transfer students from other programs at Cornell University and from colleges and universities outside Cornell. The course of study in the major, available to students from a variety of academic backgrounds, offers the opportunity for a vigorous and interdisciplinary exploration of the history of architecture and urban development. B.S. HAUD Degree Requirements A student entering the program is assigned an advisor from the history of architecture faculty in the Department of Architecture. Together, student and advisor prepare an appropriate course of study to satisfy the following degree requirements: Requirement area Number of classes Specific classes (if applicable) Number of academic credits Introduction to history of architecture 2 ARCH 1801 and 1802 6 3000-level history electives 8 Any eight architecture history electives from the following: ARCH 3810 – 3896 24 Advanced History Seminars 3 Any two advanced history seminars from the following: ARCH 6800 – 6819 ; AND one additional 6000-level seminar or ARCH 4901 12 Architectural Theory 1 Any one architectural theory elective from the following: ARCH 3304 – 3396, ARCH 4300 3 Writing 2 Any two writing classes from the following: First-Year Writing Seminars (FWS), ENGL 2880 , ENGL 2890 . 6 Out-of-department required electives: Humanities and Social Sciences 4 Any four classes under the humanities and social sciences categories of cultural analysis (CA), foreign language (FL), historical analysis (HA), knowledge, cognition, and moral reasoning (KCM), literature and the arts (LA), and social and behavioral analysis (SBA). 12 Out-of-department required electives: Physical/biological sciences and mathematics/quantitative reasoning 2 Any two classes under the physical and biological sciences categories of BIO-AG, BIOLS-AG, BIONLS-AG, OPHLS-AG, PBS, PBS-AS, PBS-HE, PBSS-AS or the mathematics and quantitative reasoning categories of MQR-AAP, MQR-AS, MQR-HE. 6 Foreign language qualification 0-3 See details below. 0-12 Elective plan varies Any academic class at Cornell chosen in consultation with faculty advisor 24 Free electives varies Any academic class at Cornell or approved transfer credit 15-27 Physical Education (PE)* 2 Any PE class at Cornell 0 Swim Test* 0 0 Total Credits: 120 * The PE and Swim Test requirements apply to students entering Cornell University as first-year students only. B.S. HAUD Requirement Areas All B.S. HAUD requirements must be successfully completed with a letter grade unless otherwise noted below. History of Architecture: 13 classes; 32 credits 1. Introduction to history of architecture: 2 classes; 6 credits B.S. HAUD students are required to complete ARCH 1801 and 1802 in the first year of study, if not already completed at the time of matriculation. 2. 3000-level history of architecture and urban development electives: 8 classes; 24 credits B.S. HAUD students are required to successfully complete eight 3000-level history of architecture and urban development electives (ARCH 3810 – 3896). Independent study classes cannot be applied toward this requirement 3. Advanced history of architecture and urban development seminars: 3 classes; 12 credits B.S. HAUD students are required to successfully complete two advanced history and urban development seminars (ARCH 6800 – 6819 ). For the third seminar, students choose from one additional 6000-level seminar or ARCH 4901 . Architectural Theory: 1 class; 3 credits B.S. HAUD students are required to complete one theory elective (ARCH 3304 – 3396, ARCH 4300 ). An independent study class cannot be applied toward this requirement. Writing: 2 classes; 6 credits B.S. HAUD students are required to successfully complete two approved writing classes totaling 6 credits by the end of the first year in the program. Approved writing courses include all First-Year Writing Seminars (FWS), ENGL 2880 - Expository Writing , and ENGL 2890 - Expository Writing . Students can apply advanced placement credit toward a maximum of one writing class. Students earning a score of 5 on one English literature or English language exam will receive 3 credits which will be applied toward one First-Year Writing Seminar. Students earning a score of 5 on both English literature and English language exams will receive 3 credits toward one First-Year Writing Seminar and 3 credits toward the free elective requirement. Only the Knight Institute can approve substitutions and transfer credit for the writing requirement. Out-of-Department Required Electives: 6 classes; 18 credits 1. Humanities and Social Sciences: 4 classes; 12 credits B.S. HAUD students are required to successfully complete four humanities and social sciences classes under the categories of cultural analysis (CA), foreign language (FL), historical analysis (HA), knowledge, cognition, and moral reasoning (KCM), literature and the arts (LA), and social and behavioral analysis (SBA). If a course has been classified as a humanities course, the code will be included in its course description. Advanced placement credit cannot be applied toward this requirement. Approved transfer credit may be applied; see AAP Office of Student Services for additional information regarding transfer credit policies and procedures. 2. Physical/Biological sciences and mathematics/quantitative reasoning: 2 classes; 6 credits B.S. HAUD students are required to successfully complete any two classes under the physical and biological sciences categories of BIO-AG, BIOLS-AG, BIONLS-AG, OPHLS-AG, PBS, PBS-AS, PBS-HE, PBSS-AS or the mathematics and quantitative reasoning categories of MQR-AAP, MQR-AS, MQR-HE. Advanced placement credit cannot be applied toward this requirement. Approved transfer credit may be applied; see AAP Office of Student Services for additional information regarding transfer credit policies and procedures. Qualification in Foreign Language: 0 – 12 credits B.S. HAUD students must demonstrate qualification in one foreign language by completing three courses in one foreign language in high school; or by demonstrating advanced standing through the Cornell Advanced Standing Examination (CASE); or by successfully completing a non-introductory foreign language course of 3 or more credits at the 2000 level or above; or by successfully completing any other non-introductory course at the 2000 level or above conducted in a foreign language; or by successfully completing 11 credits of study in a single foreign language. Students whose speaking, reading, and writing competence in a language other than English is at the same level we would expect our entering first-years to have in English (as shown by completing high school in that language or by special examination during their first year at Cornell) are exempt from the foreign language requirement. Elective Plan: 24 credits The Elective Plan requirement allows students to develop a curricular plan comprised of a cross-disciplinary cluster of electives. Students work closely with their faculty advisor to develop an academic plan that is critically and intellectually advanced. Free Electives: 15 – 27 credits Central to the liberal arts philosophy of the B.S. HAUD program is the opportunity to take a large number of elective courses in a variety of subjects. HAUD students are free to take classes in any academic department on campus. When enrolling in free electives, up to nine credits may be taken under the S/U grading-basis. Physical Education: 2 classes; 2 non-academic credits All undergraduate students must successfully complete two Physical Education (PE) classes. The PE requirement must be completed in the first two semesters of study. Students who transfer to Cornell from another institution are not held to this requirement. Swim Test All undergraduate students must successfully complete a basic swimming and water safety competency requirement. Students who transfer to Cornell from another institution are not held to this requirement. Additional Information Credit and Residency Requirements The B.S. HAUD degree requires successful completion of a minimum of 120 academic credits. Students are expected to complete all degree requirements in the equivalent of eight semesters of full-time study. All students must successfully complete a minimum of four semesters and 60 academic credits at Cornell University. Internal transfer students (from another program at Cornell) must complete a minimum of 2 semesters in residence and 30 academic credits in AAP after entering the program. History of Architecture Honors Program Students pursuing the B.S. HAUD may graduate with honors if, during the last two years of study in the program, they have a cumulative grade point average of 3.0 or better in all courses, have no grade lower than A- in all history of architecture courses taken at the 3000 level, and have completed an honors thesis (ARCH 4901 ) deemed to be of distinguished quality by the history of architecture faculty. Minor in Architecture (For Non-Departmental Students) A special minor has been formulated specifically for those students not enrolled in the Department of Architecture but who are interested in complementing their current academic program with an introduction to various facets of architectural studies. Some students may wish to use the Minor in Architecture as a means of investigating possible graduate studies in architecture. Some may wish to develop architectural specialties within other disciplines. Students meeting the requirements for this minor should complete a minor form, which can be found online on the AAP Academic Forms page, and submit it to the architecture department office. The minor will be validated by the architecture department and recorded on the official transcript at the time of degree completion. The curriculum for students in the Minor in Architecture program totals 15 credit hours minimum. Grades earned must be C or better in all courses used for minor credit. Distribution requirements for the minor are as follows: Required Courses: 1. Architectural Design Studio (3 credits minimum): ARCH 1110: Introduction to Architecture: Design Studio (offered summer only) (3 credits); or ARCH 1103: [Elective Design Studio] (offered fall only, not offered every year) (6 credits); or ARCH 1120 - [Architecture Design Studio] (offer fall only at Cornell in Rome) (4 credits) 2. Visual Representation (3 credits minimum): ARCH 1501: Representation I: Freehand Architectural Drawing * (offered fall only) (3 credits); or ARCH 1502: Representation II: Media of Representation * (offered spring only) (3 credits); or Visual representation elective (ARCH 4500 , 4509 , or 4513 )* (offered fall, spring) (3 credits). 3. Architectural History (3 credits minimum): ARCH 1801: History of Architecture I * (offered fall only) (3 credits); or ARCH 1802: History of Architecture II * (offered spring only) (3 credits); or Architectural history elective (ARCH 3810 -3823 , 6800 -6819 )* (offered fall, spring) (3 credits). 4. Any other department courses under the ARCH subject code* (two courses minimum, 6 credits minimum) * Not all available courses have space for non-departmental students every time they are offered. See the Department of Architecture office or website for current information on available courses for non-departmental students. Graduate Degree Programs Graduate programs in the Department of Architecture include studies in architecture, computer graphics, and history of architecture and urban development. The Professional Master of Architecture (M.Arch.) is a top-ranked program in the country. This fully accredited professional degree program is for individuals from diverse disciplines and backgrounds interested in practicing or teaching architecture. The Advanced Architectural Design (AAD) program (formerly the post-professional Master of Architecture, or M.Arch.II, program) offers an M.S. degree and is open to applicants possessing a bachelor of architecture (B.Arch.) or professional master of architecture (M.Arch.) degree or the international equivalent. The History of Architecture and Urban Development (HAUD) program offers a Ph.D. degree, and draws upon faculty and resources from both AAP’s Department of Architecture and other departments in the university. The program of Computer Graphics offers a M.S. degree, and draws upon faculty primarily from Computer Science and Architecture. The Matter Design Computation program offers a two-year M.S. degree and is housed in the graduate field of architecture. This multidisciplinary and collaborative research degree draws upon faculty from the departments of Architecture, Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, Fiber Science and Apparel Design, Materials Science and Engineering, Computer Science, and Biological and Environmental Engineering. The program encourages enrollment of students from backgrounds in the sciences as well as architecture. Courses of study create positive exchange across disciplines to include architectural research in the areas of material computation, adaptive architecture, and digital fabrication. Additional information regarding Cornell’s research degrees can be found under the Graduate School section of this catalog . Master of Architecture (Professional) Master of Architecture (Professional) Curriculum Master of Architecture (Professional) Policies and Procedures Cornell’s professional Master of Architecture (M.Arch.) program is a seven-semester course of study dedicated to preparing individuals from diverse disciplines and backgrounds for careers in architecture. The M.Arch. program is accredited by the National Architectural Accrediting Board (NAAB). In addition, the M.Arch. program is now designated as a STEM program in Architectural and Building Sciences/Technology (CIP code 04.0902) making international M.Arch. graduates eligible to extend their F-1 visas for up to three years in order to work in the United States. Curriculum: Semester One: Ithaca ARCH 5111 - Core Design Studio I (6 credits) ARCH 5301 - Theories and Analyses of Architecture I (3 credits) ARCH 5511 - Constructed Drawing I (3 credits) ARCH 5611 - Environmental Systems I: Site and Sustainability (3 credits) ARCH 5801 - History of Architecture I (3 credits) Total credit hours: 18 Semester Two: Ithaca ARCH 5112 - Core Design Studio II (6 credits) ARCH 5302 - Theories and Analyses of Architecture II (3 credits) ARCH 5512 - Constructed Drawing II (3 credits) ARCH 5612 - Structural Concepts (3 credits) ARCH 5802 - History of Architecture II (3 credits) Total credit hours: 18 Semester Three: Ithaca ARCH 5113 - Core Design Studio III (6 credits) ARCH 5613 - Structural Systems (3 credits) ARCH 5614 - Building Technology I: Materials and Methods (3 credits) History elective or theory elective* (3 credits) Visual representation elective* (3 credits) Total credit hours: 18 Semester Four: AAP NYC ARCH 5114 - Core Design Studios IV: Integrative Design Practices (6 credits) ARCH 5201 - Professional Practice (3 credits) ARCH 5615 - Building Technology II: Structural Elements (3 credits) ARCH 5616 - Environmental Systems II: Building Dynamics (3 credits) Open elective* (3 credits) Total credit hours: 18 Semester Five: Ithaca ARCH 5115 - Core Design Studios V: Expanded Practices (6 credits) ARCH 5402 - Architecture, Culture, and Society (3 credits) Visual representation elective* (3 credits) History or theory or visual representation elective* (3 credits) Total credit hours: 15 Semester Six: Ithaca ARCH 5116 - Vertical Design Studio (6 credits) ARCH 8911 - Proseminar in Design Research (3 credits) Open elective* (3 credits) History or theory or visual representation elective* (3 credits) Total credit hours: 15 Semester Seven: Ithaca ARCH 8912 - Independent Design Thesis (9 credits) (9 credits) (9 credits) Total credit hours: 12 Total Units/Credit Hours: 114 * Total electives required for graduation: One theory elective One history elective One visual representation elective One building technology elective Four open elective classes of 3 or more credits each at the 3000-level or higher Rules Governing M.Arch. Courses and Curriculum Scholastic Standards Good Academic Standing To be in a good academic standing, a student must: Follow the prescribed M.Arch. curriculum outlined in this catalog Successfully complete a minimum of 12 academic credits each semester Earn a minimum semester grade point average (GPA) of 2.300 Earn no letter grade lower than C in design Academic Review At the end of each semester, the M.Arch. committee reviews the record of each student who is not in good academic standing and decides an appropriate action, among those described below: The student is issued a warning. This means the student’s performance does not meet expectations. Unless improvement is shown in the subsequent semester, the student may be required to withdraw from the college. The student is placed on a required withdrawal. The student may not re-register in the M.Arch. program, is dismissed from the college, and is permanently prohibited from continuing studies in it. The above actions are not necessarily sequential. A student may be placed on a required withdrawal if performance during that semester is deemed to be deficient. Appeals. A student who has been placed on a required withdrawal from the M.Arch. program has two weeks from the time of being notified of the decision to appeal in writing. The appeal should explain any extenuating circumstances that contributed to the student’s academic performance. The faculty decision on the appeal is final. No further appeals will be considered. Advanced Standing Individuals who have already completed a nonprofessional undergraduate degree in architecture may apply for advanced placement in the M.Arch. program. If accepted, students with advanced standing will start the program in Ithaca and be placed into the third semester of the design sequence (ARCH 5113 - Core Design Studio III ); they will spend their second semester at AAP NYC. Equivalency credit will automatically be awarded for the two studios from the first year (ARCH 5111 - Core Design Studio I and ARCH 5112 - Core Design Studio II ) and ARCH 5512 - Constructed Drawing II ; all other courses need the teaching faculty’s approval in order for equivalency credit to be granted. Please note that advanced studio placement does not guarantee that a student will be able to successfully complete the M.Arch. program in fewer than seven semesters. Many of the required core courses are sequential, and successful completion of all required courses is a pre-requisite for enrolling in ARCH 8912 - Independent Design Thesis . Advanced Placement through Course Equivalency Individuals who have already completed coursework equivalent to specific required courses in the M.Arch. curriculum with a grade of B or better can apply for equivalency credit. Credit will only be applied through an approved Course Equivalency Request, and this process must be completed in the summer prior to matriculation. Please refer to the AAP Office of Student Services for request forms and specific deadlines. It is the student’s responsibility to complete the request forms and supply all required documentation by the deadline. The department review is final, so students should be sure to submit all relevant documentation with their initial request. Please note that being awarded equivalency credit does not guarantee that a student will be able to successfully complete the M.Arch. program in fewer than 7 semesters. Many of the required core courses are sequential, and successful completion of all required courses is a pre-requisite for enrolling in ARCH 8912 - Independent Design Thesis . Sequence and Credit Hours Students are required to follow the semester-by-semester required curriculum outlined in this catalog. Required non-elective courses must be taken in sequence during the semester indicated. To continue in the M.Arch. program, students deviating from the schedule of non-elective courses must have an adjusted curricular plan approved by petition. Petition forms can be found online on the AAP Academic Forms page. Students may not take more than 22 credit hours per semester. Students who wish to take fewer than 12 or more than 22 credits in any given semester must petition to the M.Arch. committee for permission. During any summer session, students may not take more than 6 credit hours. A petition is required to complete a required course during summer. Independent Study Students wishing to pursue an architecture department independent study course must complete an Architecture Independent Study form, which can be found online on the AAP Academic Forms page, endorsed by a faculty member in the department, and submit it to the architecture department office in accordance with enrollment deadlines. Independent study courses cannot be substituted for required courses. Independent study courses of 3 or more credits can be applied toward elective requirements. Grades All required courses and required department electives must be taken for a letter grade. Open electives can be taken under the letter or satisfactory/unsatisfactory grading basis. A letter grade of D- or a grade of S or SX is required for the course to be applied toward the open elective requirement. Students receiving less than C for ARCH 8912 - Independent Design Thesis must register for ARCH 8104 - Design VIIa , taking a vertical studio (e.g., ARCH 5116 ) to complete their design sequence. As ARCH 8104 has three fewer credit hours than ARCH 8912 , students required to take ARCH 8104 may graduate with three credit hours less than otherwise required for total design sequence credit and for total credit hours, if a grade of F was earned in ARCH 8912 . A student may repeat any given semester of design once* (for a total of two semesters). If, at the end of the second attempt, the student does not achieve a grade of C or better, the student is automatically denied permission to register in design, the effect of which will be to drop the student from the M.Arch. program. Note: Repeating a core design studio given the curricular structure will generally not be possible during the following semester. *Exceptions: ARCH 8912 may not be repeated and ARCH 8104 may only be repeated once. Thesis Requirement Thesis Submission: Each student shall have an advisory faculty committee appointed by the department chair with the recommendations of the student and faculty. Advisors from outside the Department of Architecture may be added, at the student’s discretion, to serve as non-grading advisors. Prior to the final thesis review, students must complete a thesis presentation form indicating the specific content of work to be presented. A draft of this form should be discussed with the student’s committee at least one week prior to the final submission. Presentation content indicated on the form must be validated by a committee representative at a designated time before the final review, after which time the material to be presented at the final review can be neither added to nor altered in any way. Late work will not be considered for review. Forms are collected by the department chair or a representative designated by the chair. Students may be asked to store physical presentation objects (e.g., drawings, models, or photographs of objects impractical to store) as well as files for any digital content in a secure location designated by the department. The thesis may be excluded from review altogether if the material submitted is substantially incomplete, in which case the project will receive a mandatory grade of F. Thesis students may receive assistance in the production of their final review material from a maximum of two current non-thesis students in the B.Arch. or M.Arch. programs; no other assistance will be allowed. All work performed by these assistants must be given proper credit at the final review, as well as in the thesis publication. Thesis Grading: While critical evaluation is the primary focus of a final thesis review, the actual grading of a thesis project shall be the responsibility of the student’s thesis committee. Additional examining faculty in attendance at the review will be asked to submit recommendations for grades; these recommendations may be used by the thesis committee in determining the final grade. Thesis Book: As a part of the thesis requirement, each student must submit a hardbound thesis book including representations of the final project for deposit in the Fine Arts Library. The book shall include a title page that lists the student’s full name, the title of the thesis project, the degree (i.e., M.Arch.), and the expected date of graduation (i.e., May, August, or January; plus year). This book must be approved by a member of the thesis committee (or, in the absence of a committee member, by the chair) before the student’s final grade is submitted to the registrar. Approval is noted on the title page (signature of faculty member and date of receipt). Larger pages may be folded, and all pages must be numbered. Required Departmental Electives M.Arch. students are required to successfully complete four departmental electives. This requirement can be satisfied with approved departmental elective courses of 3 or more credits. Advanced placement credit or equivalency credit CANNOT be applied toward any of the departmental elective requirements. Theory Elective: Students are required to complete one theory elective. This can be satisfied with successful completion of any ARCH course of 3 or more credits offered under the numbers 6304 – 6309 . History Elective: Students are required to complete one history elective. This can be satisfied with successful completion of any ARCH course of 3 or more credits offered under the numbers 5800 - 5819 and/or 6800 – 6819 . Visual Representation Elective: Students are required to complete one visual representation elective. This can be satisfied with successful completion of any ARCH course of 3 or more credits offered under the numbers 6508 – 6509 . Building Technology Elective: Students are required to complete one building technology elective. This can be satisfied with successful completion of any ARCH course of 3 or more credits offered under the numbers 6605 – 6609 . Open Electives Students are required to successfully complete four open electives at the 3000-level or higher. Open electives can be taken in any academic department at Cornell. Open electives can be completed for a letter or S/U grade. Courses completed with an audit grade cannot be applied toward this requirement. Open electives cannot be satisfied with equivalency credit. Studio Attendance and Culture All students are provided with workspace and are expected to be present during regular class hours for instruction and criticism. The department’s Studio Culture Policy is available on the architecture department website. Leaves of Absence Voluntary Leaves: Students requesting a voluntary leave of absence should submit a Leave of Absence Request form to the AAP Office of Student Services, 235 Sibley Dome, which explains the reason for the leave and includes an academic plan outlining how all remaining degree requirements will be satisfied. The student’s academic status is subject to review at the time of the leave and upon the student’s return. While on leave, the student may not attend classes at Cornell, including through the School of Continuing Education and Summer Sessions. In addition, students on a voluntary leave of absence are not eligible for privileges afforded to full-time registered students, including housing, dining, library, and transit privileges. Leaves will be granted at the discretion of the college and M.Arch. committee, and leave dates must be approved by the University Registrar. Leaves granted through semester five will be granted for a minimum of one-year in length. At the end of the year, the student must either request to return from leave by submitting a Request to Return from Leave form, which can be found online on the AAP Academic Forms page, or request to renew the leave by submitting a new Leave of Absence Request form. A leave of absence may be renewed up to two times. After three years, a leave will convert to a withdrawal from the program. Return from a voluntary leave of absence is at the discretion of the college and M.Arch. committee, and funding is not guaranteed. Requests for spring-semester return must be made by October 1, and requests for fall-semester return must be made by March 1. Failure to return from leave or renew a leave at the end of the one year term will result in withdrawal from the M.Arch. program. Once withdrawn, a student wishing to return to study must reapply for admission. Health Leaves: Leaves of absence for health reasons may be granted by the college in conjunction with the M.Arch. committee upon the recommendation of Cornell Health. Leave dates must be approved by the University Registrar. Due to course sequencing, leaves granted through semester five will be granted for a minimum of one-year in length, even if an earlier return is approved by Cornell Health. The student’s academic status is subject to review at the time of the leave and upon the student’s return. While on leave, the student may not attend classes at Cornell, including through the School of Continuing Education and Summer Sessions. In addition, students on a leave of absence are not eligible for privileges afforded to full-time registered students, including housing, dining, library, and transit privileges. Students wishing to return from a health leave must notify Cornell Health in writing via email at healthleaves@cornell.edu by the deadlines specified by Cornell Health. Deadline information and a checklist for returning from a health leave can be found online. Students should also keep the AAP Office of Student Services informed of their intent to return. Return from a voluntary leave of absence is at the discretion of the M.Arch. committee based on the recommendation of Cornell Health, and funding is not guaranteed. Duration of Leaves: If a leave is approved through semester five, it will be for a minimum of one academic year. Expected Supply Fees Architecture students should allow a minimum of $1,100 up to $3,000 for expendable supplies each academic year, depending on academic level, courses selected, and projects chosen. Note on Professional Accreditation In the United States, most state registration boards require a degree from an accredited professional degree program as a prerequisite for licensure. The National Architectural Accrediting Board (NAAB), which is the sole agency authorized to accredit U.S. professional degree programs in architecture, recognizes three types of degrees: the Bachelor of Architecture, the Master of Architecture, and the Doctor of Architecture. A program may be granted an eight-year, three-year, or two-year term of accreditation, depending on the extent of its conformance with established educational standards. Doctor of architecture and master of architecture degree programs may consist of a pre-professional undergraduate degree and a professional graduate degree that, when earned sequentially, constitute an accredited professional education. However, the pre-professional degree is not, by itself, recognized as an accredited degree. The Department of Architecture at Cornell University’s College of Architecture, Art, and Planning offers two NAAB-accredited degrees: the Bachelor of Architecture (176 undergraduate credits) and the Master of Architecture (pre-professional degree + 114 graduate credits). Next accreditation visit for the B.Arch.: 2024 Next accreditation visit for the M.Arch.: 2021 Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Global Search Courses of Study Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Departments & Fields of Study College Items College Content Entire Courses of Study Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Courses of Study Home Course Descriptions Colleges, Schools, and Units Agriculture and Life Sciences Architecture, Art and Planning Arts and Sciences Athletics and Physical Education Biological Sciences Computing and Information Science Continuing Education and Summer Sessions Cornell Tech Division of Nutritional Sciences eCornell Engineering Graduate School Human Ecology Industrial and Labor Relations Law School Officer Education SC Johnson College of Business - Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management - Hotel Administration - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management Veterinary Medicine My Favorites All courses of study © 2022 Cornell University. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).