Skip to Content | Course Catalog Office of the Registrar, 106 Steele Hall Syracuse, NY 13244 | (315) 443-2422 ﻿ Like Us on Facebook ﻿ Follow Us on Twitter Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy Syracuse University 2021-2022 Undergraduate Course Catalog Select a Catalog 2021-2022 Undergraduate Course Catalog 2021-2022 Graduate Course Catalog 2020-2021 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2020-2021 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2019-2020 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2018-2019 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2017-2018 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2016-2017 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2015-2016 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Undergraduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 2014-2015 Graduate Course Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] May 31, 2022 HELP 2021-2022 Undergraduate Course Catalog 2021-2022 Undergraduate Course Catalog Welcome to Syracuse University’s digital course catalog. Here you can access academic offerings-anytime and anywhere-from your computer or mobile device. Our searchable catalog allows you to easily find detailed information about Syracuse University’s schools, colleges and degree programs, including descriptions of the faculty and related courses. The catalog also includes information about the Shared Competencies, Syracuse University’s institutional learning goals that highlight the knowledge and skills you can expect to gain during your time here through your major courses, liberal arts requirements and co-curricular activities. In addition, you will find descriptions of many opportunities, programs and resources that enhance academic life, such as study abroad programs, centers for interdisciplinary learning and immersion opportunities across the U.S. and around the world. Whether you have used the digital course catalog before or this is your first time consulting it, we are certain you will discover new opportunities to inspire you, challenge you, and shape the direction you take and the choices you make on your academic journey. We want you to thrive during your time here and acquire the Syracuse University’s Shared Competencies, which will enhance the next phase of your education or career. The robust and diverse array of courses described in this catalog demonstrate our commitment to providing you with an evolving, multifaceted and enriching experience as you pursue your unique personal, academic and professional goals. The Syracuse University Undergraduate Course Catalog and Graduate Course Catalog are published online annually in July and are primarily intended for use by currently enrolled students, faculty, and staff. The catalogs provide an overview of the University’s curriculum, academic programs, facilities, and educational resources. They also include University academic policies, rules, regulations, and procedures; information about degree and certificate programs, including degree requirements; a listing and description of courses; and faculty information. Please be aware that the information concerning academic requirements, courses, and programs of study in the catalog does not establish an irrevocable contract between the student and the University. The University can change, discontinue, or add academic requirements, courses, and programs of study at any time without notice. Of course, every effort will be made to provide timely notice to students in order to help in the planning process. It is the responsibility of the individual student to confirm that all appropriate degree requirements are met. I encourage you to explore this catalog thoroughly so that you can take full advantage of those opportunities that tap into your own passions and find all the information you need to make your Syracuse University experience both distinctive and deeply rewarding. Zhanjiang (John) Liu, Ph.D. Interim Vice Chancellor and Provost Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Global Search Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Schools and Colleges Academic Rules Entire Catalog Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Navigation Catalog Home General Information Academic Rules Undergraduate University Requirements Syracuse University’s Shared Competencies Academic Offerings Other Programs Courses School of Architecture College of Arts and Sciences School of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science David B. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics School of Information Studies Martin J. Whitman School of Management Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications University College College of Visual and Performing Arts SUNY-ESF (Partner Institution) Archived Catalogs All catalogs © 2022 Syracuse University. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).