Skip to Content Search Search Search﻿﻿﻿ ﻿ Cornell University Registrar﻿ Office of the University Registrar Cornell University, B07 Day Hall. Ithaca, NY 14853 ‌Get Directions ‌ univreg@cornell.edu ‌ (607) 255-4232 ‌‌ (607) 255-6262 If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. Cornell University Courses of Study 2021-2022 Select a Courses of Study Courses of Study 2021-2022 Courses of Study through eCornell 2021-2022 Courses of Study 2020-2021 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2019-2020 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2018-2019 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2017-2018 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2016-2017 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2015-2016 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2014-2015 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2013-2014 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2012-2013 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Courses of Study 2011-2012 [ARCHIVED CATALOG] Jun 01, 2022 HELP Courses of Study 2021-2022 Leaves and Withdrawals Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Students wishing to take a leave from their respective college are required to apply for a voluntary Leave of Absence (LOA) with an expected return date in a future semester. Students on a LOA may not enroll in any courses offered by the University during their leave. Students on a LOA are not eligible for services such as housing, dining, library and transportation services. For purposes of enrollment reporting, University LOAs are treated as withdrawals. A college may place a student on leave of absence or withdraw a student who fails to meet the academic expectations of the college. A college may withdraw a student who fails to return at the end of a period of authorized leave. Students may withdraw from the University at their own discretion. Specific leave information can be found within the following policies: Policy 7.1: Voluntary Leave of Absence for Students Policy 7.2: Involuntary Student Leave Policy 7.3: Processing and Reporting Changes in Student Enrollment Status Under Title IV Unofficial Withdrawals When a student ceases to participate in a course, but has not provided official notification of withdrawal, the student shall be considered unofficially withdrawn. Additionally, due to regulatory requirements, the Office of Financial Aid and Student Employment may consider students to be unofficially withdrawn if students do not receive a passing grade for any of the courses they attempted in a term. If students are unofficially withdrawn, any financial aid the student receives may be adjusted according to federal and state regulations and institutional policy. Causes of unofficial withdrawals: Students enroll in but do not attend classes, which may result in failing grades of (U, UX or F) and outstanding tuition charges. Students drop all enrolled classes within a term and fail to notify their college. Students do not enroll for one or more terms and lose automatic registration eligibility. Students earn non-passing grades for all courses within a term. Financial Aid Impacts Students attending Cornell University who are receiving federal Title IV financial aid (e.g., federal Stafford or PLUS loans; Pell or FSEOG) are required to return the portion of unearned federal aid if they withdraw, go on leave of absence, do not register, or otherwise fail to complete the period of enrollment for which the Title IV aid was provided. For federal aid purposes, a student is considered to have withdrawn from Cornell when a student ceases to be enrolled for any reason – required by the college, requested by the student, medical reasons, etc. Please note, Cornell University does not process Title IV Leaves of Absence. For more information, refer to the Leaves and Withdrawals policy page on the Financial Aid website. Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) Global Search Courses of Study Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Departments & Fields of Study College Items College Content Entire Courses of Study Search Keyword Field Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Courses of Study Home Course Descriptions Colleges, Schools, and Units Agriculture and Life Sciences Architecture, Art and Planning Arts and Sciences Athletics and Physical Education Biological Sciences Bowers College of Computing and Information Science Brooks School of Public Policy Continuing Education and Summer Sessions Cornell Tech Division of Nutritional Sciences eCornell Engineering Graduate School Human Ecology Industrial and Labor Relations Law School Officer Education SC Johnson College of Business - Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management - Hotel Administration - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management Veterinary Medicine My Favorites All courses of study © 2022 Cornell University. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).