Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Spring 2022 University Updates Policies and Guidelines Videos Visitor Guidelines Travel Restrictions ReopenCU App COVID-19 Vaccine Info Vaccine Mandate COVID-19 Testing Program Isolation Quarantine COVID-19 Monitoring Plan Building Readiness Information Research Research Ramp-up Ambassadors Announcements School Updates COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community You are here: Home Research Working Group Research Working Group Research Working Group Resources for the Research Community address-card icon Guidelines for Visitors Participating in Academic Activities The University has updated the Guidelines for Visitors Participating in Academic Activities. wpforms icon Guidelines for Field Research Resumption of any field research requires adherence to research guidelines and prior approval by the relevant dean, director, or vice president; with a report to the Office of the Provost. State and University travel policies must be followed. user icon COVID-19 Guidelines for Human Subjects Research Any in-person human subject research procedures that have been paused due to the pandemic may resume, provided that critical health and safety requirements are followed, and in accordance with a research protocol approved by Columbia’s Human Research Protection Program. wpforms icon Human Research Health Screening Forms All non-University affiliate research participants must complete a Health Screening Form on the day of participation. A Spanish version is available. question icon Research Administration and Compliance FAQs The Offices of the Executive Vice President for Research answer frequently asked questions, including on human subjects research. Where to Go With a Concern To discuss a concern, if possible, first contact your supervisor, department or the office of the dean of your school or institute. Office of Academic Affairs (CUIMC) Supporting over 9,500 faculty and researchers across the four health science schools of the medical center Office of Faculty Affairs Responsible for administering University policies and processes governing academic appointments, managing tenure review, and maintaining fair processes in handling grievances from academic officers Human Resources A full range of services, including recruiting, interviewing, placing and guiding employees; maintaining benefits and payroll; mediating conflict; hosting trainings; and, offering learning and development programs Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Supporting and assisting postdocs in their professional training and development, and offering in-depth guidance and resources on all matters pertaining to postdoctoral affairs Compliance Hotline (Anonymous Reporting) The hotline serves as a channel for employees to report or seek guidance on possible compliance issues. Ombuds Office (Confidential) A confidential place to discuss workplace issues, academic concerns, issues relating to administrative paperwork and process, explanation and interpretation of policies and procedures, and other issues or concerns. Research Ramp-up Ambassadors The Research Ramp-Up Ambassadors provide support on issues such as: (1) pressure to come back to on-site work at a time where this is voluntary; (2) concerns from individuals who want to come back but have been told to wait; or (3) concerns that individuals or labs are not following the required safety and public health measures to protect against the spread of COVID-19. REQUIRED PROTOCOL FOR COMING TO CAMPUS These rules—and related policies and guidelines—apply to all affiliates. You must follow all University Public Health Protocols. user-md icon Get Vaccinated and Boosted; Upload Documentation Get vaccinated and get a booster dose using the New York Vaccine Finder. Booster dosing of the COVID-19 vaccine is required for all faculty, staff, and students who meet eligibility. wpforms icon Read and Sign the Compact If you are new or returning to campus for the first time, sign the Columbia Community Health Compact, which can be found in the ReopenCU app. Expand all Collapse all FAQ: I am a PI of a lab and someone from my team who accesses the lab told me they tested positive. What steps should I take? Q: I am a PI of a lab and someone from my team who accesses the lab told me they tested positive. What steps should I take? A: Some steps PIs may consider include the following: Ensure that the positive team member notifies [email protected] as soon as possible for guidance. Notify the rest of your team that a positive case has been identified in the lab (without revealing the identity of the individual who tested positive). Remind all that for those who are fully vaccinated, no quarantine is necessary and they can continue to come to work while wearing masks indoors as required by the University Any individual who has been working in the lab can get tested within 5-7 days from day of notification. Plan coverage for the person who is positive while they are in isolation. Develop back-up plans for key activities, in case additional members test positive. For additional details, please refer to the section on the Columbia Contact Tracing Program for additional information. Recent Communications May 05, 2022 Update on Current Public Health Protocols Because of a recent uptick in the number of COVID-19 cases in New York City, the COVID alert level has moved from low to moderate risk. Columbia's monitoring plan has been adjusted to be consistent with the city. Tags AnnouncementPublic HealthFacilities and Campus LifeVaccineAcademic Planning April 25, 2022 COVID-19 Treatment Option for Individuals Meeting CDC Guidelines ColumbiaDoctors will be facilitating access to oral treatment for individuals who test positive for COVID-19 and who meet certain medical criteria. Tags AnnouncementPublic Health April 22, 2022 Statement From the President’s Advisory Task Force on COVID-19 The University will continue to closely monitor the epidemiological situation in New York City and on campus and will provide updates as needed. Tags AnnouncementPublic Health More News Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close