Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Spring 2022 University Updates Policies and Guidelines Videos Visitor Guidelines Travel Restrictions ReopenCU App COVID-19 Vaccine Info Vaccine Mandate COVID-19 Testing Program Isolation Quarantine COVID-19 Monitoring Plan Building Readiness Information Research Research Ramp-up Ambassadors Announcements School Updates COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community You are here: Home University Communications 2021 Additional Floating Days Off 2021 Additional Floating Days Off May 26, 2021 Dear Colleagues, This past year has brought enormous change and challenges to all of us, personally and professionally. We have been working more and finding it difficult to hold the line between work time and personal time. We are heartened to see the continued decline in COVID-19 cases and the continued increase in the number of vaccinated individuals in our city. As the weather gets warmer, and our city begins to open up, we want to encourage everyone to take time to log off, unplug, and recharge. To facilitate this, the University is providing a one-time grant of two additional floating days off for officers of administration, officers of research, officers of the libraries, and support staff. These days are available to you immediately. We encourage you to take the time before the academic year begins in September, but the days will be available to you until the end of the calendar year. This time is in addition to regular vacation and personal days. Your school or department may have guidance on how these additional days may be used. Whether you are working on campus or remotely, taking time off work promotes well-being, provides a renewed sense of purpose, more energy and mental clarity, and an overall sense of health and happiness. Please take this opportunity to coordinate with your manager and schedule some time off. We are grateful for your continued hard work and dedication to our University. Thank you, Gerry Rosberg Senior Executive Vice President Donna Lynne Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, CUIMC University COVID Director Tags Public Health Announcement News May 05, 2022 Update on Current Public Health Protocols April 25, 2022 COVID-19 Treatment Option for Individuals Meeting CDC Guidelines April 22, 2022 Statement From the President’s Advisory Task Force on COVID-19 April 15, 2022 Update on Vaccination Requirement for Students April 15, 2022 Three Updates: Booster Shots, Gateway Testing, and Masking Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close