Skip to main content COVID Information & Resources navigation menu COVID-19 Reporter Public Health Guidance Vaccines Testing Knowledge Base Submit a Question Stalwart: Reliable. Hard-working. Focused. It’s who we are as CSU Rams. It’s not only knowing what to do to stay healthy. It’s figuring out how to make the most of our time together and take care of one another at the same time. Latest Information Information about COVID for summer 2022 Spring 2022 Frequently Asked Questions N95 proper fit and use guide Think you have COVID or were exposed? Here’s what to do Resources for Faculty and Instructors It’s OK not to be OK: mental health resources Search Knowledge Base Tip: Use arrows to navigate results, ESC to focus search input Students 5 articles Resources for Faculty and Instructors Information Sessions It’s OK not to be OK: mental health resources Show all Employees 5 articles Information Sessions It’s OK not to be OK: mental health resources Wash hands for 20 seconds Show all Staying Healthy 2 articles Wash hands for 20 seconds I just heard someone who was in a building I work or study in has tested positive for COVID-19 and I was not notified. Why? View All topics Cases at a glance: New Cases per Day Cumulative Cases CSU (since May 2020): 169 – Last Updated: 9/13/2020 Larimer County: 2,129 – Last Positive Case: 9/13/2020 Colorado: 61,324 – Last Updated: 9/13/2020 More information about these numbers. Current Community Transmission Level (Larimer County) Larimer County Transmission Level: high – Last Positive Case: 9/13/2020 Dashboard data in table form Colleges: Agricultural Sciences Business Walter Scott, Jr. College of Engineering Health and Human Sciences Liberal Arts Warner College of Natural Resources Natural Sciences Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences Schools & Programs: Graduate School International Programs Online Degrees and Courses School of Advanced Materials Discovery School of Music, Theatre and Dance School of Biomedical Engineering School of Education School of Global Environmental Sustainability School of Social Work School of Public Health Covid-19 Information Apply to CSU Contact CSU Disclaimer Equal Opportunity Privacy Statement Accessibility Statement © 2022 Colorado State University