Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Spring 2022 University Updates Policies and Guidelines Videos Visitor Guidelines Travel Restrictions ReopenCU App COVID-19 Vaccine Info Vaccine Mandate COVID-19 Testing Program Isolation Quarantine COVID-19 Monitoring Plan Building Readiness Information Research Research Ramp-up Ambassadors Announcements School Updates COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community You are here: Home University Communications Update on COVID-19 Vaccination (Including Boosters) Update on COVID-19 Vaccination (Including Boosters) There is currently no university deadline for uploading first booster dose documentation. The university will revisit its policies regarding enforcement later this summer. April 15, 2022 Dear Colleagues: We are writing today to provide updates on COVID-19 vaccination (including boosters) and steps that you need to take. As you are aware, all faculty and staff are required to have received the COVID-19 primary vaccination series or have an approved medical or religious exemption. It is also strongly recommended that all faculty and staff be up to date with their COVID-19 vaccinations, i.e., that they have received their recommended booster doses in addition to the primary series, including those who are eligible for a second booster based on age or with underlying medical conditions as noted in the CDC announcement on March 29, 2022. We currently do not have a deadline for uploading documentation of your first booster shot and will revisit our policies regarding enforcement later this summer. In order to get a booster dose, please go to vaccinetogetherny.org to make an appointment or go to any other convenient location or your local drug store pharmacy. If you have already uploaded your booster information, you do not need to do anything else. Verification that this is complete is shown as a checkmark in the booster compliance box on your Reopen CU app under My Checklist. If you received your booster, but did not upload this information, all you need to do is upload this information by doing the following: Go to the Upload Your Vaccination Documentation website, or log into the ReopenCU app, scroll down to the booster checkbox under My Checklist, and click on “faculty/staff.” Once you are on the document submission page, scroll down to the new Booster Information section. Please note that booster information uploaded through the primary vaccine section is not recorded; please make sure to use the Booster Information section for your booster documents. Thank you, Donna Lynne, Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, CUIMC, and University COVID Director Gerry Rosberg, Senior Executive Vice President Tags Announcement Public Health Vaccine Facilities and Campus Life News May 05, 2022 Update on Current Public Health Protocols April 25, 2022 COVID-19 Treatment Option for Individuals Meeting CDC Guidelines April 22, 2022 Statement From the President’s Advisory Task Force on COVID-19 April 15, 2022 Update on Vaccination Requirement for Students April 15, 2022 Three Updates: Booster Shots, Gateway Testing, and Masking Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close