Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Spring 2022 University Updates Policies and Guidelines Videos Visitor Guidelines Travel Restrictions ReopenCU App COVID-19 Vaccine Info Vaccine Mandate COVID-19 Testing Program Isolation Quarantine COVID-19 Monitoring Plan Building Readiness Information Research Research Ramp-up Ambassadors Announcements School Updates COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community You are here: Home Policies and Guidelines Vaccine/Booster Documentation Upload Instructions Vaccine/Booster Documentation Upload Instructions April 15, 2022 Questions about complying with the booster mandate? Learn more Update: There is currently no university deadline for uploading first booster dose documentation. The university will revisit its policies regarding enforcement later this summer. What You Should Know Acceptable proof of vaccination and booster shot includes, but is not limited to, the following: CDC COVID-19 Vaccine Card WHO Vaccine Booklet Documentation provided by a health care professional/organization/country Until otherwise advised, digital vaccine passports do not fulfill the requirement You must upload a photo of your vaccine record in order to complete the vaccine and booster requirement. All documentation must be submitted in English or accompanied by a certified translation (at the employee’s or student’s expense). Verification of documentation is at the sole discretion of Columbia University. Additional information or documentation may be requested and if requested must be provided in order to verify a submission. Expand all Collapse all How to Upload Documentation 1 Faculty and Staff Take a picture of your vaccine or booster documentation and save it to the phone or computer you will use to upload the documentation. Acceptable formats are jpg, jpeg, png, and pdf. Go to the upload documentation page and log in with your UNI. Enter the date(s) of your vaccine(s) and select the vaccine you received. If the vaccine you received is not on the list, choose the "COVID19NOS" option. If you are uploading documentation of having received a booster dose, scroll to the Booster Information section. Select the date you received the booster and the type of booster. Click the Choose File button and select the documentation file from your device. Click the Submit button. The next screen should confirm that your submission was uploaded properly. Human Resources will verify your vaccine and booster record. If any questions arise, they will reach out directly. 2 Morningside and Manhattanville Students Please use these instructions to upload your primary vaccine series and booster documentation. Go to secure.health.columbia.edu and log in with your UNI. Select "Medical Clearances" from the left-hand menu. In the line labeled "COVID-19 vaccine," click "Update." In the popup box, select "Add Immunization" to enter the date(s) of your vaccine(s) one at a time and select the vaccine you received. If the vaccine you received is not on the list, choose the "COVID19NOS" option. After you’ve entered the details, click Save for each dose. In the popup box, select "Upload" to add your COVID-19 Vaccine documentation. Accepted formats are gif, jpg, png, and pdf. There is a 4 MB file size limit If the item is legible, click the "Looks Good" button. Be sure to click the "Done" button in the popup box. This will allow Columbia Health to see and verify your immunizations and the required uploaded document(s). After you upload and submit your entry, Columbia Health verify your vaccine record. Allow at least 15 business days for processing and verification. Do not resubmit, email, or call if your immunization record upload was less than 15 business days ago. 3 CUIMC Students Visit Student Health on Haven’s website for information on uploading your vaccine and booster documentation. Get Help If you work or study on the Morningside campus and encounter a problem uploading your documentation, contact the CUIT Service Desk by emailing [email protected] or calling 212-854-1919. On the CUIMC campus, contact the CUIMC Service Desk at 212-305-4357 (x5-Help). You can also read the vaccine FAQs or email [email protected]. Vaccine Questions? Students with vaccine questions can write to us at: [email protected]. Faculty and staff with vaccine questions should either: Contact HR for compliance-related questions. Contact their primary health care provider for immunization questions related to their personal health. Document Categories Health Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close