Skip to main content University of Wisconsin–Madison UW Crest COVID-19 Response Latest updates, information and planning Menu open menu close Home Mask Policy Testing Vaccine Dashboard FAQs Search search close English Español Hmoob བོད་ཡིག 中文 नेपाली Search Pages search Search Monitoring COVID-19 in the community On May 19, Public Health Madison & Dane County reported in a blog post that the number of new cases has increased in the last month, though Dane County continues to be at a medium community level for COVID-19, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Community levels consider cases, hospitalizations and deaths. Public health officials continue to encourage everyone to use the tools available to help prevent the spread of COVID-19. This includes being fully vaccinated and boosted, considering wearing a face mask indoors or when outdoors in crowded spaces in places where transmission is considered high, continuing to test for COVID-19 and staying home when sick. PHMDC encourages those who test positive to fill out an online reporting form. The information will help public health continue to monitor the spread of the virus. UW–Madison is monitoring COVID-19 in our community and continues to work closely with state and local public health officials. There are no changes to campus policy at this time. Stay up to date with vaccination, including recommended booster doses. UHS is offering first and second booster doses. Stay home when sick. Continue to use antigen and PCR testing offered at no cost to all students and employees. You may choose to wear a mask to reduce the risk of transmission. The CDC and PHMDC recommend that individuals at high risk for severe illness discuss masking and additional precautions with their health care providers. To learn more from PHMDC and find testing and vaccination options throughout Dane County, visit https://publichealthmdc.com/coronavirus. Resources Students More International students More Employees More Campus Operations More Latest Updates Chancellor Blank message about positive COVID-19 test May 18, 2022 Upcoming changes to campus COVID-19 testing and vaccination April 27, 2022 Campus monitoring COVID-19 in the community April 22, 2022 Reminder: Testing, masks and booster shots March 30, 2022 More More UW–Madison is vaccinating all eligible students and employees. Schedule an appointment Upload your vaccine record to MyUHS Questions? Email covidresponse@vc.wisc.edu or call 608-262-7777. Respect Statement All members of the UW–Madison community deserve to feel welcome, valued and safe. We do not tolerate harassment and discrimination, and racist behaviors and stereotyping are inconsistent with the values of UW–Madison. The Office of Compliance and Dean of Students Office provide resources and reporting options for students, faculty and staff. Site footer content University logo that links to main university website Contact Us Email: covidresponse@vc.wisc.edu Phone: 608-262-7777 Feedback, questions or accessibility issues: covidresponse@vc.wisc.edu. This site was built using the UW Theme | Privacy Notice | © 2022 Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System.