Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box COVID-19 Safety & Success Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Home Latest Updates FAQs Positive Case Notification Mask Guidance Vaccination Program Safety & Success Plan Isolation Guidelines Self-test Kits Beaver Booster Blitz Dashboard Students Employees Teaching Faculty Researchers Extension Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Home Latest Updates FAQs Positive Case Notification Mask Guidance Vaccination Program Safety & Success Plan Isolation Guidelines Self-test Kits Beaver Booster Blitz Dashboard Students Employees Teaching Faculty Researchers Extension Quarantine & Isolation Guidelines Note: Per an OHA announcement, on March 12, 2022, most people exposed to someone who recently tested positive for COVID-19 will no longer need to quarantine, regardless of vaccination status. If you TEST POSITIVE for or have symptoms of COVID-19 Isolate Everyone, regardless of vaccination status: Isolate for five days. If you have no symptoms or symptoms are resolving after five days, you can end isolation (on day six). Continue to wear a well-fitting mask around others for five additional days (10 days total). If you have a fever, continue to isolate until your fever resolves. Positive Case Notification: Students and employees must notify OSU if they have tested positive for COVID-19 and have been on-site at any OSU location in the previous 10 days. If you were EXPOSED to someone with COVID-19 Monitor for symptoms Everyone, regardless of vaccination status: Do NOT need to quarantine. Quarantine still recommended in high-risk settings. Wear a well-fitting mask around others for 10 days. Test on day five, if possible. Monitor for symptoms for 10 days. If you develop symptoms, get a test and isolate. Definitions Up to date Have been boosted OR Completed the primary series of Moderna COVID-19 vaccine within the last 5 months OR Completed the primary series of Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine within the last 5 months OR Completed the primary series of J&J COVID-19 vaccine within the last 2 months Not up to date Are unvaccinated OR Completed the primary series of the Moderna COVID-19 vaccine over 5 months ago AND are not boosted OR Completed the primary series of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine over 5 months ago AND are not boosted OR Completed the primary series of the J&J COVID-19 vaccine over 2 months ago AND are not boosted Exposure Being in close contact (within 6 feet for at least 15 minutes in a 24-hour period) with a person who has recently tested positive for COVID-19. Symptoms COVID-19 symptoms can include shortness of breath, cough, fever, loss of taste or smell, fatigue, muscle or body aches, headache, sore throat, runny nose, nausea or vomiting, or diarrhea. Contact Info Contacts Non-emergency phone: 541-737-7211 Oregon Health Authority: Dial 211 Non-emergency questions and concerns form If you have symptoms of COVID-19, stay home; avoid close contact with others; and contact your health care provider, Student Health Services, or an emergency medical care provider. Pathway Steering Team Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer