Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Keep FAS Healthy Covid-19 Updates and Resources Policies and Procedures FAQs dc367ba3f70705b51086528e505e405a Today is Campus Status/Access Open Harvard College, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences All teaching and learning is being conducted in-person during the spring term. The FAS has increased flexibility for instructors to maintain academic continuity during periods of disruption. Division of Continuing Education (DCE) DCE is primarily running programs and courses online through the spring. Learn more. All FAS buildings and spaces are open or accessible by HUID. Please follow local guidance when accessing administrative offices. Campus Events & Gatherings Allowed The FAS is currently following the University’s guidance for campus events and gatherings. Indoor Socializing Gatherings in Harvard residence halls and dormitories should be limited and may not exceed 25 people, including residents, at any time. Larger gatherings must be University-sponsored and supervised. Visitors & Guests to Campus Allowed The FAS is currently following the University’s guidance on visitors/guests to campus. Visitors must be notified that Harvard requires both COVID-19 vaccinations and boosters and that visitors must be up-to-date before coming to campus. Campus Dining Open All Harvard dining halls and eateries are open to residential students, off-campus students with meal plans, and residential staff. Takeaway containers are also available for grab-and-go dining. More information can be found here. Travel Allowed Harvard Travel The FAS is currently following the University’s guidance on Harvard-related travel. Personal Travel There are no restrictions on personal travel at this time. FAS Guiding Principles Put health and safety first | Protect the academic enterprise Leverage our breadth and diversity | Preserve access and affordability Additional Harvard Resources Harvard University-wide COVID-19 Testing Dashboard FAS Faculty Affairs COVID Updates FAS Staff Return to Campus FAS Academic Year 21-22 Plan Keep Harvard Healthy Harvard Human Resources Your Life Well Lived CSS styles Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement