Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Spring 2022 University Updates Policies and Guidelines Videos Visitor Guidelines Travel Restrictions ReopenCU App COVID-19 Vaccine Info Vaccine Mandate COVID-19 Testing Program Isolation Quarantine COVID-19 Monitoring Plan Building Readiness Information Research Research Ramp-up Ambassadors Announcements School Updates COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community You are here: Home University Communications A COVID-19 University Life Forum and Other Events for Students A COVID-19 University Life Forum and Other Events for Students Learn more about University protocols, the vaccine, self care, and ask Columbia experts your questions at this Jan. 27 discussion January 26, 2021 Dear Students, The next two weeks are full of great events! Please join tomorrow’s University Life Forum at 4PM ET: COVID-19 Update: A Year Into the Global Pandemic to learn more about University protocols, the vaccine, self care, and ask Columbia experts your questions. Register and submit your questions here! Also, please remember to share your experiences with public safety at Columbia with The Inclusive Public Safety Working Group by filling out this form before the January 31 deadline. University Life Events and Opportunities (All events are ET) LGBTQ+ Roundtable with Columbia Faculty. Graduate students are invited to join Columbia faculty members to discuss experiences in higher education as members of the LGBTQ+ community. Thursday, 1/28, 4-5 PM. Register here. MLK Day of Service. Join the University Life Events Council and New York Urban League for mentorship and advocacy training in honor of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Friday, 1/29, 12-1 PM. Register here. Friendship Video Grams. Feeling particularly grateful for a friend? Submit their name to the University Life Events Council for a personalized email or JibJab video to show your appreciation and have a chance to win a prize. Enter here by Thursday, 2/4. Reflect and Set Intention: Commit to Flourishing in the New Year. Join Alice! Health Promotion and University Life for a discussion to help identify and clarify your personal values and put them into action for 2021! Thursday, 2/4, 3-4 PM. Register here. Black History Month Film Screening: Just Mercy. The University Life Events Council invites you to a virtual screening of Just Mercy - the true story of Walter McMillian, who, with the help of legal defense attorney Bryan Stevenson, appeals his murder conviction. Saturday, 2/6, all day. Register here. Apartment-Friendly Fitness Class. Get moving with a fun, virtual, apartment-friendly fitness class, led by PEREC instructor Elise! Tuesday, 2/9, 9:30-10:30 AM. Register here. Other Events and Opportunities Columbia Health Ongoing Support Groups. These support groups, created in response to student concerns, address issues like bereavement, building resilience during the pandemic, coping with trauma and more. Learn more. ALLIANCE: Intersectionality Conference 2021. Presented by SIPA Students of Color (SSOC), the 2021 Intersectionality Conference is a series of conversations, panels, and workshops that address the role that overlapping identities play in social, economic, and political inequities. 1/25 - 1/29. Register here. The National Institute on Minority Health and Health Disparities Research Framework, part of the Columbia Science and Health Equity Lecture Series. Tuesday, 1/26, 4:30pm. Register here. Identity, Inclusion Series: Understanding Anti-Semitism. This new workshop from Multicultural Affairs explores Anti-Semitism, an often misunderstood form of oppression, and how it manifests on campus and beyond. Wednesday, 1/27, 11AM-1PM. Register here. 2020 Post Election Debrief: Challenges & Opportunities for Change. Co-sponsored by Columbia School of Social Work's Offices of Professional Excellence and Diversity, Equity & Inclusion and its Action Lab for Social Justice, this discussion will consider how recent events may impact future advocacy efforts. Wednesday, 1/27, 12:30-2 PM. Register here. Recognizing and Responding to Stalking. Join Sexual Violence Response (SVR) for an introductory session to understand stalking as a form of violence. Wednesday, 1/27, 4-5:30 PM. Register here. American Democracy: The Task Before Us. The Center for American Studies and LOA LIVE present a conversation on the controversies and flashpoints that will shape the future course of our democratic experiment. Wednesday, 1/27, 6-7 PM. Register here. Revisiting Citizen with Claudia Rankine. MacArthur Award-winning writer engages in a conversation about her groundbreaking book Citizen: An American Lyric (2014) in 2021. Thursday, 1/28, 12-1:30 PM. Register here. Neurorights: Human Rights Guidelines for Neurotechnology and Artificial Intelligence. Hosted by the Institute for the Study of Human Rights, this discussion will consider a proposal to add new rights to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights to protect mental privacy, personal identity and more from algorithmic biases. Friday, 1/29, 1-2 PM. Register here. All events and opportunities are on University Life’s website, Instagram and Facebook. Reach out to us with questions any time at [email protected]. Wishing you all an enjoyable week, Joseph Defraine Greenwell, Ed.D. Vice President for Student Affairs Office of University Life Gender Pronouns: He/Him/His Ixchel Rosal Associate Vice President for Student Life Office of University Life Gender Pronouns: She/Her/Hers Tags Announcement Public Health Facilities and Campus Life News May 05, 2022 Update on Current Public Health Protocols April 25, 2022 COVID-19 Treatment Option for Individuals Meeting CDC Guidelines April 22, 2022 Statement From the President’s Advisory Task Force on COVID-19 April 15, 2022 Update on Vaccination Requirement for Students April 15, 2022 Three Updates: Booster Shots, Gateway Testing, and Masking Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close