Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Spring 2022 University Updates Policies and Guidelines Videos Visitor Guidelines Travel Restrictions ReopenCU App COVID-19 Vaccine Info Vaccine Mandate COVID-19 Testing Program Isolation Quarantine COVID-19 Monitoring Plan Building Readiness Information Research Research Ramp-up Ambassadors Announcements School Updates COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community You are here: Home University Communications Fall 2021 Vaccine Policy Update Fall 2021 Vaccine Policy Update April 19, 2021 Dear fellow members of the Columbia community, We write to update you on an important decision the University has made in our ongoing effort to restore a vibrant and full experience starting with the 2021 fall term. On the strong recommendation of our public health colleagues, who have advised us so ably throughout this process, President Bollinger and the Columbia University COVID Task Force have decided to make the COVID-19 vaccination mandatory for all students who are present on campus, starting this fall. We will provide religious and medical exemptions, as we do for the influenza and measles vaccines, in accordance with New York State public health laws. We regard this decision as essential to ensuring the health of Columbia students and the broader University and surrounding community, and also to containing the spread of the virus in New York City, one of the most severely affected locations in the country throughout this past 13 months. The vaccine mandate for students will be integrated into our Columbia Community Health Compact, an agreement all students are required to sign in order to access campus facilities. The mandate will take its place alongside our testing program and public health protocols, including face covering and physical distancing. Adherence to the Compact has enabled us to maintain a COVID-19 test positivity rate of just 0.39% since June 2020. Last fall, we asked you to “Keep the Compact,” and you did it. Despite tremendous hardship, Columbia has maintained its academic, research and clinical vitality throughout the current academic year. The vaccine will push us that much closer to the normal campus life we are so eager to restore. Questions About Vaccine Compliance? Here's what you need to know. We remain, however, in an uncertain state. Rates of infection and hospitalization in New York, in particular, remain high. The state has made great progress in administering over 11 million doses but many more people need to be vaccinated in order to see the anticipated protective effects. We all hope for, and are striving to ensure, a far brighter picture once the fall term starts in September. Since mid-December 2020, in partnership with NewYork Presbyterian, many of our faculty, staff and students—in fact over 11,000 of you—have been vaccinated through several vaccine sites. Thousands more have been vaccinated in their own communities in New York State and beyond. We now operate three locations that provide vaccinations to Columbia affiliates, two of which can offer vaccine to their family members, as well as to other patients. Additionally, we have launched a pop-up weekend vaccine site for the surrounding community at the Forum in Manhattanville. The site vaccinated nearly 700 people over the past two weekends. Our Columbia-operated sites will offer the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines throughout the coming months, and we are committed to providing vaccination to returning students in the fall, if they have not been vaccinated. However, please do not wait until then. We strongly encourage everyone to be vaccinated as soon as possible, including international students. We will announce more details related to this policy in the coming weeks. Additional information, including how to get vaccinated in the fall, deadlines for when students must be vaccinated, how to document that you have been vaccinated by a non-Columbia provider, and how to apply for a religious or medical exemption will be posted on the COVID-19 website in the coming weeks. We also encourage you to participate in the regular town halls that we will continue to host on issues related to COVID-19 and vaccinations throughout the coming months. More broadly, our fall plans continue to take shape, with the goal of welcoming all students who are able to join us in person back to campus. You will receive a series of updates about these plans in the coming weeks and months. Sincerely, Gerry Rosberg Senior Executive Vice President Donna Lynne Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, CUIMC University COVID Director Tags Announcement Public Health Vaccine Academic Planning Facilities and Campus Life News May 05, 2022 Update on Current Public Health Protocols April 25, 2022 COVID-19 Treatment Option for Individuals Meeting CDC Guidelines April 22, 2022 Statement From the President’s Advisory Task Force on COVID-19 April 15, 2022 Update on Vaccination Requirement for Students April 15, 2022 Three Updates: Booster Shots, Gateway Testing, and Masking Vaccine Requirement COVID-19 vaccination will be mandatory for all University students, faculty, and staff—this includes officers of instruction, officers of research, officers of the libraries, student officers, officers of administration, union and non-union support staff. Full vaccination is to be completed as soon as possible. The deadline for vaccination documentation to be uploaded was August 2. In order to accommodate late submitters, first dose evidence can now be submitted; the University will follow up to ensure completion of the second dose to ensure admission to campus in September. If you are requesting a medical or religious exemption, those also must be submitted no later than August 2, to ensure appropriate time to review and evaluate the request in advance of the September 1 deadline. Beginning on September 2, any individual who has not submitted their vaccination documentation or has not received an approved medical or religious exemption will have a red pass on the ReopenCU app and will be unable to access campus. See Vaccine Documentation Upload Instructions for guidance in submitting your proof of vaccination. Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close