Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Spring 2022 University Updates Policies and Guidelines Videos Visitor Guidelines Travel Restrictions ReopenCU App COVID-19 Vaccine Info Vaccine Mandate COVID-19 Testing Program Isolation Quarantine COVID-19 Monitoring Plan Building Readiness Information Research Research Ramp-up Ambassadors Announcements School Updates COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community You are here: Home University Communications Campus Update Forum on Tuesday, Nov. 16 Campus Update Forum on Tuesday, Nov. 16 November 09, 2021 We invite you to join us for the next Campus Update Forum for faculty, researchers and staff on Tuesday, Nov. 16, from 4:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. via Zoom. This session will include up-to-date information regarding COVID-19 and the fall 2021 term, including a focused discussion about COVID-19 vaccines for children. Special guest panelists will include: Magdalena Sobieszczyk, MD, MPH; Harold C. Neu Professor of Infectious Diseases (in Medicine) at CUIMC; Chief, Division of Infectious Diseases Melissa Stockwell, MD MPH: Chief, Division of Child and Adolescent Health, CUIMC; Associate Professor of Pediatrics, and of Population and Family Health The regular panelists will include Melanie Bernitz, Wafaa El-Sadr and Donna Lynne. You may email no more than two (2) advance questions to [email protected] until 5:00 p.m. on Monday, Nov. 15. Registration is required. You will receive a confirmation email before the event with instructions for joining. Register here. For general questions, please visit the University COVID-19 website for current guidance, including videos of past forums that are relevant to the Columbia community. With appreciation, Donna Lynne Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, CUIMC University COVID Director Gerry Rosberg Senior Executive Vice President Tags Announcement Public Health Vaccine Facilities and Campus Life News May 05, 2022 Update on Current Public Health Protocols April 25, 2022 COVID-19 Treatment Option for Individuals Meeting CDC Guidelines April 22, 2022 Statement From the President’s Advisory Task Force on COVID-19 April 15, 2022 Update on Vaccination Requirement for Students April 15, 2022 Three Updates: Booster Shots, Gateway Testing, and Masking Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close