Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Spring 2022 University Updates Policies and Guidelines Videos Visitor Guidelines Travel Restrictions ReopenCU App COVID-19 Vaccine Info Vaccine Mandate COVID-19 Testing Program Isolation Quarantine COVID-19 Monitoring Plan Building Readiness Information Research Research Ramp-up Ambassadors Announcements School Updates COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community You are here: Home Policies and Guidelines Public Health Protocol: Quarantine Public Health Protocol: Quarantine February 01, 2022 Updated: January 7, 2022 Quarantine is the separating and restricting of the movement of people who were exposed to a contagious disease, to determine if they remain healthy or become sick, and to prevent the possible spread of the communicable disease. Quarantine requirements will be attested through the ReOpenCU app. Travel Travelers arriving in New York are no longer required to submit traveler health forms. All travelers, domestic and international, should continue to follow all CDC travel requirements. Please review the Spring travel guidelines for most recent guidance. Regardless of vaccine status, returning domestic and international travelers must follow all other guidance including face coverings, hand washing, and physical distancing. If symptoms develop, they must immediately isolate, get a COVID-19 test from a symptomatic testing center and report positive results to [email protected]. Exposure as close contact of individual with COVID-19 Close contacts are: Individuals who have been in close contact for 10 or more minutes in a single instance or a cumulative total of 15 or more minutes over a 24-hour period at distance of less than 6 ft with an individual who tests positive for SARS-CoV-2 Individuals who share a bedroom, bathroom, kitchen, and/or common living space with an individual who tests positive for COVID-19 (suite mates or same floor area) Individuals who are fully vaccinated and have received booster dose You do not need to quarantine. Such individuals are recommended to get tested on day 5-7 after last exposure. Individuals who are not vaccinated or not fully vaccinated or are eligible for a booster but have not yet received one You should quarantine for 5 days – where day 0 is the last day of exposure – provided symptoms do not appear. Such individuals are recommended to get tested on day 5-7. Regardless of vaccination status, close contacts are encouraged to monitor for symptoms for the next 14 days. If symptoms develop, they must immediately isolate, get a PCR test from a symptomatic testing center and immediately report positive results to [email protected] Support for those in quarantine An important priority for successful quarantine is providing individuals with the supports to enable them to do so safely. If an individual is asked to quarantine, they should follow the guidance here: Quarantine Guide for Morningside and Manhattanville Students Quarantine Guide for CUIMC Students Quarantine Guide for Faculty and Staff In most cases, individuals can quarantine in their regular residence while taking appropriate precautions to protect those they live with. Individuals under quarantine must stay home (except when directed by a medical professional), maintain distance (approximately 6 feet or 2 meters) from others, consistently use face covering/face mask and arrange for food and grocery deliveries. They should also monitor their health. At the end of the quarantine period if the individual has no symptoms, their quarantine can be ended with no further actions. If at any time, the individual develops symptoms, they should contact their health care provider for further guidance and testing. Document Categories Health Document Topics Guidelines Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close