Skip to main content COVID-19 Response COVID-19 Response Information for Students Faculty & Staff Visitors × Home Updates Information for... Students Overview Advising, Career Services & Support Faculty & Staff Visitors Testing Overview Supplemental Testing Symptomatic Testing COVID-19 Tracking Epidemiological Modeling Vaccination at Cornell Health & Safety Prevention & Care Face Masks HEERF Emergency Funding Events Travel University Operations Resources Building Signage Vaccination at Cornell Student Vaccination Requirement Cornell requires students attending classes on the Ithaca, Geneva and Cornell Tech campuses or participating in any other Ithaca-based program at any point of the 2021-22 or 2022-23 academic year to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 or to obtain a university-approved medical or religious exemption. All new students are expected to meet this requirement before commencing attendance at Cornell. Employee Vaccination Requirement All employees, whether they work on campus in Ithaca, Geneva, New York City, or any other location, are required to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 or to have obtained a university-approved medical or religious exemption. This requirement extends to temporary and casual employees as well as those who work fully or partially from a remote location. What does it mean to be fully vaccinated? For the 2022-23 academic year, Cornell will continue to require that all students and employees be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 or obtain a university-approved medical or religious exemption. An individual is considered fully vaccinated two weeks after receiving the full series of an FDA- or WHO-authorized or approved COVID-19 vaccine (e.g., two doses of Pfizer or Moderna, or a single dose of Johnson & Johnson). Please visit Cornell Health for a full list of accepted COVID-19 vaccines. Booster Recommendations for Students and Employees As we shift to a longer-term strategy for managing COVID-19, Cornell will no longer require, but rather will strongly recommend that all previously vaccinated students and employees stay up to date with all CDC recommended COVID-19 booster doses when eligible. Cornell will continue to monitor the benefits of boosters and may require them in the future. While students and employees are no longer required to get boosted, we strongly encourage vaccinated individuals to consider receiving a booster when they are eligible. Students who will become eligible for a booster over the summer, should consider getting one before returning to campus in the fall. Individuals are also encouraged, but not required, to upload proof of boosters to the Daily Check. Need help? The COVID-19 Support Center offers support to all members of the Cornell community for questions regarding testing, vaccines, travel and more. Operating hours: Monday to Friday: 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. | By phone: 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. (Closed noon to 1 p.m.) Saturday and Sunday: Closed. Vaccination Data* Vaccination Data Loading... View the full COVID-19 dashboard COVID-19 Vaccine Resources Cornell Health Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) New York State Department of Public Health (NYSDOH) Tompkins County Health Department (TCHD) If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. © Cornell University 2022