Skip to the main content Close Messages Guidance Guidance COVID-19 Protocols Face Coverings Travel Students Employees Vaccines Testing Resources Resources Human Resources Student Health Services Texas A&M University COVID-19 Guidance Messages Guidance Guidance COVID-19 Protocols Face Coverings Travel Students Employees Vaccines Testing Resources Resources Human Resources Student Health Services Menu Symptomatic? Tested Positive Exposed Search this site search Guidance COVID-19 Protocols Face Coverings Travel Students Employees Travel Guidance Domestic Travel Domestic Travel will follow approval protocols that were in place pre-COVID. International Travel Employees are encouraged to carefully evaluate international travel as the COVID-19 pandemic is ongoing. COVID-19 conditions will be evaluated on a country-by-country basis. All international travel requests must be routed through Concur to the appropriate vice president or dean to obtain mission-essential approval prior to departure. Travel to destinations identified as high-to-extreme risk on the TAMUS Travel Advisory List will automatically route to the Office of Risk, Ethics & Compliance for a risk assessment prior to being routed to the Office of the Provost for final approval consideration. Student Travel Student travel as part of a student organization must be routed through Student Affairs. Academic-related student travel is at the discretion of individual departments. Information regarding Education Abroad programs - including cancelations and other guidelines - can be found at the Education Abroad website. What to Do After Travel It is recommended that everyone self-monitor their health after travel, following the CDC guidelines for return from travel. The university adheres to CDC and the Texas Department of State Health Services guidance which can be accessed on the CDC website or the DSHS website. Domestic or international travel that requires the traveler to quarantine/isolate upon return should be part of the overall planning process and is not the responsibility of the university to provide the required quarantine/isolation space. Remote Campus COVID-19 Information Health Science Center Galveston Higher Education Center at McAllen Qatar CDC: 2019 Novel Coronavirus Brazos County Health District Department of State Health Services Clery Act COVID-19 Disclosure Contact: Risk & Compliance: For Risk & Compliance related inquiries covid-19process@tamu.edu Covid-19 Operations Center: For testing and case investigation questions covid@tamu.edu © Texas A&M University Site Policies Web Accessibility