Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Spring 2022 University Updates Policies and Guidelines Videos Visitor Guidelines Travel Restrictions ReopenCU App COVID-19 Vaccine Info Vaccine Mandate COVID-19 Testing Program Isolation Quarantine COVID-19 Monitoring Plan Building Readiness Information Research Research Ramp-up Ambassadors Announcements School Updates COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community You are here: Home University Communications COVID-19 Booster Mandate Deadline Deferred to End of May 2022 COVID-19 Booster Mandate Deadline Deferred to End of May 2022 February 23, 2022 Dear Columbia Community: We are writing today to provide a further update on our COVID-19 booster mandate. As has been true from the beginning of the pandemic, the University remains vigilant as new information becomes available on an almost daily basis. As you are likely aware, New York State announced last Friday that it will not enforce the booster mandate for health care workers that was to go into effect on February 21, noting that it will reassess the situation in three months. The stated reason was a concern that enforcement of the mandate could worsen the current shortage of health care workers. Under these circumstances, with health care workers no longer subject to immediate enforcement of the mandate, we have concluded that we should defer till the end of May 2022 the deadline for our own booster mandate to avoid inconsistent application of the booster mandate to different members of our community – health care workers and clinical students versus everyone else. During this deferral period, the exemption request process will be paused and will be re-activated four weeks prior to any new mandate deadline. The rationale for our booster mandate remains as strong as ever. Evidence continues to accumulate that supports the value of mRNA booster vaccination. We urge you to get your booster dose as soon as possible, if eligible. Getting a booster dose offers protection against likely future variants and decreases risk of infection, thus, protecting others around you. To date, compliance among faculty and staff with our booster mandate is already above 80%, and nearly that high for students. Sincerely, Donna Lynne, Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, CUIMC, and University COVID Director Gerry Rosberg, Senior Executive Vice President Tags Announcement Public Health Vaccine Facilities and Campus Life News May 05, 2022 Update on Current Public Health Protocols April 25, 2022 COVID-19 Treatment Option for Individuals Meeting CDC Guidelines April 22, 2022 Statement From the President’s Advisory Task Force on COVID-19 April 15, 2022 Update on Vaccination Requirement for Students April 15, 2022 Three Updates: Booster Shots, Gateway Testing, and Masking Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close