Skip to the main content Close Messages Guidance Guidance COVID-19 Protocols Face Coverings Travel Students Employees Vaccines Testing Resources Resources Human Resources Student Health Services Texas A&M University COVID-19 Guidance Messages Guidance Guidance COVID-19 Protocols Face Coverings Travel Students Employees Vaccines Testing Resources Resources Human Resources Student Health Services Menu Symptomatic? Tested Positive Exposed Search this site search Guidance COVID-19 Protocols Face Coverings Travel Students Employees Employee Guidance COVID-19 Vaccine Information Vaccines, including all CDC-recommended boosters, are available to the campus community. Vaccine Information Free COVID-19 Testing Free COVID-19 testing for Texas A&M students, faculty and staff in Bryan-College Station. COVID-19 Testing Texas A&M COVID-19 Protocols If you are currently sick, think you have been exposed to a person with COVID-19, or have a confirmed positive test, the Texas A&M COVID-19 Protocols has information on what you should do. Human Resources The Division of HROE is maintaining staff-specific COVID-19 messages and guidance for returning to campus to work and frequently asked questions on the employee page. These resources include frequently asked questions (FAQs) for faculty, staff, and student employees that apply to all of our campuses including Qatar, McAllen, Galveston, and TAMU Health. For questions regarding: Employment-related issues, alternate work location (AWL) requests, or any type of leave, contact Employee-Relations@tamu.edu (Texas A&M employees) or hschr@tamu.edu (Texas A&M Health employees). Leave Policy Information For specific information about HR policies and leave associated with COVID-19 visit the Employment-Related Information Concerning the Coronavirus website. For information about Justified Emergency Leave under Other Circumstances, visit the Emergency Leave page. Travel Guidance For the latest information about domestic and international travel restrictions and return to campus protocols, visit travel guidance. Retrieving Office Items If you are a faculty or staff member who is quarantining or self-isolating and need to retrieve items from your office or workspace, please coordinate with your supervisor about the best way to retrieve those items without returning to campus. Disclosure of Suspected COVID-19 Infection If you are notified by a student or an employee that they are positive for COVID-19, they should be directed to follow the TAMU COVID-19 Protocols for a positive test. Remote Campus COVID-19 Information Health Science Center Galveston Higher Education Center at McAllen Qatar CDC: 2019 Novel Coronavirus Brazos County Health District Department of State Health Services Clery Act COVID-19 Disclosure Contact: Risk & Compliance: For Risk & Compliance related inquiries covid-19process@tamu.edu Covid-19 Operations Center: For testing and case investigation questions covid@tamu.edu © Texas A&M University Site Policies Web Accessibility