Home Coming to Campus Vaccines & Testing Dashboard Travel COVID-19 News & Updates HomeComing to CampusVaccines & TestingDashboardTravelCOVID-19 News & Updates COVID-19 info last updated on Sept 21, 2020 Event Guidance Updated: May 17, 2022 In order to host or attend a Dartmouth-sponsored in-person event or an event held at a Dartmouth location, organizers and attendees must follow Dartmouth policies, including but not limited to, this event guidance, and Dartmouth’s face-mask policy and visitor guidance. In addition, organizers and attendees must follow applicable federal, state, and local requirements and any requirements set by business owners, landlords, or other facility owners or operators. Please be respectful and considerate of all in our community as you organize and attend events. Dartmouth leadership will continue to monitor health guidance as well as the conditions of COVID-19 at Dartmouth and in the surrounding communities and will make changes to this guidance accordingly. If you have questions about organizing an event, contact Conferences and Events. Please email covid-19.info@dartmouth.edu with questions about COVID-19 policies. Event Organizers Please plan your event with the health and safety of your attendees in mind. This can include making take-home rapid antigen tests, face masks, and hand sanitizer available; providing remote options or access to a recording of the content presented; scheduling breaks in required content when people are eating; and communicating the details of the event to attendees ahead of time so they know what to expect. Organizers who provide take-home rapid antigen tests to attendees are responsible for advising those who choose to test on how and when to test and what to do if they test positive, including reporting positive test results, following isolation protocols, and informing close contacts. If organizers would like to order take-home rapid antigen tests through Dartmouth, they can fill out a request form for up to two tests for each attendee (students, faculty, staff, visitors), regardless of the duration of the event. For events held through June 12, rapid antigen tests are available to event organizers at no cost. For events held after June 12, event organizers have the option to purchase tests using a chart string at the price listed on the request form. Students, faculty, and staff may continue to pick up take-home antigen tests, two at a time as supplies allow, at COVID-19 test pick-up locations. Health and Safety Organizers and attendees must not attend an in-person event if: They are in isolation or quarantine; They are experiencing symptoms consistent with COVID-19 including the following: A fever of 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit or higher, or felt feverish in the last 72 hours; New respiratory symptoms including a runny nose, nasal congestion, sore throat, cough, or shortness of breath; General body symptoms such as new muscle aches, chills, or severe fatigue; New gastrointestinal symptoms such as nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea; Any new change in their sense of taste or smell. Organizers or attendees who develop symptoms or test positive for COVID-19 while at an event, or within 48 hours of being at an event, should isolate immediately. Dartmouth students, faculty, and staff should follow Dartmouth’s isolation guidance. Visitors should follow the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s (CDC) isolation guidance. The person who developed symptoms or tested positive should also inform their close contacts. For COVID-19, a close contact is anyone who was less than 6 feet away from an infected person for a combined total of 15 minutes or more over a 24-hour period. An infected person can transmit COVID-19 starting 48 hours before they first developed symptoms or took a test with a positive result. Attendees who need help identifying or reaching out to their close contacts can get in touch with their event organizer. Organizers who receive information on close contacts can email Occupational Health at occupational.medicine@dartmouth.edu for more information or to request assistance. If identified as a close contact, wear a face mask and limit close contacts with others. Students should follow testing and quarantine guidance. Faculty and staff should contact their primary care provider, and those who work on-site and do not yet have a case open should call Axiom Medical at 833-408-1338. Visitors should contact their primary care provider and follow the CDC’s quarantine guidance. Contact us Have questions about Dartmouth’s COVID-19 operations? Call the COVID-19 information line at 603-646-2019 or email covid-19.info@dartmouth.edu. Info Campus Operations Dartmouth COVID-19 Working Groups COVID-19 HEERF Report Building Posters Public Health Information FIND IT FAST Campus Map Directory Events News Visit RESOURCES Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX