Skip to main content COVID-19 Response COVID-19 Response Information for Students Faculty & Staff Visitors × Home Updates Information for... Students Overview Advising, Career Services & Support Faculty & Staff Visitors Testing Overview Supplemental Testing Symptomatic Testing COVID-19 Tracking Epidemiological Modeling Vaccination at Cornell Health & Safety Prevention & Care Face Masks HEERF Emergency Funding Events Travel University Operations Resources Building Signage University Operations Cornell University Library Cornell University Library is open to Cornell students, faculty and staff. Campus Fitness Centers and Athletic Facilities Many fitness centers and athletic facilities are open at this time (hours), following current public health guidance on masking and density. Visit the Cornell Recreational Services website for details and COVID-19 safety guidance. Enjoying Outdoor Spaces Walking around Cornell's campus is permitted. Multiple studies have shown that spending time in nature can help reduce stress and anxiety and increase one's sense of overall well-being. Cornell Outdoor Education has provided a guide for outdoor activities and also provides outdoor gear rentals. The grounds of the Cornell Botanic Gardens are also open every day, dawn to dusk. The Cornell Store The Cornell Store on central campus and its branch location on the Ithaca Commons are open to all. The Cornell Store is following all New York state and university guidelines, including implementing protocols for physical distancing, strict sanitization measures and limiting the number of customers in the store at any given time. Customers can shop online anytime at the Cornell Store website. Free UPS Ground shipping is available on orders of $50 or more. Store and curbside pickup are available during store hours. Cornell Print Services Cornell Print Services is following all of the recommended guidelines and taking extra precautions to protect the well-being of their staff, customers and community. You may submit print orders on the Cornell Print Services website or through email at digital@cornell.edu. As always, orders can be delivered on campus, shipped via UPS or picked up in their vestibule at 695 Dryden Rd. Please email digital@cornell.edu with any questions. Campus-to-Campus bus C2C has resumed operations for all passengers. Passengers are required to follow all current public health guidelines. Visit c2cbus.com for further service updates and notifications.. Johnson Museum The Museum is open with regular hours (Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. – 5 p.m.). For more information and updates, visit the Johnson Museum website. Veterinary Services Current operating status of hospitals, centers and programs, as well as COVID-19 safety precautions are available on the College of Veterinary Medicine’s website. Mail Services Campus mail pick-up, processing, and delivery is available to departments that can allow access to their facility. To make arrangements, contact Tracey Post at tlp11@cornell.edu. Alternatively, departments can arrange for receiving directly from Mail Services at the East Campus Service Center, 209 Solidago Rd (311 E Palm Rd). Contact to make arrangements. Mail metering services for USPS mail is also available. Please include the barcoded Mail Release Form for accounting purposes. USPS letter mail: Department managers can arrange temporary USPS letter mail forwarding for regular pick from Mail Services at the East Campus Service Center, 209 Solidago Rd (311 E Palm Rd). To make arrangements, contact the post office at (800) 275-8777 or (607) 375-6003 prior to contacting Tracey Post (tlp11@cornell.edu). Package delivery: Departments can make arrangements for direct delivery of packages to Mail Services using the 311 E Palm Rd, Ithaca, NY 14850 address. Mail Services can accept USPS and private carrier (FedEx/UPS) packages and will attempt to deliver to campus facilities. If a building is not accessible to delivery personnel, the package will be held at Mail Services until the department can arrange for pick-up. Please contact Tracey Post at tlp11@cornell.edu to arrange for receiving. Additional questions: Please visit Mail & Delivery Services website or contact mailservices@cornell.edu or 607-254-8284. Expenses Related to COVID-19 The possibility of federal cost reimbursement to Cornell through FEMA, the CARES act or other programs has reemphasized the importance of consistently identifying expenses related to COVID-19. Use the KFS project code CORONAV-20 for all expenses and credits related to the outbreak, except as noted below. Guidelines for Using the CORONAV-20 Project Code Use this code for purchase orders, procurement card purchases, interdepartmental billings, disbursement vouchers, Concur expense reports, or other payment or credit transactions. Use this code for expenses such as those necessary to respond to the emergency (e.g., cleaning and sanitizing products); switch to remote instruction (e.g., shipping student belongings, acquiring IT resources for faculty to teach classes remotely); cancel planned trips or events; as well as for costs to secure campus and to help employees establish an adequate remote-work setup. Additional Guidance and Exceptions For foreign transactions related to COVID-19, instead of the CORONAV-20 code, use the recently established special KFS C-[region] project codes (Excel), which will also accomplish foreign reporting needs. For HR transactions, use special earnings or leave codes as directed by Human Resources. Use the CORONAV-20 project code on Salary Expense Transfer e-docs. For student financial system transactions, obtain a new item type and use the org ref ID of C19. Federal exceptions to grant cost principles (2 CFR 200) contained in OMB M-20-17 (PDF) were largely rescinded or limited on July 17, 2020 by OMB M-20-26 (PDF), which affects the ability to charge cancellation costs or hours not worked. For further questions about how this may impact your award please contact Sponsored Financial Services. If you have any questions please contact your business service center. If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. © Cornell University 2022