Princeton COVID Resources Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Princeton COVID Resources Main Menu Menu Safe Practices Health & Well-Being Testing Submenu Eligibility and Frequency Taking the Test Clinic Info and Test Kit Pick-up Dropping Off Your Sample Receiving Results Report a Testing Absence Vaccinations Submenu Faculty and Staff Requirement Student Requirement Workplace Submenu Information for Faculty and Staff Information For Managers FAQs for faculty Travel Undergraduate FAQs Quarantine & Isolation Policies Dashboard Log in Search Search Home Section Menu Faculty and Staff Requirement Student Requirement On this page Vaccinations If you have tested positive for COVID If you are participating in the University's asymptomatic testing program and receive a positive COVID result, please check the updated guidance issued to students and employees in emails from covidtests@princeton.edu on Jan. 13. If you receive a positive COVID result outside of the on-campus testing program, email the Global and Community Health Team at communityhealth@princeton.edu to inform them of your result. Please attach proof of your positive result to your email. Do not call. The Team will be in touch with you as soon as they can. If you have previously tested positive for COVID and have received an official 90-day exemption from participation in asymptomatic testing from Global and Community Health, you do not have to do a test upon arrival back on campus.You should resume testing at the conclusion of your 90-day exemption period As of March 15, 2022, individuals are eligible to receive COVID boosters 5 months after their initial COVID vaccines, and should do so within 30 days of that 5 month mark. This timeline is regardless of a recent COVID diagnosis, as a review of scientific evidence indicates there is no reason to delay receiving a booster despite a recent COVID infection. Students must upload proof of booster to MyUHS. Employees must upload proof of booster to VacStatus. Find a COVID-19 Vaccine Clinic No more vaccination clinics are scheduled at Princeton University at this time. See the state's Vaccine Appointment Finder or vaccines.gov to search for and schedule an appointment in our area. If you have questions, send an email to covidvaccines@princeton.edu or call the University's COVID Connector telephone support line. Customer service agents are available at 609-258-7000 during University business hours from 8:45 a.m. to 5 p.m. EST Vaccination Questions Have a question about COVID vaccinations? Check the questions and answers for faculty and staff and for students. If you have further questions, send an email to covidvaccines@princeton.edu. You may also call the University's COVID Connector telephone support line. Customer service agents are available at 609-258-7000 during University business hours from 8:45 a.m. to 5 p.m. EST. Related links Centers for DIsease Control COVID-19 Vaccine Information Mercer County COVID-19 Dashboard Municipality of Princeton Health Department New Jersey COVID-19 Information Hub Vaccine Finder Vaccine Notifier Footer Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University