Skip to the main content Close Messages Guidance Guidance COVID-19 Protocols Face Coverings Travel Students Employees Vaccines Testing Resources Resources Human Resources Student Health Services Texas A&M University COVID-19 Guidance Messages Guidance Guidance COVID-19 Protocols Face Coverings Travel Students Employees Vaccines Testing Resources Resources Human Resources Student Health Services Menu Symptomatic? Tested Positive Exposed Search this site search Guidance COVID-19 Protocols Face Coverings Travel Students Employees Face Covering Guidance The health and safety of the Aggies (students, faculty, and staff), especially of vulnerable individuals, is of paramount importance. Within indoor spaces, wearing a mask (cloth, surgical, KN95, N95) reduces the amount of virus spreading from the wearer (who may not know they are spreading virus) into the environment and to others. Additionally, within indoor spaces masks reduce the amount of virus the wearer inhales. While N95 respirators provide a higher level of protection when worn by those who are fit tested and trained to wear them; the general public will not have the ability to be fit tested or trained. If you cannot access a N95 respirator, the general public still receives benefits from all wearing KN95s, surgical masks, or cloth face coverings. Within indoor spaces, the use of a face covering does not replace the recommendation to maintain physical distances from others. While physical distancing may not always be possible, at least 6 feet of physical distancing is still recommended. Following CDC guidance, and to protect your fellow Aggies against COVID-19: All individuals, regardless of vaccination status, are strongly encouraged to wear face coverings (cloth face covering, surgical mask, etc.) in indoor public areas on campus (includes all non-private office or residential spaces such as lobbies, restrooms, classrooms, teaching laboratories, research laboratories, common spaces in residence halls, conference rooms, and break rooms). Disposable filtering facepiece respirators, such as KN95 and N95s are appropriate. All individuals, regardless of vaccination status, are strongly encouraged to wear face coverings (cloth face covering, surgical mask, etc.) in outdoor spaces where 6 feet of physical distancing is difficult to reliably maintain. What Constitutes as a Face Covering Definition of a Face Covering (Face Mask): According to CDC guidance and Texas A&M University, for the purpose of the COVID-19 pandemic an effective cloth face covering will: Include multiple layers of tightly-woven fabric Fit snugly but comfortably against the side of the face Be secured with ties, ear loops, or wrap around the head (such as gaiter style masks) Allow for breathing without restriction Be able to be laundered and machine-dried without damage or change to shape or be disposable For cloth face coverings, the following would not be appropriate: Hosiery, gauze, hand knit/crochet, and other loosely woven materials Holding a towel, t-shirt, or other non-secured item over your face. Any face covering with an exhalation valve does not meet the standards of this policy as they allow particles to exhaust from the wearer. FDA-approved surgical masks may also be used as a face covering. The Purpose of Face Coverings Wearing a face covering is about protecting others and our Aggie Community. Those with COVID-19, even those who do not know they have COVID-19, naturally expel droplets contaminated with the virus that causes COVID-19 when breathing, talking, sneezing, coughing, etc. Wearing a face covering in public shows you care enough to protect others. Additionally, limiting virus spread allows the campus to continue normal operations, including face-to-face classes without the need to return to full remote instruction. Distribution of Face Coverings It is the responsibility of the individual to provide their own face covering. However, each unit may keep a small number of disposable face coverings on hand for visitors. Limits of Face Coverings Designs The policy on Expressive Activity on Campus (08.99.99.M1) states: “Displaying a sign, gesturing, wearing symbolic clothing or otherwise protesting silently is permissible unless it is a disruptive activity or impedes access.” Disruptive activity is defined as obstruction, disruption, or interference with classes, research, administrative functions, or other university activities. Acts that are disruptive to the normal operations of the university, including classes and university business, or that invade the rights of others, will not be tolerated. Remote Campus COVID-19 Information Health Science Center Galveston Higher Education Center at McAllen Qatar CDC: 2019 Novel Coronavirus Brazos County Health District Department of State Health Services Clery Act COVID-19 Disclosure Contact: Risk & Compliance: For Risk & Compliance related inquiries covid-19process@tamu.edu Covid-19 Operations Center: For testing and case investigation questions covid@tamu.edu © Texas A&M University Site Policies Web Accessibility