Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box COVID-19 Safety & Success Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Home Latest Updates FAQs Positive Case Notification Mask Guidance Vaccination Program Safety & Success Plan Isolation Guidelines Self-test Kits Beaver Booster Blitz Dashboard Students Employees Teaching Faculty Researchers Extension Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Home Latest Updates FAQs Positive Case Notification Mask Guidance Vaccination Program Safety & Success Plan Isolation Guidelines Self-test Kits Beaver Booster Blitz Dashboard Students Employees Teaching Faculty Researchers Extension BEAVER HEALTHY Oregon State University currently provides primarily in-person and on-site learning, teaching, work, programs and activities. We are confident we can continue to do so with the many plans and tools in place to help reduce the risk and spread of COVID-19. Masks recommended, not required Video of Masks recommended, not required Masks are welcome but no longer required at OSU. Those at higher risk should continue to wear masks. Safe and effective vaccines — The Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna COVID-19 vaccines are fully approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. All vaccines and boosters have shown they are highly effective at preventing severe illness and death from COVID-19. High vaccination rates in our community — Currently, 92% of OSU students and 95% of employees are fully vaccinated. Also, Benton and Deschutes counties have some of the highest vaccination rates in Oregon and boosters are available statewide. OSU has robust protocols to help limit the spread of COVID-19. Vaccination Program Requirement Latest Updates Frequently Asked Questions Mask Guidance Safety & Success Plan Vaccination OSU requires all employees and students who work, learn or engage with others in-person as part of their job duties to show proof of COVID-19 vaccinations, though exceptions are allowed when based on medical or disability reasons or sincerely held religious beliefs. Please upload your proof of vaccination to Student Health Services’ secure Patient Portal. Vaccine access: OSU will continue to support the regional distribution of COVID-19 vaccines in Corvallis, Bend and other locations throughout the state. Beaver Booster Blitz: June 1-3, 11 a.m.-6 p.m., on the SEC Plaza. All COVID-19 vaccines available. Testing Individuals who wish to obtain a COVID-19 PCR test at any OSU location may do so. However, do not test on campus if you are symptomatic. Upload your COVID-19 test results. Note: Free self-test kits are available around campus. OSU will continue to conduct COVID-19 wastewater surveillance and genome sequencing. Spring Term Campus-Based Testing Corvallis Lab tent outside Plageman Hall: Mon.-Fri. 10 a.m.-3 p.m Cascade Hall 120: Mon.-Fri. 10 a.m.-3 p.m. Bend Outside Obsidian Hall: Mon.-Wed. 9 a.m.-1 p.m. and 3-5 p.m. Positive Case Notification OSU requires all students and employees report if they have tested positive for COVID-19 and been on-site at any OSU location in the previous 10 days. Notify OSU by completing the Positive COVID-19 Notification Form. For more guidance, visit Positive Case Notification. Quarantine & Isolation Guidelines Policies and Guidelines OSU’s COVID-19 Safety & Success Policy remains in effect and applies to all Oregon State University locations and activities and serves the university’s goal to help reduce the risk and spread of COVID-19. Safety & Success Policy includes: Mask Guidance Vaccine Program Requirement Contact Info Contacts Non-emergency phone: 541-737-7211 Oregon Health Authority: Dial 211 Non-emergency questions and concerns form If you have symptoms of COVID-19, stay home; avoid close contact with others; and contact your health care provider, Student Health Services, or an emergency medical care provider. Pathway Steering Team Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer