Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Spring 2022 University Updates Policies and Guidelines Videos Visitor Guidelines Travel Restrictions ReopenCU App COVID-19 Vaccine Info Vaccine Mandate COVID-19 Testing Program Isolation Quarantine COVID-19 Monitoring Plan Building Readiness Information Research Research Ramp-up Ambassadors Announcements School Updates COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community You are here: Home Policies and Guidelines Public Health Protocol: Face Covering/ Mask Wearing Public Health Protocol: Face Covering/ Mask Wearing March 10, 2022 Updated: April 10, 2022 Based on the current situation and in an abundance of caution, non-cloth masks will be required in classrooms beginning Monday morning April 11, 2022. This mandatory masking policy applies to classrooms only and is expected to remain in place for the few remaining weeks of our spring semester. As has been our policy all year, instructors have the option to remove their masks while teaching. Current policies on masking in all other settings continue to be optional except for health care workers, who are required to mask in health care settings.* Please respect everyone's choices. Individuals who continue to mask outside or indoors in non-classroom settings are welcome to wear any mask of their choosing. *Exception: For CUIMC and other clinical facilities (including COVID-19 testing centers), indoor masking remains in place for all patient-facing contexts. Individuals are required to wear 3-ply surgical masks or higher. It is important for us as a community to respect an individual’s decision to wear a mask and not to make any assumptions regarding the reasons for that. Columbia University Benefit of mask-wearing Data continue to confirm that SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19, can spread from individuals who lack symptoms (“asymptomatic”) and from those who eventually develop symptoms (“pre-symptomatic”) before they show symptoms. The risk of transmission is increased with close proximity (less than 6 feet) through speaking, coughing, singing, or sneezing. A mask worn by all individuals will reduce transmission as well as acquisition of the virus and prevent community spread of the disease. Based on a study conducted by the CDC, improving the fit of a surgical or medical procedure mask or “double masking” (i.e., donning a 3-ply non-medical cloth mask over a 3-ply surgical mask) can further reduce the risk of exposure. The fit of a surgical or medical procedure mask can be improved by knotting the ear loops of the mask and then tucking in and flattening the extra material close to the face to minimize the gaps (watch the video tutorial). A study conducted in a laboratory found that the “double mask” combination and the improved fit of a surgical or medical procedure mask provided better protection to the wearer and to others as compared to a mask worn by itself or an unknotted surgical or medical procedure mask. Document Categories Health Document Topics Guidelines Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close