Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Spring 2022 University Updates Policies and Guidelines Videos Visitor Guidelines Travel Restrictions ReopenCU App COVID-19 Vaccine Info Vaccine Mandate COVID-19 Testing Program Isolation Quarantine COVID-19 Monitoring Plan Building Readiness Information Research Research Ramp-up Ambassadors Announcements School Updates COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community You are here: Home University Communications COVID-19 Treatment Option for Individuals Meeting CDC Guidelines COVID-19 Treatment Option for Individuals Meeting CDC Guidelines April 25, 2022 Dear Columbia faculty and staff: We are pleased to let you know that ColumbiaDoctors will be facilitating access to oral treatment for individuals who test positive for COVID-19 and who meet certain medical criteria. Paxlovid is one of the oral medications that has been shown to reduce the likelihood of hospitalization. Since it does need to be taken within five days of symptom onset, we are providing quick access to physicians who can prescribe this medication. Paxlovid is available to anyone who meets the criteria for emergency use as authorized by the FDA. This includes the treatment of mild-to-moderate COVID-19 in adults and children (12 years of age and older weighing at least 40 kilograms, or about 88 pounds) who have tested positive and are at high risk for progressing to severe COVID-19 which includes anyone age 65 or older. If you meet these criteria and have tested positive for Covid, please contact your existing health care provider right away. Alternatively, you may make a virtual or in-person appointment with Columbia providers at Columbia Primary Care, the Nurse Practitioner Group, as well as with our virtual urgent care team. Be sure to state that the appointment is for Covid treatment with a positive test. Columbia affiliates who need further assistance in obtaining appointments for Paxlovid treatment have access to a dedicated line: (212) 305-3105, Mondays through Fridays from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Finally, the City of New York has treatment resources noted here. Sincerely, George A. “Jack” Cioffi, MD President, ColumbiaDoctors Tags Announcement Public Health News May 05, 2022 Update on Current Public Health Protocols April 25, 2022 COVID-19 Treatment Option for Individuals Meeting CDC Guidelines April 22, 2022 Statement From the President’s Advisory Task Force on COVID-19 April 15, 2022 Update on Vaccination Requirement for Students April 15, 2022 Three Updates: Booster Shots, Gateway Testing, and Masking Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close