Home Coming to Campus Vaccines & Testing Dashboard Travel COVID-19 News & Updates HomeComing to CampusVaccines & TestingDashboardTravelCOVID-19 News & Updates COVID-19 info last updated on Sept 21, 2020 Scroll Face-Mask Policy Updated: April 26, 2022 Also see: Face-Mask Policy Frequently Asked Questions In order to access Dartmouth locations; Dartmouth grounds, facilities, and worksites; or Dartmouth-sponsored events all students, faculty, staff, contractors, vendors, guests, and visitors must follow this face-mask policy as well as other Dartmouth policies, including Dartmouth’s event guidance and visitor guidance, and applicable external requirements, including federal, state, and local requirements and any requirements set by business owners, landlords, or other facility owners or operators. This policy is in effect until further notice. Dartmouth leadership will continue to monitor health guidance as well as the conditions of COVID-19 at Dartmouth and in the surrounding communities and will make changes to this guidance accordingly. Please email covid-19.info@dartmouth.edu with questions about COVID-19 policies. When to wear a face mask Regardless of vaccination status, if you are two years of age or older, you are required to wear a face mask: If you are sick or have symptoms of COVID-19; For at least 10 days after you first test positive for COVID-19, even if you tested out of isolation on Day 5 or Day 7; For at least 10 days after you were last in close contact with someone who has an active case of COVID-19 (in which the person with COVID-19 had symptoms or initially tested positive in the 10 days prior); When you are at a COVID-19 testing center, at the Dartmouth College Health Service, or for employees as designated in isolation spaces; Where required through a contract with an external organization (e.g., the Hopkins Center agreement with the Broadway League, and the Athletics department with the NCAA). It remains a best practice to keep a face mask with you at all times as there will be situations outside of those mentioned above where masks continue to be required in the community. Masks are welcome at Dartmouth. There may be times when you or others around you choose to wear a mask even if it is not required; for example, if you or someone close to you is at high risk of severe disease. If you feel more comfortable wearing a mask around others, you are encouraged to do so. Please be respectful of those who choose to wear a face mask, and do not ask about one another’s health or family situation. KN95 face masks are available at take-home test pick-up locations on and around campus. Dartmouth students who need a face mask can also contact their student affairs office and Dartmouth faculty and staff can contact their supervisor or department head. How to wear a face mask When wearing a face mask, make sure that your face mask has multiple layers of breathable fabric or woven material; completely covers your nose, mouth, and chin; and fits snugly against the sides of your face. Your face mask should not be made of fabric that makes it hard to breath, like vinyl; have an exhalation valve or vent that allows virus particles to escape; or include face shields, scarves, ski masks, or balaclavas, as they are not approved substitutes. Read the CDC’s mask guidance for more information. Accommodations Those with concerns about following this policy for medical reasons are encouraged to be in touch with their primary care provider and should contact the accessibility contact for their position or program. Other inquiries regarding this policy should be directed to your student affairs office (for students) or the Office of Human Resources (for faculty and staff). 9 Policy Contact us Have questions about Dartmouth’s COVID-19 operations? Call the COVID-19 information line at 603-646-2019 or email covid-19.info@dartmouth.edu. Info Campus Operations Dartmouth COVID-19 Working Groups COVID-19 HEERF Report Building Posters Public Health Information FIND IT FAST Campus Map Directory Events News Visit RESOURCES Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX