Princeton COVID Resources Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Princeton COVID Resources Main Menu Menu Safe Practices Health & Well-Being Testing Submenu Eligibility and Frequency Taking the Test Clinic Info and Test Kit Pick-up Dropping Off Your Sample Receiving Results Report a Testing Absence Vaccinations Submenu Faculty and Staff Requirement Student Requirement Workplace Submenu Information for Faculty and Staff Information For Managers FAQs for faculty Travel Undergraduate FAQs Quarantine & Isolation Policies Dashboard Log in Search Search Home News COVID Newsletter | April 4 April 5, 2022 As we start a new month, we thought it would be helpful to reshare the monthly testing schedule since the requirement changed from weekly to monthly on March 7 for those who are up-to-date on vaccines and boosters. Of course, unvaccinated people with accommodations are still required to test weekly and anyone who elects to be tested more frequently may continue to do so up to once a week. Here's the asymptomatic testing schedule for April*: Week 1 (April 3-8): Last Names A-E Week 2 (April 10-15): Last Names F-K Week 3 (April 17-22): Last Names L-R Week 4 (April 24-29): Last Names S-Z * If you’re unable to drop a sample during your assigned week, simply do so during another week. Support For Higher-Risk Individuals Some of you have asked what you can do to support fellow Princeton community members who are at higher risk of complications if they were to contract COVID. Below, please find some tips from our colleagues in University Health Services (UHS) and Environmental Health and Safety (EHS), grounded in guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). The University has continued to provide support and resources to graduate and undergraduate students who are at higher risk for COVID-19, as UHS serves as the primary care provider for most students. All students may make an appointment for testing at McCosh Health Center and those at higher risk may request antigen take-home tests from UHS. While testing is required once a month or once a week depending on vaccination status, faculty, staff, and students may test up to three times a week if they are at higher risk. The University continues to provide KN95 masks for all students, faculty, and staff, and boosters at the University vaccine clinic. Per the CDC’s recent recommendation, higher risk individuals and people over the age of 50 who received an initial booster dose at least 4 months ago are now eligible for a fourth dose of the vaccine. The University will host vaccine clinics this month in Frist, Multipurpose Room B: Wednesday, April 6 from 1 to 4 p.m. Wednesday, April 20 from 1 to 4 p.m. Visit the COVID Resources website for more information about on-campus clinics. Tips for how you can support people who may be at higher risk: Remember that while masks are optional, compassion is not. Be attentive to those who may be uncomfortable removing their masks and consider wearing a mask when gathering with these individuals. If you are experiencing symptoms consistent with COVID-19, stay home and get tested. Stay up-to-date on COVID vaccinations. When providing food at a mandatory meeting, consider offering options that allow a person who is not able to or comfortable with removing their mask to participate, such as offering a to-go option for the food. Guidance for higher risk individuals: Visit the CDC's website for a list of conditions that the CDC has identified as higher risk. Contact your healthcare provider to discuss: How often you should test. What mask you should wear and in what situations. Is it time for a fourth dose of the vaccine? If you test positive, what treatment plan would be best? If you have questions about University resources, please send an email to covidvaccines@princeton.edu or call the University's COVID Connector support line at 609-258-7000 Monday through Friday from 8:45 a.m. to 5 p.m. EST. Footer Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University