Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site COVID-19 Information Community Messages FAQs contact Health Guidelines Yale Data Testing Vaccination On Campus Working Travel Home > Yale Data Yale COVID-19 Data COVID-19 Cases Since August 2020, Yale has maintained various asymptomatic screening requirements and voluntarily testing options for students (undergraduate and graduate/professional), faculty, and staff. These data reflect positive COVID-19 cases from Yale’s asymptomatic testing program as well as positive cases by the same population from external tests sites that were voluntarily self-reported to Yale testing program. Beginning January 2022, Yale observed a significant increase in the number of self-reported external positives. Effective April 22, 2022, the public dashboard has been updated to reflect this shift for January 2022 onward. The historic data from March 2020 – March 2022 from the Connecticut Data tabs is available for reference. Positive cases are shown by date on which a test was collected. There is a 1-3 day delay between when tests occur and when results become available. These counts may change further as positives from external tests are reported for earlier dates. These counts include only unique positive cases, listed by the date of that individual’s first positive test within a 90-day period. An individual who becomes reinfected more than 90 days after a prior positive is counted as a new case. Learn more about Yale’s testing program 110 total students in isolation As of May 20, 2022 This includes all undergraduate, graduate, and professional school students isolating on campus, in residence, and off-campus. Vaccination Rates As of May 23, 2022 99.6% Undergraduate Students 99.0% Graduate & Professional Students 98.5% Faculty 95.1% Staff These vaccination rates are the percentages of individuals who are fully vaccinated and have submitted proof to the university. Learn more about Yale’s vaccination requirements. Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Report a technical issue or content update Facebook Twitter YouTube Sina Weibo Tumblr