Home Coming to Campus Vaccines & Testing Dashboard Travel COVID-19 News & Updates HomeComing to CampusVaccines & TestingDashboardTravelCOVID-19 News & Updates COVID-19 info last updated on Sept 21, 2020 Scroll Starting the Term Students beginning a term at Dartmouth during the 2021-2022 academic year will be expected to follow these guidelines along with Dartmouth's COVID-19 community expectations that include vaccination, testing, and face-mask requirements. Please email covid-19.info@dartmouth.edu with questions about COVID-19 policies. Students who test positive for COVID-19 must isolate immediately according to Dartmouth’s isolation guidance. Read the COVID-19 test result instructions for information on when you need a confirmatory test. Students must notify their close contacts of when they initially tested positive, so their contacts can test accordingly. For COVID-19, a close contact is anyone who was less than 6 feet away from you for a combined total of 15 minutes or more over a 24-hour period starting two days before your took your initial test until you began isolating. Students who test positive for COVID-19 are exempt from COVID-19 testing for 90 days from the date they took their positive test, unless they develop symptoms. However, students may still attempt to test out of isolation according to Dartmouth’s isolation guidance. Students who tested positive somewhere other than Dartmouth must report their positive test to the Dartmouth College Health Service at medical.records@dartmouth.edu. Students who have COVID-19 symptoms must test immediately at the student testing trailer in the Maynard parking lot at 11 Rope Ferry Road, and isolate until they receive their test results. If their test result is positive, they must continue to isolate according to Dartmouth’s isolation guidance. If their test result is negative, they should follow the COVID-19 test result instructions on when to end isolation. Students who had close contact with someone who has an active case of COVID-19 (in which the person with COVID-19 had symptoms or initially tested positive in the 10 days prior) should wear a face mask, limit close contact with others, and follow testing and quarantine guidance. TESTING REQUIREMENTS Students who live on campus or elsewhere in the Upper Valley, and did not initially test positive for COVID-19 in the 90 days prior, must receive an in-person COVID-19 PCR test within 24 hours of arrival or, if staying in the area, 24 hours before attending their first in-person class. When receiving their in-person PCR test, students will be given a take-home rapid antigen test to take as soon as they arrive at their room or residence and as close to the time they took their PCR test as possible. For information on how to interpret PCR and antigen results, read the COVID-19 test result instructions. Geisel M2, M3, and M4 graduate students will not be required to follow this start of term testing procedure. Geisel M3 and M4 graduate students who are not accessing Dartmouth spaces should continue to follow the testing requirements for their clinical rotation site. In-person testing is at West Gym at 16 East Wheelock St., and will be open for extended hours to accommodate spring term arrivals: March 26 and 27 from 9:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. March 28 from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. March 29 through 31 from 7 a.m. to 3 p.m. April 1 from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. Take-home PCR test drop boxes will open Mondays at 7:30 a.m. and remain open 24 hours a day through Fridays at 2:30 p.m; however, overnight access to a drop box will depend on whether or not the building stays open. Tuck students beginning the term on March 21 can drop off a completed take-home PCR test and pick up their take-home rapid antigen test at 4 Currier in Suite 102 on March 19 or 20. Once students complete their start of term testing, they begin their regular testing schedule, which is one PCR test per week for those who are fully vaccinated or two PCR tests per week for those who are not fully vaccinated. Visit the testing locations map for more information on testing hours and locations for the rest of the term. Individuals are fully vaccinated 14 days after their final dose in a primary COVID-19 vaccine series. Accepted COVID-19 vaccines are those that received full approval or emergency use authorization by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration or those that received or are undergoing assessment for emergency use listing (PDF) by the World Health Organization. Students who have traveled can use a weekly in-person or take-home PCR test to comply with the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s requirements for testing after travel. ACCESS TO BUILDINGS All students may access academic buildings, including the library, Collis Center, Alumni Gym, and other Dartmouth facilities as long as they are in compliance with Dartmouth’s COVID-19 guidelines. 1 Testing Guidelines Undergraduates Living Off Campus Graduate and Professional School Students Contact us Have questions about Dartmouth’s COVID-19 operations? Call the COVID-19 information line at 603-646-2019 or email covid-19.info@dartmouth.edu. Info Campus Operations Dartmouth COVID-19 Working Groups COVID-19 HEERF Report Building Posters Public Health Information FIND IT FAST Campus Map Directory Events News Visit RESOURCES Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX