Skip to main content COVID-19 Response COVID-19 Response Information for Students Faculty & Staff Visitors × Home Updates Information for... Students Overview Advising, Career Services & Support Faculty & Staff Visitors Testing Overview Supplemental Testing Symptomatic Testing COVID-19 Tracking Epidemiological Modeling Vaccination at Cornell Health & Safety Prevention & Care Face Masks HEERF Emergency Funding Events Travel University Operations Resources Building Signage Travel Domestic Travel Essential and non-essential travel for Cornell-related business and research is permitted, provided that faculty, staff and students follow the necessary public health guidance and ensure that all expenditures have been approved prior to travel. International Travel Essential and non-essential international travel for Cornell-related business and research is also permitted, provided that faculty, staff and students follow the necessary public health guidance (including registering all Cornell-related international travel prior to departure) and ensure that all financial expenditures have been approved prior to travel. You will likely need to meet specific requirements to enter another country. Many countries require a test (e.g., PCR, antigen, antibody) to have been done no more than 72 hours, or less, before the international (final) leg of your trip. You may need formal documentation of this test and negative results. At the end of your trip, all air travelers returning to the U.S. are required to show a negative pre-departure COVID-19 viral test taken the day before they board their flight to the U.S. For example, a passenger whose flight to the U.S. is at any time on a Sunday would need to have a negative test taken at any time on Saturday. The CDC website offers guidance on testing requirements. In addition, Cornell strongly recommends that anyone returning to campus after international travel follow CDC guidance and get tested three to five days after their trip. For asymptomatic individuals, Cornell COVID-19 testing facilities are available for these tests. Appointments are required. Please continue to monitor travel restrictions to see how changing requirements might affect your overseas travel. We urge you to check International SOS (ISOS) as a reliable source for the latest information on travel restrictions and entrance requirements for any countries through or to which you will be traveling (from the link, click the COVID-19 button on the left and then click on Travel Restrictions, Flight Operations and Screening). Verify with your airline which types of tests or other documentation are accepted for boarding as requirements may change quickly and without notice. For more information for faculty and staff requirements, visit the Working at Cornell website. Please note: The university’s travel guidelines may change based on emerging public health data and guidance. For International Students: Travel Documents and Proof of Vaccination International students returning to the U.S. should have their documents needed for reentry, including COVID-19 vaccination proof. Learn more on International Services' COVID-19 FAQs for students. All air travelers, regardless of citizenship or vaccination status, are required to show a negative pre-departure COVID-19 viral test taken the day before they board their flight to the U.S. For example, a passenger whose flight to the U.S. is at any time on a Sunday would need to have a negative test taken at any time on Saturday. The CDC website offers guidance on testing requirements. Cornell is no longer able to provide travel service for country entry requirements and students are responsible for their own arrangements. In addition, Cornell strongly recommends that anyone returning to campus after international travel follow CDC guidance and get tested three to five days after their trip. For asymptomatic individuals, Cornell COVID-19 testing facilities are available for these tests. Appointments are required. Prior to your flight, review your airline’s guidance on masking requirements. If you will return to the United States after your travel, plan ahead and review US-bound flight requirements. If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. © Cornell University 2022