Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Spring 2022 University Updates Policies and Guidelines Videos Visitor Guidelines Travel Restrictions ReopenCU App COVID-19 Vaccine Info Vaccine Mandate COVID-19 Testing Program Isolation Quarantine COVID-19 Monitoring Plan Building Readiness Information Research Research Ramp-up Ambassadors Announcements School Updates COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community You are here: Home University Communications A Welcome Back Message From University Life A Welcome Back Message From University Life September 08, 2020 Dear Colleagues, I write to add a warm welcome to the year from University Life. There is no shortage of pressing issues to discuss as a University community and we will, as always, be inviting you to campus forums, our Awakening our Democracy series and other opportunities for University-wide conversation. For now, I want to highlight a few points that may be of interest: Please take a moment to look at these Student Voices videos, featuring students from all Columbia schools throughout this month and next talking about what they’re doing to #KeeptheCompact. For your questions about student responsibilities, testing and accountability under the Columbia Community Health Compact, please see this student-focused return-to-campus checklist and the Student Accountability Plan. University Life’s Task Force on Inclusion and Belonging will continue to meet this year, dedicated to identifying issues and developing strategies to address student experiences in and outside the classroom. All students, faculty and staff are welcome. University Life will also regularly update our website regarding anti-racism work across Columbia, following on President Bollinger’s message to the community this summer. If you'd like to have an occasional "student's eye" view of University Life events and community messages, please join our faculty and staff mailing list or reply to this email, and we’ll be glad to add you. As always, I welcome your ideas and suggestions for University Life’s work in our community. With best wishes for the new academic year, Suzanne B. Goldberg Executive Vice President for University Life Herbert and Doris Wechsler Clinical Professor of Law Tags Announcement Facilities and Campus Life News May 05, 2022 Update on Current Public Health Protocols April 25, 2022 COVID-19 Treatment Option for Individuals Meeting CDC Guidelines April 22, 2022 Statement From the President’s Advisory Task Force on COVID-19 April 15, 2022 Update on Vaccination Requirement for Students April 15, 2022 Three Updates: Booster Shots, Gateway Testing, and Masking Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close