Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box COVID-19 Safety & Success Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Home Latest Updates FAQs Positive Case Notification Mask Guidance Vaccination Program Safety & Success Plan Isolation Guidelines Self-test Kits Beaver Booster Blitz Dashboard Students Employees Teaching Faculty Researchers Extension Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Home Latest Updates FAQs Positive Case Notification Mask Guidance Vaccination Program Safety & Success Plan Isolation Guidelines Self-test Kits Beaver Booster Blitz Dashboard Students Employees Teaching Faculty Researchers Extension Safety & Success Plan Safety & Success Plan Section I: Introduction Section II: Public Health Guidance Section III: Supervisor/Employee Guidance Section IV: Academic Programming, Research & Student Services Section V: Specific Guidance A PDF version of this guide is available. For questions about this guide, you may reach out directly to the relevant department or send your question to the non-emergency questions email. Section I: Introduction (Executive Summary) Oregon State University has resumed traditional on-site and in-person activities at OSU locations for the academic year 2021-22. We keep a careful eye on current, comprehensive public health and mitigation strategies and continue the Oregon Health Authority’s (OHA) vaccine distribution plan for all Oregonians. OSU’s plans require ongoing commitment and support from all members of the OSU community and adherence to federal, state and other applicable guidance and requirements that permit on-site and in-person activities. While subject to change, we currently include: In-person instruction as the primary modality of delivery at all OSU locations. In-person administrative and operational services. In-person and site-based research and fieldwork. In-person and on-site co-curricular and extracurricular activities. On-campus housing to function at a more traditional capacity. Collegiate athletic competition with fan attendance. OSU will operate in alignment with federal, state, and local guidance as OSU’s public health response evolves. Additional local public health requirements may apply depending on the type and the location of activities planned. Principles and Tactics of Return to Traditional On-site Activity The following principles serve as the foundation of OSU’s plan. We will continue to make informed, proactive and intentional approaches to supporting the health, wellbeing and safety of all members of the OSU community. This includes careful review, exploration and adjustment of policies, practices and systems of support for students, faculty and ¬staff at OSU locations. We have implemented a Vaccine Program Requirement that includes all employees and students learning or working at any OSU location to be vaccinated for COVID-19 unless a particular exception has been approved or a particular exclusion applies. OSU’s service as a state and national leader in teaching, research and outreach and extension necessitates resumption of on-site and in-person activity to the greatest extent possible. While OSU delivered on its mission during the most extreme conditions of the global pandemic, continued remote delivery of nearly all of OSU’s education and programming is not effective on a long-term basis to fulfill the university’s mission. We plan to use a suitable mix of pedagogically appropriate instructional modalities at both the undergraduate and graduate levels (face-to-face, synchronous online/remote and asynchronous online/Ecampus). Regardless of modality, we will provide students with quality instruction to attain course and program learning outcomes and progress successfully to graduation, graduate study and/or career. OSU prioritizes consistent communication with students, faculty, graduate assistants and staff. We are committed to transparency in decision-making and communications and engaging perspectives and voices from students, faculty and staff to the greatest extent possible. The pandemic has had disparate impacts on members of the OSU community. The move to remote services also has provided disparate impacts, as will the resumption of on-site and in-person activity. Addressing these disparities is a driving force in the university’s planning for ongoing on-site and in-person activity. Ventilation in university buildings is important to on-site learning and work. HVAC systems have been adjusted where possible to maximize fresh air and filtration, and HVAC operations follow Occupational Health and Safety Administration rules, including specific practices outlined in COVID-19 Guidance on Ventilation in the Workplace and guidance from the American Society of Heating Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Engineers. Please see more details about the ventilation strategy at Campus Building Ventilation. Custodial staff and contractors will continue to clean and disinfect university spaces based on CDC recommendations, using EPA-approved chemicals. Additional information about cleaning standards will be maintained on the Environmental Health and Safety. Safety and Sucess – On-site and In-person Activity Subject to change based on executive order or other legal requirements and local conditions. OSU employees should continue to review the OHA Sector Guidance ― General Guidance for Employers and Organizations to ensure requirements are met for non-instructional or research workspaces; CDC Guidance for Institutions of Higher Education (IHEs) for workspaces that support in-person instruction; residential and research activities; and the OSHA Rule Addressing COVID-19 Workplace Risks for workplace safety. General Guidelines Most employees — who prior to the COVID-19 pandemic remote work requirements provided on-site and in-person instruction, research, outreach and engagement, programming, services, and operations — returned to on-site activities. Some positions remain working remotely or in a hybrid modality, dependent on unit-based strategies as permitted by unit leadership. There may be circumstances where remote learning and working continue as a component of in-person activities and university program delivery. Given OSU’s commitment to a culture of care, supervisors should continue to work within university-level guidance within this document and on the OSU Safety & Success website in assessing and approving, where appropriate, continued remote work arrangements. Employees who are required and approved to be on-site to deliver reduced density/mixed modality, instruction, research, outreach and engagement, programming, services and operations may be on-site. Employees who provide extracurricular, co-curricular and other in-person programming to support limited in-person engagement (preferably outside, if possible) for students and community members can be on-site as public health conditions allow. Any continuing partial or full-time remote work arrangements must be documented and approved in advance by an employee’s supervisor as part of a remote working agreement. Safety and Success Planning All OSU operations and offices are open during traditional business hours with a reduced density only where necessary. Some employees may wish to continue to work either fully or partly remotely, even as much of our on-site operations have resumed. These arrangements may be possible with supervisor and unit support and may require a remote working agreement depending on the position. See more information about situations that require a Remote Work Agreement. Facilities OSU follows all applicable federal, state and local guidance and rules regarding space requirements. Units will be responsible for ensuring appropriate signage is in place and that signage adheres to campus signage plan standards for temporary signage Inventories of cleaning supplies, personal protective equipment and masks must be monitored and maintained by individual units and departments. OSU has arranged for bulk pricing of many items. Supplies can be purchased by clicking “Resumption Supplies Link” in BennyBuy. Masks will be made available in key locations (i.e., library, Memorial Union, health services locations). Move-in Assistance To support the successful and deliberate moving of employees back on-site, Campus Moves provides assistance with employee move-in upon request. Support for reconnecting technology and equipment on-site is provided by the IT Team assigned to your college, department or unit. Software updates will be applied to computers to ensure the protection of OSU resources. Guidelines for bringing equipment back within OSU locations, provided by OSU University Information and Technology, is available on the UIT Technology Checklist. OSU IT also will assist in reviewing and updating technologies and equipment that have been unused or minimally used during primarily remote work, such as printers, copiers, conference room technology and phones. Service Desks and other support units are planning to continue to offer a hybrid level of services with remote as well as on-site support to guide and assist the transition for those returning to campus. Parking & Transportation Corvallis on-campus parking continues to emphasize flexibility with daily permits available for hybrid students and employees. Visit Transportation Services for information about parking on campus. For OSU-Cascades, visit parking services. The BeaverBus on the Corvallis campus resumed on Sept. 20, 2021. Transit service will follow applicable CDC, OSHA, Oregon Health Authority, and industry-specific best practices, requirements and guidelines, and adjustments will be made as needed to accommodate campus activity and safety protocols. For so long as the federal requirement related to transportations remains in place, masks will continue to be required on the Beaver Bus. See the Beaver Bus for routes and schedules. Motor Pool is planned to continue to operate while following all applicable CDC, OSHA, OHA and industry requirements and OSU policies. Changes in operations or guidance will be updated on the Motor Pool. Travel OSU-Sponsored Essential Travel OSU has lifted the travel restriction put into place due to the pandemic. Until further notice, employees are to utilize standard processes and approval procedures. Deans, vice presidents and vice provosts may choose to implement unit-level travel approval procedures as they manage public health and financial considerations. Employees and supervisors should review travel advisories from health authorities as they make and approve travel plans. To register for international travel, please visit the OSU International Travel Registry. For domestic travel, please follow existing department guidelines. Meetings Guidance The following guidance is to help units thoughtfully approach how meetings are conducted. In-person meetings that are conducted with public health measures in place are encouraged. Some employees continue to work remotely, either on a temporary, semi-permanent, or permanent basis. Technology options for those employees to participate remains important. However, leaders may decide that a certain number of meetings are attended in person by all employees, if appropriate. Unit leaders, in consultation with employees, can create criteria for when meetings require in-person attendance and when hybrid or fully remote meetings are acceptable or beneficial. Equity must be considered when implementing criteria to ensure all employees with similar roles have similar access to meeting attendance options. When meetings are fully or partially conducted via remote means, video conference is recommended to allow for maximum communication cues and access to and for each of the participants. On-site Events and Activities Planning Framework All on-site events and activities will be conducted in alignment with: Applicable guidance as directed by the Oregon Health Authority. Relevant OSU policies, including OSU COVID Safety & Success, and OSU Vaccine Program Requirement. Any other applicable federal, state or local requirements. Planning Tool In addition to obtaining approval from the appropriate dean, director or department head, OSU has designed a form for organizers hosting in-person, on-site events in Corvallis to serve as a planning tool. Each submission will be reviewed for adherence to current OSU, OHA, CDC, OSHA requirements, guidelines, and policy. Forms for events held at OSU-Cascades, OSU Extension & Engagement locations, the OSU Portland Center and the Hatfield Marine Science Center, are available on their respective web pages. If there are any questions about the submission, the reviewers will reach out to the event planner(s). This review process supports OSU’s compliance efforts with local, state, and federal guidelines and requirements, as well as OSU policy. Note that this process is not required for unit-based, college or departmental meetings in the interest of university business but serves as an additional tool for planners. Space Considerations To request the use of a general-purpose classroom for an event (academic or non-course related), please contact your department scheduler. If you do not have a department scheduler, contact the Schedule Desk to request a contact or permission to request spaces. Activities scheduled through the scheduling desk, Facilities Services and our custodial partners are automatically notified of building activity. If scheduling activities in departmental spaces, the Building Manager will need to notify Facilities Services to ensure the building lock and unlock schedule is updated, and the appropriate cleaning is completed. Other Guidance Recreational Spaces: Campus recreation and outdoor common areas will follow all applicable CDC, OSHA, Oregon Health Authority, and industry-specific requirements and carefully consider best practices guidelines. Section II: Public Health Guidance Additional details about OSU’s mitigation strategies can be found on COVID-19 Safety & Success. Vaccine Program Requirement Oregon State University has a COVID-19 Vaccination Program Requirement for students and employees. Students Students who learn or engage on-site at OSU locations must be fully vaccinated from COVID-19 unless they are granted an exception. Compliance instructions are available from Student Health Services. Employees OSU’s Vaccine Program Requirement was updated in October 2021. Effective Jan. 4, 2022, all OSU employees must provide proof of being fully vaccinated against COVID-19 unless they are excluded from the policy or receive an exception for medical/disability reasons or a sincerely held religious belief. Please see the online instructions to upload vaccination cards to a secure health portal. Employees who work outside the state of Oregon should contact the Employee COVID Compliance team by email at [email protected] for individual review. Guidance for Engagement with Individuals Not Vaccinated Some individuals may have medical or religious reasons that preclude them from being vaccinated. OSU provides a pathway for exemptions legally required by state or federal law. Employees, volunteers and students should understand that any individual they come in contact with may or may not be vaccinated. Therefore, everyone must follow the current requirements provided by the Oregon Health Authority and the university’s COVID-19 health and safety policies. Distribution Support OSU continues to support the regional distribution of COVID-19 vaccines by providing space and logistical support, as requested by local health authorities. Oregon State also supports education and communication efforts to inform our community of the public health benefits, science and impact of broad acceptance of the COVID-19 vaccines. Public Health Policies and Practices General Guidance OSU community members are expected to take personal responsibility to contribute to public health and safety for themselves and others by reducing the risk of the spread of COVID-19. Individuals are expected to: Follow applicable OHA and CDC guidance, any applicable Executive Orders or other requirements. Ensure that they self-screen for COVID-19 symptoms before coming on-site or engaging in in-person activities and remain at their residence if symptomatic or ill. Individuals may find additional resources at their my.oregonstate.edu app under COVID-19 Resources. Prioritize personal hygiene by washing hands frequently, covering coughs and sneezes and avoiding face touching and handshaking. Clean personal workspace (office, desk) and living spaces frequently. Stay informed about the latest university, local and general COVID-19 related developments via resources such as OSU Safety & Success and Oregon Health Authority. Reinforce university public health practices and messaging within the workplace, classrooms and other areas of engagement. Masks: As of March 12, 2022, OSU will no longer require masks in most indoor spaces. OSU continues to be responsive to current public health conditions and guidance from the White House, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the Oregon Health Authority (OHA) and local county requirements. For additional information, see OSU’s Mask Guidance. OSU’s Safety & Success policy remains in effect until further notice. OSU’s Communicable Disease Management Plan: Communicable Disease Management Plan remains in effect until further notice. OSHA Workplace Risk Exposure and Risk Assessment and Infection Control Plan: Oregon OSHA Rule Addressing COVID-19 Workplace Risks Exposure Risk Assessment and the OSU Infection Control Plan remain in effect until further notice. OSU’s Positive Case Notification protocols for employees and students COVID-19 Notification Plan remains in effect until further notice. Policy Violations: Each member of the OSU community is responsible for holding themselves accountable to OSU policies and standards. Supervisors are expected to hold their direct reports accountable. As always, faculty are responsible for classroom management and may refer students to the Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards for further discipline if warranted. View guidance for preventing and responding to disruptive behavior related to these and other policies. Testing Program OSU employs testing measures strategically, in conjunction with a vaccine program, to help limit the spread of COVID-19. Testing Requirement Most unvaccinated OSU community members are required to test weekly for COVID-19. This applies to unvaccinated students who work or are enrolled and take classes on the Corvallis or Bend campuses. For employees, this applies to those who work on the Corvallis or Bend campuses, which are the two locations where OSU has organized available testing. This added measure is in place until further notice. Requiring regular COVID-19 testing for unvaccinated OSU community members will help protect this population, detect cases earlier and help reduce the spread of COVID-19. Per the above, employees and students who are in the process of becoming fully vaccinated are required to test weekly until they are fully vaccinated – which is typically two weeks after a person receives their final dose. Employees who are found to not be in compliance with this weekly testing requirement may face disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment. Students who are not in compliance may face disciplinary action, up to and including suspension from the university. Testing is available for employees and students on the Corvallis and Bend campuses until further notice. Locations and hours are posted online. Employees may obtain testing during work hours, with other supervisor arrangements allowed for those employees whose work schedules take place outside of the hours of COVID-19 testing availability. Surveillance Testing If OSU determines that public health conditions can be improved via testing, OSU intends to continue to perform wastewater surveillance to determine the existence and level of the virus that causes COVID-19 in Corvallis, Bend and Newport. Symptomatic Testing for Students Student Health Services continues to provide COVID-19 on-site testing to Corvallis campus students who are symptomatic or have been determined to be in recent close contact, as defined by public health authorities, with someone who has tested positive for COVID-19. OSU-Cascades students who are symptomatic or have been determined to be in recent close contact will have access to COVID-19 testing on campus. The OSU-Cascades Student Health Coordinator is an available resource for referrals and general navigation of regional health care options. Symptomatic Testing for Employees OSU employees should continue to seek symptomatic testing services from their primary health care provider. Rapid Response/On-Demand Testing There may be circumstances where the university determines it necessary to test a specific group to quickly assess the level of exposure to a positive case. This determination will be made by the OSU Coronavirus Response Coordinator, in consultation with the Executive Director of Student Health Services and the local public health authority. Proof of Vaccination or Recent Negative COVID-19 Test for Designated Events As of March 1, 2022, attendees at designated university events and activities — as defined by the OSU Coronavirus Response Coordinator and in consultation with the local public health authority — are no longer required to show proof of vaccination or a negative COVID-19 test within the prior three days. Isolation and Quarantine Requirements and Protocols Requirements: Students, faculty and staff are required to isolate or quarantine per protocols specified in the OSU Quarantine & Isolation Guidelines. Notifications: Per the Oregon Occupational Safety and Health Division (OSHA) Rule Addressing COVID-19 Workplace Risks, employee notifications must be initiated in the event an employee has been exposed to, or affected by, COVID-19 while working at an OSU location. Protocols for this requirement can be found at Positive Case Notification. SECTION III: Supervisor/Employee Guidance For the purpose of this section, “employee” means all academic and professional faculty, classified staff, graduate assistants, temporary and academic wage employees, and student employees. OSU understands that the ongoing environment of uncertainty and change presents challenges to our community. The Culture of Care describes support available to the university community. Most employees who previously worked at an OSU location prior to the pandemic have returned to on-site work. With supervisor and unit approval, hybrid and remote work arrangements may be possible. Remote Work Arrangements OSU is committed to supporting work-life balance for employees and provides general guidance on requesting flexible work as outlined in the Guide to Flexible Work Arrangements at OSU on Work Life. Flexible work arrangements are assessed and approved, when appropriate, by an employee’s supervisor and unit leadership based on suitability for remote work, unit on-site operations and service goals, and equity of opportunity across the team or like positions. In addition to these general, flexible working parameters, the continuation of some COVID-19 remote work arrangements may be appropriate in some cases. Full or partial remote work arrangements may be requested by an employee or suggested or even required by a supervisor. Supervisors need to consider flexible work requests that are not part of a medical accommodation in an equitable way that does not favor or disfavor employees based on, for example, parental or family status. Supervisors will consider such requests in the context of job and unit needs. A unit may determine that certain remote work arrangements are required for reasons of physical density or other safety-related reasons. In this case, employees will be assigned to continued remote work. A unit and/or supervisor may wish to leverage the benefits of remote work experienced during the past year and decide to support full or part-time remote work in certain situations. Employees should expect that any remote work arrangements will be: Assessed in the context of a unit’s ability to deliver on its mission and service commitments through a remote work strategy. Equitably distributed to the extent possible across teams and for individuals in the same and/or similar positions. Dependent upon continued business needs and future workforce strategies adopted by the university. Discussed in consultation between employee and supervisor. Documented and approved through a remote work agreement. Subject to adjustment as necessary. Note: Academic faculty do not need a Remote Work Agreement to continue longstanding work practices. Supervisors should make information on OSU’s accommodation process accessible and work with the Office of Equal Employment and Access (EOA) in instances where individual disability or medical accommodations for remote work are requested. The EOA form provides more information. Section IV: Academic Programming, Research & Student Services As we continue primarily in-person instruction, OSU remains committed to following all applicable health authority guidelines and university policies. Academic Programming Standards, Options and Approaches: All OSU faculty, staff and students must comply with OSU’s Vaccine Program Requirement. Confirming vaccination status is not a part of an instructor’s role, and instructors should not ask students about their vaccination status. Review the Positive Case Notification for OSU Faculty and Staff. Academic units should have plans in case an instructor becomes ill or needs to isolate or care for a dependent who is ill or has to quarantine/isolate. Plans should be approved by the academic unit, and every effort should be made to not disrupt student learning. Each instructor should have a plan to work with students who may need to quarantine while taking their class. Options, language for syllabi, and suggestions are provided on CTL . A reasonable effort must be made to assist students with course material/requirements if the student must miss class for COVID-related reasons. Academic units and instructors should have plans in place to serve international students who are unable to return to the U.S. because of visa complications resulting from the pandemic. Consider alternatives to allow these students to participate in courses and learning activities. Contact OIS with questions. Instructors are not required to teach in a “hyflex” mode (in which students attend either in person or remotely). During temporary periods when students may be unable to attend class (i.e., because they are isolating or in quarantine), instructors should, at a minimum and where possible, record class sessions so students can watch the videos as they are able. Additional accommodations can be made at the discretion of the instructor, but we urge compassion and flexibility in deadlines and forms of assessment. Faculty should consult unit leadership for guidance should students not be able to participate in the course with reasonable accommodation. Academic units should carefully review their course fees to reflect needs (review course fee guidance). OSU will continue to monitor the pandemic situation and its effect on students and faculty related to registration policies. Details about the modification to the S/U and W/D deadlines will be shared at the beginning of each term. OSU’s Academic Requirements Committee, which considers modifications to registration policies, has been advised by the Faculty Senate Executive Committee (FSEC) to be lenient during “COVID times.” FSEC will offer ongoing guidance. Pedagogical Considerations Students who enroll in a program with the expectation of attending via one campus (Corvallis, Cascades or Ecampus) must be able to complete all courses in that program at that campus, absent a university decision based on public health requirements or guidance Some academic activities associated with course delivery, like office hours and advising appointments, may need to be offered remotely if it is best for health and safety reasons. Instructors should make determinations about office hour locations in consultation with their unit head/chair. Every effort should be made to offer at least some portion of office hours in person. Guidance on addressing disruptive behavior is available. Any instructors teaching remotely should contact the Center for Teaching and Learning to learn about the best approaches for course design. During remote learning, students conducted all their learning activities via a computer, and instructors often provided notes, slides and lecture recordings. See new CTL infographics for recording lectures, sharing your slides, allowing technology and using untimed exams should you decide to continue these practices after returning to in-person teaching. Use Canvas and be ready to publish the Canvas page with content before the first day of class. Visit your assigned classroom. Technology has been refreshed in many classrooms while you were teaching remotely. Reach out for an In-Room Consultation if you have questions about the technology in the classroom. You might choose to record all class periods regardless of specific student needs. Lecture capture is now based on Zoom, and over 400 classrooms are equipped to support recording. Schedule a class tech check, and set Zoom Meetings to automatically record in the cloud-enabled, so you don’t have to remember to click record in the classroom. Lecture capture information can be found here. Looking for Zoom support for your lecture? Request a Technical Keep Teaching Assistant to remotely join each class, assist with Zoom Meeting controls, and notify you of chats or raised hands. Is something not working the way you expected once class starts? Pick up the Presentation Support phone in the classroom to be connected directly to a technician for just-in-time support for installed classroom technology. Check the Academic Technology Blog for continued updates related to Teaching and Learning. Scheduling Most OSU class sections (other than those offered through Ecampus) are offered in person. Courses with the remote modality must be approved by program and unit leadership and college leadership or EOA. These approvals must be reported to the Office of the Registrar Scheduling Team for updates to the schedule of classes and reporting to the Provost’s Office. Unless necessitated by public health requirements and guidance, as determined by the OSU COVID-19 Response Coordinator, we expect campus-based courses (excepting Ecampus) to be offered in person. Units may offer additional Ecampus sections, though these should not be offered to replace existing in-person sections. Classroom Logistics Classrooms are assigned based on Oregon Health Authority guidelines, OSHA or other applicable requirements and guidelines. Additional Considerations: The Office of the Registrar (OtR) assigns all campus spaces to classes, including departmental classrooms. There is a collaborative effort with unit schedulers to accommodate as many sections on campus as possible, utilizing available spaces. OSU’s facilities and operations teams will follow all OSHA, CDC, OHA, industry-specific (e.g., ASHRAE ) or other applicable requirements and carefully consider best practices and guidelines. There may be physical seating restrictions (e.g., basic barriers such as tape) in some classrooms. Consult OSU guidance on how faculty can have conversations concerning restrictions and what to do if students disagree with a restriction.  There may be continued (limited) tent usage on the Corvallis campus, including for the music department, if there is not sufficient space in classrooms. Course instructors can provide students with this form for all COVID policy-related questions. The Resumption Stores (through Benny Buy) have KN-95 masks, hand sanitizer, COVID-approved cleaners and gloves that may be obtained and used in the classrooms. Building managers should order these supplies as needed for classrooms (GP and departmental) in their building. Basic classroom supplies for GP rooms are free of charge. Faculty can also obtain KN-95 masks at no cost, and they may want to have them available for students who forget their masks. Tips for preventing and responding to disruptive behavior in the learning environment as guided by Student Conduct & Community Standards. Academic Advising/Counseling Guidance Academic Advising and Academic Counseling are critical services for supporting student progression and success. In supporting OSU’s residential campus experience, in-person engagement will continue to be OSU’s baseline advising modality. Advising offices, in response to student needs, may offer a selection of remote advising options as a strategy that acknowledges and enhances the student experience and ensures access, in particular for students learning at a distance. Offices that house academic advising and academic counseling functions are open and staffed consistently with centrally administered services. The use of remote tools in providing advising/counseling is determined based on student interest, demand and learning location. Academic advising/counseling space must provide for confidentiality, recognizing the nature of the work, and FERPA protection. Student Services Student Support Offices and Services All of OSU Student Support offices are open and available for in-person interactions in Corvallis and Bend. These offices include but are not limited to the Memorial Union, student cultural resource centers and the Student Experience Center on the Corvallis campus. Office of International Services continues to track travel restrictions that may exist for students coming to the U.S., as well as the ability to access the vaccine once they have arrived. Dixon Recreation Center on the Corvallis campus is open and follows all applicable health authority requirements and guidance to provide an on-campus location for students to experience community and wellbeing. Housing and Dining Considerations Dining centers continue to operate in accordance with relevant health authority guidance. Cleaning of touchpoints continues to be provided within residence halls and dining centers. Students are required to test for COVID-19 as determined by the OSU Coronavirus Response Coordinator, based on prevalence in the community while living on campus. A isolation location remains in place for students who live on campus in Corvallis and Bend. Research OSU’s research facilities will follow all applicable Oregon Health Authority and other health authority requirements. Refer to COVID-19 Safety & Success for updates. Research activities can take place on campus or at on-site locations while remaining in compliance with the applicable health authority requirements or OSU policies that may be in effect. This includes considerations related to research with human subjects or animals. Activities related to training of staff, postdocs and students for research can take place while adhering to applicable health authority requirements or OSU policies. Fieldwork or other off-site activities will adhere to applicable health authority requirements or OSU policies. Travel to such sites is informed by OSU’s travel guidance is in effect at the time of travel. Visitors for the purposes of engaging in research activities on campus or other on-site facilities can proceed provided all applicable health authority requirements can be met. Section V: Specific Guidance Budget and Financial Planning Revenue losses and additional costs for OSU’s response to the pandemic have been felt throughout all university colleges, divisions and units. Funding these costs and losses will require federal relief funding, expense savings and fund balances at every level of the university. The specific requirements of the second and third federal relief packages are still being interpreted. However, those funds will be used to address losses in the current year (FY21) that impact the university broadly, affect long-term affordability for students and limit the ability of faculty to pursue work in scholarship and engagement. At this time: Costs required to meet federal, state or county health requirements as interpreted by the Continuity Management Team or university-wide policy requirements will be funded centrally to the extent resources are available. Costs deemed necessary for increased on-site campus density of critical functions will be funded centrally to the extent resources are available. Costs related to unit-level decisions about how to most effectively enable work responsibilities for individual employees will generally be the responsibility of the employing unit (much as is the case when units hire someone and define the nature of the work). Costs resulting from the university’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic should be coded using the COVID-19 activity code (ZCOV). If units provide additional resources to an employee and believe those are because of pandemic-specific circumstances (as opposed to the nature of the work or the skills of the particular employee), those costs should be coded with (ZCOV) for reimbursement consideration if resources are available. If unit leaders are unsure if budget impacts will be covered, they should commit to reasonable decisions that best serve the needs of their students, faculty, staff and stakeholders, as balanced against budget allocation (in consultation with their supervisor). If uncertain, units should include the ZCOV activity code in the transaction and costs will be reviewed and categorized as guidance evolves. The current ZCOV activity code tracking is expected to continue through the 2021-22 fiscal year. If you are spending funds that already use an activity code, please use your index and activity code and enter COVID-19 in the first line of the document text (e.g., the FOATEXT form). We expect to remain in an uncertain environment for most of this year regarding OSU’s financial resources. The goal is that the whole university, regardless of fund type or level, exits the pandemic as intact as possible and can move forward. That may involve using some unit-level resources — patience, collaboration, and consistent documentation will be essential as we work through the next year. Examples Centrally Funded Unit Funded Testing Campus-wide testing (e.g., residential students), outbreak scenarios Courses, student activities, research teams as requested by the unit Physical modifications Child care centers, customer service desks, classroom density modifications, teaching technology (e.g., Zoom) Individual workstations Services and supplies One PPE set per department, cleaning supplies Personnel microphones for teaching, computers or equipment for remote working, telecommunications allowance, incremental PPE and cleaning supplies Personnel Personnel required to support university-wide response to COVID-19 Personnel or adjusted work assignments required to implement unit level COVID-19 response (e.g., incremental course sections, small group engagement) For Benny Buy, follow the procedures below: When making purchases in BennyBuy, shoppers/requestors need to insert COVID-19 in the internal notes section of the requisition at checkout. This is critical, especially for catalog purchases. When processing payments in BennyBuy, invoice entry staff need to put COVID-19 in the check comment field, which is located in the general section of the invoice document. (The check comment field translates to FOATEXT in Banner, which is the field used by OSU to identify COVID-19 expenses.) If the end-user properly puts in the internal note on the requisition, it will flow automatically into the invoice for PO invoices. Extension and Engagement Specific Guidance/Guidelines Student activities and gatherings will be permitted in accordance with OSU, federal, state and county guidelines and requirements. Tracking participation at events will take place to the greatest extent possible. Student Activity and Engagement Specific Guidance/Guidelines Student activities and gatherings will be permitted in accordance with OSU, federal, state and county guidelines and requirements. Tracking participation at events will take place to the greatest extent possible. Youth Programming Specific Guidance/Guidelines Youth activities must be registered through the Youth Program Registry system. Registration requires the submission of program information, including activity details, as well as basic contact information. A complete list of Authorized Adults who will be involved in the activity, including the Activity Leader, OSU Primary Contact and Staff/Volunteers with direct access to minors, must be provided. Once the information has been submitted, the Office of Youth Safety & Compliance will review program details and notify you of the status of your registration, including any recommended modifications or clarification requests. Intercollegiate Athletics Intercollegiate Athletics follows all protocols outlined by the NCAA COVID-19 Medical Advisory Group, the Pac-12 COVID-19 Medical Advisory Committee and related OHA Guidance or other state or federal requirements. Resumption of Athletic Activities Medical and operational practice and competition activities follow the minimum applicable standards outlined by the NCAA COVID-19 Medical Advisory Group and enhanced protocols outlined by the Pac-12 COVID-19 Medical Advisory Committee. Teams visiting campus for competition must follow protocols established by the Pac-12 COVID-19 Medical Advisory Committee. Conduct of Athletic Events Essential staff and participants involved in athletic events will follow event protocols determined by the NCAA COVID-19 Medical Advisory Group, the Pac-12 COVID-19 Medical Advisory Committee, related OHA Guidance and the Department of Athletics. Contact Info Contacts Non-emergency phone: 541-737-7211 Oregon Health Authority: Dial 211 Non-emergency questions and concerns form If you have symptoms of COVID-19, stay home; avoid close contact with others; and contact your health care provider, Student Health Services, or an emergency medical care provider. Pathway Steering Team Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer