Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Spring 2022 University Updates Policies and Guidelines Videos Visitor Guidelines Travel Restrictions ReopenCU App COVID-19 Vaccine Info Vaccine Mandate COVID-19 Testing Program Isolation Quarantine COVID-19 Monitoring Plan Building Readiness Information Research Research Ramp-up Ambassadors Announcements School Updates COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community You are here: Home Policies and Guidelines Public Health Protocol: Isolation Public Health Protocol: Isolation April 05, 2022 Isolation is the separation of sick people with a contagious disease from people who are not sick. There are two scenarios where isolation is recommended: Individuals with symptoms of COVID-19 who have been tested and are awaiting test results: Most individuals will be asked to isolate in their room, apartment, or home. For certain student undergraduate populations, such individuals will be moved to a designated isolation space while they await test results If they test negative, they can return to their regular accommodation without restrictions, or to quarantine depending on the exposure If they test positive, they will continue to isolate Individuals who are diagnosed with COVID-19: Most individuals will be instructed to isolate in their room, apartment, or home. For certain undergraduate student populations, they will be moved to a separate COVID-19 isolation space. Discontinuation of Isolation All individuals who test positive for COVID-19 can end their isolation after 5 days if they are asymptomatic or their symptoms are resolving (without fever for 24 hours). Day 0 is considered the first day of symptom onset and/or the day of a positive test result. Please wear a well-fitting mask while around others for an additional 5 days. Individuals who are unable to wear a well-fitting mask for 5 days after a 5-day isolation should follow standard (i.e., not shortened) 10-day isolation guidance. Individuals who are moderately-severely immunocompromised should also follow standard (i.e., not shortened) 10-day isolation guidance. If an individual is asked to isolate, they should follow the guidance here: Isolation Guide for Morningside Students Isolation Guide for CUIMC Students Isolation Guide for Faculty and Staff Students in the designated isolation facility will be provided with food delivery. All students in isolation, regardless of location, will be provided with resources to obtain medical support as needed through telehealth, mental health virtual support spaces, and any necessary academic accommodations. Faculty and staff should reach out to their primary care provider for medical support. Repeat testing for individuals in isolation is not recommended by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), based on evidence that individuals who have completed the time course described above are no longer infectious and that some individuals may continue to have positive PCR tests due to viral debris or non-infectious particles that may be detected by the PCR assay. Document Categories Health Document Topics Guidelines Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close