Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site COVID-19 Information Community Messages FAQs contact Health Guidelines Yale Data Testing Vaccination On Campus Working Travel Home > Community Messages > Travel During Break Travel During Break March 15, 2022 To Yale students, If you plan to travel over spring break, please keep in mind that both international and domestic travel are indeed possible, however remember that travel and associated activities have been identified as a risk for exposure to COVID-19. The university urges travelers to assess risks prior to travel and deploy safe practices during all travel. International travel poses greater risk than domestic, even for fully vaccinated travelers. Safe travel experiences depend on proper planning and preparation. This is especially important given the potential for rapid COVID-related changes in both risks and regulations. All travelers, whether traveling within the United States or internationally, should continue to take health precautions. Please review Yale’s Travel Policy, which is updated as needed and applies to personal and university-sponsored travel. Post-travel testing (and quarantine for those who are not fully vaccinated) requirements are described in the policy. Community members planning international travel must complete the Yale Self-Assessment of International Travel. This will guide you through the steps needed to help you understand policies, laws, and preparations to take prior to committing to international travel. New restrictions, sometimes imposed with little warning, and a significant number of flight cancellations could complicate international travel. Travelers should be prepared for the possibility that sudden changes may cause them to be stranded, possibly for extended periods. Ensure that you reconfirm your itinerary, stay flexible, have appropriate contingency plans in place, and check the latest restrictions for your destination. See the CDC website and International SOS site for current information on travel including the latest restrictions. Due to concerns over the Omicron variant, the U.S. requires all air passengers, regardless of vaccination status, to show a negative COVID-19 test taken no more than 1 day before travel to the United States. The CDC has prepared a quick reference guide to help explain requirements and restrictions. There are also numerous restrictions and warnings related to wars and conflicts. Consult State Department advisories for latest information. As a reminder, university-sponsored travel is only allowed for fully vaccinated faculty, staff, and students subject to obtaining approvals required under existing university policies and processes. Faculty, staff and students who are not fully vaccinated may not participate in university-sponsored travel. Travel planning resources COVID-19 safer travel guide. Yale Environment Health and Safety has prepared a helpful guide to safer COVID-19 travel practices. Contact International SOS travel assistance All members of the Yale community are automatically enrolled with International SOS (ISOS), which provides pre-travel consultations and 24/7/365 domestic and international emergency medical, security and travel assistance for Yale travelers and accompanying family while more than 100 miles from home. Use the International SOS COVID Trip Planner to create a custom assessment based on your passport, vaccination status, and destination rules and mandates. Request a destination-specific medical and security pre-travel consultation: email Philadelphia@internationalsos.com. Allow at least 72 hours for the report to be prepared. Download, print and carry the ISOS membership card while you travel so you have their emergency contact information if you ever need it and install the ISOS App on your phone. Sign up for ISOS email alerts. Register your travel Whether you travel internationally for research, conferences, internships, or personal reasons, to destinations familiar or exotic, please register your travel so that in the event of a major emergency the university will be able to contact you. This information has been critical to our efforts to locate and help Yale travelers following natural disasters or incidents of violence. Travel booked through Yale’s Egencia account is automatically fed into the travel registry. Other ways to register travel include emailing your travel itinerary to YaleTravel@itinerary.internationalsos.com or registering travel via the ISOS App. Medical Insurance Check with your medical insurance provider before you travel to verify coverage of routine medical needs and coverage limitations while you are away from campus. If you are a member of Yale Health or a student enrolled in Yale Health Basic and Hospitalization/Specialty Coverage, your Yale Health insurance coverage is good worldwide in the event of a health emergency. Aetna members also enjoy medical insurance coverage while overseas. Note that some travel medical insurance is provided with International SOS travel assistance. For details on coverage, visit https://ogc.yale.edu/erm/ISOS and click on “Out-of-country medical care coverage” for additional information. In the event of an emergency In a medical emergency, always seek treatment first. In other emergency situations, get to a safe place, heed any local government warnings, and avoid trouble areas. Alert International SOS (call collect +1-215-942-8478). They will notify Yale and activate the university’s emergency response. For international students and scholars International students and scholars on non-immigrant visas should consult the OISS travel guidance web page before you depart and check with OISS if you have any concerns about your travel plans or return to the U.S. Due to the continued uncertainty in the availability of international flights and various travel restrictions that are still in place in countries you might travel through, if you choose to travel, your return to the U.S. might be delayed. Advice on handling immigration emergencies can be found here. Other resources Leave electronic devices you don’t really need at home and protect those you do bring: https://cybersecurity.yale.edu/travelsecurely. Wherever you are, the Sexual Harassment and Assault Response & Education Center (https://sharecenter.yale.edu/) is available to assist Yale travelers in an emergency. Call SHARE at 203-432-2000 for telephone support in the event of a sexual harassment or assault crisis. Download SHARE’s travelers’ guide. If you have questions, please email world@yale.edu. Best wishes for a safe break, Donald L. Filer Associate Vice President for Global Strategy Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Report a technical issue or content update Facebook Twitter YouTube Sina Weibo Tumblr