Home Coming to Campus Vaccines & Testing Dashboard Travel COVID-19 News & Updates HomeComing to CampusVaccines & TestingDashboardTravelCOVID-19 News & Updates COVID-19 info last updated on Sept 21, 2020 Scroll Travel Guidance Please see below for guidance on both Dartmouth-sponsored and personal travel for students (undergraduate, graduate, and professional school), faculty, and staff as well as information about transportation and visitors. Students starting the term will have additional requirements. Dartmouth-Sponsored Travel | Personal Travel | Access and Quarantine | Transportation and Vehicle Use | Visitors | Federal and State Guidance Dartmouth leadership will continue to monitor health guidance as well as the conditions of COVID-19 at Dartmouth and in the surrounding communities and will make changes to this guidance accordingly. Please email covid-19.info@dartmouth.edu with questions about COVID-19 policies. Individuals are up to date after receiving all recommended doses in their primary series of COVID-19 vaccine, and one booster dose once they are eligible. Accepted COVID-19 vaccines are those that received full approval or emergency use authorization by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration or those that received or are undergoing assessment for emergency use listing (PDF) by the World Health Organization. Dartmouth-Sponsored Travel Dartmouth-sponsored travel is travel that Dartmouth requires, supports, supervises, controls, or manages, which is financially supported by Dartmouth or through any Dartmouth account, and/or is expected to result in the granting of academic credit from Dartmouth. Travel supported by external grants (e.g., from federal agencies or private foundations) made to Dartmouth is included in the definition of Dartmouth-sponsored travel. Students, faculty, and staff who are up to date with their COVID-19 vaccinations may travel within the United States and to identified international destinations on Dartmouth-sponsored travel. Students, faculty, and staff who are not up to date with their COVID-19 vaccinations may travel within the United States on Dartmouth-sponsored travel. All those who choose to travel outside of New England (New Hampshire, Vermont, Maine, Massachusetts, Connecticut, and Rhode Island) must register in the Travel Registry. Those who wish to travel outside of the designated range may petition for a travel exception as part of the travel registry process. Regardless of vaccination status, those who choose to travel should follow all applicable requirements for the area they are traveling to as well as their country and state of residence; this includes guidance or requirements set by business owners, landlords, or other facility owners and operators. If symptoms develop, travelers should cancel their travel and contact their primary care provider. Personal Travel The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends that travelers are up to date with their COVID-19 vaccinations before traveling. Regardless of vaccination status, those who choose to travel should follow all applicable requirements for the area they are traveling to as well as their country and state of residence; this includes guidance or requirements set by business owners, landlords, or other facility owners and operators. If symptoms develop, travelers should cancel their travel and contact their primary care provider. ACCESS AND QUARANTINE There are no Dartmouth COVID-19 requirements for access and quarantine after travel at this time. The CDC recommends that travelers who are not up to date on their COVID-19 vaccinations quarantine for five days upon return from domestic or international travel. In addition, travelers who are not up to date on their COVID-19 vaccinations or have returned from international travel, regardless of vaccination status, should take a COVID-19 test (PCR or rapid antigen) three to five days after arrival at Dartmouth. Transportation and Vehicle Use Anyone using a Dartmouth-owned vehicle or participating in a Dartmouth sanctioned activity using a private vehicle must follow these requirements. Visitors Visitors should follow Dartmouth’s visitor guidance. FEDERAL AND STATE GUIDANCE For updates to travel guidance and travel advisories, please review: CDC COVID-19 travel guidance U.S. Department of State travel advisories Health department directories for other states and territories, cities and towns, and federally recognized tribes (provided by the CDC)﻿ 3 Travel Guidelines Contact us Have questions about Dartmouth’s COVID-19 operations? Call the COVID-19 information line at 603-646-2019 or email covid-19.info@dartmouth.edu. Info Campus Operations Dartmouth COVID-19 Working Groups COVID-19 HEERF Report Building Posters Public Health Information FIND IT FAST Campus Map Directory Events News Visit RESOURCES Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX