Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Life Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Student Resources Get Involved Inclusion and Belonging Programs and Initiatives Events Messages About Student Resources Directory In An Emergency Discrimination, Harassment or Gender-Based Misconduct Freedom of Expression on our Campus Mental Health Resources Sexual Respect Student Services ColumbiaiGrad.com Maps and Locations Arts and Recreation Inclusion and Belonging University Policies Rules of University Conduct Schools Directory Key Campus Resources Guide (PDF) Resources for Students With Children Pregnant Students University Life Ambassadors Interschool Governing Board University Life Events Council Student Voices The Graduate Initiative DACA & Undocumented Inclusive Public Safety Inclusive Public Safety Advisory Committee Resources for Promoting Social Justice & Combating Bias Responding to Bias Pronouns in Use Welcome Home Columbia Community Citizenship Initiative FAQs CU Engage: Civic Engagement at Columbia University The Graduate Initiative Well-Being at Columbia Racial Justice Mini-Grant Program Events Video Library University Life Discussions University Life Messages Meet University Life Mission and Vision Press Coverage University Life You are here: Home University Life Messages Spring Term Guide for Returning to Campus Safely 2020-21 Academic Year Spring Term Guide for Returning to Campus Safely January 07, 2021 Dear Students, I hope you are well and had an opportunity to rest and renew over your break. This email is your easy-access guide for return to campus: Gateway Testing, flu shot requirement, travel policy and more. Before we dive in, a special thanks to each of you for doing all you can to keep our community healthy, especially as COVID-19 cases continue to increase in New York and around the world. Accessing Campus for the First Time Here’s your checklist if you’re coming to campus for the first time this academic year: Training: New Columbia students must complete Welcome to Columbia tutorials. Returning students must complete the Keeping Our Community Healthy training. Read and Sign the Compact. Get Gateway Testing before accessing campus. Students living in Columbia housing will need a test to move in. Quarantine: All community members must follow quarantine policies and procedures. ReOpenCU Attestation App: To gain access to our campuses and centers, all community members must complete the daily attestation app. COVID-19 Testing: What you need to know January Gateway Test requirement If you’re coming to campus, be sure to get your new Spring term Gateway Test if you haven’t already done so. Everyone on campus is also expected to participate in ongoing surveillance testing to continuously evaluate infection rates on campus, and contact tracing if needed. Did you travel recently? If you’ve traveled outside of New York recently and are coming to campus, you must follow NYS quarantine guidelines. Did you recently test positive for COVID-19? If you have tested positive for COVID-19 in the past 90 days, you don’t need to have a Gateway Test or other surveillance testing for three months from the date of your positive test result. If you got your positive test result from a place other than Columbia’s testing program, you must upload proof of it via the patient portal (use the downloadable forms section). When your proof has been confirmed you will be noted as compliant with the January Gateway Test requirement. Flu Shot Requirement All students who access University facilities must have a flu vaccine, whether you live on or off campus. Sign up now on the online patient portal for your free flu vaccine from Columbia Health in Lerner Hall, Monday to Friday from 9am to 5pm EST. You must have an appointment to ensure physical distancing. CUIMC is also offering free flu vaccinations to students by appointment only. If you had your flu vaccine elsewhere, follow these instructions to upload proof of your vaccine to the patient portal. Spring 2021 Travel Restrictions All Columbia-related travel is suspended for students. The University urges you to postpone personal travel except for emergencies, and has additional restrictions on group travel. If travel is essential, follow NYS guidance upon return or arrival to campus. Learn more about Spring 2021 travel restrictions. Spring 2021 Events Policy The University’s event policy puts limits on the size of all non-academic and academic gatherings. Learn more about the Spring 2021 Events Policy. Stepping In and Getting Involved Need help stepping in when you see someone not wearing a face-covering and/or physically distancing? Check out these tips. Want to report a concern? Use this link. Volunteer as a Keeping Our Community Healthy Student Ambassador We’re reopening applications for Student Ambassadors to help keep our community healthy. Student Ambassadors receive training about the Community Health Compact, COVID-19 prevention and bystander intervention methods. They also have the opportunity to engage with campus experts, participate in resource development programs and provide peer-to-peer support and education. Sign up here. The Semester Ahead The University Life team has many exciting events planned for the Spring term to help connect you with students across the University, no matter where in the world you may be, as well as resources for your overall well-being. We welcome your feedback and engagement; please feel free to reach out to [email protected] at any time. Wishing you a wonderful start to the year, Joseph Defraine Greenwell, Ed.D. Vice President for Student Affairs Office of University Life Gender Pronouns: He/Him/His Connect with me: Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | LinkedIn Connect with University Life: universitylife.columbia.edu | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | YouTube News May 25, 2022 Summer Digest: Mental Health Awareness Month, Accessing Campus Resources Over the Summer May 24, 2022 Following the mass shooting in Uvalde, Texas May 17, 2022 Bridging Two Worlds: One Student's Story of Finding His Passion for Diplomacy May 16, 2022 2022 Commencement Activities and Reminders May 15, 2022 In the wake of the attack in Buffalo, New York University Life1150 Amsterdam Ave., 208 Philosophy Hall · NY, NY 10027 Phone 212-853-1628 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close