Skip to the main content Close Messages Guidance Guidance COVID-19 Protocols Face Coverings Travel Students Employees Vaccines Testing Resources Resources Human Resources Student Health Services Texas A&M University COVID-19 Guidance Messages Guidance Guidance COVID-19 Protocols Face Coverings Travel Students Employees Vaccines Testing Resources Resources Human Resources Student Health Services Menu Symptomatic? Tested Positive Exposed Search this site search Protect Aggieland Texas A&M's official resource for the latest COVID-19 guidance for students, faculty and staff. Free Testing Where to find a test if you are experiencing symptoms or have been exposed Campus Testing Sites Positive Test What to do when you have tested positive for COVID-19 Positive Test Protocol Exposed What to do when you've been in close contact with someone who has tested positive for COVID-19 Take the Next Steps NEGATIVE TEST RESULT | Stay isolated from others until your symptoms improve and you are fever-free for 24 hours. Latest COVID-19 Updates May 23, 2022, 4 p.m. CDT Updated Guidelines for COVID-19 Texas A&M University continues to monitor the COVID-19 pandemic via data available from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Texas Department of State Health Services and the Brazos County Health District. The COVID-19 Community Level in Brazos County continues to remain low. Following are the updates to the university's COVID-19 policies and guidelines that are being implemented immediately. Read the Full Message Message Archive Apr. 25, 2022, 4 p.m. CDT COVID-19 Test Kits and Protect Aggieland T-shirts Free This Week Apr. 13, 2022, 1:30 p.m. CDT Updated Guidelines for COVID-19 Mar. 21, 2022, 8:30 a.m. CDT Free Testing on Campus After Spring Break View All Messages Campus Testing Sites Stay up to date with information regarding testing appointments, locations and times. Free Testing Sites Vaccine Information Visit Student Health Services website for more information about vaccines, available to Texas A&M students, faculty and staff. Vaccine Information At-Home COVID-19 Test Kits At-home COVID-19 test kits are available to all students, faculty and staff. These easy-to-use tests will help identify positive COVID-19 infections while preserving in-person learning. Email covid@tamu.edu to request an at-home test kit. covid@tamu.edu COVID-19 Protocols Feeling Sick? Stay home when sick. Anyone regardless of vaccination status who experiences symptoms consistent with COVID-19 must isolate themselves from others. Get Tested Tested Positive? Go home immediately or stay at home, practice self-isolation, regardless of vaccination status. Notify your close contacts, as well as, your processors, supervisors, or residence hall advisors. Follow the Positive Test Protocol for more information and next steps. Positive Test Protocol Been Exposed? Someone is exposed and becomes a close contact if they have been within 6 feet of an infected person for a cumulative total of 15 minutes or more over a 24-hour period starting from 2 days before illness onset until the time the patient is isolated. If you have been exposed to COVID-19 through close contact, follow the Exposed Protocol for more information and next steps. Take the Next Steps Negative, but Still Sick? If your COVID-19 test is negative, you must stay isolated from others until your symptoms are improving and you are fever-free for 24 hours without fever-reducing medications. Remote Campus COVID-19 Information Health Science Center Galveston Higher Education Center at McAllen Qatar CDC: 2019 Novel Coronavirus Brazos County Health District Department of State Health Services Clery Act COVID-19 Disclosure Contact: Risk & Compliance: For Risk & Compliance related inquiries covid-19process@tamu.edu Covid-19 Operations Center: For testing and case investigation questions covid@tamu.edu © Texas A&M University Site Policies Web Accessibility