Princeton COVID Resources Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Princeton COVID Resources Main Menu Menu Safe Practices Health & Well-Being Testing Submenu Eligibility and Frequency Taking the Test Clinic Info and Test Kit Pick-up Dropping Off Your Sample Receiving Results Report a Testing Absence Vaccinations Submenu Faculty and Staff Requirement Student Requirement Workplace Submenu Information for Faculty and Staff Information For Managers FAQs for faculty Travel Undergraduate FAQs Quarantine & Isolation Policies Dashboard Log in Search Search Home Section Menu Information for Faculty and Staff Information For Managers FAQs for faculty Work During COVID Workplace Safety and Public Health Resources Detailed information for faculty and staff, and managers is available in this Workplace section. Use the links here or at the top of this page to the left of "Work During COVID." Also available on this website is information on testing, including eligibility and frequency for the asymptomatic testing program, as well as quarantine and isolation procedures for those who test positive for COVID-19 or are a close contact. Reporting Cases and Close Contacts Faculty, staff, and students must email communityhealth@princeton.edu if they have been tested for COVID-19, confirmed to have COVID-19, or quarantined by a healthcare provider or local health department as a close contact of someone who is confirmed to be ill with COVID-19. Additional guidance on what to do if you have tested positive for COVID-19, come into contact with someone else who has tested positive, or have symptoms of COVID-19 is available on the COVID Testing and Public Health Guidance page on the UHS website. Face Coverings Starting March 14, face coverings will be optional in most University spaces, with the following exceptions: Where required by state or local agencies, currently on TigerTransit, in the McCosh Health Center, and in all athletic training rooms (Dillon Gym, Caldwell Field House, Baker Rink) As instructed by Global and Community Health following a recent positive test for COVID-19 or when identified as a close contact When faculty or staff as conveners of a class, lab, gathering, or meeting require participants to wear a mask Additional information is available in the March 2 Covid Newsletter and memo to the University community The policy requiring all members of the campus community, whether fully vaccinated or not, to wear face coverings indoors will continue until March 14, 2022. Guidance around face coverings in classrooms and at campus meetings also changes on this day: as of March 14, the instructor or convener may decide whether or not masks are required, though participants in a class, gathering, or meeting may request that the instructor or convener require masks. Please do not make assumptions about the vaccination status of an individual who might choose to wear a mask in situations where it is not required. It is critical that we encourage a culture of understanding and respect, and not antagonize individuals who may not be able to be vaccinated or may choose to be more protective. Relative Protectiveness of Masks Environmental Health and Safety has updated University mask guidance to align with recommendations from the CDC about the relative protectiveness of different types of masks, including well-constructed cloth masks (still available from EHS), layered cloth and disposable masks, or KN95 or KF94 masks. Departments are expected to provide personal protective equipment and supplies for their faculty and staff in accordance with EHS recommendations. Prioritization should go to the support of in-person teaching. EHS Graphic: Hierarchy of Protectiveness of Masks Procurement recommends the following Prime marketplace suppliers for KN95 masks: Henry Schein, W.B. Mason, Fisher Scientific, VWR. The Finance and Treasury Budget Office is available to help departments identify funds within their existing funding sources to address any budgetary challenges. If departments have are having difficulty finding KN95s for faculty and staff, especially before classes begin on Monday January 24, they may contact Kelly States at EHS for an interim supply at cost. Please bundle requests by department, not by individual group. Related links HR policy on time off for staff due to COVID-19 COVID Public Health Guidance HR Policy 5.1.4 Flexible Work Arrangements Footer Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University