Skip to the main content Close Messages Guidance Guidance COVID-19 Protocols Face Coverings Travel Students Employees Vaccines Testing Resources Resources Human Resources Student Health Services Texas A&M University COVID-19 Guidance Messages Guidance Guidance COVID-19 Protocols Face Coverings Travel Students Employees Vaccines Testing Resources Resources Human Resources Student Health Services Menu Symptomatic? Tested Positive Exposed Search this site search COVID-19 Test Kits and Protect Aggieland T-shirts Free This Week April 25, 2022, 4:00 p.m. CDT As we prepare to finish the semester healthy and strong, Texas A&M University is encouraging all students, faculty and staff to Protect Aggieland by taking advantage of free COVID-19 testing opportunities on campus, including picking up at-home test kits. Testing is encouraged prior to the conclusion of the semester and travel for the summer. At-home test kits with free Protect Aggieland T-shirt Visit a Protect Aggieland table during the following dates and times (while supplies last): Tuesday, April 26 from 9 to 11 a.m. - Evans Library Lobby Wednesday, April 27 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. - Commons Lobby 2 to 4 p.m. - Aggie Health Hut (behind Student Health Services on Military Walk) Thursday, April 28 from 1:30 to 3:30 p.m. - MSC 12th Man Hall PCR Tests Multiple locations on campus continue to offer PCR tests. Results may take up to 72 hours. Visit the COVID-19 Testing Sites page for testing information and to schedule an appointment. Remember to follow the Texas A&M COVID-19 Protocols if you are symptomatic, test positive or are exposed to someone who has tested positive. Free vaccines, including all CDC-recommended boosters, continue to be offered for students, faculty and staff through the A.P. Beutel Student Health Center. Schedule a COVID-19 vaccination through the Student Health Services Patient Portal. Visit covid.tamu.edu for additional information and updates. Greg Hartman Chief Operating Officer and Senior Vice President Texas A&M University Recent Messages May 23, 22, 4:00 p.m. CDT Updated Guidelines for COVID-19 April 25, 22, 4:00 p.m. CDT COVID-19 Test Kits and Protect Aggieland T-shirts Free This Week April 13, 22, 1:30 p.m. CDT Updated Guidelines for COVID-19 View All Messages Remote Campus COVID-19 Information Health Science Center Galveston Higher Education Center at McAllen Qatar CDC: 2019 Novel Coronavirus Brazos County Health District Department of State Health Services Clery Act COVID-19 Disclosure Contact: Risk & Compliance: For Risk & Compliance related inquiries covid-19process@tamu.edu Covid-19 Operations Center: For testing and case investigation questions covid@tamu.edu © Texas A&M University Site Policies Web Accessibility