Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box COVID-19 Safety & Success » Researchers Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Home Latest Updates FAQs Positive Case Notification Mask Guidance Vaccination Program Safety & Success Plan Isolation Guidelines Self-test Kits Beaver Booster Blitz Dashboard Students Employees Teaching Faculty Researchers Extension Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Home Latest Updates FAQs Positive Case Notification Mask Guidance Vaccination Program Safety & Success Plan Isolation Guidelines Self-test Kits Beaver Booster Blitz Dashboard Students Employees Teaching Faculty Researchers Extension On-Site and Field-Based Research Activities This guide advises principal investigators, deans and Research Office employees on their roles in on-site and field-based research activities at OSU in compliance with state and local health authority requirements. OSU Research Operations During COVID-19 Research, scholarship and innovation activities are vital to the mission of Oregon State University. Although much of this work at OSU is decentralized, the public health crisis required increased levels of collaboration and coordination. This has ensured the continuity and resilience of the OSU research enterprise in the face of these challenges. Note that it is the responsibility of principal investigators to ensure that all research activities adhere to standards outlined by: Environmental Health and Safety, including additional guidance related to COVID-19. If research involves human participants, regulated animals, work conducted while boating or diving, or travel, these additional considerations apply: OSU Human Research Protection Program OSU Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee OSU Biosafety committee OSU Scientific Boating and Diving Programs or other guidance related to research on vessels Effective June 21, 2021, research resumption plans no longer need to be approved by Deans or the Vice President for Research. Researchers are expected to adhere to all relevant guidelines, including public health guidance related to COVID-19, even if they no longer need to seek formal approval for resumptions plans. Of note are OSU’s face covering policy, Positive Case Notification procedures, along with the requirement to comply with all current OHA guidelines and OSHA guidelines. OSU’s Safety & Success Plan will also continue to be updated, and should now serve as the single planning guide for onsite and in-person activity. Contact Info Contacts Non-emergency phone: 541-737-7211 Oregon Health Authority: Dial 211 Non-emergency questions and concerns form If you have symptoms of COVID-19, stay home; avoid close contact with others; and contact your health care provider, Student Health Services, or an emergency medical care provider. Pathway Steering Team Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer