Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Spring 2022 University Updates Policies and Guidelines Videos Visitor Guidelines Travel Restrictions ReopenCU App COVID-19 Vaccine Info Vaccine Mandate COVID-19 Testing Program Isolation Quarantine COVID-19 Monitoring Plan Building Readiness Information Research Research Ramp-up Ambassadors Announcements School Updates COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community You are here: Home Policies and Guidelines Visitor Guidelines for Spring 2022 Visitor Guidelines for Spring 2022 March 24, 2022 All visitors (except children 5 years of age and under), including those who enter any campus facility for any period of time, must be vaccinated and show proof of a primary vaccination series as part of visitor attestation. For spring 2022, we continue to observe some restriction regarding visitors in order to keep the campus safe as Columbia affiliates—faculty, researchers, staff, and students—return to classrooms, workplaces, and University residences. The University values the contributions that visiting scholars, exchange programs, and other visitors bring to our academic community. As a result, guidance for specific categories of visitors continues to evolve and the current requirements are listed below. All visitors listed below are expected to comply with the University’s health and safety policies, which include mandatory vaccination. Categories of Visitors Visiting and Exchange Students Non-degree visiting undergraduate, graduate, and medical and related professional students (domestic and international) will be permitted to attend classes but must provide proof of vaccination and follow all University health protocols. Visiting Faculty, Visiting Officers of Research, and Adjuncts Visiting faculty, visiting officers of research, and adjunct faculty who are teaching and/or approved for essential on-site research of any duration, are excluded from the current visitor restrictions. Visiting Scholars and Scientists Visiting Scholars and Scientists coming for short periods to do independent research will be allowed on campus after they have been approved by the Department/School and the Provost following guidelines issued in April 2021. Guest Speakers, Lecturers, and Panelists Guest speakers or lecturers must provide proof of vaccination and follow all University health protocols. Visitors to Columbia Undergraduate Residential Buildings Visitors to undergraduate residence halls by non-affiliates of the University will be prohibited until further notice. See the Housing website for more details about what is currently permitted. Visitors to Columbia Undergraduate Student Group Events and Gatherings Visitors to undergraduate student group events and gatherings by non-affiliates of the University are permitted; designated responsible student leaders are required to check for proof of vaccine. Currently, such events cannot occur in residential housing. Visitors to Columbia Faculty and Graduate Residential Buildings Visitors to Columbia faculty and graduate residential buildings are allowed. Visitors to Libraries Visitors may access Butler Library. Visitors must check in for each visit at the Library Information Office in Butler Library during business hours with proof of vaccination and ID. Hours can be found on the Libraries website. Review the Library Visitors page for more information about the types of visitors permitted to enter Butler at this time, plus important requirements. Admissions Visitors Prospective students and family members are permitted for the purpose of viewing the campus. Visitors can access and tour indoor spaces on campus with proof of vaccination. For visitors that are unvaccinated, campus tours are restricted to outdoor spaces. All will need to adhere to University guidelines in place. Faculty, Staff, and Students of Affiliated Institutions Barnard, Teachers College, Jewish Theological Seminary, and Union Theological Seminary faculty, researchers, staff, and students will be granted access to campus. However, vaccine compliance is required, as well as compliance with other University guidelines. Columbia will accept the determinations from these affiliated institutions regarding vaccine exemptions. Vendors Contractors and non-academic visitors with official business with Columbia who require access to our facilities will be permitted access. Evidence of vaccination will need to be provided to their employer who will then attest to the vaccine status of these individuals. Persons in this category need to adhere to University guidelines in place. Research Participants and Candidates for Research Research participants and candidates for research who are not University affiliates (“non-University participants”) are allowed to enter Columbia buildings for research purposes only, as needed. All non-University participants must comply with these guidelines. The visitor vaccine requirement is not applicable to non-University participants. Document Categories Facilities and Campus Life Health Academics Document Topics Guidelines Policy Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close