Skip to main content COVID-19 Response COVID-19 Response Information for Students Faculty & Staff Visitors × Home Updates Information for... Students Overview Advising, Career Services & Support Faculty & Staff Visitors Testing Overview Supplemental Testing Symptomatic Testing COVID-19 Tracking Epidemiological Modeling Vaccination at Cornell Health & Safety Prevention & Care Face Masks HEERF Emergency Funding Events Travel University Operations Resources Building Signage Resources Building Signage To help keep the Cornell community informed about COVID-19, all colleges, schools and units are encouraged to use and distribute the items below rather than creating their own. The more consistent our messaging, the better we can reach our many audiences and help everyone to stay informed, safe and healthy. You may download and print the posters for your area and use the digital signage for your online presence. If you would like to have the vinyl floor decals or posters professionally printed, please contact Cornell Print Services at printservices@cornell.edu to receive a detailed list and order form. Toolkit downloads Posters Digital signage (CU View) Posters Face covering required Download Size: 8.5” x 11” Display locations: Wall-mounted at spaces that university leadership/units/colleges identify as requiring 100% Face Covering. Health protection procedure (Stay home when sick) Download Size: 8.5” x 11” Display locations: Wall-mounted at entry vestibules and lobbies to remind employees, students, and public to stay home when sick. Do not sit here Download Size: 8.5” x 11” / each sign is 8.5” x 5.5” Display locations: To eliminate side by side seating in lobbies, public spaces, areas with furniture clusters, event venues, conference areas, meeting rooms, or lecture hall with permanently mounted seating. This sign can either be folded and self-supported on a tabletop surface as a “tent” sign, or cut in half and adhered to the appropriate surface. Self-serve disinfect instructions Download Size: 8.5” x 11” Display locations: Place adjacent to location of self-service disinfection supplies. Information for visitors 2 (general website reference) Download Size: 8.5” x 11” Display locations: Mounted on doors at all building entrances. Digital signage (CU View) Health protection procedure (CU View) Download Size: 1920 x 1440px horizontal 1920 x 1080px horizontal 1080 x 1920px vertical Display locations: CU View screens If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. © Cornell University 2022