Skip to the main content Close Messages Guidance Guidance COVID-19 Protocols Face Coverings Travel Students Employees Vaccines Testing Resources Resources Human Resources Student Health Services Texas A&M University COVID-19 Guidance Messages Guidance Guidance COVID-19 Protocols Face Coverings Travel Students Employees Vaccines Testing Resources Resources Human Resources Student Health Services Menu Symptomatic? Tested Positive Exposed Search this site search Updated Guidelines for COVID-19 May 23, 2022, 4:00 p.m. CDT Texas A&M University continues to monitor the COVID-19 pandemic via data available from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Texas Department of State Health Services and the Brazos County Health District. The COVID-19 Community Level in Brazos County continues to remain low. Following are the updates to the university's COVID-19 policies and guidelines that are being implemented immediately. Students, faculty and staff are no longer required to complete the COVID-19 Self-Reporting Form. However, everyone is required to continue to follow the Texas A&M COVID-19 Protocols if you are symptomatic, test positive or are exposed to someone who has tested positive. PCR testing will remain available on campus at multiple locations. Visit the COVID-19 Testing Sites page for testing information and to schedule an appointment. Free vaccines, including all CDC-recommended boosters, continue to be offered for students, faculty and staff through the A.P. Beutel Student Health Center. Schedule a COVID-19 vaccination through the Student Health Services Patient Portal. The Texas A&M COVID-19 Reporting Data will cease to be collected or published on our website. Visit covid.tamu.edu for additional guidance and information. In the event that the COVID-19 Community Level rises, the university will update our policies and guidelines to help mitigate the spread of COVID-19 within our community. Greg Hartman Chief Operating Officer and Senior Vice President Texas A&M University Recent Messages May 23, 22, 4:00 p.m. CDT Updated Guidelines for COVID-19 April 25, 22, 4:00 p.m. CDT COVID-19 Test Kits and Protect Aggieland T-shirts Free This Week April 13, 22, 1:30 p.m. CDT Updated Guidelines for COVID-19 View All Messages Remote Campus COVID-19 Information Health Science Center Galveston Higher Education Center at McAllen Qatar CDC: 2019 Novel Coronavirus Brazos County Health District Department of State Health Services Clery Act COVID-19 Disclosure Contact: Risk & Compliance: For Risk & Compliance related inquiries covid-19process@tamu.edu Covid-19 Operations Center: For testing and case investigation questions covid@tamu.edu © Texas A&M University Site Policies Web Accessibility