Skip to main content COVID-19 Response COVID-19 Response Information for Students Faculty & Staff Visitors × Home Updates Information for... Students Overview Advising, Career Services & Support Faculty & Staff Visitors Testing Overview Supplemental Testing Symptomatic Testing COVID-19 Tracking Epidemiological Modeling Vaccination at Cornell Health & Safety Prevention & Care Face Masks HEERF Emergency Funding Events Travel University Operations Resources Building Signage Information for Students Overview In this section Overview Advising, Career Services & Support Students should continue to follow current public health guidance, including wearing approved face masks when in certain settings, including in classrooms and laboratories, at healthcare and testing facilities, and on public transportation. Quarantine and isolation guidelines for students are found on the Cornell Health website. Student Resources COVID-19 Support Center: Call 607-253-7500 or submit a health request via the Daily Check portal Cornell Health: Call 607-255-5155 or email cornellhealth@cornell.edu International travel: Contact intlsafety@cornell.edu Housing: Contact campuslife@cornell.edu Dining: Contact dining@cornell.edu Bursar (Billing): Contact bursar@cornell.edu Financial Aid: Contact finaid@cornell.edu Academic Support: Contact the academic advising team at your college Student Organizations/Activities New Students/Orientation Fitness Centers/Recreation Community Response Team: communityresponseteam@cornell.edu Graduate & Professional Student Resources Student Vaccination Requirement COVID-19 Public Health Guidelines for Researchers Cornell Graduate School College of Veterinary Medicine Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management Cornell Tech Isolation & Quarantine If I am placed in isolation, how can I keep up with my coursework? Will I be able to attend class by Zoom while in isolation? When students are placed in mandatory quarantine or isolation, they will receive an email from Student Disability Services that includes a five-day temporary academic accommodation notice. Students are asked to forward the message to their instructors and college student services office (Cornell Law students should forward the message only to the Law School Dean of Students, law.dos@cornell.edu), which serves as the official notification of their five-day accommodation and their inability to participate in in-person learning until their release date. The message also notifies instructors that students may need flexibility in attendance and alternative arrangements for assignments and/or exams. Students must follow-up directly with their instructors to discuss the accommodations that can be made to support their ability to meet course learning outcomes. In turn, instructors will determine which temporary accommodations are most appropriate for their course. It is important that students communicate with their instructors to finalize arrangements (Cornell Law students should coordinate directly with the Law School Dean of Students and not engage directly with their faculty about accommodations.) Faculty are not required to provide remote access to students who cannot attend class. In fact, for the majority of our classrooms, remote access is not an option because classrooms are not Zoom-enabled. Instead, faculty may, for example, choose to use lapel mic recorders to capture audio recordings to accompany other course materials. Faculty want you to remain engaged and have access to course materials, and they will determine the most appropriate and feasible way to help you stay on track based on the nature of the course. Also, it’s always beneficial for students to stay in regular contact with their faculty, TAs, and their college student services office during their quarantine or isolation period so that they can get the support they need. While most people are in isolation for five full days, students whose symptoms are not improving by the end of the fifth day may need to remain in isolation a few days longer and should contact Cornell’s COVID-19 Concierge at 607-254-5600 or quarantinehelp@cornell.edu to discuss extending their isolation period. What happens if my instructor goes into quarantine or isolation? If your instructor becomes sick with COVID-19, the instructor or their department will communicate any alternative arrangements that may be put in place, such as such as substitute instructors or alternative lesson plans. International Students The Office of Global Learning has created an FAQ to help address many questions that international students and scholars may have. Advising staff is also available remotely to support Cornell's international community and campus partners. Email international@cornell.edu for most questions and services, including CPT, OPT, tax questions and extensions, or call 607-255-5243 during regular business hours for urgent advising questions. Cornell Tech students should continue to work with Cornell Tech Student Services during office hours or by email at studentservices@tech.cornell.edu. COVID-19 Support Center The COVID-19 Support Center offers support to all members of the Cornell community for questions regarding testing, vaccines, travel and more. Submit a help request Call 607-253-7500 Operating hours: Monday to Friday, 8 am to 5 pm | By phone: 9 am to 4 pm If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. © Cornell University 2022