Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Spring 2022 University Updates Policies and Guidelines Videos Visitor Guidelines Travel Restrictions ReopenCU App COVID-19 Vaccine Info Vaccine Mandate COVID-19 Testing Program Isolation Quarantine COVID-19 Monitoring Plan Building Readiness Information Research Research Ramp-up Ambassadors Announcements School Updates COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community You are here: Home University Communications As of April 11, Non-Cloth Masks Are Mandatory in Classrooms As of April 11, Non-Cloth Masks Are Mandatory in Classrooms April 10, 2022 Dear Colleagues, We write to update you on the COVID-19 status in New York City and where we are in terms of public health measures at the University. Based on the current situation and in an abundance of caution we will require wearing of non-cloth masks in classrooms beginning Monday morning April 11, 2022. This mandatory masking policy applies to classrooms only and is expected to remain in place for the few remaining weeks of our spring semester. As has been our policy all year, instructors have the option to remove their masks while teaching. Current policies on masking in all other settings continue unchanged. We remain in low-risk or green status based on Columbia’s COVID-19 monitoring plan and so does New York City based on its designated risk levels. Over the past few weeks there has been an uptick in the number of COVID-19 cases in New York City and not surprisingly in the percent positivity in our own surveillance testing program. Reassuringly, this has not been associated as of yet with a commensurate increase in hospitalizations in New York City, an important and more reliable metric of the status of the pandemic. Continued caution in certain situations remains extremely important, particularly in indoor social settings when the vaccination status of attendees is unknown or uncertain. Being up-to-date in terms of COVID-19 vaccination status – i.e., to get all doses of the vaccines (primary and booster doses) as recommended by the CDC – is critically important. Lastly, the availability of effective COVID-19 treatments for those with COVID-19 and at risk of complications should also be noted. Thank you, Donna Lynne Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, CUIMC, and University COVID Director Gerry Rosberg, Senior Executive Vice President Tags Announcement Public Health Facilities and Campus Life News May 05, 2022 Update on Current Public Health Protocols April 25, 2022 COVID-19 Treatment Option for Individuals Meeting CDC Guidelines April 22, 2022 Statement From the President’s Advisory Task Force on COVID-19 April 15, 2022 Update on Vaccination Requirement for Students April 15, 2022 Three Updates: Booster Shots, Gateway Testing, and Masking Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close