Princeton COVID Resources Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Princeton COVID Resources Main Menu Menu Safe Practices Health & Well-Being Testing Submenu Eligibility and Frequency Taking the Test Clinic Info and Test Kit Pick-up Dropping Off Your Sample Receiving Results Report a Testing Absence Vaccinations Submenu Faculty and Staff Requirement Student Requirement Workplace Submenu Information for Faculty and Staff Information For Managers FAQs for faculty Travel Undergraduate FAQs Quarantine & Isolation Policies Dashboard Log in Search Search Home Work During COVID Section Menu Information for Faculty and Staff Information For Managers FAQs for faculty On this page Information for Faculty and Staff Face Coverings Update March 2, 2022 — Starting March 14, face coverings will be optional in most University spaces, with the following exceptions: Where required by state or local agencies, currently on TigerTransit and in the McCosh Health Center As instructed by Global and Community Health following a recent positive test for COVID-19 or when identified as a close contact When faculty or staff as conveners of a class, lab, gathering, or meeting require participants to wear a mask Additional information is available in the March 2 Covid Newsletter and memo to the University community Relative Protectiveness of Masks Environmental Health and Safety has updated University mask guidance to align with recommendations from the CDC about the relative protectiveness of different types of masks, including well-constructed cloth masks (still available from EHS), layered cloth and disposable masks, or KN95 or KF94 masks. Departments are expected to provide personal protective equipment and supplies for their faculty and staff in accordance with EHS recommendations. Prioritization should go to the support of in-person teaching. Procurement recommends the following Prime marketplace suppliers for KN95 masks: Henry Schein, W.B. Mason, Fisher Scientific, VWR. The Finance and Treasury Budget Office is available to help departments identify funds within their existing funding sources to address any budgetary challenges. If departments have are having difficulty finding KN95s for faculty and staff, especially before classes begin on Monday January 24, they may contact Kelly States at EHS for an interim supply at cost. Please bundle requests by department, not by individual or group. As our students and more of our faculty and staff return to campus, here is an expandable checklist of things you should know, whether you are just returning to campus or you have been working on campus throughout the pandemic. Checklist for Employees Follow new rules for face coverings. Update March 2, 2022 — Starting March 14, face coverings will be optional in most University spaces, with the following exceptions: Where required by state or local agencies, currently on TigerTransit and in the McCosh Health Center As instructed by Global and Community Health following a recent positive test for COVID-19 or when identified as a close contact When faculty or staff as conveners of a class, lab, gathering, or meeting require participants to wear a mask Additional information is available in the March 2 Covid Newsletter and memo to the University community The below guidance continues to be in effect until March 14. Effective August 11, all faculty and staff must wear a face covering indoors, except when alone in a room or work cubicle or when eating or drinking. Face coverings are not required outdoors, regardless of vaccination status. The indoor face covering requirement will be evaluated weekly by a team of physicians and scientists. The most recent update, extending the requirement until further notice, was communicated to the campus community on September 10. Be sure to check the Princeton COVID Resources page and Supplemental Guidance on Face Coverings for the most up-to-date information. Please do not make assumptions about the vaccination status of an individual who might choose to wear a mask in situations where it is not required. It is critical that we encourage a culture of understanding and respect, and not antagonize individuals who may not be able to be vaccinated or may choose to be more protective. Carry a mask with you at all times. Departments are expected to provide personal protective equipment and supplies for their faculty and staff in accordance with EHS recommendations. Participate in testing. Update, March 2, 2022 — Princeton announced on March 2 changes to the University’s asymptomatic testing program and face coverings policy in a memo to the University community from Provost Deborah Prentice and Executive Vice President Treby Williams and in a newsletter. Details on the testing program changes, which take effect March 7, can be found in the testing section of this site. Please review the testing section in its entirety, using the navigation links on the left side of the screen to see complete information about: Eligibility and frequency of testing How to take the test, including instructional videos on using the app and using the test kit. Information about the clinic and how and where to pick up test kits. Where to drop off your sample, including a map of all of the drop box locations. How to receive and interpret test results. How to report absence from testing. If you miss a test, it will show up as non-compliance on the weekly testing compliance report that goes to managers. If the you complete the online form to report that you will be away from campus and will not be testing during a period of time, it prevents a report of non-compliance. Practice kindness and care. This is a tense and challenging time for nearly everyone. Keeping our campus safe is a community effort and everyone needs to do their part. Your decisions and actions impact those around you. Be mindful of other people’s personal space. Even though social distancing is not required, many people are not comfortable being in closer contact. Be respectful and understanding when someone makes choices that are different from your own. Listen actively and objectively to better understand their position, valuing other cultures and traditions. Keep in mind that people have lost loved ones to COVID. Some have small children or immunocompromised adults or other vulnerable people at home and may feel vulnerable themselves. Some people are very worried about being at work. Communicate respectfully. Remember that there is a person, usually someone who has been working hard and making difficult decision, on the other end of that email or service request. Be mindful that not everyone on campus is vaccinated. While more than 90% of faculty and staff are fully vaccinated, some are still in the process of being vaccinated, have had to delay vaccination, or have received accommodations/exemptions from vaccination. COVID-19 vaccines are safe and very effective at preventing serious disease. The University will host additional vaccine clinics every Wednesday in August and September at Jadwin Gym. The small percentage of faculty, staff, and students who are not fully vaccinated are required to adhere to more stringent rules for masks, testing, and symptom checks and will need to quarantine if they are in close contact with a person who tested positive for COVID-19. Pay attention to symptoms Self-monitor for symptoms and stay home when you are sick. Even if you are fully vaccinated, check for symptoms associated with COVID-19, especially: Cough or shortness of breath that is not associated with a pre-existing condition and not diagnosed as something other than COVID-19. Fever Muscle or body aches New loss of taste or smell Sore throat, runny nose Nausea, vomiting, diarrhea You can still get COVID-19 if you’re vaccinated, although it is likely to be a mild case, so don’t come to work and be sure to get tested if symptoms continue. Take care of yourself. Wash your hands or use hand sanitizer often. Cover your cough. Get some sleep and some exercise. Wash your hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. Use alcohol-based hand sanitizer, covering all hand surfaces and rubbing hands together until dry. Cover your mouth and nose when you cough or sneeze. Toss tissues in the trash after use. Wash your hands or use alcohol-based hand sanitizer after touching your mouth or nose. Stay healthy by getting a good night sleep, staying hydrated, taking small breaks between tasks to reduce stress, walking or exercising at least 15 minutes a day, and eating healthy foods. Be aware of COVID-19 safety protocols. Enhanced cleaning, hand sanitizers, and optimized ventilation systems help reduce the spread of the virus. Building Services staff clean classrooms, restrooms, and shared high-contact surfaces at least once per day. Hand sanitizers are available across the campus, especially at entrances to buildings. The building ventilation systems in University-owned and operated buildings have been optimized for fresh air, air circulation, and high-efficiency filters, as possible for the specific space. Physical barriers, such as Plexiglas partitions, are no longer needed in most locations. Know what to expect about working remotely and about in-person meetings. Cabinet officers and managers may decide how and if to incorporate remote work and whether to hold meetings in person. Human Resources has updated the policy on Flexible Work Arrangements and guidance for managers and departments. These resources help managers determine whether and how to allow employees to work remotely if the manager determine that the employee is able to perform their duties as effectively or more effectively remotely compared to performing their duties without a flexible work arrangement. Managers also set expectations around in-person and remote meetings, including internal meetings, meetings hosted by the department, and meetings hosted by other departments and groups. Ask whether your meetings will be mostly in-person and, if you are permitted to work remotely part of the time, whether you will be able to join in-person meetings via Zoom or conference call or if you are expected to come to campus to attend. Review requirements for individuals who are fully vaccinated and not fully vaccinated. As of March 7, 2022, testing rules for fully vaccinated and non-fully vaccinated employees have been updated. All individuals who are up to date on vaccines and boosters are tested once monthly. Those that have received vaccine exemptions OR have not yet received their booster but are eligible to are required to test once weekly. Individuals who are vaccinated and boosted can choose to continue to test once weekly. See the Testing page for more information. Understand what happens if your or someone else tests positive for COVID-19. Regardless of vaccination status, anyone who tests positive must isolate at home, while those who are identified as close contacts only need to quarantine if they are not fully vaccinated. If you test positive through the asymptomatic testing program, University Health Services (UHS) will notify you of your test result. If you are tested elsewhere, you must notify UHS at communityhealth@princeton.edu. In either case, UHS will direct you to self-isolate at home. Duration of isolation is 5 days minimum for those who are up to date with vaccines and 10 days minimum for those who are not fully up to date with vaccines. UHS may conduct contact tracing, identifying every person with whom you had close contact (within 6 feet, with or without a face covering) for at least 15 minutes over a 24-hour period during within a few days of testing positive or the start of symptoms, and notify each of these contacts. Close contacts will need to quarantine at home for at least 10 days if they are not fully vaccinated. Close contacts who are fully vaccinated will generally not need to quarantine. EHS will send a notification to building occupants of the buildings where you spent time during the period that you would have been able to spread the virus. The notification does not provide any identifying information or your specific locations. EHS will also ensure appropriate cleaning takes place. The COVID Testing and Public Health Guidance page on the UHS website contains more information on procedures for employees to follow if an individual or close contact tests positive for COVID-19. Review the guidelines for domestic and international travel. Note: Travel guidelines will update April 4 to establish more permanent health and safety protocols for University-sanctioned travel. This includes significantly increased opportunities for student travel to some international destinations. Read the Associate Provost's Letter » There are no restrictions for domestic travel, but international travel can be challenging, especially if you are not fully vaccinated. International travel is allowed for critical purposes. There may be restrictions based on the US State Department Advisory Level for the country. You must register your travel, domestic or international, in Enroll My Trip. If you are not fully vaccinated, you may have additional restrictions and may require quarantine both when you arrive at your destination and again when you return to the US, adding 20 or so days to your time away from campus. See Pandemic Travel Guidelines for more information. Stay connected by using the TigerSafe app and the COVID websites. Check out the dashboard on this COVID Resources website as well as the information on this and the Environmental Health and Safety site. The TigerSafe app includes access to registering your test kit for use, getting your test results, accessing your vaccine records, reporting your absence from testing, health and safety FAQs and more. See the TigerSafe app website for information on how to access and use the app. The COVID Dashboard is updated weekly with the current campus mitigation level, vaccination rates, testing statistics (asymptomatic and symptomatic), quarantine and isolation data, and more. The Princeton COVID Resources site (where you are now) has information about safe practices, testing, vaccination, quarantine, isolation, links to policies, and more. The COVID-19 page on the Environmental Health and Safety website has additional guidance for employees, equipment and supplies, and other useful information. Buildings are locked - carry your ID card. Nearly all campus buildings with card (prox) access will be locked at all times. Ensure that you have access to the necessary buildings and spaces. All faculty, staff, and students should be able to enter main doors to all academic buildings and most administrative buildings. After hitting a hotspot to update your card (mainly for interior door locks), check your access to the buildings that you need to access. Report any problems to Public Safety at 609-258-1000 or The Service Point at (609) 258-8300 or thepoint@princeton.edu. Check your parking and commuter status with TPS. Please ensure that you are enrolled in Revise Your Ride, or that you have an active, virtual permit linked to the license plate of the vehicle(s) that you will use for your commute by logging into My Transportation portal. All faculty/staff parking permits have been extended through August 2022. If you had a permit in the Fall 2021 semester, you do not need to take any action. You can always login to the MyTransportation portal to check your permit and add/remove vehicles associated with your permit. Permit holders should park in assigned lots only beginning Jan. 31, 2022. Full TigerTransit service has resumed as of Jan. 24, including frequent service to Harrison Street parking. Construction projects have impacted several parking lots, resulting in fewer or no available spaces. Transportation and Parking Services is working directly with departments whose usual lots will be directly impacted. See TPS’ website for more information and expect further communication regarding campus parking. Navigate your way around construction. Princeton’s campus is evolving. Construction has been underway in many areas, and the availability of parking has been impacted. Check the Construction at Princeton page under “News” for the latest updates. If your usual parking locations are impacted, check with Transportation and Parking Services for advice and instructions. See Transportation and Parking Service’s Return to Campus website for more information. Review guidance for planning events and conferences. Conferences and events may include visitors who are fully vaccinated, but there are more requirements, and it will take more resources than pre-pandemic. There are few restrictions on conferences, events, and meetings, and outside visitors who are fully vaccinated are permitted. However, the host must follow the Guidance on Events and Gatherings, which includes a requirement for keeping and maintaining attendance and contact lists and for providing access to the event when the buildings are locked. The host is also responsible for ensuring that all visitors and outside guests have attested to being fully vaccinated. Review the requirements before committing to hosting events. Food is permitted at events and meetings, indoors or outdoors. Please refer to the document referenced above for guidance on food vendors, food trucks, catering, serving, etc. Review rules for visitors. You may sponsor visitors who are fully vaccinated, with approval from department leadership, but must follow the process in accordance with the Policy on Visitors. Your department or office may sponsor visitors who are fully vaccinated, but must follow the protocols outlined in the Visitor Policy. This includes formal approval of each visitor and obtaining an attestation that they are vaccinated. Review the policy and guidance before considering visitors. Have a question? About vaccines: email covidvaccines@princeton.edu. About testing: email covidtests@princeton.edu. About COVID-19 and health concerns or to report a positive test: email communityhealth@princeton.edu. About any other COVID concerns: call or email the COVID Connector at 609-258-7000 or covidconnector@princeton.edu. Just as we helped each other through the most challenging times of the pandemic, so too will we support each through the return to more normal operations. We will look out for each other and work together as we always have to make the 2021-22 school year a productive and rewarding one in the Princeton tradition of service to each other, to the nation and the world. Feeling Overwhelmed? This is an unprecedented time and some of us will need help or guidance. Human Resources, University Health Services, and other offices may be able to provide support. HR has sessions and courses for faculty and staff on a number of topics, including: Navigating the COVID-19 Emotional Roadmap Back to the Office a virtual self-directed learning video series providing knowledge and actionable lessons for bringing awareness to and managing emotions in these heightened times. Learn Something Series learn at your own pace with these videos and other media that cover topics such as resilience, trust and communication. Mental wellness resources for coaching and counseling are available for health, time management, stress, anxiety, or depression, as well as financial issues. Contact the Ombud’s Office to talk with a confidential, impartial resource about conflicts, problems, or complaints. Footer Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University