Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site COVID-19 Information Community Messages FAQs contact Health Guidelines Yale Data Testing Vaccination On Campus Working Travel Home > Travel Travel Policy Updated January 26, 2022 Travel by Faculty, Staff, and Students Requirements for Being on Campus After Travel U.S. Restrictions and Requirements for International Travel Travel Planning Resources Travel by Faculty, Staff, and Students Travel and associated activities have been identified as a risk for exposure to COVID-19. The university urges travelers to assess risks prior to travel and deploy safe practices during travel. International travel poses greater risk than domestic, even for fully vaccinated travelers. This policy applies to travel outside Connecticut for more than 24 hours and does not apply to faculty, staff or students commuting from their residence in another state to campus. The university modifies its policy on travel from time to time to align with evolving public health guidance. Connecticut and the university have adopted the CDC guidance related to travel for fully vaccinated individuals who are not experiencing COVID-19 symptoms. Subject to local requirements of a traveler’s destination, the CDC advises that such travelers do not need to be tested before or after domestic travel and do not need to quarantine upon arrival from domestic and international travel. The CDC advises delaying travel until fully vaccinated, and the university does not support travel for unvaccinated faculty, staff or students. Individuals are considered fully vaccinated 2 weeks after their second dose of either the Pfizer or Moderna vaccines, or 2 weeks after the single dose of Johnson & Johnson’s Janssen vaccine. Fully vaccinated travelers should follow CDC’s recommendations for traveling safely including mask-wearing, social distancing, and washing hands or using hand sanitizer. Whether engaging in personal or university-sponsored travel, the following are the university’s current travel requirements for faculty, staff, and students. University requirements and Connecticut guidance may change further as public health and safety circumstances continue to evolve. University-Sponsored Travel The university will allow university-sponsored travel for fully vaccinated faculty, staff and students subject to obtaining approvals required under existing university policies and processes. Faculty, staff and students who are not fully vaccinated may not participate in university sponsored travel. Faculty, students, and staff must complete the travel self-assessment when making plans to travel internationally. All travelers must be prepared to follow all government regulations and guidelines for their destination(s). Undergraduate students planning university-sponsored international travel must comply with the Travel Policy for Yale College students. Requirements for Being on Campus After Travel Fully Vaccinated Travelers Domestic Travel. Fully vaccinated faculty, staff, and students who travel outside of Connecticut should obtain a COVID-19 test upon their return. Individuals experiencing symptoms must obtain a COVID-19 test and isolate until the test result is received. If the test is positive, the individual should begin or continue to isolate for 10 days. Individuals experiencing symptoms should speak to their health care provider. International Travel. Fully vaccinated faculty, staff, students, and approved visitors coming from outside the United States, must test 3 to 5 days after travel and isolate for 10 days if that test is positive. Fully vaccinated faculty, staff, students, and approved visitors coming from any country that is listed as CDC level 4 or level 3 advisories, or does not report data (CDC level unknown), or is listed “Do Not Travel” by the U.S. Department of State must test upon return and 3 to 5 days later and isolate for 10 days if the result is positive. Individuals experiencing symptoms must isolate while awaiting test results and should contact their health care provider. Travelers Who Are Not Fully Vaccinated Undergraduate students who are not fully vaccinated must seek permission from the Yale College Health and Safety Leader or their designee to travel outside Connecticut. To request permission to travel, undergraduate students must use the following travel form: Undergraduate Students: Travel Form Faculty, staff and students who are not fully vaccinated and have traveled outside of Connecticut and who intend or are required to be on campus within 14 days of their return to Connecticut must either: Quarantine at home for a full 7 days and get tested 3 to 5 days after travel. If the test is negative, continue to quarantine for the full 7 days. If the test is positive, isolate and contact their health care provider. OR Quarantine for a full 10 days after travel. Faculty, staff and students who have traveled outside of Connecticut should also: Avoid being around people who are at increased risk for severe illness for 14 days. Self-monitor for COVID-19 symptoms; isolate, test and contact their health care provider if symptoms develop. Healthcare workers, including health professional students, who travel outside of Connecticut and are not fully vaccinated should consult their practice locations regarding travel related testing and quarantine requirements which may differ from those of the university. United States Travel Restrictions and Quarantine Requirements for International Travelers Proof of a Recent COVID-19 Test Effective December 6, 2021, all air passengers, regardless of vaccination status, must show a negative COVID-19 test taken no more than 1 day before travel to the United States. More details about negative testing may be found here. The CDC has also prepared a quick reference guide to help explain requirements and restrictions. Proof of Vaccination Pursuant to a presidential proclamation issued October 25, 2021, all persons traveling to the United States by air who are not U.S. citizens, U.S. nationals, or U.S. lawful permanent residents are required to show proof of being fully vaccinated against COVID-19. The proclamation allows for limited exceptions one of which is for persons with valid visas [excluding B-1 (business) or B-2 (tourism) visas] who are citizens of a foreign country with limited COVID-19 vaccine availability. If you travel by air to the United States under an exception, you will be required to meet additional conditions and restrictions including vaccination within 60 days of arrival, testing and quarantine. Learn more about this new vaccination requirement. If you are not a U.S. citizen, U.S. national, or U.S. lawful permanent resident and are fully vaccinated, make sure your vaccine and proof of vaccination are acceptable to board a flight to the United States. In addition to complying with these federal requirements, all faculty, staff, and students coming or returning to the Yale campus from another country must comply with the Yale travel policy as described on this page. Travel Planning Resources It is important to plan carefully for any travel. International travel is still restricted by many countries and those allowing entry by foreign citizens often impose mandatory quarantine requirements that sometimes include paying a substantial bond. Frequently shifting lockdown rules, limited or canceled flights, and overburdened health systems pose added risks. This effectively means that there are very few countries that are both low risk and possible to enter. Helpful resources may be found at the links below. International travelers should register travel plans using Yale’s registry ISOS Travel Tracker to speed contact in the event of an emergency. Travel Information and Resources EHS Safe COVID Travel Practices Connecticut Travel Advisory CDC: COVID-19 Travel Recommendations by Destination CDC: Precautions After You Travel ISOS Travel Tracker Registry Center for International and Professional Experience Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Report a technical issue or content update Facebook Twitter YouTube Sina Weibo Tumblr