Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Spring 2022 University Updates Policies and Guidelines Videos Visitor Guidelines Travel Restrictions ReopenCU App COVID-19 Vaccine Info Vaccine Mandate COVID-19 Testing Program Isolation Quarantine COVID-19 Monitoring Plan Building Readiness Information Research Research Ramp-up Ambassadors Announcements School Updates COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community COVID-19 Resource Guide New Health Guidance Based on the current situation and in an abundance of caution, non-cloth masks will be required in classrooms through the summer session. As has been our policy all year, instructors have the option to remove their masks while teaching. Current policies on masking in all other settings continue to be optional except for health care workers, who are required to mask in health care settings; please respect everyone's choices. Faculty and staff can upload proof of their required booster dosing of the COVID-19 vaccine by going to the Upload Your Vaccination Documentation page and scrolling down to the new "Booster Information" section. Students should use the usual process for uploading their required booster documentation. At-a-Glance COVID-19 Restrictions For additional details, refer to the most recent University Updates. Permitted Academic, research, administrative, and social gatherings are allowed with no capacity restrictions. Visitors are required to follow the Visitors Policy and must have proof of vaccination. Schools or departments are expected to ensure compliance of invited visitors prior to their arrival at a Columbia facility. Visitors to undergraduate student group events and gatherings by non-affiliates of the University are permitted; designated responsible student leaders are required to check for proof of vaccine. Currently, such events cannot occur in residential housing. Continued Restrictions Masking is optional outside of classrooms except for health care workers, who are required to mask in health care settings; please respect everyone's choices. Cloth masks are not acceptable, and we strongly recommend wearing masks outdoors when in crowded settings. Columbia Transportation will follow the New York City MTA protocol and will continue to require masks. This includes all shuttles and the evening service through Via. COVID-19 Monitoring Plan A framework for monitoring risk levels Current Alert Level: High Risk (Orange) See the Details Alert Level in New York City: High Learn how the Department of Health tracks COVID-19 transmission. Required Protocol for Coming to Campus These rules—and related policies and guidelines—apply to all affiliates. You must follow all University Public Health Protocols. user-md icon Get Vaccinated and Boosted, and Upload Documentation Get vaccinated and get a booster dose using the New York Vaccine Finder. Booster dosing is encouraged for all faculty, staff, and students who meet eligibility criteria. wpforms icon Read and Sign the Compact If you are new or returning to campus for the first time, sign the Columbia Community Health Compact, which can be found in the ReopenCU app. Daily Cases and Hospitalizations in New York City In the context of Columbia’s COVID-19 vaccination and booster mandates, the numbers of hospitalizations and deaths amongst vaccinated individuals in New York City become the metrics of particular importance, rather than cases or PCR positivity. On-campus Vaccination Mandate Compliance Data April 25-May 1 Faculty, Researchers, and Staff Vaccine Mandate Compliant* 13,438 Vaccine Mandate Noncompliant 10 Percent Compliant 99.9 Students Vaccine Mandate Compliant* 25,634 Vaccine Mandate Noncompliant 3 Percent Compliant 99.9 Total Across All Campuses Vaccine Mandate Compliant* 39,072 Vaccine Mandate Noncompliant 13 Percent Compliant 99.9 *These numbers include 74 approved exemptions for faculty, researchers, and staff on campus last week (0.6%) and 134 approved exemptions for students. . Campus Updates May 05, 2022 Update on Current Public Health Protocols Because of a recent uptick in the number of COVID-19 cases in New York City, the COVID alert level has moved from low to moderate risk. Columbia's monitoring plan has been adjusted to be consistent with the city. Tags AnnouncementPublic HealthFacilities and Campus LifeVaccineAcademic Planning April 25, 2022 COVID-19 Treatment Option for Individuals Meeting CDC Guidelines ColumbiaDoctors will be facilitating access to oral treatment for individuals who test positive for COVID-19 and who meet certain medical criteria. Tags AnnouncementPublic Health April 22, 2022 Statement From the President’s Advisory Task Force on COVID-19 The University will continue to closely monitor the epidemiological situation in New York City and on campus and will provide updates as needed. Tags AnnouncementPublic Health More News Support Is Available For general questions or comments about University COVID-19 policies, and to receive guidance on testing, contact tracing, isolation, and quarantine, email [email protected]. Emergency Situations For immediate treatment of very serious or critical conditions, call 911. You can also call Public Safety: Morningside: 212-854-2797 (On campus x4-5555) Manhattanville: 212-853-3301 (On campus x3-3333) Medical Center: 212-305-8100 or 212-305-7979 If You Are Sick Morningside students: Contact Columbia Health Medical Center students: Contact CUIMC Student Health Service. Faculty and staff should call their primary care provider. If You Test Positive from an Outside Provider Email [email protected] at any time. Counseling and Psychological Services Morningside students in need of counseling or psychological services can call 212-854-2878 for 24-hour support. CUIMC students can schedule services via the web portal, which offers 24/7 on-call clinicians. For after-hours urgent care, call 212-305-3400. Faculty and staff can contact the Employee Assistance Program (EAP). Where to Go with a Concern If you observe non-adherence to safety protocols, e.g., wearing a mask, large gatherings, etc., you may submit a report using the resources below. Non-adherence to Safety Protocols You can contact Public Safety: Morningside: 212-854-2797 Manhattanville: 212-853-3301 Medical Center: 212-305-8100 or 212-305-7979 Reports by and About Students Use the “Report an Incident” button at the top of the University Life website, report through Student Conduct and Community Standards, or contact student affairs staff in each school. Reports Regarding Faculty or Staff Go to your department chair or dean of faculty affairs Speak with your supervisor or Human Resources Report anonymously with the University Compliance hotline Discrimination and Harassment We are all responsible for creating and maintaining an environment built on respect and free from discrimination and harassment. Learn how to file a report. Contractor Violations Report contractor violations of COVID-19 safety protocols using the COVID-19 Contractor Compliance Tracker. Off-campus Violations Community members can report a violation online or by calling: Morningside Heights 212-854-2797 Manhattanville 212-853-3301 Washington Heights 212-305-8100 Additional Resources Each school and unit has designated a COVID-19 Safety Coordinator. In addition, Research Ramp-Up Ambassadors help facilitate issues specific to the research community. Find your Safety Coordinator Find your Research Ramp-up Ambassador Submit a Question or Comment Faculty, staff, students, and neighbors can submit general questions or comments about University COVID-19 policies by emailing [email protected]. Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close