Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Spring 2022 University Updates Policies and Guidelines Videos Visitor Guidelines Travel Restrictions ReopenCU App COVID-19 Vaccine Info Vaccine Mandate COVID-19 Testing Program Isolation Quarantine COVID-19 Monitoring Plan Building Readiness Information Research Research Ramp-up Ambassadors Announcements School Updates COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community You are here: Home Policies and Guidelines Coronavirus Isolation Guide for Faculty and Staff Coronavirus Isolation Guide for Faculty and Staff January 07, 2022 A. Guide B. Public Health Terminology C. Contact Information for Support How to Isolate: A Guide for Faculty and Staff If you have tested positive for COVID-19, you will be asked to isolate for a minimum of 5 days before returning to work. You may also be asked to isolate while awaiting test results. You are required to contact your supervisor and the Columbia University Human Resources (CUHR), Office of Leave Management via email at [email protected]. Hearing that you need to isolate and disconnect from others may be disconcerting, but the goal is to ensure that you are healthy, while also protecting others from exposure to illness. What to have on hand Most people may isolate in their own room or residence; others may need to relocate. During this time, you will want to have enough clean clothes for at least 5 days, as well as a pillow and blanket, your cell phone, and laptop. You’ll also need a toiletry kit, eyewear, a thermometer, over-the-counter fever reducing medications, and any prescription and nonprescription medications. Your self-care kit Be prepared with a self-care kit that contains: Digital thermometer (for daily use) Hand sanitizer (for times you can’t wash) Alcohol wipes (for cleaning, as needed) Water bottle (stay hydrated!) Temperature and symptom log What to watch for Symptoms related to COVID-19 include: Fever (above 100.4°F) Cough Shortness of breath or difficulty breathing Fatigue Muscle or body aches Headache New loss of taste or smell Sore throat Congestion or runny nose Nausea or vomiting Diarrhea In more severe cases, infection can cause pneumonia and other complications, especially for older individuals and those with other health conditions. Monitoring your symptoms during isolation Please take your temperature twice daily and record your symptoms on the health log located on the next page. If you develop symptoms or need medical triage/help while in isolation, please call your healthcare provider to determine if you should leave the premises to seek medical attention. While you're in isolation Remain at home for the entire period. This means: Do not go out, except when recommended by a medical professional. Do not use public transportation. Maintain distance (approximately 6 feet or 2 meters) from others. Common feelings Everyone reacts differently to stressful situations that require changes in location or behavior. When you’re out of circulation, you may experience a range of feelings, including: Anxiety, worry, or fear related to your health status or that of others Anger or resentment at the inconvenience Worry about not having your things with you or not doing your usual routine Uncertainty or concern about how long you will need to remain in this situation Excitement to have some alone time to rest and catch up on reading Loneliness or feeling cut off Boredom and frustration Sadness or depression Symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder The Employee Assistance Program (EAP) is here to support you, with confidential access to professional counselors who will assess your needs, provide a listening ear, and connect you with the appropriate trained specialists and community resources. Public Health Terminology When communicable infections circulate, communities try to reduce the spread in several ways, depending on the severity of the illness, the ease of transmission, and the local and national policies of the time. Often, more than one method is employed during an outbreak. Isolation prevents the spread of an infectious disease by separating people who are already sick from those who are not. It lasts as long as the disease is contagious. Quarantine separates and restricts the movement of people who were exposed to a contagious disease to see if they become sick. Quarantines are typically used for individuals who are at high risk of exposure to COVID-19—particularly those who have had close contact with someone confirmed to have COVID-19 without using recommended precautions for caregivers. Social or physical distancing means avoiding crowds and public transportation (e.g., bus, subway, taxi, ride share), and maintaining distance (approximately 6 feet or 2 meters) from others. Contact Information for Support You are a valued member of the Columbia community, and your health and well-being are important to us. Columbia University is here to assist you if you need help. Office of Leave Management - Columbia University Human Resources [email protected] Employee Assistance Program (EAP) Public Safety 212-854-5555 (available 24/7) Document Categories Health Document Topics Self-isolation Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close