Princeton COVID Resources Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Princeton COVID Resources Main Menu Menu Safe Practices Health & Well-Being Testing Submenu Eligibility and Frequency Taking the Test Clinic Info and Test Kit Pick-up Dropping Off Your Sample Receiving Results Report a Testing Absence Vaccinations Submenu Faculty and Staff Requirement Student Requirement Workplace Submenu Information for Faculty and Staff Information For Managers FAQs for faculty Travel Undergraduate FAQs Quarantine & Isolation Policies Dashboard Log in Search Search Home Testing Section Menu Eligibility and Frequency Taking the Test Clinic Info and Test Kit Pick-up Dropping Off Your Sample Receiving Results Report a Testing Absence Clinic and Test Kit Pickup Testing Clinic Information **If you plan to submit a sample this week, you should do so by the end of the day on Thursday, May 26th. Samples will be picked up early Friday morning, May 27th from the drop boxes. Samples dropped after the Friday pickup time will not be viable by the time, they are picked up on Wednesday June 1st. In general, samples greater than 3 days old are no longer viable and cannot be processed.** Summer Holiday Clinic Closures The Testing Clinic will be closed due to University Holidays and Bonus Days on: Monday, May 30th, Tuesday, May 31st Friday, June 17th Monday, June 20th Monday, July 4th, Tuesday, July 5th Due to these scheduled closures, we recommend planning accordingly as there will be no opportunity to request unpooled samples for travel on these days or request help from clinic staff in person. The Testing Clinic is located at the Stadium Ticket Window near Ticket Booth #4, Room 119A, at the Princeton Stadium. Please note the 12pm closing time for the clinic. Click here to jump to test kit pick-up locations. Mondays Tuesdays Wednesdays Thursdays Fridays Saturdays Sundays 8:30-12 May 30th (CLOSED) June 20th (CLOSED) July 4th (CLOSED) 8:30-12 May 31st (CLOSED) July 5th (CLOSED) 8:30-12 8:30-12 8:30-12 June 17th (CLOSED) CLOSED CLOSED We cannot guarantee same-day or 24-hour turnaround times for results. Please be advised that during the week of May 23rd, results may take a bit longer than expected. The map below depicts the Stadium Ticket Window location. The ticket window is at the northeast (rounded) corner of the stadium near Booth 4. If you enter from Ivy Lane between the two metal tigers, go down the stairs and bear to the left. Look for Ticket Booth #4 and follow the signage to the testing clinic room. The Stadium Ticket Window clinic will continue to provide kit distribution and guidance both for first-time testers and testers who need assistance. In-person sample collection is possible at this location. Receiving Kits for Testing All those participating in the asymptomatic testing protocol can pick up kits for self-collection at the following locations and times: Mondays Tuesdays Wednesdays Thursdays Fridays Testing Clinic, 8:30-12 Testing Clinic, 8:30-12 Testing Clinic, 8:30-12 Testing Clinic, 8:30-12 Testing Clinic, 8:30-12 Frist Campus Center, 10-4 Frist Campus Center, 10-4 Frist Campus Center, 10-4 Graduate students who live in Old and New Graduate College can also pick up their kits from the Porter’s Lodge at the Graduate College Departments and offices can apply for kits to be delivered for their operations through ServiceNow Any undergraduate or graduate student, eligible dependent, employee, or affiliate coming to the testing clinic or the Frist Campus Center table to pick up testing kits will be given a supply that will last for several weeks, depending on the frequency of required testing. Ordering for Departments Several staff departments have arranged for kit delivery that is specific to them. (Expand for more). Several staff departments such as the PU Libraries, Building Services, University Services and Campus Dining have arranged for kit delivery that is specific to their departments. Other departments and offices can apply for kits for their operations through ServiceNow. Once you complete the ServiceNow request, you will be given a window when your kits will be delivered. Employees, unless you have received an email from covidtests@princeton.edu or your supervisor about how kits will be distributed to you, please assume you will need to come pick up your kits at either the testing clinic or Frist. Off-Campus Testing Clinics Members of the University community looking for off-campus testing should check these options. (Expand for more.) On Jan. 24, 2022, the Princeton Health Department and Ridgewood Diagnostic Center opened a new COVID-19 testing site at 237 N. Harrison Street, at the old Princeton First Aid & Rescue Squad building (next to the Princeton Shopping Center). Hours are M-F 9am-6pm, and 10-3 on Saturdays. Walk-ins and appointments are available. Members of the University community looking for off-campus testing options can also check the following websites: The COVID-19 Test Site Finder on New Jersey's COVID-19 information website allows the user to find local testing sites near a given address in NJ and PA. Call the listed clinics to verify requirements and hours before visiting. The Mercer County, NJ website lists testing sites in Mercer County. Visit the location’s website or call for information on how to get tested. Footer Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University