Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Spring 2022 University Updates Policies and Guidelines Videos Visitor Guidelines Travel Restrictions ReopenCU App COVID-19 Vaccine Info Vaccine Mandate COVID-19 Testing Program Isolation Quarantine COVID-19 Monitoring Plan Building Readiness Information Research Research Ramp-up Ambassadors Announcements School Updates COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community You are here: Home University Communications Three Updates: Booster Shots, Gateway Testing, and Masking Three Updates: Booster Shots, Gateway Testing, and Masking April 15, 2022 BOOSTER SHOTS Faculty and staff can upload their proof of having a COVID-19 booster vaccine via the Columbia University ReopenCU website. Students should use the usual process for uploading their documentation. New Update: There is currently no university deadline for uploading first booster dose documentation. The university will revisit its policies regarding enforcement later this summer. To upload proof of booster, go to the Upload Your Vaccination Documentation page and scroll down to the new Booster Information section. There are two options—you are eligible or you are not eligible (due to insufficient time since the last dose of your primary vaccination). If you check the “ineligible” option, you are done (and are not required to upload any documentation at this time), but will need to return back to upload evidence of booster vaccination once you are eligible to receive the dose, and you must upload documentation within 31 days of becoming eligible for the booster. If you check the “eligible” option, you will be able to upload your booster documentation directly. If you choose to request an exemption from the booster vaccine, follow the instructions under the Apply for an Exemption section of the page. Frequently asked questions can be found on the booster mandate compliance page and the documentation upload instructions page. GATEWAY TESTING The original gateway testing period for 2022 has been extended from January 31 to February 4, 2022. After February 4, 2022, red passes will be applied to all those who are not compliant with the gateway testing requirement. MASKS Effective Tuesday, January 18, cloth masks will not be acceptable protection in indoor Columbia University settings. Tying the corners of a surgical mask can provide a better fit and some may choose to wear a cloth mask over the surgical mask. If you forget to wear a surgical mask, the University is designating locations on campus where you can grab a backup. Additionally, some individuals may choose to wear other mask types such as KN95 or KF94. N95 masks are required for specific clinical patient-facing settings. Tags Announcement Public Health Facilities and Campus Life Vaccine News May 05, 2022 Update on Current Public Health Protocols April 25, 2022 COVID-19 Treatment Option for Individuals Meeting CDC Guidelines April 22, 2022 Statement From the President’s Advisory Task Force on COVID-19 April 15, 2022 Update on Vaccination Requirement for Students April 15, 2022 Three Updates: Booster Shots, Gateway Testing, and Masking Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close