Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Spring 2022 University Updates Policies and Guidelines Videos Visitor Guidelines Travel Restrictions ReopenCU App COVID-19 Vaccine Info Vaccine Mandate COVID-19 Testing Program Isolation Quarantine COVID-19 Monitoring Plan Building Readiness Information Research Research Ramp-up Ambassadors Announcements School Updates COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community You are here: Home University Communications Update on Current Public Health Protocols Update on Current Public Health Protocols May 05, 2022 Dear Members of the Columbia Community, We write to update you on the status of COVID-19 in New York City and public health measures at the University. Over the past few weeks there has been an uptick noted in the number of COVID-19 cases in New York City, and as of this week, the City of New York has modified its COVID alert level from low to moderate risk. Accordingly, the Columbia COVID-19 monitoring plan has also been adjusted to yellow, in order to be consistent with the status of the City. As always, the University’s COVID-related policies are reviewed on an ongoing basis, to reflect current public health conditions. Any updates and additional information about COVID-19 policies will continue to be available via our COVID Resources website. Reassuringly, the data indicate that this increase in COVID-19 cases in the City has not been associated with a commensurate increase in hospitalizations, particularly among vaccinated individuals, an important and more reliable metric of the status of the pandemic. The following are updates to our current public health protocols: Masks. We will continue to require the wearing of non-cloth masks in instructional spaces for Summer sessions. As has been our policy all year, instructors have the option to remove their masks while teaching. Current policies on masking in all other settings continue unchanged, with masking optional for other public settings with the exception of clinical contexts where masking is required. COVID-19 vaccinations. The primary series of the COVID-19 vaccines is required for all faculty, staff and students, unless a formal medical or religious exemption is granted. All visitors must also have proof of vaccination, submitted to the sponsoring department or school, prior to admission to indoor locations. COVID-19 booster doses are strongly recommended for all eligible individuals. The primary series plus one booster will be required for all students registering for the Fall 2022 semester. Columbia Compact. All faculty, staff and students must sign the Columbia Compact. Columbia COVID-19 testing program. The testing program will be phased-out by May 12, as testing is readily available in public and private locations, as well as through self-tests, and surveillance testing no longer plays the important role that it did previously, in the context of high vaccination/booster coverage at the University. Wastewater surveillance will continue for undergraduate residential buildings. Should public health conditions change, we will reassess the need for on-campus testing options. In addition, the Contact Tracing Program will continue to provide information and guidance as necessary. Information on accessing self-testing kits is available on Columbia’s Human Resources website. COVID-19 training. Effective June 1, we will no longer require COVID-19 training for new hires or newly admitted students. The fundamentals of COVID-19 and relevant safety protocols will still be included in faculty, staff and student orientation materials. We thank you for your commitment to the safety of our community and will continue to share updates as necessary. Thank you, Donna Lynne, Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, CUIMC, and University COVID Director Gerry Rosberg, Senior Executive Vice President Tags Announcement Public Health Facilities and Campus Life Vaccine Academic Planning News May 05, 2022 Update on Current Public Health Protocols April 25, 2022 COVID-19 Treatment Option for Individuals Meeting CDC Guidelines April 22, 2022 Statement From the President’s Advisory Task Force on COVID-19 April 15, 2022 Update on Vaccination Requirement for Students April 15, 2022 Three Updates: Booster Shots, Gateway Testing, and Masking Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close