Skip to main content COVID-19 Response COVID-19 Response Information for Students Faculty & Staff Visitors × Home Updates Information for... Students Overview Advising, Career Services & Support Faculty & Staff Visitors Testing Overview Supplemental Testing Symptomatic Testing COVID-19 Tracking Epidemiological Modeling Vaccination at Cornell Health & Safety Prevention & Care Face Masks HEERF Emergency Funding Events Travel University Operations Resources Building Signage Information for Visitors In this section Students Faculty & Staff Visitors Approved visitors must follow all public health guidance. Masks are required in classrooms, laboratories and similar teaching settings; health care and COVID-19 testing facilities; and busses or Cornell-owned vehicles being utilized for multi-occupancy travel. View Cornell's mask policy. Athletic Events Attendance Athletic events for the spring semester will continue as scheduled. Visit the Cornell Big Red website for more information. Visiting Researchers Visiting researchers who will be on campus for no more than one business week are encouraged test for COVID-19 before they visit. Visiting researchers who will be on campus for more than one business week are also encouraged to test before they visit, and must follow the same public health requirements as Cornell faculty and staff. Campus Tours Cornell offers in-person, virtual livestream and pre-recorded campus tours and information sessions. See Visitor Relations website for more details. Job Applicants Job candidates visiting campus as part of an interview process are required to adhere to Cornell’s public health guidance. Johnson Museum The Museum is open with regular hours (Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. – 5 p.m.). For more information and updates, visit the Johnson Museum website. Botanic Gardens The outdoor gardens and grounds of the Cornell Botanic Gardens are open to the public every day, dawn to dusk. Learn about important visitor requirements on the Botanic Gardens website. The Cornell Store The Cornell Store on central campus and its branch location on the Ithaca Commons are open to all. The Cornell Store is following all New York state and university guidelines, including implementing protocols for physical distancing, strict sanitization measures and limiting the number of customers in the store at any given time. Customers can shop online anytime at the Cornell Store website. Free UPS Ground shipping is available on orders of $50 or more. Store and curbside pickup are available during store hours. Veterinary Services Current operating status of hospitals, centers and programs, as well as COVID-19 safety precautions, can be found on the College of Veterinary Medicine’s website. If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. © Cornell University 2022