Princeton COVID Resources Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Princeton COVID Resources Main Menu Menu Safe Practices Health & Well-Being Testing Submenu Eligibility and Frequency Taking the Test Clinic Info and Test Kit Pick-up Dropping Off Your Sample Receiving Results Report a Testing Absence Vaccinations Submenu Faculty and Staff Requirement Student Requirement Workplace Submenu Information for Faculty and Staff Information For Managers FAQs for faculty Travel Undergraduate FAQs Quarantine & Isolation Policies Dashboard Log in Search Search Home COVID-19 Dashboard See an accessible version of this data. See more information about the Campus Mitigation Level See more information about Vaccination Rates See more information about Weekly Indicators See more information about Campus Testing Lab Results See more information about Symptomatic Testing See more information about Daily Positives Campus Mitigation Levels Definitions Baseline Moderate Mitigation Increased Mitigation Vaccines provide protection from severe disease, hospitalization, and death. Severity of disease on campus is mild to moderate. Essential services are not experiencing major impacts from the number of cases, either due to high demand or absenteeism. Isolation capacity and support for isolation are sufficient. Area healthcare capacity is good. Testing is readily available on and off-campus. Baseline mitigation may include: Vaccination requirements for students, faculty, and staff Vaccination requirements may extend to visitors Asymptomatic testing required for individuals who are not up-to-date with COVID-19 vaccination Targeted public health requirements for specific activities, units, etc. to mitigate localized issues Limited additional mitigation per federal, state, or local requirements, e.g., masks required in healthcare facilities and public transportation Vaccines protect from severe disease, hospitalization, and death, but may be waning. Severity of disease on campus is mild to moderate. Two or more essential services may be experiencing significant impacts from the number of cases, either due to high demand or absenteeism. Isolation capacity and/or support for isolation may be challenging. Area healthcare capacity is stressed, with moderately high census and long wait times in emergency rooms. Off-campus testing capacity may be stressed, with limited availability of home test kits and/or high demand for testing. Moderate mitigation may include: Universal or targeted mask mandates Universal or targeted asymptomatic testing requirements Visitor restrictions beyond vaccination requirements Gathering restrictions, including limiting to essential gatherings, prohibiting food, etc. Additional mitigation per federal, state, or local requirements Vaccines may not protect from severe disease, hospitalization, and death. Severity of disease on campus is mild to severe. Two or more essential services may be experiencing serious impacts from the number of cases, either due to high demand or absenteeism. Isolation capacity and/or support for isolation may have serious obstacles. Most classes have moved to remote format due to the number of faculty and/or students in isolation or quarantine. Area healthcare capacity may be seriously stressed, with high ICU and/or in-patient census and long wait times or diversion in emergency rooms. Off-campus testing capacity may be stressed, with limited availability of home test kits and/or high demand for testing. High mitigation may include: Universal or targeted mask mandates Universal or targeted asymptomatic testing requirements Visitor restrictions beyond vaccination requirements Gathering restrictions, including limiting to essential gatherings, prohibiting food, etc. Occupancy limits Social distancing requirements Remote teaching Remote work Limitations to research Daily symptom check Additional mitigation per federal, state, or local requirements Conditions Category Baseline Moderate Mitigation Increased Mitigation Vaccines Effective protection from severe disease Effective to waning protection from severe disease Effective to decreased protection from severe disease Disease severity (campus) Mild to moderate Mild to moderate. Few to no hospitalizations Mild to severe Case Impact Minor impact on business continuity Stressed continuity for one or more essential services. Several individual classes conducted remotely due to student or faculty absences. Stressed continuity for two or more essential services. Most classes have moved to remote teaching due to student or faculty absences. Isolation capacity and support Sufficient combination of isolation facilities and isolation-in--place Sufficient or with minor challenges to space or other support Sufficient or with major obstacles Area healthcare capacity ICU capacity good ER and hospital good ICU capacity good to moderately full ER and hospital good to stressed ICU capacity good to full ER and hospital good to diverted Testing capacity Good. Lab turnaround time within planned limits. Good to stressed. Moderate delays in turnaround time for test results. Good to severely impacted. Extended turnaround time for test results Mitigations Category Baseline Moderate Mitigation Increased Mitigation Masks As required by local, state, or federal mandate; targeted requirements as needed Universal or targeted mask mandate Universal mask mandate Testing Required for unvaccinated individuals, other targeted populations Asymptomatic testing required for broad populations Asymptomatic testing required for all students, faculty, staff. Teaching In person In person, limited remote Limited to full remote Research Level 1 no restrictions Level 1-2 minor restrictions Level 2-4 minor to major restrictions Work In person Limited remote work required Remote work, as possible Social Distancing Not required Not required May be required Visitors Vaccination may be required Some restrictions Essential visitors only Gatherings Limited requirements, such as keeping attendance Restrictions may include limiting food, requiring masks, limiting guests, etc. Occupancy limits, mask requirements Symptom Check None Limited requirements Broad requirements Vaccination Required for students, faculty, staff. May be required for visitors. Required for faculty, staff, students, visitors. Required for faculty, staff, students, visitors. More Info on These Charts Campus Mitigation Level The Campus Mitigation Level is based on a comprehensive analysis of various indicators, including, but not limited to, the University’s COVID positivity rate. Learn more about the Campus Mitigation Level. Weekly Indicators The number of positive cases includes both symptomatic and asymptomatic positives. The positivity rate includes all Princeton University CLIA-certified lab tests. Hospitalization data are COVID admissions per 100K population over the last 7 days. Levels are “low (<10), “medium” (10-15), and “high” (>15). For more information, see CDC data for Mercer County Hospitalizations. CDC Community Level is a measure of the impact of COVID-19 illness on health and healthcare systems. Campus Case Severity levels include: “mild” (no hospitalizations), “moderate” (few hospitalizations), and “severe” (hospitalizations and/or deaths). Essential Services Status levels include: “good” (no major impact), “fair” (one or more department or service activated business continuity plan), and “challenged” (two or more departments or services activated business continuity plan). Isolation Capacity levels include: “good” (single room isolation spaces), “fair” (double occupancy isolation spaces), and “challenged” (limited to no isolation space availability). Testing Capacity levels include: “good” (turnaround time 24 hours or less), “fair” (turnaround time 24-48 hours), “challenged” (need to limit testing). Vaccination Rates The University has granted a limited number of medical and religious vaccination exemptions. Booster percentage based on individuals who are eligible for the vaccine and not in a 90-day positive test window. Campus Testing Lab Results These data are reported weekly and include all tests processed by the Campus Testing Lab. These data include results from testing analyzed at the campus COVID-19 testing lab, including the asymptomatic testing program that tests approximately 25% of the campus population weekly. Symptomatic Testing & Daily Positives The Daily Positives report on this dashboard will report zero cases from the days the lab is closed unless symptomatic cases are reported through UHS. Footer Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University