Skip to Main Content Brown University Community Response to COVID-19 Healthy Brown Search Menu Community Response to COVID-19 Healthy Brown Healthy Brown Sub Navigation In This Section Healthy Brown Home Updates Prevention Testing & Isolation Vaccinations Workforce Visitors & Guests Athletics & Recreation Travel Policies FAQs Healthy Brown What you need to know now: Campus Activity Status Learn about the current activities allowed on campus and the health protocols in place. Activity Status Vaccination Brown is requiring that students, staff and faculty receive an authorized COVID-19 vaccine and booster. Learn More Testing & Tracing A robust protocol of testing, symptom tracking and contact tracing is essential for supporting community health. Learn More Amid the COVID-19 pandemic, Brown remains focused on protecting the health of our community while delivering world-class education and research, and remaining a valued neighbor in our city, state and region. “Healthy Brown” is a goal and a core value guiding efforts to ensure the health, safety and well-being of the Brown University community. Brown has developed and implemented public health plans based on the guidance of medical and public health experts for managing infectious diseases in a pandemic, including the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Brown is committed to aligning its policies and health protocols with evolving public health conditions, reducing the number of health and safety protocols in effect as conditions improve. All current information about operations and allowable activities are outlined on the Campus Activity Status page, and announcements regarding updates are continually available via the Messages to the Community page. Community Messages and Forums We are committed to keeping our community informed with the latest updates on Brown’s COVID-19 planning and response. Messages to the Community Forums Principles for a Healthy Brown When planning the ways in which Brown would teach, learn and conduct research in the early months of the coronavirus pandemic in 2019, Brown President Christina H. Paxson outlined a set of guiding principles. Those principles, as set forth in the Plan for a Healthy and Safe 2020-21 now form the basis for Brown’s COVID-19 Campus Safety Policy. In advancing its mission of education and research, Brown is committed to the following guiding principles: We are committed to protecting the health of Brown’s students and employees. We are committed to developing plans with the goal of maintaining the financial well-being of students and employees, especially those who experience the greatest impact. We are committed to protecting Brown’s mission of education and research, including focusing resources on Brown’s highest priorities. We are committed to protecting the long-term financial health of the University. We are committed to transparency. COVID-19 Campus Safety Policy Brown’s COVID-19 Campus Safety Policy sets minimum standards for all members of the University community to protect the health and safety of all who live, work and study at Brown. Read the Policy Learn More Updates The latest updates and messages to the community, as well as the work of the pandemic planning groups. Visit Page Open details for Updates Vaccination Brown is requiring that students, staff and faculty receive an authorized COVID-19 vaccine. Visit Page Open details for Vaccination Prevention Visit Page Open details for Prevention Testing and Tracing Visit Page Open details for Testing and Tracing Workforce Policies and information to safely bring employees back to campus and provide support during the pandemic. Visit Page Open details for Workforce FAQs Guide to evolving frequently asked questions pages maintained by offices across Brown. Visit Page Open details for FAQs Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Healthy Brown Home Updates Messages to the Community Campus Activity Status Staff Town Halls Prevention About COVID-19 Good Hygiene Cleaning, Air Systems & Water Isolation/Quarantine Education & Prevention Campaign Testing & Isolation COVID-19 Testing Data Isolation Protocols Contact Information Test Kit Pick-up Sites Testing, Masking & Isolation FAQ Vaccinations Safety and Effectiveness Vaccine Availability and Eligibility Verify Your Vaccination Resources Vaccine Working Group Vaccine FAQ Workforce Hybrid and Remote Work Position Classification Guidance Return to Campus UHR Contact Information Visitors & Guests Department Responsibilities for Visitors and Guests Event Visitors, Dining & Catering Visitor and Guest Vaccination Requirement FAQ Commencement and Reunion Visitors & Guests Athletics & Recreation Travel Policies Travel-related Guidance for Students FAQs This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Healthy Brown Open details for Healthy Brown Bookmark this Page