Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Spring 2022 University Updates Policies and Guidelines Videos Visitor Guidelines Travel Restrictions ReopenCU App COVID-19 Vaccine Info Vaccine Mandate COVID-19 Testing Program Isolation Quarantine COVID-19 Monitoring Plan Building Readiness Information Research Research Ramp-up Ambassadors Announcements School Updates COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community You are here: Home Summer 2022 Travel Restrictions Summer 2022 Travel Restrictions Effective for Travel Beginning May 19, 2022 All affiliates must continue to abide by the Columbia Community Health Compact, all relevant University Public Health Protocols, and the University International Travel Planning Policy. For all travel, domestic and international, indoor masking is strongly encouraged in any context in which vaccination status of others is unknown. See additional guidance below the chart for all travel, including personal. Summer 2022 Travel Restrictions ﻿﻿Affiliate Type Faculty and Staff International Columbia-related Travel Indoor masking is strongly encouraged in any context in which vaccination status of others is unknown. All travel must be registered with ISOS. All University International Travel Planning Policy guidelines must be followed. *Please note: These now include new pre-travel requirements for all affiliates. ﻿﻿Affiliate Type Students International Columbia-related Travel Indoor masking is strongly encouraged in any context in which vaccination status of others is unknown. All travel must be registered with ISOS. All University International Travel Planning Policy guidelines must be followed, as must all school-level requirements and protocols. *Please note: These now include new pre-travel requirements for all affiliates. For travel to countries that have Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Travel Notices Level Level 1 & 2, travel permitted with ISOS registration. For countries that have Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Travel Notices Level 3 & 4 or 'Level Unknown,' dean’s approval required. See Notes for All Travelers below. Unvaccinated students with approved exemptions are strongly encouraged to defer international Columbia travel to countries that have Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Travel Notices Level 3 & 4 or 'Level Unknown.' Requirements for students are applicable to travel from the U.S. to non-U.S. countries and to travel between non-U.S. countries. Students must also follow all other school-based requirements or protocols, which may be more restrictive than those described here. For undergraduate students, this information can be found in the Undergraduate International Travel Policy. Notes for All Travelers Prior to Travel For all international travel, including personal: Keep in mind that the U.S. requires travelers age two or older to get a COVID-19 viral test (PCR or antigen), regardless of vaccination status or citizenship, with specimen taken no more than 1 day before traveling by air into the U.S. You must show your negative result to the airline before you board your flight. See CDC guidance for more information. Review U.S. Department of State website for COVID-19-related risks and restrictions. Review U.S. Department of State website for country-level travel advisories. Review CDC guidance for international travel during COVID-19. Review CDC COVID-19 travel recommendations for your international destination. For all domestic travel, including personal: Review CDC guidance for domestic travel during COVID-19. Become familiar with the public health conditions in your destination state. Review COVID-19 information and travel guidance provided by your destination’s state or territorial and local health department. During Travel Indoor masking is strongly encouraged in any context in which vaccination status of others is unknown. Adhere to all Columbia Community Health Compact elements during travel. Exercise caution and judgement, as the national and global public health context and local conditions may quickly change. Become acquainted with local public health conditions and all rules and regulations of your destination state or country. Follow New York State and City guidance upon return. Follow all Columbia return to campus requirements. Continue to check this site leading up to any travel. The University reserves the right to revise requirements as conditions change. Upon Return from Travel It is recommended that all domestic and international travelers get a COVID-19 test 3-5 days upon return. Requests for Dean's Approval For students requesting dean’s approval for Columbia-related international travel to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Travel Notices Level 3 & 4 or 'Level Unknown' countries: Secure written approval from the dean. Please contact your school for information about how to effectuate. Register approved travel with ISOS. Visit globaltravel.columbia.edu or email [email protected] for more information. Follow any other requirements prescribed in the University’s International Travel Planning Policy, based on the ISOS travel risk rating or evacuation status of your destination, as well as any other school-based requirements or protocols. Expand all Collapse all Travel FAQs Who Is Covered All faculty, staff, and registered students are covered by Columbia’s Summer 2022 Travel Restrictions and the International Travel Planning Policy. These policies apply regardless of whether you are accessing campus. Guidelines for Faculty, Staff, and Students Living In Other Countries Any inbound travel to the U.S. from other countries is subject to CDC Travel Guidance and State of New York guidelines. This includes travel to the U.S. by students who plan to access campus during the summer and who also must adhere to University requirements for access to campus. Subject to applicable guidance, travel within a non-U.S. country or between non-U.S. countries should be based on local COVID-related guidance. Use caution as the COVID-19 situation may vary from region to region within a country and could change over time. For students, travel between non-U.S. countries that have Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Travel Notices Level 3 & 4 or 'Level Unknown' also requires dean’s approval. Participation in Non-Columbia Programs That Include Travel Columbia’s travel restrictions apply to all Columbia faculty, staff, and students even if the travel is part of a non-Columbia sponsored program. This includes travel that may be partially funded or arranged by Columbia, may earn academic credit at Columbia, may be coordinated by a Columbia-recognized student group, or may be an extension of a faculty or researcher’s professional work. Effect on Study Abroad Programs Undergraduate study abroad to approved locations is permissible. For more information, please visit uge.columbia.edu or contact the Center for Undergraduate Global Engagement at [email protected]. Faculty or Staff Working Abroad for the Summer Term Faculty and staff who need to work abroad during the summer must comply with all International Travel Planning Policy requirements. Their departments or units must first obtain the approval of their respective dean or supervisor and must then contact the International Hiring Committee at [email protected]. Booking Columbia-related Travel in Advance Travelers are encouraged to book Columbia-related travel through Concur, the University travel and expense management system. This ensures travelers can be reimbursed if travel must be cancelled or dates changed. In the instance that travel cannot proceed (e.g., travel is not approved or U.S. or destination restrictions preclude travel) and non-refundable expenses are incurred, decisions will be made at a departmental level about whether a traveler will be reimbursed. Penalty for Those Who Fail to Comply with Current Travel Restrictions Students who fail to comply with applicable travel restrictions will be subject to Dean’s Discipline. In the case of faculty or staff violations, the dean or head of the administrative unit will be notified. Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close