Princeton COVID Resources Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Princeton COVID Resources Main Menu Menu Safe Practices Health & Well-Being Testing Submenu Eligibility and Frequency Taking the Test Clinic Info and Test Kit Pick-up Dropping Off Your Sample Receiving Results Report a Testing Absence Vaccinations Submenu Faculty and Staff Requirement Student Requirement Workplace Submenu Information for Faculty and Staff Information For Managers FAQs for faculty Travel Undergraduate FAQs Quarantine & Isolation Policies Dashboard Log in Search Search Home Guidance Travel As with many other policies relating to COVID-19, travel guidance may change from time to time in alignment with federal, state and university policies. Note: Travel guidelines will update April 4 to establish more permanent health and safety protocols for University-sanctioned travel, accounting for but no longer centered on the pandemic. This includes significantly increased opportunities for student travel to some international destinations. Read the Associate Provost's Letter » Permissible Travel for Spring Semester The following University-sanctioned travel will continue to be permissible, with certain conditions: Undergraduate individual and group domestic travel, unless otherwise precluded by restrictions on undergraduates leaving campus. Graduate student individual and group domestic travel. Graduate student individual and group international travel to destinations subject to a Level 1, 2, or 3 travel advisory from the State Department. Faculty/academic professional/staff domestic and international travel. Enrolling the details of University-sanctioned travel remains a requirement for everyone (faculty, staff or student). Register through the online travel registration system, Enroll My Trip. Those engaging in University-sanctioned international travel must self-attest that they are able to comply with whatever testing requirements are necessary for them to return home. Learn more on the Permissible Travel Guidelines page. Contact the GC&S team at globalsafety@princeton.edu Personal Travel There are no restrictions on personal international travel by students, faculty, and staff. Given the dynamic situation caused by the emergence of the new variant, we strongly urge anyone considering personal international travel to weigh carefully the risks involved. Permissible Travel Guidelines All domestic travel for faculty, staff, and students may resume with no restrictions, subject to local public health rules. For full guidance on permissible international travel, please find comprehensive information on the Permissible Travel Guidelines page. The Global Safety & Security unit, reachable via email at globalsafety@princeton.edu, is happy to answer questions related to the permissible travel guidelines. For questions about the on-campus testing program and testing for travel purposes, review the information for Testing for the Purposes of Travel section. Travel Outside New Jersey and Potential Quarantine for Faculty, Staff and Students The COVID Risk Assessment Form should now only be completed within the 3-7 days prior to return to Princeton by individuals (faculty, staff or students) returning from international travel who are not fully vaccinated. You do not need to complete a COVID Risk Assessment Form and are clear to return to campus without quarantine after travel if: You are arriving to New Jersey after domestic travel, or: You are arriving to New Jersey after international travel and you are fully vaccinated (your travel occurred at least 14 days after your final FDA Authorized or WHO Emergency Use Listed COVID vaccine dose). You should still follow travel guidance from the NJ Department of Health and all University public health guidelines. See the NJ self-quarantine for travelers FAQ for more information. Travel-related Quarantine Our travel-related quarantine guidelines default to a full 10 day quarantine when quarantine is mandated due either to travel or exposure to an individual that may potentially be infected with COVID. Fully-vaccinated people no longer need to quarantine after domestic travel (see update in section below). For employees: if you travel to a restricted country and then have to self-quarantine and cannot work from home, you are required to use COVID-19 days, followed by other paid leave including sick, vacation, personal, and/or bundled time. Testing for the Purposes of Travel *Though the clinic is open until 12pm, if you would like your sample to be taken to the Lab same day, it must be at the clinic by 11:45am. The results of our RT-PCR testing can be used for the purposes of travel. The following must be kept in mind: We cannot guarantee turnaround times for results, especially same-day results. It is up to the traveler to be in touch with the airline or destination country to determine what their travel requirements are. If there are requirements beyond showing results of a recent PCR test, please let COVIDTests@princeton.edu know what these requirements are, and we may be able to meet them. If we are unable, we will recommend that the traveler visits a local testing site instead. Please go into the web app and click on any result you have already received (e.g., “Not Detected”) to generate a full results report. This full report can be shared with your airline and can be used to determine if our testing process meets your specific travel requirements. If your airline requires an unpooled sample, you must bring your sample in person to the Testing Clinic before 11:45am on a day when the clinic is open. Notify COVIDTests ahead of time, so that we can be in touch with the Testing Clinic about your needs. If you are using results from the on-campus asymptomatic testing program for travel, please note that any samples dropped on a Friday to a drop box after 10am or after 11:45am to the testing clinic will not be processed until the following Monday. Please plan ahead. Related links Centers for Disease Control and Prevention COVID-related Travel Information U.S. Department of State COVID-related Travel Information State of New Jersey COVID-related travel information State of New York COVID-related travel information Commonwealth of Pennsylvania COVID-related travel information Footer Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University