Skip to the main content Close Messages Guidance Guidance COVID-19 Protocols Face Coverings Travel Students Employees Vaccines Testing Resources Resources Human Resources Student Health Services Texas A&M University COVID-19 Guidance Messages Guidance Guidance COVID-19 Protocols Face Coverings Travel Students Employees Vaccines Testing Resources Resources Human Resources Student Health Services Menu Symptomatic? Tested Positive Exposed Search this site search Texas A&M COVID-19 Protocols Adopted from the CDC Isolation and Quarantine guidance updated on January 9, 2022. Calculating Isolation Day 0 is your first day of symptoms or a positive viral test. Day 1 is the first full day after your symptoms developed or your test specimen was collected. Calculating Quarantine The date of your exposure is considered Day 0. Day 1 is the first full day after your last contact with a person who has had COVID-19. IF YOU TEST POSITIVE Regardless of vaccination status IF YOU ARE EXPOSED TO SOMEONE WITH COVID-19 IF YOU HAVE SYMPTOMS Regardless of vaccination status If You Test Positive for COVID-19 Everyone, regardless of vaccination status Notify professors, supervisors, or residence hall advisors. Option 1 If you have no symptoms or mild symptoms, you must stay home for 5 days. You must wear a mask around others for 10 days. After 5 days, you may end isolation based on one of the following criteria: If you had mild symptoms you may end isolation when you are fever-free for 24 hours without fever-reducing medications after 5 days and your symptoms are improving. If you did NOT have symptoms, you may end isolation after 5 days. If you were moderate/severely ill, you must comply with Option 2. Take precautions until day 10 by avoiding travel and avoiding being around people who are at high risk. Option 2 You must stay home and isolate for 10 days If your symptoms are gone or resolving and you are fever-free for 24 hours without fever-reducing medications after 10 days, you can end isolation. If You Are Exposed* to Someone with COVID-19 And you are up-to-date on COVID-19 vaccinations OR had confirmed COVID-19 within the past 90 days (you tested positive using a viral test) Option 1 No quarantine required unless you develop symptoms You must wear a mask around others for 10 days Consider testing on Day 5 Take precautions until day 10 by avoiding travel and being around people who are at high risk. If you develop symptoms, get tested and isolate immediately. Option 2 You must stay home and quarantine for 10 days after last exposure. If you develop symptoms, get tested and isolate immediately. If You Are Exposed* to Someone with COVID-19 And you are NOT up-to-date on COVID-19 vaccinations Option 1 You must stay home and quarantine for 5 days after last exposure. Consider testing on Day 5 You must wear a mask around others for 5 additional days. Take precautions until day 10 by avoiding travel and being around people who are at high risk. If you develop symptoms, get tested and isolate immediately. Option 2 You must stay home and quarantine for 10 days after last exposure. If you develop symptoms, get tested and isolate immediately. *Exposed/Exposure - Contact with someone infected with SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19, in a way that increases the likelihood of getting infected with the virus. Close Contact - Someone who was less than 6 feet away from an infected person (laboratory-confirmed or a clinical diagnosis) for a cumulative total of 15 minutes or more over a 24-hour period. For example, three individual 5-minute exposures for a total of 15 minutes. If You Have Symptoms Without known exposure, regardless of vaccination status Not tested You must stay home and isolate yourself from others. Consider getting tested. You may end isolation if you test negative, your symptoms are improving, and you are fever-free for 24 hours without fever-reducing medication. If you are unable to get a test or if you test positive, you must follow one of the two options in the Positive Test Protocol. Negative Test You must stay isolated from others until your symptoms are improving and you are fever-free for 24 hours without fever-reducing medications. Remote Campus COVID-19 Information Health Science Center Galveston Higher Education Center at McAllen Qatar CDC: 2019 Novel Coronavirus Brazos County Health District Department of State Health Services Clery Act COVID-19 Disclosure Contact: Risk & Compliance: For Risk & Compliance related inquiries covid-19process@tamu.edu Covid-19 Operations Center: For testing and case investigation questions covid@tamu.edu © Texas A&M University Site Policies Web Accessibility