Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Spring 2022 University Updates Policies and Guidelines Videos Visitor Guidelines Travel Restrictions ReopenCU App COVID-19 Vaccine Info Vaccine Mandate COVID-19 Testing Program Isolation Quarantine COVID-19 Monitoring Plan Building Readiness Information Research Research Ramp-up Ambassadors Announcements School Updates COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community You are here: Home University Communications Another Chance to Win by Uploading Your Vaccine Documentation Another Chance to Win by Uploading Your Vaccine Documentation July 21, 2021 Dear Colleagues: The deadline for submitting vaccine information is Monday, August 2, less than two weeks away. To give you another reason not to delay to the last minute, we’re back with another and final vaccine contest. If you upload your information or complete an application for an exemption by midnight Wednesday, July 28, you will be eligible to win one of five cash prizes, each of $500 (taxable). Several weeks ago we awarded prizes to five lucky winners selected via a random drawing from among those who had submitted their vaccine information by June 27. If you were eligible for the earlier drawing, you will be eligible for this one, too. Everyone who submits by midnight, July 28, will be eligible. So don’t wait till the submission deadline of August 2. If you do, you will miss this chance to win. All you have to do is open this page and follow the uploading steps. If you’re having trouble uploading, you can find a helpful video here that will walk you through the process. Do it before Wednesday the 28th at midnight. Preferably right now! Thank you, Gerry Rosberg, Senior Executive Vice President Donna Lynne, Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, CUIMC, and University COVID Director Tags Announcement Public Health Vaccine News May 05, 2022 Update on Current Public Health Protocols April 25, 2022 COVID-19 Treatment Option for Individuals Meeting CDC Guidelines April 22, 2022 Statement From the President’s Advisory Task Force on COVID-19 April 15, 2022 Update on Vaccination Requirement for Students April 15, 2022 Three Updates: Booster Shots, Gateway Testing, and Masking Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close