Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Spring 2022 University Updates Policies and Guidelines Videos Visitor Guidelines Travel Restrictions ReopenCU App COVID-19 Vaccine Info Vaccine Mandate COVID-19 Testing Program Isolation Quarantine COVID-19 Monitoring Plan Building Readiness Information Research Research Ramp-up Ambassadors Announcements School Updates COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community You are here: Home News News News July 09, 2020 Columbia to Participate in Litigation Against ICE Restrictions on International Students Columbia will join other leading colleges and universities on an amicus brief challenging U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement newest federal rules, which pose significant limitations on international students. July 09, 2020 Fall Plans at Columbia School of Social Work Dean Melissa Begg reiterates details for the academic year and encourages the CSSW community to remain flexible as conditions on the ground develop. July 09, 2020 Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Provides Details for the Fall Dean Carlos J. Alonso's message contains information for students in masters and doctoral programs and answers several important questions. July 09, 2020 Journalism School Describes Plan for 'Hybrid' Instruction in the Fall The goal is to provide as much in-person teaching and field reporting opportunities as possible, as long as it is consistent with the safety of students, faculty, and the broader community. July 08, 2020 Moving to the Next Stage of the Research Ramp-Up Important and time-sensitive information was announced on July 9, about the second stage of the Ramp-Up for research and other sponsored activities. July 08, 2020 Mailman Study Examines Limiting Capacity for New York City Schools Modeling compares the city's reopening policies, including social distancing measures during an anticipated December spike. July 08, 2020 School of International and Public Affairs Offers Further Clarification of Fall Plans Dean Merit E. Janow says SIPA's plans have not changed but encourages the members of her community to read President Bollinger's July 7 letter. July 08, 2020 An Update for Engineering Graduates and Undergraduates Dean Mary C. Boyce issues plans for the 2020-21 academic year to graduate students and undergraduate students. July 08, 2020 School of Professional Studies Lays Out the Fall Student Experience Once permitted by local regulations and the University, all courses will be available in person and offered virtually both synchronously and asynchronously. July 08, 2020 Mailman School Sends Out Update to Its Community Dean Linda P. Fried highlights features raised in President Bollinger's July 7 letter as part of a commitment to keep public health students, staff, and faculty informed. July 07, 2020 Columbia College Alerts Its Students of Fall 2020 Plans Dean James J. Valentini shares information about the next academic year, in the first of many updates to come, as details continue to be finalized. July 07, 2020 President Bollinger Opposes New Federal Visa Rules for International Students Punitive immigration policies damage Columbia, higher education and the national interest. July 07, 2020 School of General Studies Offers Detailed Plans for Fall Dean Lisa Rosen-Metsch announces, among other things, that GS students will be offered the opportunity to take classes in-person when available, and all courses will be offered online. July 07, 2020 Barnard Gears Up for Fall 2020 President Beilock outlines what to expect this academic year and points to a new planning website with detailed information that will be frequently updated over the summer. July 07, 2020 Columbia Law School Announces Plans for Returning to Campus Dean Gillian Lester outlines a multi-modal instructional approach in which classes can be offered in one of three formats: in-person, online, and hybrid classes Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Next page Next › Last page Last » Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close