Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site COVID-19 Information Community Messages FAQs contact Health Guidelines Yale Data Testing Vaccination On Campus Working Travel Home > On Campus On Campus Updated May 17, 2022 Learn about on-campus policies, procedures, and services for keeping Yale healthy. Wellness & Family Care Athletics & Gyms Building & Spaces Dining Events, Gatherings & Meetings Libraries & Museums Masks & Other Supplies Remote Technology Resources Research & Labs Signage & Digital Assets Transportation & Parking Visitors Wellness & Family Care Resources are available to help support the physical and mental health of the Yale community during the pandemic. Yale Well (Students)Wellness, Eldercare, Disabilities, and Other ResourcesChildcare ResourcesMental Health CounselingOnline Screening for Mental HealthTaking Your “Mental Health” TemperatureSafer Sex During COVID-19 Athletics & Gyms Most team sports have returned to regular competition and Payne Whitney Gymnasium is now open. Yale Athletics Payne Whitney Gymnasium Buildings & Spaces Learn about occupancy recommendations, cleaning protocols, and other guidelines. Occupancy RecommendationsYale Environmental Health & Safety Dining Yale Hospitality is providing a variety of meal options prepared in a safe environment. See operating guidelines and hours. Yale Hospitality Events, Gatherings & Meetings The university has guidelines for events, gatherings, and meetings to help keep on-campus activities safe. Events, Gatherings & Meetings Guidelines Libraries & Museums Check the following websites for the latest policy updates from the Yale Library and the university’s art museums. The Peabody Museum of Natural History is currently accessible by appointment only. Yale LibraryYale University Art Gallery Yale Center for British Art Yale Peabody Museum of Natural History Masks & Other Supplies Yale has established a plan to ensure that all students, faculty, researchers, and staff are equipped with the necessary masks, hand sanitizers, and disinfectant wipes. Mask Guidance Ordering PPE Supplies (VPN required) Remote Technology Resources Access the appropriate technology guidance, services, and support for remote learning, teaching, and working. Remote Technology Resources Research & Labs Learn about safety plans, lab protocols, and other guidelines for doing research at Yale. Research at Yale website Signage & Digital Assets Learn how to obtain print signage and digital assets developed by the university to communicate health and safety guidelines. Signage & Digital Assets Transportation & Parking The Yale Shuttle is operating with health protocols in place. Yale Shuttle Transportation Options & Parking Visitors The university has established a policy for all visitors to campus. Visitors Policy Ask a question Call the Campus COVID Resource Line: 203-432-6604 or 866-924-9253 Available seven days a week, 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. Employees may also email their questions at any time to employee.services@yale.edu. Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Report a technical issue or content update Facebook Twitter YouTube Sina Weibo Tumblr