Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Spring 2022 University Updates Policies and Guidelines Videos Visitor Guidelines Travel Restrictions ReopenCU App COVID-19 Vaccine Info Vaccine Mandate COVID-19 Testing Program Isolation Quarantine COVID-19 Monitoring Plan Building Readiness Information Research Research Ramp-up Ambassadors Announcements School Updates COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community You are here: Home University Communications Updates on Booster Uploading, COVID Testing, Face Covering, and Visitor/Gathering Protocols Updates on Booster Uploading, COVID Testing, Face Covering, and Visitor/Gathering Protocols February 16, 2022 Dear Columbia Community: We are writing today to provide updates on our COVID-19 safety protocols and steps that members of our community are required to take. BOOSTER UPLOADING The deadline to upload proof of your booster is February 28th for most Columbia affiliates, and February 21st for certain health care workers and clinical students. Please upload your booster vaccination documentation as soon as possible (and prior to the deadlines of February 21 or 28). Failure to upload booster information by the stated deadlines will result in red passes and discipline, up to and including termination for faculty and staff and deregistration for students. Faculty and Staff: To upload proof of booster go to the Upload Your Vaccination Documentation website, or log into the ReopenCU app, scroll down to the vaccine section under My Checklist, and click on “faculty/staff.” Once you are on the document submission page, scroll down to the new Booster Information section. Please note that booster information uploaded through the primary vaccine section is not recorded; please use the Booster Information section for your booster documents. Morningside and Manhattanville Students: Upload documentation of your vaccine using the online instructions. It is a two-step process so be sure you completed both steps. CUIMC Students: Visit Student Health on Haven’s website for information on uploading your vaccine and booster documentation. COLUMBIA TESTING PROGRAM With home self-testing kits now readily available (see note below), we will end Columbia’s voluntary and supplemental testing program on March 1. We will, however, maintain: Weekly surveillance testing though our random sampling program Testing for Columbia-related registered international travel (pre- and post-travel) Weekly testing of all persons with approved medical or religious exemptions More details on the testing changes will be posted on the COVID-19 website prior to March 1. Note on self-testing: COVID-19 at home self-testing kits are available through the US government (www.covidtests.gov); through a city program administered through fourteen cultural institutions and 27 branches of the public library system (https://www.nychealthandhospitals.org/covid-19-testing-sites/); through OptumRx if you are enrolled in any of the University’s employee medical plans (https://humanresources.columbia.edu/content/covid-19-home-test-kits); and reimbursable via the Aetna Student Health Insurance plan for enrolled students. Other testing options: Free PCR and antigen tests are available at sites throughout New York City for symptomatic as well as asymptomatic individuals. See https://www.nychealthandhospitals.org/covid-19-testing-sites/ for locations. FACE COVERINGS The New York State Governor’s February 10th announcement that face coverings are no longer required in public places does not apply to Columbia. Face coverings are required indoors at Columbia through March 31st. They may only be removed for instructional purposes in a classroom when six-foot distancing from the nearest person to the speaker and intermittently while eating indoors. Face coverings are not required outdoors. Masking remains required on public transportation and certain entertainment and other venues in New York City. GATHERINGS/VISITORS As we announced last month, all gatherings on campus are permitted regardless of size. However, masks must still be worn indoors at all times, even when meals are being served; affiliates should lower the mask only when necessary. Eating in classrooms is generally not encouraged. Visitors and vendors are required to adhere to our daily symptom attestation and vaccine/booster policy. It is the responsibility of the school/department who is inviting these visitors to affirm their status. Gatherings that are Columbia-sponsored but off campus must adhere to the same requirements. Sincerely, Donna Lynne, Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, CUIMC, and University COVID Director Gerry Rosberg, Senior Executive Vice President Tags Announcement Public Health Vaccine Facilities and Campus Life News May 05, 2022 Update on Current Public Health Protocols April 25, 2022 COVID-19 Treatment Option for Individuals Meeting CDC Guidelines April 22, 2022 Statement From the President’s Advisory Task Force on COVID-19 April 15, 2022 Update on Vaccination Requirement for Students April 15, 2022 Three Updates: Booster Shots, Gateway Testing, and Masking Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close