Home Coming to Campus Vaccines & Testing Dashboard Travel COVID-19 News & Updates HomeComing to CampusVaccines & TestingDashboardTravelCOVID-19 News & Updates COVID-19 info last updated on Sept 21, 2020 Scroll COVID-19 Dashboard Dartmouth's COVID-19 dashboard provides a snapshot of the conditions of COVID-19 in the Dartmouth community and is updated twice a week, on Tuesday and Friday. Dartmouth continues to promote in-person learning and support the health and safety of students, faculty, and staff as the COVID-19 landscape evolves and the metrics that inform risk and prevalence shift. For more information, read Dartmouth’s COVID-19 guidance. Please email covid-19.info@dartmouth.edu with questions. Undergraduate students (undergrad) and graduate and professional school students (grad/prof) include active students registered for the current term, regardless of location. Faculty and staff (faculty/staff) includes those employed full- or part-time by Dartmouth. Updated: January 5, 2022 REPORTED VACCINATIONS UNDERGRAD GRAD/PROF FACULTY/STAFF % Total community 4525 2217 3737 89% On-campus community 3263 1803 2378 94% The Reported Vaccinations table shows the percent of the population of undergraduates, graduate and professional students, and faculty and staff who have reported to Dartmouth that they are up to date on their COVID-19 vaccinations, along with the percent of those populations who have reported that they are fully vaccinated. Individuals are up to date after receiving all recommended doses in their primary series of COVID-19 vaccine, and one booster dose once they are eligible. Individuals are fully vaccinated 14 days after receiving all recommended doses in their primary series of COVID-19 vaccine. See Dartmouth’s vaccination policy for more information. CONFIRMED CASES CONFIRMED CASES STUDENTS FACULTY AND STAFF TOTAL Active cases 2 6 8 Total cases since July 1, 2020 351 74 425 The Confirmed Cases table shows the number of active cases of COVID-19 reported to Dartmouth that were considered active at any point in the seven days prior to the date the dashboard was updated. A case is considered active when someone is in their isolation period or is beyond that period but continues to have symptoms or receive care. Dartmouth no longer requires weekly PCR testing in favor of offering students, faculty, and staff take-home rapid antigen tests, which provide immediate results. See Dartmouth’s vaccination and testing policy for more information. Active cases are reported through tests administered by Dartmouth and Axiom Medical, as well as students, faculty, and staff self-reporting positive results received through take-home rapid antigen tests. Since there are situations where only positive results are reported, the test positivity rate (the percent of total positive tests) no longer presents an accurate picture of COVID-19 at Dartmouth. Active cases and vaccination status, along with federal, state, and local data, remain the best indicators of the health of our community. * When the number of cases is one through four, exact counts are suppressed to protect individuals’ privacy. State AND FEDERAL DATA Please visit the New Hampshire Department of Health and Human Services COVID-19 dashboard for information on New Hampshire hospitalizations, case counts, and vaccination rates. To see similar information for the state of Vermont, visit the Vermont Department of Health COVID-19 site. For general information on COVID-19 in local communities, please visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s community level data. COVID-19 Dashboard Intro Dashboard Tables Section One Dashboard Tables Section Two Contact us Have questions about Dartmouth’s COVID-19 operations? Call the COVID-19 information line at 603-646-2019 or email covid-19.info@dartmouth.edu. Info Campus Operations Dartmouth COVID-19 Working Groups COVID-19 HEERF Report Building Posters Public Health Information FIND IT FAST Campus Map Directory Events News Visit RESOURCES Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX