Skip to main content COVID-19 Response COVID-19 Response Information for Students Faculty & Staff Visitors × Home Updates Information for... Students Overview Advising, Career Services & Support Faculty & Staff Visitors Testing Overview Supplemental Testing Symptomatic Testing COVID-19 Tracking Epidemiological Modeling Vaccination at Cornell Health & Safety Prevention & Care Face Masks HEERF Emergency Funding Events Travel University Operations Resources Building Signage COVID-19 & Reactivation Planning Follow the latest university COVID-19 public health guidance to keep our campus safe and healthy. Ithaca Campus Cornell COVID Dashboard Masks are required in classrooms, laboratories and similar teaching settings; health care and COVID-19 testing facilities; and busses or Cornell-owned vehicles being utilized for multi-occupancy travel. With the increase of COVID-19 cases on campus, we ask all members of our community to take voluntary actions to help curb the spread, including wearing a mask in all social settings (even when not required), staying at home if you feel unwell and accessing symptomatic testing. Supplemental and symptomatic testing remains available. View all messages and updates Action Items Daily Check Employees are required to complete the Daily Check if they are experiencing symptoms suggestive of COVID-19. Supplemental Testing Learn how to access supplemental testing on an as-needed basis. Face Masks Cornell requires that an approved mask must be worn indoors in certain spaces and circumstances. Need help? Contact the COVID-19 Support Center For support with the Daily Check or questions related to testing, vaccines, travel and more, submit a help request or call 607-253-7500. Monday to Friday, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. | By phone: 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Student Resources COVID-19 Support Center: Call 607-253-7500 or submit a health request via the Daily Check portal Cornell Health: Call 607-255-5155 or email cornellhealth@cornell.edu International travel: Contact intlsafety@cornell.edu Housing: Contact campuslife@cornell.edu Dining: Contact dining@cornell.edu Bursar (Billing): Contact bursar@cornell.edu Financial Aid: Contact finaid@cornell.edu Academic Support: Contact the academic advising team at your college Student Organizations/Activities New Students/Orientation Fitness Centers/Recreation Cornell Tech Campus Visit Cornell Tech's COVID-19 resource page for the latest information. Remember: Dispose of Face Masks Safely If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. © Cornell University 2022