Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Spring 2022 University Updates Policies and Guidelines Videos Visitor Guidelines Travel Restrictions ReopenCU App COVID-19 Vaccine Info Vaccine Mandate COVID-19 Testing Program Isolation Quarantine COVID-19 Monitoring Plan Building Readiness Information Research Research Ramp-up Ambassadors Announcements School Updates COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community You are here: Home FAQs Regarding COVID-19 Vaccination FAQs Regarding COVID-19 Vaccination Updated: April 8, 2022 Below is a list of frequently asked questions about the COVID-19 vaccine that have come up during Columbia University town hall discussions. See Vaccine Documentation Upload Instructions for guidance in submitting your proof of vaccination (primary series + booster). A. Vaccine Requirements (which vaccines, who, documentation, etc.) B. Getting Vaccinated (who, where, cost, etc.), Including Booster Doses C. Post-vaccination (masking, social distancing, Covid testing, etc.) D. About the Vaccines (types, how they work, efficacy, safety, etc.) E. Especially for International Students (basic procedures about vaccination and campus access) Expand all Collapse all A. Questions About Columbia's Vaccine Requirements (which vaccines, who, documentation, etc.) 1 Will Columbia offer vaccination to its affiliates (faculty, staff, and students)? Yes, the University is currently operating seven locations that provide vaccinations to Columbia affiliates, five of which can offer vaccine to their family members, as well as to other patients, as long as they are a resident of the United States. Students on the Morningside, Manhattanville, and CUIMC campus may book appointments at Lerner Hall (2920 Broadway) and can be made through Columbia Health. Booking an appointment can be done via the scheduling section of the Columbia Health Patient Portal. All appointments are subject to vaccine availability. Appointments for CUIMC students are also available at CUIMC Student Health at 100 Haven Ave. For faculty, staff, and CUIMC students and ColumbiaDoctors locations appointments can be made via Vaccinetogetherny.org or through your Connect account (if you use ColumbiaDoctors providers). The locations include: Black Building at 650 W 168th Street, 51 W. 51 Street, and 2702 Broadway, all in Manhattan and 26 Indian Rock Road in Suffern and 15 N Broadway in White Plains. All of the Columbia-operated sites will offer the specific vaccines based on availability. Other locations throughout the tri-state area are offering the vaccine and proof of vaccination status from those locations will be accepted. The CDC and New York State guidance indicate that fully vaccinated individuals no longer need to wear a mask or physically distance in any setting, except in specific situations and contexts. It is important to note that individuals may choose to not wear masks or physically distance outdoors if they wish and this choice should be respected. See Vaccine Documentation Upload Instructions for guidance in submitting your proof of vaccination. 2 Am I required to get the vaccine as University faculty, staff, or student? COVID-19 vaccination is mandatory for all University students, faculty, and staff—this includes officers of instruction, officers of research, officers of the libraries, student officers, officers of administration, union and non-union support staff. Full vaccination is to be completed as soon as possible. Columbia's current vaccination mandate has expanded to require booster doses for all faculty, staff and students who meet the criteria for eligibility. Submission of booster information is due by January 31, 2022 or within 31 days if you reach eligibility on/after February 1. See Vaccine Documentation Upload Instructions for guidance in submitting your booster documentation. Individuals who do not submit their vaccination documentation or has not received an approved medical or religious exemption by the deadline or according to their eligibility will have a redpass on the ReopenCU app and will be unable to access campus. See Vaccine Documentation Upload Instructions for guidance in submitting your proof of vaccination. 3 Why is Columbia requiring the vaccine for students and employees? High vaccine coverage is critical to preserving the health of Columbia affiliates and the broader University and surrounding community. Research continues to support the safety and efficacy of the COVID-19 vaccines authorized for use by the Federal Drug Administration (FDA) and World Health Organization (WHO) as well as their real-world effectiveness against COVID-19. Additionally, the University anticipates that vaccines currently authorized for emergency use in the US will receive full FDA approval. 4 What are the University's vaccination recommendations for international students or employees currently in international settings? We strongly recommend that all individuals, students and employees in international contexts, be vaccinated as soon as possible and receive the full dose series for optimal protection. Vaccines authorized by the FDA or by WHO are acceptable. Individuals who were unable to complete the required COVID-19 vaccination with FDA or WHO authorized vaccines before campus arrival will be offered a COVID-19 vaccine upon arrival. More information is available here. Those who have not completed vaccination or received a medical or religious exemption must request temporary authorization to access campus by completing the online form. 5 What are the recommendations for people vaccinated with COVID-19 vaccines not currently authorized by the U.S. FDA? According to the CDC, individuals who received a full series of a vaccine currently authorized for emergency use by the World Health Organization (WHO) do not need any additional doses with an FDA-authorized COVID-19 vaccine. For individuals who were partially vaccinated with a WHO-authorized vaccine or who were vaccinated with a vaccine not authorized for emergency use by the WHO, a full series of an FDA-authorized COVID-19 vaccine can be administered with a minimal interval of 28-days post vaccination with a non-FDA-authorized vaccine. It is Columbia’s intention to follow CDC guidance regarding individuals who may need additional vaccination in order to meet Columbia’s vaccination mandate for the Fall semester. Individuals who have participated in a phase 3 vaccine trial in the United States will be considered fully vaccinated in the absence of formal FDA authorization if the following conditions are met: the phase 3 trial results have been published; study participants are confirmed by the study investigators to have received the complete vaccine regimen; and the sponsor has submitted for formal FDA authorization. At present, this only applies to the Novavax vaccine. 6 Is getting vaccinated linked to decisions about return to campus? COVID-19 vaccination is mandatory for all University faculty, staff, and students. Religious and medical exemptions to vaccination will be provided in accordance with New York State public health laws. For students seeking such exemptions, please complete request forms available on the Columbia Health Immunization page (Morningside). For employees seeking such exemptions, please complete the forms available via the ReopenCU app. 7 Will the vaccine be mandated for students or employees taking classes virtually or working remotely? Yes. COVID-19 vaccination is mandatory for all University faculty, staff, and students. 8 Will Columbia accept proof of vaccination obtained in another country? Yes. We will accept evidence of vaccination that has received authorization by the World Health Organization. 9 What documentation can I provide to Columbia as proof that I was vaccinated? Faculty and Staff can submit any of the following vaccine documents via the ReopenCU portal as evidence of vaccination: CDC vaccine card WHO booklet Epic Connect record Letter from a physician verifying you have been vaccinated. See Vaccine Documentation Upload Instructions for guidance in submitting your proof of vaccination. Students who receive a vaccine from Columbia Health on the Morningside campus or from CUIMC's Haven on Health have their records updated automatically and do not need to upload records. Verification can be viewed at any time by accessing the Immunizations section of the Patient Portal. Students who were vaccinated at any site other than Columbia Health on the Morningside campus must upload documentation of their vaccine in the Medical Clearances section of the Patient Portal (here are instructions). This includes students that were vaccinated at the Columbia University Irving Medical Center campus. Acceptable proof of vaccination includes, but is not limited, to the following: CDC COVID-19 Vaccine Card WHO Vaccine Booklet Documentation provided by a health care professional/organization/country All documentation must be submitted in English or accompanied by a certified translation (at the employee’s or student’s expense). Verification of documentation is at the sole discretion of Columbia University. Additional information or documentation may be requested and if requested must be provided in order to verify a submission. 10 If affiliates can’t get vaccinated in their international location, will Columbia provide vaccinations? Yes, individuals who were unable to complete the required COVID-19 vaccination with FDA or WHO-authorized vaccines before campus arrival can receive a COVID-19 vaccine when they arrive in the United States. See below for where to get a vaccine. Those who have not completed vaccination or received a medical or religious exemption must request temporary authorization to access campus by completing the online form. 11 If I am living in another country should I wait to get to Columbia to get vaccinated? No. Try to get vaccinated as soon as possible in your home country in order to protect you, your family and community from COVID-19. 12 If I can’t get vaccinated before I am scheduled to return to campus, how long do I have to wait to attend in person? We strongly urge you to get vaccinated as soon as possible, as there may be additional requirements you have to meet if you arrive on campus unvaccinated. Domestic students, faculty, and staff, are expected to complete the vaccination requirement at least 14 days prior to their return to campus, and will be restricted from accessing campus if they have not complied with the requirement. For international students and employees who have been unable to get vaccinated in their international location prior to their return to campus, they will be able to get vaccinated at one of the Columbia sites. They will be able to access Columbia facilities, residences, and classrooms immediately, but will be required to comply with additional precautions (such as masking and testing) until they are fully vaccinated. Those who have not completed vaccination or received a medical or religious exemption must request temporary authorization to access campus by completing the online form. 13 What if I don’t want to get vaccinated? Columbia has a process for requesting medical or religious exemptions. 14 What is the process for providing Columbia with proof that I was vaccinated? Students can submit their vaccine documentation via the Columbia Health Patient Portal (Morningside) or CUIMC Student Health on Haven portal (CUIMC). Faculty and Staff can submit their vaccine documentation via the ReopenCU portal. See Vaccine Documentation Upload Instructions for guidance in submitting your proof of vaccination. We encourage students and employees to upload their documentation as soon as possible. All affiliates are expected to complete the vaccine process at least 14 days before first accessing University facilities or participating with in-person, University-approved activities to ensure they are considered fully vaccinated at the time of first access, unless they are returning from an international location where vaccine was not available. 15 Will there be exemptions to immunization against COVID-19? Students and employees may request an exemption from the vaccination requirement for specific medical or religious reasons. Students wishing to request an exemption must submit the required request forms via the Columbia Health Patient Portal (Morningside) or CUIMC Student Health on Haven portal (CUIMC). Employees wishing to request an exemption must submit the required request forms and documentation to [email protected]. Forms and instructions can be found on the ReopenCU app. Students must submit their exemption request at least 30 business days before their first planned campus access. Late submissions will not be expedited. Employees are encouraged to submit their exemption requests as soon as possible. 16 How will we know who is and who is not vaccinated on campus? You will not know who is and who is not vaccinated; however, University affiliates will not be allowed on campus unless they have met the vaccine requirement or have received a religious or medical exemption. 17 What is the legal basis for our vaccination mandate? The U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission has advised that employers may require COVID-19 vaccinations, provided that we offer exemptions to individuals with (i) disabilities that prevent COVID-19 vaccination and (ii) sincerely held religious beliefs that prevent COVID-19 vaccination. Employers may also request that an employee provide proof of receipt of a COVID-19 vaccination to ensure that employees have received the vaccine. 18 How does Emergency Use Authorization factor into our ability to require the COVID-19 vaccine? The EEOC guidance takes into account the fact that some COVID-19 vaccines are currently subject to Emergency Use Authorization. Some COVID-19 vaccines may only be available to the public for the foreseeable future under Emergency Use Authorization granted by the Food and Drug Administration. The FDA requires vaccine providers to give each individual receiving the vaccine the information contained in the Fact Sheet for Recipients and Caregivers. Columbia complies with these obligations. 19 Is my vaccination status HIPAA protected? The HIPAA privacy rule is not implicated in our process of asking employees to upload proof of receipt of COVID-19 vaccination. There are other laws that protect employee medical information, as well as information collected from employees as part of a medical exam or in response to a medical inquiry. Columbia will follow best practices and comply with applicable laws in maintaining privacy and security with respect to employee vaccination status. 20 Can a manager ask if an employee is vaccinated? While it is not illegal for a manager to ask employees if they are vaccinated, Columbia is establishing a policy to ensure that discussions with any follow-up questions about vaccination happen with the appropriately trained Human Resources professionals. The University has established a task force to develop guidance on best practices for these discussions and to share information about collection, privacy, and record-keeping relating to employee vaccination status. Expand all Collapse all B. Questions About Getting Vaccinated (who, where, cost, etc.), Including Booster Doses 1 How are the vaccines being distributed? The vaccines are currently being distributed to states in the U.S., and then from the states to various counties and municipalities. Check the New York State eligibility website for the latest information. 2 Where can I get vaccinated? Eligibility for COVID-19 vaccination has expanded in New York State to 5 years of age and older. The University is currently operating six locations that provide vaccinations to Columbia affiliates, five of which can offer vaccine to their family members, as well as to other patients. Appointments at Lerner Hall can be made through Columbia Health (Students only). Booking an appointment can be done via the scheduling section of the Columbia Health Patient Portal. Students at CUIMC can also make appointments through the CUIMC Student Health on Haven portal (CUIMC). All appointments are subject to vaccine availability. Please note that booster doses are available to Morningside students only (not faculty or staff) through Columbia Health or any pharmacy, drugstore, or healthcare provider. Eligible Morningside students can make an appointment to receive the Pfizer or J&J booster at Lerner Hall through the Columbia Health Patient Portal. Availability is limited. Walk-ins are not accepted. CUIMC and ColumbiaDoctors locations appointments can be made via vaccinetogetherny.org or through your Connect account (if you use ColumbiaDoctors providers). The locations include: Black Building at 650 W. 168th St., 51 W. 51 St., and 2702 Broadway, all in Manhattan, and 26 Indian Rock Road in Suffern and 15 N. Broadway in White Plains. All of the Columbia-operated sites will offer the specific vaccines based on availability. Other locations throughout the tri-state area are offering the vaccine and proof of vaccination status from those locations will be accepted. All New York City sites currently do not require appointments. Visit COVID-19 Vaccine Finder or call one of these numbers: For New York City, dial (877) VAX- 4NYC (1-877-829-4692); for elsewhere in New York State, dial (833) NYS-4-VAX (1-833-697-4829). 3 If I have had COVID-19 in the last 90 days, can I still receive the vaccine (including the booster)? Yes, as long as you are not symptomatic and have been completed your isolation period, you are able to get vaccinated. The only exception is for individuals who have received monoclonal antibody treatment, and they must wait 90 days before receiving any COVID-19 vaccines. 4 Will there be out-of-pocket costs associated with vaccination? Vaccination provided at Columbia University, New York Presbyterian Hospital or through ColumbiaDoctors practices will be at no cost to faculty, staff, and students. 5 Will employees be paid time off for COVID-19 vaccine injections? The University complies with all New York Labor Laws, including 196-C, which provides for paid time off (PTO) to receive COVID-19 vaccine injections. Columbia’s policy concerning this PTO can be found on the University Policies website, located here. 6 Will Columbia pay for related expenses should we get sick from the vaccine? Medical expenses will be covered by insurance. If you work for Columbia and are covered under a Columbia insurance program, those expenses will be paid under your insurance plan. 7 Will Columbia be monitoring vaccine recipients? Vaccine uptake and safety monitoring is being conducted by the CDC, FDA and city and state health departments. 8 Will individuals who are vaccinated receive a certificate or evidence of vaccination? Vaccinated individuals receive a CDC vaccination card that includes that COVID-19 vaccine you received, the date you received it, and where you received it. Individuals vaccinated outside of the US may have been provided with different documentation. 9 Will I need to give consent to be vaccinated? Yes. You will be provided with information regarding the vaccine, including contraindications to receiving the vaccine, and need to provide consent prior to vaccination. 10 What liability will result if a death occurs when the vaccine is administered by the hospital or on site at Columbia University? Under federal law, manufacturers and distributors of COVID 19 vaccines are entitled to immunity from suit as long as there is no willful misconduct. Under federal law, you cannot sue FDA for approving the vaccine. 11 What can you tell me about a third dose or a booster dose? The FDA and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) have authorized a third dose or a booster dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. If you receive a booster: Take your vaccine card with you and have it updated Use the Excelsior Pass Plus app to record your vaccination and booster doses Columbia's current vaccination mandate has expanded to require booster doses for all faculty, staff and students who meet the criteria for eligibility. See Vaccine Documentation Upload Instructions for guidance in submitting your booster documentation. Eligibility In general, individuals are eligible for a booster five months after the last dose of their initial Pfizer or Moderna series (or WHO-authorized vaccine) or two months after the initial J & J vaccination. Eligible individuals may choose which vaccine they receive as a booster dose. Some people may have a preference for the vaccine type that they originally received, and others may prefer to get a different booster. CDC’s recommendations now allow for this type of mix and match dosing for booster shots. Students who received WHO-approved vaccines that are not authorized/approved by the US FDA (i.e., vaccines other than Moderna, Pfizer, J&J) The CDC has recently recommended that individuals who received WHO-approved vaccines not approved/authorized by the FDA who are 18 or older to also receive a booster dose of an FDA-approved/authorized COVID-19 vaccine. Morningside students can receive this additional dose through Columbia Health or any pharmacy, drugstore, or healthcare provider. Where to get a COVID-19 booster or an additional dose Vaccines are widely available at local pharmacies and drug stores. The following websites can help you find a vaccination location: New York City vaccination information New York State vaccination information New Jersey vaccination information Connecticut vaccination information Eligible Morningside students can make an appointment to receive the Pfizer or J&J booster at Lerner Hall through the Columbia Health Patient Portal. Availability is limited. Walk-ins are not accepted. In addition, you may make an appointment through your Connect account. Expand all Collapse all C. Questions About Post-Vaccination (masking, social distancing, Covid testing, etc.) 1 Do I need to continue to practice preventive measures like face covering/mask wearing and physical distancing after I get the vaccine? The CDC and New York State guidance indicate that fully vaccinated individuals no longer need to wear a mask or physically distance in any setting, except in specific situations and contexts. It is important to note that individuals may choose to not wear masks or physically distance outdoors if they wish and this choice should be respected. 2 Will I need to participate in the University COVID-19 testing program after I get vaccinated? Yes. At present, all individuals including those vaccinated, will need to continue to participate in the University testing program (e.g. gateway, sampling, mandatory testing). 3 Will I need to follow COVID-19 campus protocols after I get vaccinated? Yes, all individuals, including those vaccinated, must participate in the Required University Protocols for coming to campus. 1. Read and Sign the Health Compact 2. Take Safety Training 3. Self-quarantine, if required 4. Get Tested as per Columbia testing program 4 How soon after receiving the vaccine is the person protected? In general, a person is considered protected 2 weeks after their second dose in a 2-dose series and 2 weeks after a single-dose vaccine. This allows the body to build up immunity to the disease. However, it is not necessary for one to quarantine between each dose. Individuals are recommended to continue with their daily lives while following COVID-19 public health recommendations. 5 I have completed COVID-19 vaccination and have been exposed to someone with COVID-19. Do I need to quarantine? Asymptomatic individuals who have been vaccinated are not required to quarantine after exposure to a person with COVID-19, if the following criteria are met: Fully vaccinated (defined as being 2 or more weeks after the final dose (e.g., first for Janssen/Johnson & Johnson, second for Pfizer and Moderna) of the vaccine approved by the FDA or authorized by the FDA for emergency use. Vaccines that are not authorized by the U.S. Federal Drug Administration (FDA) for emergency use or approved by the FDA do not satisfy this definition). While not required to quarantine, vaccinated individuals must still: Monitor for symptoms for 14 days. Follow all other guidance including face coverings, hand washing, and social distancing. Immediately self-isolate if any symptoms develop and report the symptoms to [email protected]. Expand all Collapse all D. Questions About the Vaccines (types, how they work, efficacy, safety, etc.) 1 Which vaccines have been authorized for use in the United States? The Pfizer BioNTech vaccine has been approved by the U.S. Federal Drug Administration (FDA). The Moderna vaccine and the Johnson & Johnson's Janssen vaccine have received Emergency Use Authorization by the FDA. 2 How do the vaccines work? The Pfizer and Moderna vaccines use genetic material known as messenger RNA (often abbreviated as mRNA) that cells use to make proteins. When the vaccines are injected into the body, the mRNA which codes for the coronavirus spike protein, enters human cells and instructs the cells produce a protein that mimics the spike proteins found on the surface of the coronavirus. These vaccine-induced proteins then stimulate the immune system to produce antibodies to fight the virus. Once produced, if a person is exposed to SARS-CoV-2, the antibodies latch onto the coronavirus spike protein and prevent the invading virus from entering your cells and making you sick. The Johnson & Johnson vaccine uses a different approach to deliver the gene encoding the coronavirus spike protein. This is the viral vector approach. In this instance, a harmless cold virus, adenovirus type 26, is modified in the laboratory in two essential ways: (1) some of the Ad26 DNA is removed which renders the Ad26 non-replicative (i.e., it cannot grow or multiply in your body); and (2) DNA coding for the coronavirus spike protein is inserted into the Ad26 vector. Once injected, the spike protein is produced and an immune response to it is generated. The resultant antibodies to the spike protein act in a similar fashion to those produced in response to mRNA vaccines and prevent the entry of the invading virus into your cells. Pfizer and Moderna require two doses, given three (Pfizer) to four (Moderna) weeks apart. Johnson & Johnson requires one dose. 3 Do the vaccines contain live virus? No. None of the COVID-19 vaccines contain live SARS-CoV-2 virus. 4 How effective are the vaccines at preventing COVID-19? All current COVID-19 vaccines in use in the US have been shown to be effective based on criteria from the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Findings from the Pfizer and Moderna vaccine studies showed that these vaccines were more than 90% effective in preventing symptomatic COVID-19. Findings from the Johnson and Johnson vaccine study showed that the vaccine was 72% effective in United States. It should be noted that comparison of efficacy across these vaccines can be misleading as the studies were conducted at different timepoints and in differing epidemic contexts. Real world data show that these vaccines are even more effective at preventing serious COVID-19 illness and hospitalizations. 5 How safe are the vaccines? All three vaccines have been shown to have favorable safety profiles with the most commonly reported side effects being mild to moderate. There have been reports of a rare type of adverse event following the use of the Johnson and Johnson vaccine that suggest an increased risk of a condition called thrombosis (blood clotting) with thrombocytopenia syndrome (TTS) (low blood platelets). This adverse event is very rare, occurring at a rate of about 7 per 1 million vaccinations, and has been reported more commonly in women between 18 and 49 years old. A thorough review by the CDC Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) of all available data shows that the vaccine’s known and potential benefits outweigh its known and potential risks. In considering the risks and benefits of the vaccines, individuals should consider the risks of COVID-19 disease and its complications while weighing the protective effects of the vaccines and their social and interpersonal benefits. Vaccine safety data are being monitored in order to determine longer term safety profiles. 6 Are there potential side effects to the vaccines? The most common sides events reported have been mild to moderate. These side effects include pain or swelling at the injection site, fatigue, chills, muscle aches, and headaches. Most of these side effects resolve promptly. Rare severe allergic reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis) after the Moderna and Pfizer vaccines and cases of blood clotting with low platelets after the Johnson and Johnson vaccine have been reported. However, these have been shown to be extremely rare and the associated risk has been shown to be much lower than the risk of getting COVID-19. 7 What are the recommendations for use of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine given the identified safety concerns? On April 23, 2021, the CDC Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices recommended the use of the Johnson and Johnson vaccine be resumed in adults 18 years and older under the FDA’s Emergency Use Authorization. In addition, the Committee recommended that a warning about the rare, but potentially dangerous blood clotting disorder be added to the label of the vaccine. This is to promote awareness, particularly among women aged 49 and younger, of the rare but increased risk of the blood clotting event and that there are other COVID-19 vaccine options available for which this risk has not been seen. The risk has been observed to be the highest in women aged 18-49. Therefore, if you fall within this category and receive the Johnson and Johnson vaccine, it is recommended that you be cognizant of the possible symptoms associated with this rare adverse event for 2-3 weeks after vaccination. These include severe or persistent headaches or blurred vision, shortness of breath, chest pain, leg swelling, persistent abdominal pain, easy bruising or tiny blood spots under the skin beyond the injection site. The complete CDC recommendation for use can be found here. 8 Can I get COVID-19 from the vaccine? No, receiving the vaccine can in no way cause COVID-19. 9 Do the vaccines prevent people from spreading the virus? All three of the vaccines currently in use in the US have been shown to substantially reduce spread of the virus. 10 Were groups at high-risk for COVID-19 included in the vaccine trials? Yes, the trials included groups who are at high risk for COVID-19, including those who are 65 years and older, have underlying medical conditions (such as diabetes, high blood pressure, obesity), among others. 11 How long does the protection from the vaccines last? The duration of protection from COVID-19 provided by these three vaccines is not known as of yet. However, the ongoing monitoring of the clinical trial participants has shown that protective effects of the vaccine are still evident 6 months after vaccination. Researchers will continue to monitor study participants to determine the duration of protection. 12 How many doses are required for the Johnson & Johnson, Moderna, and Pfizer vaccines? Pfizer and Moderna vaccines require two doses to be effective. The second dose of the Pfizer vaccine is administered three weeks after the first dose while the second dose of the Moderna vaccine is administered four weeks after the first. Johnson & Johnson requires one single dose. 13 Are people protected if they get only one dose of the Pfizer or Moderna vaccine? The Pfizer and Moderna vaccine studies found that two doses were needed to optimize the immune response and provide the best possible protection from COVID-19. Therefore, the 2-dose series is strongly recommended and will be necessary for documentation of full vaccination. 14 Can I get a first dose of one vaccine and the second dose of the other? Any combination of FDA-authorized vaccines OR authorized combination of WHO and FDA-authorized vaccine (e.g. one dose of AstraZeneca + one dose of Pfizer/Moderna/J&J; one dose of Sinopharm + one dose of Pfizer/Moderna/J&J) is acceptable for the primary vaccination series. After completion of the primary series, an individual must receive an FDA-authorized vaccine as their booster in order to comply with the booster mandate. 15 What if someone misses their second dose of the Moderna or Pfizer vaccine? According to CDC guidance, second doses administered within a grace period of 4 days from the recommended date for the second dose are considered valid; however, doses administered earlier do not need to be repeated. The second dose should be administered as close to the recommended interval as possible. However, there is no maximum interval between the first and second dose for either vaccine. 16 Would a combination of multiple doses (more than 2) of the vaccines available grant someone stronger immunity? The U.S. FDA and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recently provided authorization to receive a booster dose of a vaccine different from the one originally received (mix and match dosing), if the original vaccine formulation received is not readily available. 17 Can an individual receive the influenza vaccine and COVID-19 vaccine at the same time? Yes. Substantial data have now been collected regarding the safety of COVID-19 vaccines currently authorized by FDA for use under EUA. COVID-19 vaccines and other vaccines may now be administered without regard to timing. This includes simultaneous administration of COVID-19 vaccine and other vaccines on the same day, as well as co-administration within 14 days. 18 Will the vaccines protect against the different variants of the coronavirus that have been identified? Preliminary evidence suggests that the vaccines authorized for use in the US provide good coverage for the virus variants identified thus far in the country. 19 Should I still get the vaccine or booster if I already had confirmed COVID-19 or have positive antibody test? Yes. Per CDC recommendations, vaccination should be offered to persons regardless of history of prior symptomatic or asymptomatic coronavirus infection, including a positive antibody test. For persons who experience lingering symptoms for weeks and months after diagnosis (i.e., “COVID-19 long-haulers”), vaccination is similarly considered safe and likely efficacious. When is it safe to get a booster after I test positive for COVID-19? If you tested positive for COVID-19 and are eligible for a booster shot, it is recommended that you wait 10-14 days after your positive test AND are no longer symptomatic AND did not receive monoclonal antibody treatment. 20 Should people with history of allergic reactions receive the vaccine? Per CDC and FDA recommendations, those who have had a severe allergic reaction (e.g., anaphylaxis) to any component of the vaccines should not be vaccinated. For those who have had a severe allergic reaction to another vaccine or injectable treatment (intramuscular, intravenous, or subcutaneous) the vaccine can still be administered; however, it is recommended that the risks be discussed with a healthcare provider and that the recipient be monitored for 30 minutes post-vaccination. For those with any other allergy (e.g. food, pollen, pets), vaccination should be offered. All individuals who received vaccines should be observed for about 15 minutes after vaccination. 21 What are the vaccines made of? The Pfizer and Moderna vaccines are very similar in composition. They consist of the mRNA particle, water, lipids, salt, sugar, and FDA-approved buffers. A complete list of the ingredients can be found here for Pfizer (page 2) and here for Moderna (page 2). The ingredients of the Johnson and Johnson vaccine can be found here (page 2). None of the vaccines in use in the US contain live virus. 22 Should I still get the vaccine if I have received monoclonal antibodies or convalescent plasma as part of COVID-19 treatment? Currently, there are no data on the safety or efficacy of COVID-19 vaccination in persons who received monoclonal antibodies or convalescent plasma for prevention or treatment of COVID-19. Therefore, it is recommended that vaccination be deferred for at least 90 days after receiving such interventions to avoid interference with vaccine-induced immune responses. 23 Should I still get the vaccine if I have recently been identified as a close contact of someone with COVID-19? Persons who have been identified recently as a close contact of someone with COVID-19 should defer vaccination until quarantine period has ended to avoid exposing healthcare personnel or other persons during vaccination visit. 24 Is it safe to receive the vaccine if I am pregnant, may become pregnant, or am breastfeeding? Studies of the Moderna and Pfizer vaccines have resulted in reassuring safety results for pregnant or breastfeeding women. A discussion with a healthcare provider can help inform this decision. Additionally, there is no recommendation for routine pregnancy testing before receipt of a COVID-19 vaccine. Those who are trying to become pregnant do not need to avoid pregnancy after COVID-19 vaccination. Again, a consultation with a healthcare provider is recommended in making this decision. 25 Are the vaccines recommended for those with underlying medical conditions or who are immunocompromised? According to CDC recommendations, the vaccine may be administered to persons with underlying medical conditions who have no contraindications to vaccination. This guidance is based on the studies that have demonstrated similar safety and efficacy profiles in persons with underlying medical conditions compared to those without such conditions. For those who are immunocompromised, safety and efficacy of vaccine has yet to be determined given the limited data for these groups. However, immunocompromised persons may still receive COVID-19 vaccines, with counseling, unless otherwise contraindicated given increased risk for COVID-19. 26 Are the vaccines recommended for individuals under 5 years old? At this point in time, children ages 5 and above can be vaccinated against COVID-19. Children under 5 years of age are not considered a priority group for early phases of vaccination given their low risk for severe disease. Note that children who are 5 years of age or older, should only receive the Pfizer vaccine at this stage. 27 What are the product liability protections for consumers if the vaccine causes medical issues in recipients? Under federal law, manufacturers and distributors of COVID 19 vaccines are entitled to immunity as long as there is no willful misconduct. Expand all Collapse all E. Especially for International Students 1 What documentation do students need to provide for verification of vaccination? Acceptable proof of vaccination includes, but is not limited to: A Centers for Disease Control (CDC) COVID-19 vaccine card. World Health Organization (WHO) vaccine booklet. Documentation provided by a health care professional/organization/country. All documentation must be submitted in English or accompanied by a certified translation at your own expense. Learn more about documentation here. There are services across the globe that provide translation services. To be certified it needs to carry a statement that reflects it is a certification of (name the record) and carries the name of the person and organization performing the translation. Most services will sign or stamp the translation as well to demonstrate authenticity. Please note: The University does not recommend any particular agency for these services. 2 How does Columbia use and store vaccination information? Columbia makes every effort to ensure the privacy of all health-related information. More details on our privacy policy can be found online. 3 If I got my vaccine at Columbia, do I need to upload my vaccine documentation? No, if you got your vaccine on at Columbia, you do not need to upload the documentation. Students who receive a vaccine from Columbia Health on the Morningside campus or from CUIMC's Haven on Health have their records updated automatically and do not need to upload records. Verification can be viewed at any time by accessing the Immunizations section of the Patient Portal. 4 Do international students need to come to campus early to get their vaccine if they have not been able to get vaccinated in their home country? No, international students will be able to receive their vaccine once they arrive on campus. They should plan to get it shortly after arrival. Students will have access to campus following quarantine and testing requirements while they get their vaccine, but they will have additional restrictions in place until fully vaccinated (i.e. travel quarantine, face coverings, testing, and physical distancing). 5 If an international student received a non-WHO-authorized vaccine, do they need to be revaccinated when they arrive at Columbia? Yes. Regardless, international students should upload their vaccine cards even if it is not yet WHO-authorized, to comply with the vaccine mandate. If the vaccine is approved before their arrival, they will not need to be revaccinated. If not, they will need revaccination when they arrive, as well as receive an FDA-authorized vaccine for their booster dose. The CDC recommends that individuals wait a minimum of 28 days after the last dose of their non-FDA or WHO-authorized vaccine prior to receiving an FDA-authorized vaccine. 6 Will I be able to participate in class and events while I get my vaccine regimen? Yes, however you will be required to test weekly until you are fully vaccinated. Note that campus access is contingent on completing all return to campus requirements. 7 Are there additional requirements while I get my vaccination on campus? Students who have completed their return to campus requirements will be able to participate in University activities while they get their vaccine, but will have additional requirements until they are fully vaccinated (two weeks after the final dose), including wearing a face covering, physical distancing, and weekly testing. 8 How do students request a religious or medical exemption? Students wishing to request a medical or religious exemption must submit the required request forms and supplemental documentation via the Immunization Records section on the Columbia Health Patient Portal (Morningside) or Student Health on Haven portal (CUIMC). 9 If a student uploaded their documentation, but they don’t see it in the ReOpenCU app. What should they do? Student data is fed to the app once it is reviewed and verified; this takes up to 15 business days after upload. Entering dates in the student’s patient portal is only the first part of the process. Students must upload their documentation in the Immunization Records section of Medical Clearances in the Columbia Health Patient Portal (Morningside students) or the Student Health on Haven portal (CUIMC students). Morningside and Manhattanville students can use these instructions to assist in proper completion of the submission process. If they believe that the portal does not accurately reflect their vaccination status, they can email [email protected]. CUIMC students, if they believe that the portal does not accurately reflect their vaccination status, they can email [email protected]. Additional information about uploading documentation can be found here. 10 Where can I go if I have questions regarding the vaccine that are unique to my personal situation? For Morningside and Manhattanville students - please email [email protected]. For CUIMC students - please email [email protected]. 11 The student still doesn't have a green pass on the ReOpenCU app after submitting their vaccine documentation. What else do they need to do? In addition to uploading the vaccination documentation, they will need to: Complete gateway testing requirement. Sign the updated Compact on the Reopen CU app. Complete the COVID-19 safety training if they did not complete one last academic year. Attest daily that they are not experiencing COVID-19 symptoms. 12 Will a registration hold be placed on my account until I take the COVID-19 vaccine? No, you will be able to register for classes and fully participate in classes and campus life while you receive your vaccine after you meet quarantine requirements (see below). 13 How much will I be charged for my vaccine regiment at Columbia? The vaccine is free to Columbia students. 14 How do I sign the Compact? Simply go to the ReopenCU app or ReopenCU website to read the Compact and agree to it electronically. Once you have read and affirm your commitment to the Compact, you have completed this requirement. 15 How do I complete my training? Go to the ReopenCU app or ReopenCU website and click on the training link within your checkbox list. Once you have completed the training, this requirement is completed this requirement. 16 Who needs to do the training? Students, faculty, staff and researchers who did not complete the COVID-19 safety training in the 2020-2021 academic year must complete the updated safety training this year. All are welcome to take the training. 17 Do all students need to complete gateway testing? All students are required to get a PCR test from a Columbia location by February 4 to access campus. Please review the Columbia Testing Program page for your specific requirement and timing. If your first time on campus is after February 4, you will have a red pass until you have completed the gateway test and the app updates (within 72 hours). Appointments can be made via the Columbia Health Online Patient Portal. 18 Should students come early for the gateway test? No. Students can get their test when they arrive on campus prior to the gateway testing deadline. Students can make their gateway testing appointments 7-10 days in advance of your arrival. Appointments can be made via the Columbia Health Online Patient Portal. For vaccinated students: Please review the Columbia Testing Program page for your specific requirement and timing For unvaccinated students: Get a COVID-19 PCR gateway test from a Columbia testing location prior to accessing campus, and weekly thereafter if you have an approved exemption or until you are fully vaccinated. 19 Do students need to complete gateway testing before they can attend Orientation? No. As all instruction is remote for the first two weeks of Spring 2022, all orientations are online. 20 I am trying to schedule my gateway test ahead of time, but do not see any dates available past 10 days. What should I do? Gateway testing appointments become available 7-10 days in advance of the appointment. Please check back closer to your preferred appointment time. 21 How much will I be charged for the gateway test? Gateway testing is free for Columbia students. 22 Can my family and friends get tested at Columbia if they are unaffiliated? No, Columbia testing is for Columbia affiliates only. 23 If I live on campus, can I quarantine in my residence? Students can usually quarantine in place in most dorm or apartment style situations EXCEPT if they have a double room. They can utilize shared bathrooms and kitchens with masking and distancing. Undergraduates living in doubles will need to be housed elsewhere if they are required to quarantine. The University can provide hotel recommendations for students who prefer to quarantine off campus. In most situations this would be at the student’s expense. 24 Can the University assist me if I live off campus in a double room? The University can provide hotel recommendations for students who prefer to quarantine off campus. In most situations this would be at the student’s expense. 25 Will there be academic accommodations provided during quarantine? Yes, the University will work with you during the mandatory quarantine time. Please reach out to your faculty if you cannot attend class in person the first few days of the semester. 26 What do I do if I am feeling unwell? What do I need to do to return to campus if I was feeling unwell (not with COVID)? Anyone with symptoms should consider staying home until symptoms have resolved Anyone with respiratory symptoms should wear a mask while symptomatic and for 48 hours after resolution of symptoms If symptoms do not resolve or worsen, or if there is an exposure history to COVID-19, recommend getting COVID tested prior to return to campus Students can reach out to their campus Medical Service for guidance If I am out sick (not with COVID), do I need to get a negative test to be able to come back to in-person instruction? No. We do not expect students to get a “sick note” each time they miss class. After September 9, return protocol after symptoms is the same regardless of vaccination status. See information in previous FAQ. 27 Will there be academic accommodations for international students unable to get to campus in time for the start of classes? Accommodations will vary by program. Some schools/programs will provide remote access for up to 30 days to allow for a late arrival by international students who are delayed due to circumstances beyond their control. Students should check with their respective programs. 28 What additional vaccines do I need to get to meet Columbia’s requirements? In addition to your COVID-19 vaccine, all students are required to have received their MMR and meningitis vaccine prior to registration, as well as get the influenza vaccine in the fall. New York State public health law and University policy require that students must also document that they either have received the meningococcus meningitis vaccine or have declined to receive it. New York State public health law and University policy require that students must also document that they either have received the meningococcus meningitis vaccine or have declined to receive it. Students must submit their MMR and Meningitis documentation upon admission or at least 30 days prior to their scheduled registration date. For this reason, a hold is placed on registration for all incoming students. Students will also be required to get an influenza vaccine this fall Influenza vaccine will be mandated for students and CUIMC patient-facing employees, and strongly encouraged for all other faculty and staff. The shot will be available starting in September and you will have until November 30, 2021 to get your vaccine and upload your documents. COVID-19 Vaccine Town Halls Watch the Campus Update Forums for information about the latest policies and guidance. Campus Update Forum: Jan. 18, 2022 Campus Update Forum: Jan. 4, 2022 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close