Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site COVID-19 Information Community Messages FAQs contact Health Guidelines Yale Data Testing Vaccination On Campus Working Travel Home > Health Guidelines Health Guidelines Updated May 13, 2022 Each member of the community plays a critical role in preventing the spread of COVID-19 and keeping Yale healthy. All students, faculty, and staff must commit to following health and safety guidelines and setting an example for their peers. Because state and public health officials may need to adjust their policies based on the status of COVID-19 spread in our region, the guidelines here may be updated regularly. For Everyone COVID-19 Vaccination Policy Mask Requirements & Guidance Contact Tracing Isolation Guidance for Those Who Test Positive Prevention What to Do if You Become Ill Spring 2022 Testing Requirements COVID-19 testing remains a key part of our strategy to prevent outbreaks. Note that policies may change as local and national conditions evolve. If you have questions, you may contact the Campus COVID Resource Line at 203-432-6604. For All Members of the Community Voluntary asymptomatic and symptomatic testing is available to all community members at any time through the Yale COVID-19 Screening Program. Individuals are encouraged not to hesitate to schedule a test in the event of possible exposure or if having any symptoms suggestive of COVID-19, even if mild. All required testing must be performed at Yale University test sites. Rapid antigen tests do not meet testing requirements. Please note: In order to ensure that the university’s COVID-19 testing program is sustainable and flexible, the Screening Program plans to transition to a different model this summer, likely during July and early August. While a single on-site testing center will remain in operation to support the transition, the new model will enable faculty, staff, and students to pick up PCR test kits, collect specimens at home, and return them to one of several campus drop-off locations. The Broad Institute will continue to analyze specimens, and results will be reported within 24 to 36 hours after the specimen is received. Details about this transition will be communicated in the coming weeks. Undergraduate Students Beginning June 1, asymptomatic COVID-19 testing will no longer be required for fully vaccinated members of the Yale community, with exceptions noted below: Some programs, such as those involving performances, may continue to require routine asymptomatic testing, even for vaccinated individuals, due to the nature of their activities. Each participant in a Yale-sponsored residential summer program will be required to show proof of a negative pre-arrival COVID-19 test and to obtain another test on arrival to campus through Yale’s COVID-19 Screening Program (the Screening Program). Members of the community who are asymptomatic but identified as close contacts of individuals with COVID-19 are expected to test in accordance with university guidance for close contacts. Members of the Yale community who are active on campus and not fully vaccinated will be required to continue twice weekly asymptomatic testing through the Screening Program. Asymptomatic COVID-19 testing will continue to be available on a voluntary basis through the Screening Program. Faculty, staff, and students are encouraged to take advantage of asymptomatic testing, especially before and after travel or if they feel they have been exposed to COVID-19. Members of the community who develop COVID-19 related symptoms are expected to test and stay home and consult their health care provider. In the event of significant COVID-19 clusters or outbreaks, asymptomatic testing may be required. Faculty, students, and staff who test positive for COVID-19 with home tests or at sites other than those of the Yale Screening Program should submit a copy of the test to the university by completing this online form. They are also strongly encouraged to contact their health care providers to determine if they are eligible for treatment. As always, individuals who have questions may call the Campus COVID Resource Line at 203-432-6604. Graduate and Professional Students Beginning June 1, asymptomatic COVID-19 testing will no longer be required for fully vaccinated members of the Yale community, with exceptions noted below: Some programs, such as those involving performances, may continue to require routine asymptomatic testing, even for vaccinated individuals, due to the nature of their activities. Each participant in a Yale-sponsored residential summer program will be required to show proof of a negative pre-arrival COVID-19 test and to obtain another test on arrival to campus through Yale’s COVID-19 Screening Program (the Screening Program). Members of the community who are asymptomatic but identified as close contacts of individuals with COVID-19 are expected to test in accordance with university guidance for close contacts. Members of the Yale community who are active on campus and not fully vaccinated will be required to continue twice weekly asymptomatic testing through the Screening Program. Asymptomatic COVID-19 testing will continue to be available on a voluntary basis through the Screening Program. Faculty, staff, and students are encouraged to take advantage of asymptomatic testing, especially before and after travel or if they feel they have been exposed to COVID-19. Members of the community who develop COVID-19 related symptoms are expected to test and stay home and consult their health care provider. In the event of significant COVID-19 clusters or outbreaks, asymptomatic testing may be required. Faculty, students, and staff who test positive for COVID-19 with home tests or at sites other than those of the Yale Screening Program should submit a copy of the test to the university by completing this online form. They are also strongly encouraged to contact their health care providers to determine if they are eligible for treatment. As always, individuals who have questions may call the Campus COVID Resource Line at 203-432-6604. Faculty, Staff, and Postdoctoral and Postgraduate Trainees Fully vaccinated No routine testing requirement; strongly encouraged to test in the event of exposure, if advised by a Contact Tracer, or if experiencing symptoms suggestive of COVID-19. Exempted or in the process of completing vaccination Ongoing required twice weekly testing (or until fully vaccinated). Tests must be no more than three days apart. Options are Monday and Thursday, Tuesday and Friday, or Wednesday and Saturday. Test sites are open Sunday as a catch-up day. If four or more days pass between tests, you will receive noncompliance messages and appear on noncompliance reports. Yale COVID-19 Screening Program Family Members of Yale Students, Faculty, and Staff Family members or dependents may be eligible for testing through the Yale COVID-19 Screening Program depending on certain criteria. Learn more about testing options for family members. Community commitment We ask that members of the Yale community commit to following university and public health guidance and protocols. learn more Privacy practices See the steps the university is taking to protect the privacy of COVID-19 Campus Health & Safety Program information while ensuring the health and safety of the Yale community. Read Privacy Statement (.PDF) Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Report a technical issue or content update Facebook Twitter YouTube Sina Weibo Tumblr