Home Coming to Campus Vaccines & Testing Dashboard Travel COVID-19 News & Updates HomeComing to CampusVaccines & TestingDashboardTravelCOVID-19 News & Updates COVID-19 info last updated on Sept 21, 2020 Scroll Vaccines & Testing Dartmouth is taking various precautions to help keep our community healthy. Please email covid-19.info@dartmouth.edu with questions. Vaccination and Testing Policy Testing Resources Vaccination Resources Symptoms and Exposure VACCINATION AND TESTING POLICY Students, faculty, and staff are required to be up to date on their COVID-19 vaccinations, including one booster dose when eligible, or have an approved exemption. Students, faculty, and staff who are eligible are required to have received one COVID-19 vaccine booster within 30 days of becoming eligible. Students should submit vaccination documentation to the Dartmouth College Health Service through the Health Service portal. Those who would like to request a vaccination exemption may do so through the Dartmouth College Health Service. Read the student COVID-19 vaccination FAQs for more details. Faculty and staff should submit vaccination documentation to Axiom Medical, Dartmouth’s Occupational Medicine provider. Those who would like to request a vaccination exemption may do so through the Office of Institutional Diversity and Equity. Read the employee COVID-19 vaccination FAQs for more details. As of April 10 through the rest of spring term, weekly asymptomatic testing is no longer required except for those who must comply with external requirements, such as the NCAA athletes testing requirement. PCR and rapid antigen tests remain available for those who choose to test. Students, faculty, and staff who have symptoms or are attempting the test out of isolation must complete an in-person rapid antigen test; those who test positive for COVID-19 must isolate immediately. Read Dartmouth’s testing resources and isolation guidance for more information. Individuals are up to date after receiving all recommended doses in their primary series of COVID-19 vaccine, and one booster dose once they are eligible. Accepted COVID-19 vaccines are those that received full approval or emergency use authorization by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration or those that received or are undergoing assessment for emergency use listing (PDF) by the World Health Organization. All students, faculty, and staff are expected to get a flu vaccine. VACCINATION RESOURCES Find a COVID-19 vaccine or booster in the U.S. by searching vaccines.gov, texting your ZIP code to 438829, or calling 1-800-232-0233. Individuals five years of age or older are eligible to be vaccinated in New Hampshire and Vermont, regardless of residency. Individuals 5 years of age or older are eligible to receive a vaccine booster five months after receiving their second dose of a Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine. Individuals 18 years of age or older are eligible to receive a vaccine booster five months after receiving their second dose of a Moderna vaccine or two months after receiving Johnson & Johnson’s Janssen (J&J) vaccine. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) released guidance for receiving a second booster at least four months after receiving an initial booster for those who received J&J for their first shot and their initial booster, are 50 years of age or older, or are moderately or severely immunocompromised. Read the CDC’s COVID-19 booster recommendations for more information including what to do if vaccinated with another type of COVID-19 vaccine. Students with questions about their eligibility can contact the Dartmouth College Health Service and faculty and staff should contact their primary care provider. TESTING RESOURCES May 26 through June 11: Take-home PCR tests: Take-home PCR test drop-off locations open Monday at 7:30 a.m. and remain open 24 hours a day through Friday at 2:30 p.m; however, overnight access to a drop-off box will depend on whether or not the building stays open. Take-home PCR test pick-up hours vary depending on location. Labels for take-home PCR tests are available at West Gym Monday through Thursday from 7 a.m. to 3 p.m. and Friday from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. In-person PCR testing and all pick-up and drop-off locations will be closed on May 30 due to the Memorial Day holiday and will resume regular hours on May 31. Take-home PCR testing will be available to students at Billings Lee (11 Rope Ferry Road) on June 11. June 11 is the last day for PCR testing. In-person PCR testing: West Gym at 16 E. Wheelock St. is open for in-person PCR testing Monday and Tuesday from 7 a.m. to 3 p.m. and Friday from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. For students, faculty, and staff at the Dartmouth Hitchcock Medical Center, in-person PCR testing is available in conference room 381 on level 3 in the Borwell Research Building Tuesday and Friday from 7:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. In-person PCR testing will be available to students at Billings Lee (11 Rope Ferry Road) on June 11. June 11 is the last day for PCR testing. In-person antigen testing: In-person antigen testing for students experiencing symptoms or in isolation is available from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m., in the Maynard parking lot (11 Rope Ferry Rd.). Employees who are experiencing symptoms should call Axiom at 833-408-1338. June 12: In-person antigen testing for students experiencing symptoms or in isolation is available from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m., in the Maynard parking lot (11 Rope Ferry Rd.). Employees who are experiencing symptoms should call Axiom at 833-408-1338. June 13: In-person antigen testing for students experiencing symptoms or in isolation is available 7 a.m. to 6 p.m., in the Maynard parking lot (11 Rope Ferry Rd.) Employees who are experiencing symptoms should call Axiom at 833-408-1338. June 13 is the last day for in-person antigen testing. Take-home rapid antigen tests continue to be available to faculty, staff and students at pick-up locations across campus. Students, faculty, and staff, are able to pick up four take-home rapid antigen tests at a time as supplies allow. Please only pick up tests for yourself, do not pick up tests on behalf of others. Read the frequently asked questions on take-home testing for more information. COVID-19 tests are also available through local testing resources listed on the state health department websites for New Hampshire and Vermont. SYMPTOMS AND EXPOSURE If you have symptoms or are attempting to test out of isolation: Complete an in-person rapid antigen test. Students who have symptoms or are in isolation must test in-person at the student testing trailer in the Maynard parking lot at 11 Rope Ferry Rd. Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. to 6 p.m., and Saturday and Sunday, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Faculty and staff who have symptoms or are in isolation must contact Axiom Medical at 833-408-1338 for specific instructions and to schedule an appointment. If you do not have symptoms and are not in isolation: Complete a take-home rapid antigen test or a take-home PCR test. Take-home PCR test drop-off locations open Monday at 7:30 a.m. and remain open 24 hours a day through Friday at 2:30 p.m; however, overnight access to a drop-off box will depend on whether or not the building stays open. Take-home PCR test pick-up hours vary depending on location. Labels for take-home PCR tests are available at West Gym Monday through Thursday from 7 a.m. to 3 p.m. and Friday from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. For spring term, students, faculty, and staff, are able to pick up four take-home rapid antigen tests at a time as supplies allow. Please only pick up tests for yourself, do not pick up tests on behalf of others. Read the frequently asked questions on take-home testing for more information. If you do not have symptoms and are not in isolation, you can also complete an in-person PCR test. West Gym at 16 E. Wheelock St. is open for in-person PCR testing Monday and Tuesday from 7 a.m. to 3 p.m. and Friday from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. For students, faculty, and staff at the Dartmouth Hitchcock Medical Center, in-person PCR testing is available in conference room 381 on level 3 in the Borwell Research Building Tuesday and Friday from 7:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. Face masks are required at the test sites regardless of vaccination status. Face masks are available at take-home test pick-up locations. Dartmouth students who need a face mask can also contact their student affairs office and Dartmouth faculty and staff can contact their supervisor or department head. 2 Testing & Health Contact us Have questions about Dartmouth’s COVID-19 operations? Call the COVID-19 information line at 603-646-2019 or email covid-19.info@dartmouth.edu. Info Campus Operations Dartmouth COVID-19 Working Groups COVID-19 HEERF Report Building Posters Public Health Information FIND IT FAST Campus Map Directory Events News Visit RESOURCES Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX