Home Coming to Campus Vaccines & Testing Dashboard Travel COVID-19 News & Updates HomeComing to CampusVaccines & TestingDashboardTravelCOVID-19 News & Updates COVID-19 info last updated on Sept 21, 2020 Visitor Guidance Updated: May 17, 2022 In order to access Dartmouth locations or Dartmouth-sponsored in-person events, visitors must follow Dartmouth policies including, but not limited to, this visitor guidance, and Dartmouth’s face-mask policy and event guidance. Visitors must also follow applicable federal, state, and local requirements. In some cases, a Dartmouth venue may have more stringent policies in place due to contracts with external organizations (e.g., the Hopkins Center agreement with the Broadway League, and the Athletics department with the NCAA), and in those cases, visitors should follow the guidance provided by the Dartmouth venue. Dartmouth leadership will continue to monitor health guidance as well as the conditions of COVID-19 at Dartmouth and in the surrounding communities and will make changes to this guidance accordingly. Please email covid-19.info@dartmouth.edu with questions about COVID-19 policies. A visitor is someone who does not work, reside, or attend school at Dartmouth or have a current business or academic relationship with Dartmouth. This includes alumni and students who are not registered to be on campus. Health and Safety Dartmouth recommends that all visitors 5 years of age or older: Are up to date on their COVID-19 vaccinations, including booster doses when eligible; OR Receive a negative test result from a COVID-19 test (PCR or rapid antigen) taken within 72 hours prior, preferably as close to access as possible; OR Have tested positive for COVID-19 within the 90 days prior and recovered (they have ended isolation and do not have symptoms). Individuals are up to date after receiving all recommended doses in their primary series of COVID-19 vaccine, and one booster dose once they are eligible. Visitors can find more information on accessing COVID-19 tests through the New Hampshire and Vermont public health departments or visitors can use a self-test kit. Visitors must not access a Dartmouth location or Dartmouth-sponsored in-person event if: They are in isolation or quarantine; They are experiencing symptoms consistent with COVID-19 including the following: A fever of 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit or higher, or felt feverish in the last 72 hours; New respiratory symptoms including a runny nose, nasal congestion, sore throat, cough, or shortness of breath; General body symptoms such as new muscle aches, chills, or severe fatigue; New gastrointestinal symptoms such as nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea; Any new change in their sense of taste or smell. Visitors who develop symptoms or test positive for COVID-19 while at a Dartmouth location or event, or within 48 hours of being at Dartmouth, should isolate immediately and follow the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s (CDC) isolation guidance. The visitor should also inform their close contacts. For COVID-19, a close contact is anyone who was less than 6 feet away from an infected person for a combined total of 15 minutes or more over a 24-hour period. An infected person can transmit COVID-19 starting 48 hours before they first developed symptoms or took a test with a positive result. Attendees who need help identifying or reaching out to their close contacts can get in touch with their event organizer. Organizers who receive information on close contacts can email Occupational Health at occupational.medicine@dartmouth.edu for more information or to request assistance. If identified as a close contact, visitors should wear a face mask, limit close contacts with others, contact their primary care provider, and follow the CDC’s quarantine guidance. Access and Quarantine There are no Dartmouth COVID-19 requirements for access and quarantine after travel at this time. The CDC recommends that travelers who are not up to date on their COVID-19 vaccinations quarantine for five days upon return from domestic or international travel. In addition, travelers who are not up to date on their COVID-19 vaccinations or have returned from international travel, regardless of vaccination status, should take a COVID-19 test (PCR or rapid antigen) three to five days after arrival at Dartmouth. Contact us Have questions about Dartmouth’s COVID-19 operations? Call the COVID-19 information line at 603-646-2019 or email covid-19.info@dartmouth.edu. Info Campus Operations Dartmouth COVID-19 Working Groups COVID-19 HEERF Report Building Posters Public Health Information FIND IT FAST Campus Map Directory Events News Visit RESOURCES Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX