Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Spring 2022 University Updates Policies and Guidelines Videos Visitor Guidelines Travel Restrictions ReopenCU App COVID-19 Vaccine Info Vaccine Mandate COVID-19 Testing Program Isolation Quarantine COVID-19 Monitoring Plan Building Readiness Information Research Research Ramp-up Ambassadors Announcements School Updates COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community You are here: Home Policies and Guidelines Spring 2022 Instruction Guidelines Spring 2022 Instruction Guidelines February 08, 2022 Instruction Expectations Columbia resumed in-person instruction and activities for the fall 2021 semester with a vaccination mandate and public health protocols to ensure a safe return for all in the Columbia community. All courses will be in-person and on campus. Details and answers to frequently asked questions about the 2021-2022 return to in-person instruction are available on this website. International students who face visa-related delays that prevent them from arriving at the start of the semester need to obtain departmental approval for late arrival. Departments and academic programs will determine if there are options available to accommodate late arrival. Depending on the academic program and the students’ individual situation, these international students may be permitted to participate remotely in some courses, or may be asked to defer or take a leave. There is no expectation that courses will have simultaneous remote access. International students should review ISSO’s maintaining status page for detailed enrollment requirements for maintaining F/J status. Ongoing Use of Technology Faculty and students will meet in person for class sessions. The use of alternative course delivery modalities (e.g., hybrid and online) continue to require prior departmental, school, and Committee on Instruction approvals. If a faculty member is ill or tests positive for COVID and must miss class due to University-approved quarantine or isolation related to COVID-19 exposure, the use of Zoom may be appropriate for that time period only and should be approved by relevant department chair or school dean. Instructional activities may continue to be supported with the use of technology to enhance active learning and enable instructional activities that would not be possible otherwise. A return to in-person instruction does not mean that innovative course elements developed during the pandemic should be eliminated. In fact, many faculty members have thoughtfully and deliberately incorporated innovative elements into their courses to encourage and support engagement with their students. Faculty should continue to utilize tools and approaches that enhance face-to-face learning and engage students in innovative and creative ways. Examples of Innovation Faculty have recorded some elements of their lecture in advance of class meeting to provide students with the ability to be exposed to new concepts. Such flipped classroom design, without a reduction of course contact hours, provides the opportunity for students and faculty to engage more fully in a higher-level active discussion when face-to-face. Faculty have engaged guest speakers in global locations with the use of technology without the expense and time required for travel. During in-person class sessions, faculty may continue to engage remote guest speakers (i.e., by connecting through Zoom inside the classroom). While it is important for faculty and teaching assistants to hold in-person office hours, they can continue to offer additional review sessions and office hours on Zoom outside of regular business hours to accommodate student schedules and needs. If a class must be rescheduled for reasons other than COVID-related illness, it should remain in person. Although unexpected circumstances may justify the occasional use of Zoom in lieu of an in-person meeting, this should be seen as a rare exception rather than a convenience to accommodate conference or research travel, family schedules, and the like. Such exceptions should be approved by a department chair or school dean. Document Categories Academics Document Topics Guidelines Classes Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close