Skip to the main content Close Messages Guidance Guidance COVID-19 Protocols Face Coverings Travel Students Employees Vaccines Testing Resources Resources Human Resources Student Health Services Texas A&M University COVID-19 Guidance Messages Guidance Guidance COVID-19 Protocols Face Coverings Travel Students Employees Vaccines Testing Resources Resources Human Resources Student Health Services Menu Symptomatic? Tested Positive Exposed Search this site search Updated Guidelines for COVID-19 April 13, 2022, 1:30 p.m. CDT Earlier this month, The Texas A&M University System released guidance related to the current COVID-19 conditions across member locations, testing resources, training, reporting requirements and updates on the COVID-19 Operations Center. A summary is below. For a copy of the full document, email covid@tamu.edu. System member COVID-19 Community Levels remain in the low to medium range. However, should levels rise, System members will adjust their response to help mitigate the spread of COVID-19 within their communities. Vaccine and COVID-19 treatments remain readily available to the public and are promoted to campus communities. Information is outlined here for the College Station campus. Student Health Services will continue to offer testing as part of their provided services. The System’s contract for Curative testing has been extended through December 2022. Newly hired staff members and faculty should be assigned the Safe Practices for Returning to the Office during the COVID-19 Pandemic and the Protocol and Certification for System Offices Employees trainings in TrainTraq. Students, staff and faculty who receive a positive test result are still asked to complete the TAMUS COVID-19 Self-Reporting Form. Individuals who self-report will receive automatic feedback in alignment with the current CDC guidance. The COVID-19 Operations Center has been demobilized but will continue to be accessible via email at covid@tamu.edu. Visit covid.tamu.edu for additional information about COVID-19 resources and protocols. Greg Hartman Chief Operating Officer and Senior Vice President Texas A&M University Recent Messages May 23, 22, 4:00 p.m. CDT Updated Guidelines for COVID-19 April 25, 22, 4:00 p.m. CDT COVID-19 Test Kits and Protect Aggieland T-shirts Free This Week April 13, 22, 1:30 p.m. CDT Updated Guidelines for COVID-19 View All Messages Remote Campus COVID-19 Information Health Science Center Galveston Higher Education Center at McAllen Qatar CDC: 2019 Novel Coronavirus Brazos County Health District Department of State Health Services Clery Act COVID-19 Disclosure Contact: Risk & Compliance: For Risk & Compliance related inquiries covid-19process@tamu.edu Covid-19 Operations Center: For testing and case investigation questions covid@tamu.edu © Texas A&M University Site Policies Web Accessibility