Princeton COVID Resources Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Princeton COVID Resources Main Menu Menu Safe Practices Health & Well-Being Testing Submenu Eligibility and Frequency Taking the Test Clinic Info and Test Kit Pick-up Dropping Off Your Sample Receiving Results Report a Testing Absence Vaccinations Submenu Faculty and Staff Requirement Student Requirement Workplace Submenu Information for Faculty and Staff Information For Managers FAQs for faculty Travel Undergraduate FAQs Quarantine & Isolation Policies Dashboard Log in Search Search Home Testing Section Menu Eligibility and Frequency Taking the Test Clinic Info and Test Kit Pick-up Dropping Off Your Sample Receiving Results Report a Testing Absence Dropping Off Your Sample Testing Timelines All individuals (undergraduate and graduate students, faculty, staff, and affiliates) who are up to date with vaccinations and boosters will move to once-monthly testing. You are asked to submit your samples during the week assigned to your last name (listed below). For those that are up to date on vaccines and boosters, you can continue to test up to once weekly, if you choose. Only those who have received guidance from Global and Community Health to submit additional tests should submit more than one test per week. Guidance for undergraduates around testing is below. Those individuals who are officially exempt from vaccination or who are eligible for boosters but have not yet received them are required to test once weekly. Monthly Testing Schedule, Up to Date on Vaccines and Boosters May 2022 Week 1 April 30- May 6 Week 2 May 8-13 Week 3 May 14-20 Week 4 May 22-27 Last Names A-E X Last Names F-K X Last Names L-R X Last Names S-Z X June 2022 Week 1 May 29-June 3 Week 2 June 5-10 Week 3 June 12-17 Week 4 June 19-24 Last Names A-E X Last Names F-K X Last Names L-R X Last Names S-Z X Our testing weeks run from Sunday morning through Friday morning. To avoid delays in receiving test results, faculty and staff are encouraged to submit their tests early in the week (Monday, Tuesday) and undergraduate and graduate students are encouraged to submit their tests later in the week (Wednesday, Thursday). If you are on campus Sunday through Thursday, submit on one of those days, and not on Fridays. Where and when to drop off your sample The daily deadline for dropping off your saliva sample to a drop box is 10:00 a.m., Monday through Friday. Samples dropped off on Sunday will be picked up Monday. Samples submitted after 10:00 a.m. will not be picked up and taken to the Lab on the same day. If you miss the 10:00 a.m. drop box deadline on Friday, you can bring your sample in person to the testing clinic until 11:45 a.m. However, if you drop a sample after 11:45am on Friday, even in person at the testing clinic, it will not be processed until the following Monday. **Starting June 1st and moving forward during the summer months, samples will be picked up much earlier in the day (as early as 7am).** Students Residing Off Campus — Parking Guide Students residing off campus do not need a permit for the drop-and-go parking locations listed below. Parking in any numbered lot or garage on campus, including visitor Lot 23, is restricted, and will result in a parking citation. In addition to free short term parking (note time restrictions per lot) for students residing off campus, there are also metered spaces on University Place and Prospect Ave that students may utilize for testing drop off. For drop-off at these locations, use free 1-hour spaces in Lot 8 or metered parking on University Place U-Store, vestibule For drop-off at these locations, use free College Road 2-hour spaces or metered parking on University Place Class of 1981 Hall, lobby near Community Hall entrance Wilcox Hall, 2nd Floor lobby near Julian Street Library 228 Alexander, rear entrance. Pull around to rear of building for drop-and-go only, no parking Drop Box Locations Below are the drop box locations for Summer 2022, updated as of 5/14/22. Pick-ups from each drop box occur daily, Monday through Friday. Building Drop Box Location Class of 1981 Hall Lobby Near Community Hall Entrance Dillon Gym Main Lobby East Pyne/Chancellor Green Lobby E-Quad Joint Entry to A,C,E Firestone Library B-floor by Core Bathrooms and Elevator (for PUL staff only) Fisher Hall Prospect Street Entrance Frick Chemistry Building Atrium Friend Center Lobby by Olden St. Entrance Frist Campus Center 100 Level, by ATMs Graduate College Old Grad Common Room Jadwin Gym Lobby Lawrence Apartments Building 1 Lobby Lewis Thomas Lab North Entrance MacMillan Building South Entrance Near Garage McCosh Health Center Foyer (Available 24 hours a day/7 days per week) Princeton Neuroscience Institute South entrance near Lot 15 ReCAP (400 Forrestal Road) Entry vestibule Stadium, Northeast Corner, Booth 4 Testing Clinic (available during open clinic hours) U-Store Vestibule (Available 24 hours a day/7 days per week) Wilcox Hall 2nd Floor Lobby, Near Julian Street Library 200 Elm Drive Lobby (For Staff and Faculty Use Only) 200 Lakeside Apartments Administrative Office 228 Alexander Rear Entrance 300 Washington Construction Trailer 693 Alexander St. 1st Floor Elevator Lobby (via main and west side entrances during business hours) 701 Carnegie Lobby Footer Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University