Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Spring 2022 University Updates Policies and Guidelines Videos Visitor Guidelines Travel Restrictions ReopenCU App COVID-19 Vaccine Info Vaccine Mandate COVID-19 Testing Program Isolation Quarantine COVID-19 Monitoring Plan Building Readiness Information Research Research Ramp-up Ambassadors Announcements School Updates COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community You are here: Home University Communications CDC Recommends Pfizer Vaccine for Children Ages 5 to 11 CDC Recommends Pfizer Vaccine for Children Ages 5 to 11 Here is information for Columbia affiliates who would like their children to receive a COVID vaccination. November 03, 2021 On November 2, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention announced its recommendation that children 5 to 11 years old be vaccinated against COVID-19 with the Pfizer-BioNTech pediatric vaccine. This announcement from the CDC follows the U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s October 29 emergency use authorization of the vaccine for the prevention of COVID-19 in that age category. Columbia affiliates who would like their children to receive a COVID vaccination can visit vaccines.gov to find a vaccination location near them, including pharmacies and drug stores. The following websites are helpful in finding vaccination locations: New York City vaccination information New York State vaccination information New Jersey vaccination information Connecticut vaccination information Columbia Health will not be providing this vaccination. Appointments may be scheduled at an NYP/Columbia location using Connect. If a child age 5 to 11 does not already have an account, a parent or legal adult representative/legal guardian can create an account (called a proxy account). For more information on creating a Connect account, click here. Columbia affiliates may also have their child vaccinated by scheduling an appointment with the child’s pediatrician. Children will need to be accompanied by a parent or legal guardian to receive the vaccine. Tags Vaccine Public Health Announcement News May 05, 2022 Update on Current Public Health Protocols April 25, 2022 COVID-19 Treatment Option for Individuals Meeting CDC Guidelines April 22, 2022 Statement From the President’s Advisory Task Force on COVID-19 April 15, 2022 Update on Vaccination Requirement for Students April 15, 2022 Three Updates: Booster Shots, Gateway Testing, and Masking Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close