Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Spring 2022 University Updates Policies and Guidelines Videos Visitor Guidelines Travel Restrictions ReopenCU App COVID-19 Vaccine Info Vaccine Mandate COVID-19 Testing Program Isolation Quarantine COVID-19 Monitoring Plan Building Readiness Information Research Research Ramp-up Ambassadors Announcements School Updates COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community You are here: Home ReopenCU App ReopenCU App Follow these instructions to download the ReopenCU app, complete the daily attestation, and upload vaccination and booster documentation. These instructions also apply to the mobile and desktop versions. What You Should Know You must have a green pass from the app to access campus buildings. Users who do not want to change their app store location to the United States should use the web version. The first time you use ReopenCU, the app will request permission to use location services. Enabling location services is voluntary, but will improve contact tracing at Columbia by providing access to the SSID of your wireless network connection. This location data will only be used for contact tracing purposes to identify potential close contacts by identifying you and a timeline of the WiFi access points your device connected to. Data will only be collected when the app is open and you are connected to a Columbia wireless network. Make sure you are using the latest version by updating in the App Store or Google Play. Opting in or out of location services is your personal decision. If you do not enable location services for the ReopenCU application, you can continue using any of Columbia’s wireless networks and the app will not collect your data. You can also enable or disable location services manually through your iPhone or iPad settings or your Android device settings. Expand all Collapse all How to Use the App 1 Download the App ReopenCU is available for download from the App Store for iOS devices and Google Play for Android devices. 2 Log In Open the app and log in with your Columbia UNI and password. 3 Complete the Required Protocol Everyone who returns to campus must sign the University Health Compact, take safety training, and get a COVID-19 PCR test. The app allows you to digitally sign the compact; select "Show/Hide Compact." Once you select "I Agree," the app will remember your choice. Once you have completed the appropriate safety training, the app will update to reflect this change, but this process can take up to an hour, so plan accordingly. After you have taken a Columbia Test and Trace program COVID-19 test, the app will also reflect this information. Compliance data is regularly transmitted to update the app, and in most cases will reflect within 72 hours, often faster. The boxes in the ReopenCU app are updated once you finish the compliance steps, following the timeline described above for each. If you need assistance with the app, contact the CUIT Service Desk: Submit a ticket, email [email protected], or call 212-854-1919. 4 Upload Vaccine Documentation or Request Exemption In the My Checklist section, in the last check box for vaccination compliance, click either the "student" or "faculty/staff" link. Students will then be asked to select "Morningside" or "CUIMC" and be routed to the appropriate student health portal to upload proof of vaccination. Employees will see a form that asks for basic data about vaccination and allows uploading of one documentation file in either jpg, jpeg, png, or pdf format. You must complete all fields before clicking "Submit" to upload your documentation. Requesting an Exemption Students can request a medical or religious exemption through the appropriate student health portal, Morningside, or CUIMC. Employees can request an exemption for medical or religious reasons by selecting the "request exemption" checkbox. The next page provides information on how to submit the request. Reviews will be conducted by a panel of medical experts including a representative from Human Resources. If the exemption is granted, the My Checklist section of the app will have an automatic check mark. 5 Generate Your Daily Pass Once you click "Submit," the app will generate a date- and time-stamped 24-hour certificate. Assuming you have no symptoms, this daily pass will be green. If you answer yes to any one of the questions and receive a red pass, you should not come to work and should notify your supervisor. Your daily pass is available at all times on the Pass tab found at the bottom of the app screen. 6 Show Your Pass Your daily pass must be shown to security at all entrances to campus buildings. Expand all Collapse all Settings and Notifications Profile Tab The Profile tab at the bottom of the app screen provides access to frequently asked questions, technical assistance, and settings for receiving notifications from the app. Notifications If you have enabled notifications for the ReopenCU app in your phone settings, the Notifications button allows you to set a specific time at which the app will remind you to complete the attestation. Simply select the time at which you want your phone to receive a reminder. Frequently Asked Questions The app includes a section dedicated to questions often asked by faculty, staff, and students as they return to campus. Contact Us/Help The Contact Us button allows you to send an email to [email protected] if you have technical questions on using the app. You can also contact the CUIT Service Desk at 212-854-1919. On the CUIMC campus, contact the CUIMC Service Desk at 212-305-4357 (x5-Help). Download iOS App Download Android App Web App Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close