Princeton COVID Resources Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Princeton COVID Resources Main Menu Menu Safe Practices Health & Well-Being Testing Submenu Eligibility and Frequency Taking the Test Clinic Info and Test Kit Pick-up Dropping Off Your Sample Receiving Results Report a Testing Absence Vaccinations Submenu Faculty and Staff Requirement Student Requirement Workplace Submenu Information for Faculty and Staff Information For Managers FAQs for faculty Travel Undergraduate FAQs Quarantine & Isolation Policies Dashboard Log in Search Search Home Testing Section Menu Eligibility and Frequency Taking the Test Clinic Info and Test Kit Pick-up Dropping Off Your Sample Receiving Results Report a Testing Absence Eligibility and Frequency Eligibility and Frequency All Princeton University faculty, staff, students and affiliates who access campus are required to participate in the COVID-19 Asymptomatic Testing Program. More information about eligibility by status is below. To learn more about the testing process, read through the “Taking the Test” webpage. For symptomatic testing (if you have symptoms of COVID and need a test), please visit the UHS website for your options. If you are getting an "Action Needed" message in the testing app, please see "How to Request An Update to Your Testing Status" below for instructions. You can still submit tests in the meantime while your status is being updated. Who is Eligible for the Asymptomatic Testing Program Eligible for Testing Program Participation Not Eligible for Testing Program Participation Graduate students Undergraduate students Researcher, faculty member or staff member working in a University building Approved affiliates Emeritus faculty Graduate dependents under the age of 18 Dependents of staff, faculty, and researchers Testing Frequency We are reviewing new guidelines from both state and federal public health authorities, and will notify campus community members if testing frequency or requirements change. Those who have already received a COVID-19 vaccine and booster dose are still expected to participate in the asymptomatic testing protocol. Up to Date on Vaccines and Boosters (Employees, Students, Eligible Dependents, and Affiliates) Not Up to Date (Employees, Students, Eligible Dependents, and Affiliates) Definition Up to date on vaccines and boosters means: Received final dose of approved COVID vaccine; AND Have received a booster dose of COVID vaccine, if more than 5 months have passed since receiving final dose of approved COVID vaccine Not up to date on vaccines/boosters means one of the following: Have not received any doses of an approved COVID vaccine because of approved vaccine exemption OR Have not yet received final dose of approved COVID vaccine; OR Have not received a booster dose even though eligible (more than 5 months have elapsed since receiving final dose of approved COVID vaccine) Frequency of Testing Once monthly Those who would like to continue testing once per week may do so voluntarily. Only those individuals advised by Global and Community Health to submit additional tests should be submitting more than one test weekly. Once weekly Only those individuals advised by Global and Community Health to submit additional tests should be submitting more than one test weekly. Until you have uploaded your proof of vaccination or booster to MyUHS (for students) or VacStatus (for employees) for verification, then you will be asked to test weekly, as there is not documentation that you are up to date. May 2022 Monthly Testing Schedule, Up to Date on Vaccines and Boosters Week 1 April 30- May 6 Week 2 May 8-13 Week 3 May 15-20 Week 4 May 22-27 Last Names A-E X Last Names F-K X Last Names L-R X Last Names S-Z X June 2022 Week 1 May 29- June 3 Week 2 June 5-10 Week 3 June 12-17 Week 4 June 19-24 Last Names A-E X Last Names F-K X Last Names L-R X Last Names S-Z X All individuals testing monthly should submit their test based on the first letter of their last name, as shown in the table above. To avoid delays in receiving test results: Faculty and staff are encouraged to submit their tests early in the week (Monday, Tuesday). Undergraduate and graduate students are encouraged to submit their tests later in the week (Wednesday, Thursday). Please submit as consistently as possible on that day every week, and submitting on Fridays should be a last resort. How to Request Updates to Your Testing Status If you are receiving an "Action Needed" message in the testing app, that means that you are able to test, but we still need to update your testing status in our files. Here are the contacts to follow up with to make sure your testing status is correct. Once your status is updated, the "Action Needed" message will disappear in the app. Undergraduate students: email covidtests@princeton.edu Graduate students: email Ellen Kellich at ekellich@princeton.edu Graduate dependents over the age of 18: email covidtests@princeton.edu Faculty, staff, researchers, and affiliates: email your departmental manager. Managers can make updates to departmental testing rosters through the self-service tool. Footer Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University