Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Spring 2022 University Updates Policies and Guidelines Videos Visitor Guidelines Travel Restrictions ReopenCU App COVID-19 Vaccine Info Vaccine Mandate COVID-19 Testing Program Isolation Quarantine COVID-19 Monitoring Plan Building Readiness Information Research Research Ramp-up Ambassadors Announcements School Updates COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community You are here: Home COVID-19 Vaccine Information COVID-19 Vaccine Information Vaccine Policy Resources How to Comply COVID-19 vaccination and a booster dose is mandatory for all students, faculty, and staff. user-md icon Get Vaccinated Get vaccinated or boosted at a Columbia-operated location or use the New York Vaccine Finder. Find out which vaccines are accepted. address-card icon Find Out What Documentation Is Accepted Individuals who are currently working on campus or who expect to return by early spring must submit vaccination and booster documentation. file-text icon Read the Vaccine Documentation Upload Instructions There are separate instructions for Morningside students, CUIMC students, and faculty and staff. cloud-upload icon Upload Documentation or Apply for Exemption Be sure to upload your documentation or apply for a medical or religious exemption. Vaccine-related Policies and Guidelines COVID-19 Vaccine Policy COVID-19 vaccination will be mandatory for all students, faculty, and staff who will be on campus. Vaccination Paid Leave Policy Also read about New York Safe and Sick Leave and Columbia's 2021 Additional Floating Days Off. Enhanced University Health and Safety Policy This policy has been established to help protect individuals in the Columbia community and our neighbors. Columbia Community Health Compact Everyone who returns to campus must sign the health compact, which can be found in the required online safety training. Booster Compliance Additional information to support compliance with the booster mandate. Vaccine Resources for Our Neighbors Learn More Vaccine-related Announcements May 05, 2022 Update on Current Public Health Protocols Because of a recent uptick in the number of COVID-19 cases in New York City, the COVID alert level has moved from low to moderate risk. Columbia's monitoring plan has been adjusted to be consistent with the city. Tags AnnouncementPublic HealthFacilities and Campus LifeVaccineAcademic Planning April 15, 2022 Update on Vaccination Requirement for Students Columbia will require all students, beginning with the Fall 2022 term, to be up-to-date with their COVID-19 vaccinations. This means at minimum to have received the primary vaccination series and the first booster dose. Tags Facilities and Campus LifeVaccinePublic HealthAnnouncement April 15, 2022 Three Updates: Booster Shots, Gateway Testing, and Masking Here are details on uploading COVID-19 booster documentation, an extension of the gateway testing deadline, and updates on the face mask policy. Tags AnnouncementPublic HealthFacilities and Campus LifeVaccine More News Vaccination Video Campus Update Forum: April 14, 2022 A one-hour forum on COVID 19 featuring updates for faculty, researchers, and staff. Panelists include Wafaa El-Sadr, Donna Lynne, and Gerry Rosberg. Campus Update Forum: Feb. 8, 2022 A one-hour Zoom session session with up-to-date information about COVID-19, plans for Spring 2022, and the campus work environment. Panelists included Melanie Bernitz, Wafaa El-Sadr, and Donna Lynne. Campus Update Forum: Jan. 18, 2022 A one-hour Zoom session with up-to-date information on COVID-19, plans for the Spring 2022 semester, and the campus work environment. More Video Local and State Guidance New York State Vaccination Program COVID-19 Vaccine: Get the Facts New York City Vaccine Data and Tracker Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close