Skip to main content COVID-19 Response COVID-19 Response Information for Students Faculty & Staff Visitors × Home Updates Information for... Students Overview Advising, Career Services & Support Faculty & Staff Visitors Testing Overview Supplemental Testing Symptomatic Testing COVID-19 Tracking Epidemiological Modeling Vaccination at Cornell Health & Safety Prevention & Care Face Masks HEERF Emergency Funding Events Travel University Operations Resources Building Signage Health & Safety Face Masks In this section Prevention & Care Face Masks High quality face masks must be worn in the following spaces and circumstances: Students and instructors in classrooms, laboratories and similar teaching settings. Faculty who are able to maintain physical distance from others while teaching may choose to do so unmasked. Healthcare and COVID-19 testing facilities (including Cornell Health). The College of Veterinary Medicine will provide future mask guidance for diagnostic and clinical facilities. Buses and Cornell-owned vehicles being utilized for multi-occupancy travel. The choice to continue masking, even when not required, is a personal one, and no one should be made to feel uncomfortable because of their choice. It is well established that wearing a mask while indoors reduces the risk of contracting or spreading COVID-19. Individuals who are concerned about the risk of infection are encouraged to continue to wear a mask, and we ask that all members of our community support and respect one another’s masking choices. Vaccination remains the best protection against serious illness and we urge those who have not yet been vaccinated or boosted to do so. Approved masks include masks with any of the following certifications: ASTM (procedure or surgical), KN95, FFP2, KF94 or NIOSH N95. Cloth masks are not approved unless worn in conjunction with an ASTM medical mask. Observe these additional precautions when in spaces and circumstances that require masks:: Minimize your time unmasked Minimize unmasked conversations If in groups, minimize the group size Approved masks will be available at any of the COVID-19 testing sites. Departments and Units can pick up mask supplies at the Cornell Recycling Facility. Pre-ordering is not required. Cornell Recycle Center 251 Solidago Road Ithaca, NY 14850 Pick Up Hours: 8:00-3:30 Employees who choose to a wear NIOSH certified N95 mask must complete required EHS 2386 Respirator Voluntary Use Sign Off on CU Learn; this is a short training and an Occupational Health and Safety Administration (OSHA) requirement. Food at Meeting and Events For specific guidance on food at meetings and events, see the events page. Frequently Asked Questions How can I acquire an approved mask? Approved masks are available for all Cornell community members this semester to “grab-and-go” from any COVID-19 testing site. Current on-site stock is limited – take only what is needed to get yourself through the week. Departments and units can pick up mask supplies at the Cornell Recycling Facility at 251 Solidago Rd. from 8 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. Monday through Friday. Pre-ordering is not required. Can approved masks be re-used? Disposable masks may be re-used. When a mask is no longer tight-fitting, wet, soiled, damaged, or if it has been used while in contact with someone with COVID-19, it should be changed for a new mask. A tight-fitting mask should always form a tight seal around the nose and mouth. What are the differences between masks? (i.e., both the material and the fit) The most important element of masking is that the mask is tight fitting, and worn properly around the mouth and nose to limit the potential spread of aerosols. ASTM masks, also known as procedure or surgical masks are disposable masks that create a physical barrier between the mouth and nose of the wearer and potential contaminants in the immediate environment. Medical masks are manufactured to meet the American Society of Testing and Materials (ASTM) standards and come in three grades. KN95s, KF94s, FFP2 and N95s are electrostatic non-woven polypropylene fiber masks meant to form a tight seal over the mouth and nose. Both KN95s and N95s are rated to capture 95% of tiny particles (0.3-micron particles). FFP2, and KF94s capture 94% of 0.3-micron particles. Do not double mask when using an N95, KN95, KF94 or FFP2 as this will affect the seal of the mask around the nose and throat. N95 are manufactured to meet US NIOSH certification requirements Employees who voluntarily use an N95 must complete EHS2386 Respirator Voluntary Use Sign Off on CULearn. KN95 are manufactured to meet China filtering face mask certification requirements KF94 are manufactured to meet South Korea filtering face mask certification requirements. FFP2 are manufactured to meet European Union filtering face mask certification requirements. Cloth Face Coverings do not meet or have any performance standard and therefore are not approved masks. They are not designed to form a well-fitted seal around the nose and mouth. Is double-masking compliant with university guidance? Yes, a cloth mask can be worn over an ASTM mask to push the edges of the disposable mask against your face. According to the CDC a cloth mask worn over a medical mask may improve overall efficiency. The CDC offer additional guidance to improve how your mask protects you. Double-masking cloth masks does not meet Cornell's practices. Is there any benefit of double masking with an approved, certified mask, such as a N95? Do not double mask with multiple KF94, KN95, KFF2 or N95 respirator. Doing so may negatively impact the fit of the filtering facepiece mask reducing the effectiveness of the mask. Healthcare workers have procedures to wear double masks to keep their N95 clean, which is acceptable for healthcare workers. In those situations, the N95 is worn below the surgical mask. There have been a number of news reports of counterfeit KN95 mask being sold. How do we know that our masks are legitimate? The university has utilized reputable suppliers to source the masks needed to meet our enhanced masking requirements. The Department of Environment, Health and Safety reviews documentation provided by the manufacturer supporting that their masks meet the KN95 performance requirements. We have received several inquiries concerning the KN95 masks manufactured by Anhui Subolun Co., as there was a 2020 report of counterfeit masks being sold under this name. We have verified that our masks were purchased from the manufacturer and have reviewed third party testing reports indicating they meet the KN95 requirements. Are masks needed outdoors? Wearing a mask outdoors is not required. What are acceptable alternatives for those who cannot wear a Medical, KF94, KN95, N95, or double mask due to allergies, medical condition or facial surgery? Faculty and staff who are in need of a medical accommodation may submit an ADA Reasonable Accommodation request by contacting Medical Leaves Administration at wcds@cornell.edu or calling (607) 255-1177. More information and forms are available on the Human Resources website. Graduate, professional and undergraduate students may request accommodations from Student Disability Services (SDS). For more information, visit the SDS COVID-Related Accommodation Requests webpage. How will masking compliance be enforced during the semester? The enforcement of public health requirements is a community effort, if you observe non-compliance politely ask the person to comply with the specific public health requirement. If the person refuses, walk away, never become confrontational. Cornell will use signage, training, and university-wide messaging to inform community members of the minimum public health requirements and expect our community to comply to prevent the spread of COVID-19. If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. © Cornell University 2022