Princeton COVID Resources Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Princeton COVID Resources Main Menu Menu Safe Practices Health & Well-Being Testing Submenu Eligibility and Frequency Taking the Test Clinic Info and Test Kit Pick-up Dropping Off Your Sample Receiving Results Report a Testing Absence Vaccinations Submenu Faculty and Staff Requirement Student Requirement Workplace Submenu Information for Faculty and Staff Information For Managers FAQs for faculty Travel Undergraduate FAQs Quarantine & Isolation Policies Dashboard Log in Search Search Home Work During COVID Section Menu Information for Faculty and Staff Information For Managers FAQs for faculty On this page Information For Managers Checklist for Managers Follow rules for face coverings. Starting March 14, 2022, face coverings will be optional in most—but not all—University spaces and situations. Expand to see details of the March 14 policy change. Face coverings are now optional in most University spaces, with the following exceptions: Where required by state or local agencies, currently on TigerTransit and in the McCosh Health Center As instructed by Global and Community Health following a recent positive test for COVID-19 or when identified as a close contact When faculty or staff as conveners of a class, lab, gathering, or meeting require participants to wear a mask For more information, see the March 2 Covid Newsletter and updated guidance on the EHS website. Relative Protectiveness of Masks Environmental Health and Safety has updated University mask guidance to align with recommendations from the CDC about the relative protectiveness of different types of masks, including well-constructed cloth masks, layered cloth and disposable masks, or KN95 or KF94 masks. Departments are expected to provide personal protective equipment and supplies for their faculty and staff in accordance with EHS recommendations. Prioritization should go to the support of in-person teaching. Procurement recommends the following Prime marketplace suppliers for KN95 masks: Henry Schein, W.B. Mason, Fisher Scientific, VWR. The Finance and Treasury Budget Office is available to help departments identify funds within their existing funding sources to address any budgetary challenges. If departments have are having difficulty finding KN95s for faculty and staff, especially before classes begin on Monday January 24, they may contact Kelly States at EHS for an interim supply at cost. Please bundle requests by department, not by individual or group. Understand the latest testing requirements. Beginning March 7, 2022, all individuals who are up to date on vaccines and boosters test once monthly. Expand for more details. Update, March 2, 2022 — Princeton announced on March 2 changes to the University’s asymptomatic testing program and face coverings policy in a memo to the University community from Provost Deborah Prentice and Executive Vice President Treby Williams and in a newsletter. All individuals who are up to date on vaccines and boosters are tested once monthly. Those that have received vaccine exemptions OR have not yet received their booster but are eligible to are required to test once weekly. Individuals who are vaccinated and boosted can choose to continue to test once weekly. Please review the Testing section of the covid.princeton.edu website in its entirety, using the navigation links on the left side of the screen to see complete information about: Eligibility and frequency of testing, including the new monthly testing schedule. How to take the test, including instructional videos on using the app and using the test kit. Information about the clinic and how and where to pick up test kits. Where to drop off your sample, including a map of all of the drop box locations. How to receive and interpret test results. How to report absence from testing. If an employee misses a test, it will show up as non-compliance on the weekly testing compliance report. If the employee completes the online form to report that they will be away from campus and will not be testing during a period of time, it prevents a report of non-compliance. Review requirements for individuals who are fully vaccinated and not fully vaccinated. Your cabinet officer receives reports of individuals who are not fully vaccinated for various reasons. Individuals who are up to date on their vaccines and boosters test once per month as of March 7, 2022. Masks are optional for these individuals as of March 14, 2022. Those who have approved exemptions and are therefore not up to date on their vaccinations or boosters: Test once per week Are strongly encouraged to wear a mask at all times when indoors. Work with your cabinet officer and your HR senior manager if there are questions or concerns about vaccine status. Set expectations for remote work and meetings. Cabinet officers and managers may decide how to incorporate remote work. Human Resources has updated the policy on Flexible Work Arrangements and guidance for managers and departments. These resources help managers determine whether and how to allow employees to work remotely if they are able to perform their duties as effectively or more effectively remotely compared to performing their duties without a flexible work arrangement. Managers should also set expectations around in-person and remote meetings, including internal meetings, meetings hosted by the department, and meetings hosted by other departments and groups. For in-person meetings, determine whether there will be a hybrid option or a requirement for individuals to come to campus for the meeting. Understand what happens when someone tests positive for COVID-19. Regardless of vaccination status, anyone who tests positive must isolate at home, while those who are identified as close contacts only need to quarantine if they are not fully vaccinated. If an employee tests positive through the asymptomatic testing program, University Health Services (UHS) will notify the individual and if an employee is tested elsewhere, they must notify UHS at communityhealth@princeton.edu. In either case, UHS will notify them of the requirement to self-isolate at home. As of Jan. 14, 2022, isolation is for at least 5 days for vaccinated individuals from the start of symptoms or the date the individual provided the test that was positive. The minimum isolation period for unvaccinated individuals is 10 days. Vaccinated people experiencing persistent symptoms or fever will not be released on day 6. UHS will determine the date of release based on their condition. With the spread of the Omicron variant, UHS is prioritizing contact tracing for populations that are at the highest risk of transmission on campus. Close contacts will need to quarantine at home for at least 10 days if they are not fully vaccinated. Close contacts who are fully vaccinated will generally not need to quarantine. In cases where contact tracing is necessary, EHS will send a notification to building occupants of the buildings where the individual who tested positive spent time during the period that they would have been able to spread the virus. The notification does not provide any identifying information or specific location of the individual who tested positive. EHS will also ensure appropriate cleaning takes place. More information on procedures to follow if you or a close contact tests positive are available on the COVID Testing and Public Health Guidance page on the UHS website. Check in with your workflow manager to review compliance reports for testing. If you are unsure who is the workflow manager in your department, contact your Human Resources senior manager. Workflow managers receive a compliance report for the Asymptomatic Testing Program. The report provides a list of people who are expected to test and did not submit a test for their required period, and a list of everyone who was in compliance. As a manager, you are expected to follow up with individuals not in compliance. Work within your department, but if there is repeated non-compliance, work with HR to consider progressive discipline. This may include removing access to campus buildings or suspension or dismissal from the University. Confirm building access. Nearly all campus buildings with card (prox) access will be locked at all times. Ensure that you and your staff have access to the necessary buildings and spaces. Nearly all campus buildings with prox card access will be locked at all times. All faculty, staff, and students should be able to enter main doors to all academic buildings and most administrative buildings. After hitting a hotspot to update your card (mainly for interior door locks), check your access to the buildings that you and your staff need to access. Report any problems to Public Safety at 609-258-1000. If your building exterior doors require keys instead of prox cards, and if your building is used for classes, check with Public Safety or the Service Point (609-258-8300 or thepoint@princeton.edu) to confirm any locking schedule. Remind your staff to carry their ID card. If an individual’s card does not work, first check to see if they are in compliance with the requirement to enter vaccination information into VacStatus before advising them to reach out to Service Point or Public Safety. Confirm where you and your staff should park. Construction across the campus has impacted some parking lots. Construction projects have impacted several parking lots, resulting in fewer or no available spaces in some lots. Until August 29, employees may park in most lots regardless of their usual assignment. As of August 30, employees are expected to park in their assigned lots. If your usual parking locations are impacted, check with Transportation and Parking Services for advice and instructions. See Transportation and Parking Service’s Return to Campus website for more information. Navigate your way around construction. Princeton is growing, and with that, construction is underway in many areas. Check the construction page for the latest updates. Review guidance for planning events and conferences. Conferences and events may include visitors who are fully vaccinated, but there are more requirements, and it will take more resources than pre-pandemic. Follow the most recent Guidance on Events and Gatherings, which includes a requirement for keeping and maintaining attendance and contact lists and for providing access to the event when the buildings are locked. The host is also responsible for ensuring that all visitors and outside guests have attested to being fully vaccinated. Review the requirements before committing to hosting events. Restrictions on indoor gatherings with food, and those where face coverings can’t be worn, went into effect on Dec. 16, 2021 and have been extended through mid-February 2022 unless conditions change Review rules for visitors. You or your staff may sponsor visitors who are fully vaccinated, but must follow the process in accordance with the Policy on Visitors. Your department or office may sponsor visitors who are fully vaccinated, but must follow the protocols outlined in the Visitor Policy. This includes formal approval of each visitor and obtaining an attestation that they are vaccinated. Review the policy and guidance before considering visitors. Be prepared for employees who will be uncomfortable returning to or remaining on campus. Many people are genuinely concerned about working with individuals who may not be vaccinated, working in a more densely populated campus, adjusting from remote work, and more. Your HR senior manager is available to help. Some employees will be returning to work on campus for the first time in more than a year. Others have been here throughout the pandemic and are worried about working on a more densely populated campus. Some have lost loved ones to COVID-19. Some have vulnerable people at home and others are vulnerable themselves. Some will be fearful of working around people who may not be fully vaccinated. Transitioning to the fall semester is going to be a challenge for most workplaces on campus. Listen actively and objectively. Demonstrate empathy and compassion. Promote a culture of understanding and respect. Contact your HR senior manager for help managing issues as they come up. Just as we helped each other through the most challenging times of the pandemic, so too will we support each through the return to more normal operations at the University this fall. We will look out for each other and work together as we always have to make the fall semester a productive and rewarding one in the Princeton tradition of service to each other, to the nation and the world. Contact your HR senior manager for help managing issues as they come up. For added support, you can write to covidvaccines@princeton.edu for questions related to vaccination and to covidtests@princeton.edu for questions related to testing. The COVID Connector line is available at covidconnector@princeton.edu or you can call 609-258-7000 for other questions. You also can find complete information at Princeton COVID resources and in the Princeton Playbook. Footer Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University