Princeton COVID Resources Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Princeton COVID Resources Main Menu Menu Safe Practices Health & Well-Being Testing Submenu Eligibility and Frequency Taking the Test Clinic Info and Test Kit Pick-up Dropping Off Your Sample Receiving Results Report a Testing Absence Vaccinations Submenu Faculty and Staff Requirement Student Requirement Workplace Submenu Information for Faculty and Staff Information For Managers FAQs for faculty Travel Undergraduate FAQs Quarantine & Isolation Policies Dashboard Log in Search Search Home Staying Healthy During the COVID Pandemic Health and Well-Being In addition to services at UHS and provided by the team of physicians at Global and Community Health, a number of individual and group resources have been made available to facilitate self-care, encourage routines and promote a healthy work-life balance. Global and Community Health Global and Community Health clinicians lead the COVID testing, vaccination, and contact tracing efforts. If an individual tests positive on campus or off, they should notify Global and Community Health at communityhealth@princeton.edu. If you have process questions about COVID testing on campus, you can email covidtests@princeton.edu. For questions about COVID Vaccines, email covidvaccines@princeton.edu, and if you are a student currently in isolation, you can reach the Isolation Coordinators at isolationhelp@princeton.edu Medical Information and assistance for students is available through University Health Services, based in McCosh Health Center depicted above. Please visit the UHS website for information about how to access UHS services, including tele-health. Resources for faculty and staff are available through the Office of Human Resources. Mental Health Information and assistance for students is available through Counseling and Psychological Services. Resources for faculty and staff are available through the Office of Human Resources. Undergraduate Student Government has published a Mental Health Resources Guidebook to help students navigate the resources offered through the University surrounding mental health and well-being. The guidebook was developed by USG's Mental Health Task Force and Letters to Strangers. Physical Fitness Campus Recreation is offering a full in-person schedule of fitness classes for spring 2022, including yoga, pilates, zumba and a variety of low- and high-impact workouts. Reservations are no longer required to use DiIlon Gym, but all users must be Princeton affiliates enrolled in the asymptomatic testing protocol and wear a face covering at all times, except when in the pool. Anytime Fitness and Wellness resources include prerecorded fitness classes and mindfulness sessions for viewing anywhere (login required). This page also includes a guide to outdoor recreation on campus and in the Princeton area. The Lewis Center for the Arts’ free drop-in classes in ballet, pilates, and yoga are available to Princeton students, alumni, faculty and staff. Participants should log-in to the schedule page with Princeton University ID for class information and dates. View all Lewis Center events » Spiritual Health Princeton University’s Office of Religious Life offers COVID-19 resources, including online events and opportunities for connection and spiritual uplift. Service Princeton offers a wealth of opportunities for students to participate in service and community engagement, strengthening connections within the campus, the surrounding region and the world. The Pace Center for Civic Engagement integrates service into the Princeton student experience, fostering leadership, inclusivity and a sense of purpose. The Office of Sustainability offers COVID-19 and Sustainability Resources for those interested in environmental activism during the pandemic and beyond. The University also supports more than 300 student organizations to match any interest. Footer Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University