Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Spring 2022 University Updates Policies and Guidelines Videos Visitor Guidelines Travel Restrictions ReopenCU App COVID-19 Vaccine Info Vaccine Mandate COVID-19 Testing Program Isolation Quarantine COVID-19 Monitoring Plan Building Readiness Information Research Research Ramp-up Ambassadors Announcements School Updates COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community You are here: Home Policies and Guidelines Coronavirus Quarantine Guide for Students Coronavirus Quarantine Guide for Students January 07, 2022 Morningside and Manhattanville students, please refer to the guide below. A. Guide B. Public Health Terminology C. Contact Information for Support CUIMC students, please refer to the Student Health on Haven website for additional guidance. How to Quarantine: A Guide for Morningside and Manhattanville Students If you have been recommended to quarantine, you are expected to quarantine and monitor your symptoms for 5 days before returning to work or class. Columbia University is here to support you as you navigate this period of uncertainty. Please work directly with your school's leadership on academic and research continuity. Hearing that you need to quarantine and disconnect from others may be disconcerting, but the goal is to ensure that you are healthy, while also protecting others from exposure to illness. What to have on hand Some people may quarantine in their own room or residence; others may need to relocate. In some circumstances, individuals may quarantine together. During this time, you will want to have enough clean clothes for at least 5 days, as well as a pillow and blanket, your cellphone, and laptop. You’ll also need a toiletry kit, eyewear, a thermometer, over-the-counter fever reducing medications, and any prescription and nonprescription medications. Your self-care kit Be prepared with a self-care kit that contains: Digital thermometer (for daily use) Hand sanitizer (for times you can’t wash) Alcohol wipes (for cleaning, as needed) Water bottle (stay hydrated!) Temperature and symptom log What to watch for Symptoms related to COVID-19 include: Fever (above 100.4°F) Cough Shortness of breath or difficulty breathing Fatigue Muscle or body aches Headache New loss of taste or smell Sore throat Congestion or runny nose Nausea or vomiting Diarrhea In more severe cases, infection can cause pneumonia and other complications, especially for older individuals and those with other health conditions. Monitoring your symptoms during quarantine Please take your temperature twice daily and record your symptoms on the health log. If you develop symptoms of COVID-19, isolate immediately and call Columbia Health Medical Services at 212-854-7426 for further guidance. A nurse will determine if you should leave the premises to seek medical attention. While you're in quarantine Remain in your home or room for the 5-day period. Do not go out, except when recommended by a medical professional. Maintain distance (approximately 6 feet or 2 meters) from others. Wear a mask or face covering when accessing communal bathrooms or kitchens. Residential undergraduates: Please refer to guidelines from the Undergraduate Student Life. Graduate students and undergraduates living off-campus: Arrange for food delivery. If sharing a bathroom, the person who is quarantining should clean and disinfect the frequently touched surfaces in the bathroom after each use. If you must leave your home try to do so during off-hours and avoid places where people are congregating. Wear a face covering at all times. Communication with family Your personal health information is confidential. You will need to sign a release before our staff will be able to speak with your parents or other family members or friends. Common feelings Everyone reacts differently to stressful situations that require changes in location or behavior. When you’re out of circulation, you may experience a range of feelings, including: Anxiety, worry, or fear related to your health status or that of others Anger or resentment at the inconvenience Worry about not having your things with you or not doing your usual routine Uncertainty or concern about how long you will need to remain in this situation Excitement to have some alone time to rest and catch up on reading Loneliness or feeling cut off Boredom and frustration Sadness or depression Symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder Please contact Counseling and Psychological Services (CPS) at 212-854-2878 if you need immediate counseling care. A provider is available to speak with you over the phone 24/7. Public Health Terminology When communicable infections circulate, communities try to reduce the spread in several ways, depending on the severity of the illness, the ease of transmission, and the local and national policies of the time. Often, more than one method is employed during an outbreak. Isolation prevents the spread of an infectious disease by separating people who are already sick from those who are not. It lasts as long as the disease is contagious. Quarantine separates and restricts the movement of people who were exposed to a contagious disease to see if they become sick. Quarantines are typically used for individuals who are at high risk of exposure to COVID-19—particularly those who have had close contact with someone confirmed to have COVID-19 without using recommended precautions for caregivers. Social or physical distancing means avoiding crowds and public transportation (e.g., bus, subway, taxi, ride share), and maintaining distance (approximately 6 feet or 2 meters) from others. Contact Information for Support You are a valued member of the Columbia community, and your health and well-being are important to us. Columbia Health is here to assist you if you need help. Medical Services: 212-854-7426 (available 24/7) Counseling & Psychological Services: 212-854-2878 (available 24/7) Public Safety 212-854-5555 (available 24/7) Document Categories Health Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close