Princeton COVID Resources Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Princeton COVID Resources Main Menu Menu Safe Practices Health & Well-Being Testing Submenu Eligibility and Frequency Taking the Test Clinic Info and Test Kit Pick-up Dropping Off Your Sample Receiving Results Report a Testing Absence Vaccinations Submenu Faculty and Staff Requirement Student Requirement Workplace Submenu Information for Faculty and Staff Information For Managers FAQs for faculty Travel Undergraduate FAQs Quarantine & Isolation Policies Dashboard Log in Search Search Princeton COVID Resources University updates guidelines for visitors to campus Effective May 16, the University has updated the visitor policy for University-sponsored events as it continues to refine protocols that align with the endemic state of the COVID-19 pandemic. Visitors participating in University sponsored programs exceeding 5 days as well as visitors staying overnight in dormitories are still required to be fully up to date with COVID-19 vaccinations and boosters. If you are inviting visitors to campus for five days or less, here’s what you need to know: Visitors who are up to date on their COVID-19 vaccinations must complete an attestation of their vaccination status and be prepared to show proof of their vaccination record. Visitors who are not up to date on their COVID-19 vaccinations must attest to a recent negative COVID-19 test and be prepared to show proof of the negative test. Without proof of a negative test, visitors who are not up to date on their COVID-19 vaccinations must agree to wear a mask indoors at all times and may not remove it to eat or drink. Read the full updated policy If you have tested positive for COVID If you are participating in the University's asymptomatic testing program and receive a positive COVID result, please check the updated guidance issued to students and employees in emails from covidtests@princeton.edu on Jan. 13. If you receive a positive COVID result outside of the on-campus testing program, email the Global and Community Health Team at communityhealth@princeton.edu to inform them of your result. Please attach proof of your positive result to your email. Do not call. The Team will be in touch with you as soon as they can. If you have previously tested positive for COVID and have received an official 90-day exemption from participation in asymptomatic testing from Global and Community Health, you do not have to do a test upon arrival back on campus.You should resume testing at the conclusion of your 90-day exemption period As of March 15, 2022, individuals are eligible to receive COVID boosters 5 months after their initial COVID vaccines, and should do so within 30 days of that 5 month mark. This timeline is regardless of a recent COVID diagnosis, as a review of scientific evidence indicates there is no reason to delay receiving a booster despite a recent COVID infection. Students must upload proof of booster to MyUHS. Employees must upload proof of booster to VacStatus. Find a COVID-19 Vaccine Clinic No more vaccination clinics are scheduled at Princeton University at this time. See the state's Vaccine Appointment Finder or vaccines.gov to search for and schedule an appointment in our area. If you have questions, send an email to covidvaccines@princeton.edu or call the University's COVID Connector telephone support line. Customer service agents are available at 609-258-7000 during University business hours from 8:45 a.m. to 5 p.m. EST Mask distribution on campus Updated KN95 mask distribution locations for students: Undergraduate All Residential College Offices: weekdays 11am to 4pm Graduate Graduate School at Clio Hall: Monday through Thursday 9am-4:45pm Graduate College Porter’s Lodge: weekdays 11am to 4pm Lakeside Apartment Main Office: regular business hours Up to 10 per person. Cannot pick up masks for another person. Must show valid student ID. For faculty, staff, and for graduate student use in labs and campus offices, departments supply the masks. Departments may order KN95 masks through EHS at cost, which is .53 per mask, using the COVID-19 PPE and Supply Request Form. KN95 masks are found under the category “Eye and Face.” For a quick guide to KN95s versus other types of face coverings, see the graphic Hierarchy of Protectiveness of Masks. COVID Dashboard The University's COVID-19 dashboard provides daily and weekly updates of positive cases reported by University Health Services from testing, as well as weekly isolation and quarantine reports. Daily reports are typically updated by 10 a.m., weekly reports by 5 p.m. on Monday or, after a Monday holiday, on Tuesday. Information is also provided on vaccination rates for students, faculty and staff. Hover over the below windows with a mouse (on desktop) or tap (on mobile) to see control bar and browse all data. Click the box icon on far right to view full screen. University COVID News Visitors Policy Update - Effective May 16 May 10, 2022 Effective May 16, the University has updated the visitor policy for University sponsored events as it continues to refine protocols that align with the endemic state of the COVID-19 pandemic. Below is a summary of the updated policy, which can be found in its entirety here. COVID Update | April 8, 2022 April 8, 2022 In the last ten days, we have tracked a rise in cases on campus, especially among undergraduates. The CDC Community Level remains low and Mercer County hospitalizations are low. Demand for isolation space for students has increased, but we have been able to accommodate. COVID Newsletter | April 4 April 5, 2022 As we start a new month, we thought it would be helpful to reshare the monthly testing schedule and offer some tips from UHS and EHS on what you can do to support fellow Princeton community members who are at higher risk of complications if they were to contract COVID. View All Footer Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University