Skip to Main Content Brown University Community Response to COVID-19 Healthy Brown Search Menu Community Response to COVID-19 Healthy Brown Guidance for Postdocs Guidance for essential and critical work for the Brown postdoctoral scholar community. Sub Navigation In This Section Healthy Brown Home Updates Prevention Testing & Isolation Vaccinations Workforce Visitors & Guests Athletics & Recreation Travel Policies FAQs Guidance for Postdocs Brown remains open, but research activities are being shifted off campus as much as possible. Only essential personnel should report to work in person. All community members who can telecommute, including graduate students and postdocs, are expected to do so. Postdocs who are not required to be on campus for critical work should plan to remain off campus. Supervisors have been asked to work with each of their student and postdoctoral trainees to develop a telecommuting plan that allows each of them to conduct research remotely to the fullest extent possible. For postdocs who have been identified by their mentor as “essential personnel,” these individuals should only stay in the work area for the minimal time necessary to carry out the critical work outlined in the lab’s minimum maintenance plan. All non-critical, on-campus research is now restricted to essential activities. FAQ for Postdocs What is “critical work"? Critical work includes maintenance of certain equipment, maintenance of critical samples and care of animals, and work whose interruption would result in irretrievable or unrecoverable loss of data or samples or loss of time for an ongoing experiment that could not be recovered within a reasonable period. How will I know if I am essential personnel and what is expected of me? Faculty and departments have been asked to designate some site-critical personnel for maintaining essential activities and to communicate with those personnel in the coming days. This may include postdocs, and those individuals will be listed explicitly in that department’s critical maintenance plan. Postdocs who are involved in critical research activities and who continue to come to campus after March 18 should practice social distancing, good hygiene, and sanitizing work environments. Essential personnel should only stay in the work area for the minimal time necessary to carry out the critical work. What type of work is expected of me during this period of telecommuting? What hours should I be accessible by e-mail or Zoom, and how frequently should I expect to meet with my mentor? Can I adjust my working hours from normal? Postdocs should work with their faculty mentors to develop a telecommuting plan that allows each of them to conduct research remotely to the fullest extent possible. This may include tasks such as analyzing data and preparing manuscripts and applications. Postdocs and their faculty mentors should agree on the scope of work, frequency of meetings, and best practices for communicating with each other. When possible, they should agree on working hours during which postdocs are expected to be available, and as importantly, hours when postdocs are not expected to be available and may attend to their lives outside of work. Should I still meet in person with my mentor? In accordance with the University guidance, we strongly discourage any non-essential meetings to take place in person. We recommend using video- and teleconferencing options such as Zoom instead. Will I continue to be paid to work remotely? Postdocs will continue to be paid as they work from home as long as their funding source allows for this arrangement. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Healthy Brown Home Updates Messages to the Community Campus Activity Status Staff Town Halls Prevention About COVID-19 Good Hygiene Cleaning, Air Systems & Water Isolation/Quarantine Education & Prevention Campaign Testing & Isolation COVID-19 Testing Data Isolation Protocols Contact Information Test Kit Pick-up Sites Testing, Masking & Isolation FAQ Vaccinations Safety and Effectiveness Vaccine Availability and Eligibility Verify Your Vaccination Resources Vaccine Working Group Vaccine FAQ Workforce Hybrid and Remote Work Position Classification Guidance Return to Campus UHR Contact Information Visitors & Guests Department Responsibilities for Visitors and Guests Event Visitors, Dining & Catering Visitor and Guest Vaccination Requirement FAQ Commencement and Reunion Visitors & Guests Athletics & Recreation Travel Policies Travel-related Guidance for Students FAQs This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Guidance for Postdocs Open details for Guidance for Postdocs Bookmark this Page