Princeton COVID Resources Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Princeton COVID Resources Main Menu Menu Safe Practices Health & Well-Being Testing Submenu Eligibility and Frequency Taking the Test Clinic Info and Test Kit Pick-up Dropping Off Your Sample Receiving Results Report a Testing Absence Vaccinations Submenu Faculty and Staff Requirement Student Requirement Workplace Submenu Information for Faculty and Staff Information For Managers FAQs for faculty Travel Undergraduate FAQs Quarantine & Isolation Policies Dashboard Log in Search Search Home News Visitors Policy Update - Effective May 16 May 10, 2022 TO: All staff, faculty, researchers, undergraduates, graduate students FROM: Campus Message SUBJECT: Visitors Policy Update DATE: Tuesday, May 10, 2022 Effective May 16, the University has updated the visitor policy for University sponsored events as it continues to refine protocols that align with the endemic state of the COVID-19 pandemic. Below is a summary of the updated policy, which can be found in its entirety here. Visitors participating in University sponsored programs exceeding 5 days as well as visitors staying overnight in dormitories are still required to be fully up to date with COVID-19 vaccinations and boosters. If you are inviting visitors to campus for five days or less, here’s what you need to know: Visitors who are up to date on their COVID-19 vaccinations must complete an attestation of their vaccination status and be prepared to show proof of their vaccination record. Visitors who are not up to date on their COVID-19 vaccinations must attest to a recent negative COVID-19 test and be prepared to show proof of the negative test. Without proof of a negative test, visitors who are not up to date on their COVID-19 vaccinations must agree to wear a mask indoors at all times and may not remove it to eat or drink. How do visitors attest to being vaccinated? The campus sponsor must collect attestations or ask the visitor to complete the digital TigerPass form and present their clearance status prior to or at the time of arrival. Sponsors must either store the completed forms or keep an attendance list with contact information for at least two weeks after the conclusion of the visit in case it is needed for contact tracing purposes. How do visitors who are not up to date show a recent negative test? They must attest to receiving a negative COVID-19 test (PCR within 72 hours or rapid antigen within 8 hours before the scheduled visit) and be prepared to show proof of the negative test. They can complete an attestation form or use TigerPass. How are these attestations collected? Campus sponsors may continue collecting attestations the same way they have previously. The Office of Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) will share guidance on a new digital option, TigerPass, to collect attestations with unit and department heads shortly. Does this new policy apply to Reunions? Yes, with one exception: Reunions guests who are not up to date with vaccinations are not permitted to stay overnight in dorms and must be masked indoors at all times and may not remove their mask to eat or drink. They cannot opt out of the masking requirement with a negative COVID-19 test. We are also encouraging all attendees to test before they arrive on campus. Have additional questions? Please visit the EHS site to read the full Visitor Policy. You may also email covidconnector@princeton.edu or call (609)258-7000 M-F, 8:45 a.m. – 5 p.m. Footer Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University