Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of the Provost Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Offices Resources Announcements Provost Mary C. Boyce Vice Provosts Past Provosts About the Office Advisory Committees University Leadership Vice Provost Offices Academic Programs Communications and Engagement Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Senior Vice Provost Faculty Advancement Faculty Affairs Fourth Purpose and Strategic Impact Teaching, Learning, and Innovation University Libraries Other Reporting Units Educational Programs Educational Agreements Educational Programs Approval Policies and Appointments Faculty Handbook Selected Faculty Policies University Policy Library Faculty Life Housing Parenting Well-Being New Faculty Awards, Fellowships, and RFPs For Faculty For Graduate Students Research at Columbia Teaching Resources Library Tools Academic Calendar CourseWorks Registrar CUIT Services for Faculty SSOL Office of the Provost You are here: Home News and Announcements University COVID Update University COVID Update November 25, 2020 Dear fellow members of the Columbia community, Not even two weeks have passed since our last communication that asked each of us to redouble our community’s efforts to keep the campus safe. That message was motivated by disconcerting national trends, even as it took note of New York’s, and Columbia’s, comparative successes. Troubling changes since, including some close to home, beg for further vigilance. The SARS-CoV-2 positivity rate hit 3% in New York City last week, which triggered the move to make the public school system virtual this past Thursday. Four days later, on November 23, our Washington Heights and West Harlem zip codes shifted from “green” to “yellow,” as determined by New York State criteria, prompting a heightened level of precautionary measures. Though this change does not demand any immediate action by Columbia, it signifies a rise in COVID-19 cases in our surrounding communities, as well as growing pressures on our health care workers and institutions. As a cautionary step, the University has reduced the size of all non-academic gatherings to 10 or fewer; the prior limit had been 50. As local and distant Thanksgiving gatherings with family and friends beckon, we also have initiated “departure” SARS-CoV-2 testing on a grand scale. Last week alone, close to 7,000 affiliates were tested and the Columbia positivity rate fell below 0.5%. Return to campus testing will begin on November 30, and the significantly expanded testing program will continue through December. The past two weeks have witnessed the heartening news that three pharmaceutical companies have made significant progress towards approved COVID-19 vaccines. One or more might be available for first delivery as early as next month. Distribution, however, will be complicated and challenging, influenced by federal, state, and even local government agencies and decisions. To be prepared, we have appointed a vaccine task force, charged to identify the range of relevant issues and their implications for Columbia students, staff, and faculty. Inevitably, first supplies will be short of the demand, and will be targeted to health care workers. As further developments unfold, we pledge to keep you regularly informed about vaccination policies and the wider range of pandemic issues. Just last week, more than 2,000 faculty and staff, posing more than 300 questions, participated in two town halls about COVID and Columbia. Early December will be a time for announcements that concern undergraduate housing as well as modes of instruction for the full constellation of courses across the University’s 16 schools. We are grateful for all you have done at a most trying time, and send warm wishes for a safe and happy Thanksgiving. With appreciation, Ira Katznelson Interim Provost Ruggles Professor of Political Science and History Donna Lynne Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Columbia University Irving Medical Center Chief Executive Officer, ColumbiaDoctors University COVID Director Tags COVID-19 Announcements News May 12, 2022 2022 Faculty Mentoring, Service, and Diversity Awards Announced May 09, 2022 Working Group Submits Anti-Bullying Recommendations May 02, 2022 2022-23 Salary Guidelines for Officers of Research April 26, 2022 Enhancements to Undergraduate Financial Aid for 2022-2023 Academic Year March 24, 2022 Updated COVID Language for Offer/Reappointment Letters for Academic Personnel Office of the Provost535 W. 116th Street, 205 Low Memorial Library, Mail Code 4313 · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-2403 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close