Skip to main content Classified Personnel Council navigation menu About CPC Join CPC Council Members CPC Committees Communicator Archive Meeting Dates, Agendas & Minutes Prior Year Meeting Documents University, City & Statewide Committees Member Resources Resources and Information Awards & Recognition Contact the CPC Representing State Classified Employees at Colorado State University by promoting, improving, and protecting their role within the University system. Check here for the date and time of the next CPC Monthly Meeting! Our meetings are open to the CSU Community and we'd love to (virtually) see you there! CPC ANNOUNCEMENTS CPC is looking for members to start July 1, 2022. To learn more about what being a CPC member is all about, please read this recent article at SOURCE. For more information and to apply, please visit here. DEADLINE EXTENDED UNTIL MAY 31, 2022! UNIVERSITY ANNOUNCEMENTS CSU Summer: K-12 Programs and Credit Courses for Employees Explore youth academic programs and sport camps Summer K-12 programs include credit-bearing, sport, and academic programs offered by many CSU departments and organizations. Academic categories include animals and environment, arts and human sciences, industry and leadership, interdisciplinary programs, and science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM). Learn more at the CSU Summer K-12 Programs Portal. Summer Session course registration begins Tuesday, March 22 Faculty and Staff may use their employee study privilege year-round. Visit the Registrar’s site for additional information. It’s easy to search for summer courses by subject, term, and delivery type at Courses at a Glance. Non-resident undergraduate students will benefit from the summer base tuition rate which is 30% less than the previous fall and spring rates. Colorado residents may benefit from the increased CSU Tuition Assistance Grant. Learn more about this CSU System investment in student success in this recent SOURCE article. Human Resources is excited to offer several webinars each month to help maintain or enhance your wellbeing. From boosting your self esteem and estate planning to discovering how employment at CSU impacts Social Security, you’re sure to find a session that helps boost your wellness journey. Visit the HR website to discover even more resources. The new Rams Against Hunger Food Pantry opened its doors Jan. 18! Operating from The Office of Student Leadership, Involvement and Community Engagement (SLiCE), Rams Against Hunger offers a menu of services that support students, faculty and staff experiencing food insecurity. Services include a food pantry, a meal-swipe program, pocket pantries, and in-person assistance with navigating federal aid eligibility. Find out more about RAH Programs and Services and see our RAH Resource Map. Learn more about how you can support the new RAH Food Pantry. See more photos from the Grand Opening Celebration, held on Jan. 29! Hours of Operation Come see us in the General Services Building, 1251 S. Mason St., Fort Collins, CO 80523. Monday: 3-6 p.m. Tuesday: 9 a.m.-noon Wednesday: 3-6 p.m. Thursday: 3-6 p.m. Colorado State Employee Assistance Program Offerings Check out our newly released line-up of CSEAP webinars as well as personal and professional growth opportunities! Visit our CSEAP meditation page for newly updated meditations and guided imagery! For more information about CSEAP and your available EAP benefits, visit – https://cseap.colorado.gov/ 24-hour live crisis support is available by calling CSEAP at 303-866-4314. A DAY IN THE LIFE Day in the Life: Peggy Stoltenberg A typical workday for Peggy Stoltenberg could encompass just about anything. She sits at the front desk in the Northeast Regional Engagement Center on a busy corner in downtown Sterling. Many people see the CSU sign and walk in to ask a variety of random questions, such as, “How can I get an opossum out of my attic?” More often, people wander into the Engagement Center because they are new to town looking for resources, connections or education — or they are longtime residents, also looking for resources, connections or education. “Which is great,” says Stoltenberg, “because THAT is what my work is all about: making connections and building relationships.” Read the entire story on SOURCE! Day in the Life: Jeremy Dawson Jeremy Dawson has worked as a CSU State Classified employee for 21 years, and for the last 14 of them, he has led the Access, Resource, Compliance (ARC) team for Parking and Transportation Services (PTS). “There is no typical day for me,” he says. “Each day brings its own set of challenges.” Read the entire story on SOURCE! Day in the Life: Adam Redavid If you could travel anywhere, where would you go? Adam Redavid, assistant manager for the Braiden Dining Center answered, “I’d love to go to Rome, or Tokyo or New Orleans — any city known for amazing food, really — and just spend a week or two immersing myself in the history, culture, and of course the cuisine!” This response is fitting. Redavid is a State Classified employee in Residential Dining Services where he served as a cook for the past six years — and in July became assistant manager. Read the entire story on SOURCE! Day in the Life: Kristine Kofron Kristine Kofron, who has been a CSU state classified employee for 20 years, is the blood bank manager for the Small Animal Blood Bank at the James L. Voss Veterinary Teaching Hospital. Read the entire story on SOURCE! Day in the Life of Adrian Macdonald: Department of Statistics by day, Leadville 100 winner by night Meet Adrian Macdonald, chair of the Classified Personnel Council (CPC). As the FY22 CPC Chair, Macdonald serves as a council spokesperson, leads the council’s monthly meetings and meets with Colorado State University and state leaders to advocate for improved work experiences for State Classified employees. Read the entire story on SOURCE! Day in the Life: Sue Rutherford, Physical Therapist The physical therapy clinic in the CSU Health Network provides physical rehabilitation to students who may be experiencing pain or have had an injury or surgery. Over the years, CSU Health Network physical therapy has collaborated with other CSU departments to develop preventative health seminars and screenings for employees and students. Patients arrive at the physical therapy clinic from around the country and around the world, which means the clinic’s referral base is also that broad. Read the entire story on SOURCE! Day in the Life: Facilities Management Space & Mapping Team Ever wonder who figured out the setup for social-distance learning in Colorado State University classrooms? Or who is responsible for coordinating furniture coming back to correct locations this fall? The Facilities Management Space & Mapping section within the Division of University Operations is made up of five State Classified employees who do this work, and so much more. The team includeds Interior Design Project Manager Terry Adams, Planning Specialist GIS/DIS Martha Coleman, Utility-Mapping CAD Tech/GPS Surveyor Mark Suniga, Drawing Management/Building CAD Tech Mike Shortall, and is led by Space Allocation and Data Manager Kristi Buffington. Read more on SOURCE! More CPC News Available at SOURCE CPC Seeking Volunteers for CPC and University Committees If CPC membership seems like too much of a commitment but you want to get more involved, we need volunteers to participate in CPC committees and University committees. Contact cpc_chair@colostate.edu or cpc_vicechair@colostate.edu if you are interested! Colleges: Agricultural Sciences Business Engineering Health and Human Sciences Liberal Arts Natural Resources Natural Sciences Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences Schools & Programs: Graduate School International Programs Online Degrees and Courses School of Music, Theatre and Dance School of Biomedical Engineering School of Education School of Global Environmental Sustainability School of Social Work Covid-19 Information Apply to CSU Contact CSU Disclaimer Equal Opportunity Privacy Statement Accessibility Statement © 2022 Colorado State University