Skip to main content SEARCH: This Site Cornell more options Cornell Prison Education Program Search This Site menu About Us Toggle the sub-menu Academic Programs Our History Our People Our Mission Newsletter Archive Get Involved Toggle the sub-menu Apply to be a TA Apply to be an Instructor Guest Lecture Series Writer’s Bloc Literary Journal Video/Photo Gallery Donate Contact Us Cornell Prison Education Program About Us Toggle the sub-menu Academic Programs Our History Our People Our Mission Newsletter Archive Get Involved Toggle the sub-menu Apply to be a TA Apply to be an Instructor Guest Lecture Series Writer’s Bloc Literary Journal Video/Photo Gallery Donate Contact Us Cornell Prison Education Program The mission of the Cornell Prison Education Program (CPEP) is to provide high quality higher education in New York State prisons; to help CPEP students build meaningful lives inside prison as well as prepare for successful re-entry into civic life; and to inform thought and action on social justice issues among past and present CPEP students, volunteers, and the wider public. We believe in equitable access to higher education and the transformative power of intellectual development. Our engagement in the state correctional system manifests Ezra Cornell’s commitment to founding an institution where “any person can find instruction in any study.” Our work supports a regional collaboration that brings together Cornell faculty and graduate students to teach a college-level liberal arts curriculum to a select group of students at four correctional facilities in the region. Credits are applied toward one of two associates degrees offered through a collaboration with SUNY. Additionally, advanced students may study with Cornell Faculty to earn a Certificate in Liberal Arts from Cornell University. We also partner with regional colleges including the University of Rochester, Syracuse University, and Ithaca College. New York State spends $60,076 to incarcerate a person for one year. The cost savings for the NYS taxpayer attributable to the Cornell Prison Education Program in reduced re-incarceration rates could likely pay for the entire program, with surplus savings that could be used to subsidize the education of others. Thus, the Cornell Prison Education Program could be considered a mechanism to reduce the scope of prison, save the taxpayer money, and re-direct resources toward more positive futures. Currently, incarcerated individuals are the only class of people barred from receiving financial aid for college. We rely on private foundations and individual donors for 100% of our budget. Please help support the Cornell Prison Education Program—make a tax-free gift to CPEP today. © 2022 Cornell Prison Education Program | Web Accessibility