About MBA Business Bridge Faculty & Research News Tuck School of Business Tuck School of Business Center for Private Equity and Venture Capital About Center FAQ Mission & Vision People Center Activity Programs Courses & Electives Experiential Learning Student Groups Partnerships Resources News & Research Center News In the Media Events Get Involved Alumni Students About Center FAQ Mission & Vision People Center Activity Programs Courses & Electives Experiential Learning Student Groups Partnerships Resources News & Research Center News In the Media Events Get Involved Alumni Students About MBA Business Bridge Faculty & Research News Home Mission Vision The Center for Private Equity and Venture Capital at Tuck includes faculty, students, alumni, and professionals from the private equity and venture capital fields. Together we are committed to advancing knowledge about these industries through experiential learning opportunities. CPEVC provides programming that enhances the curricular and co-curricular experiences of Tuck students and connects them with the broader community of PE and VC professionals. What are Centers at Tuck? The six Centers at Tuck forge pathways of learning and application for our MBA students. Students are encouraged to partake of any of Tuck's individual or cross-Center opportunities to truly customize their learning and experience. Program Spotlight Comprised of two cohorts, the Venture Capital and Private Equity Fellows, the CPEVC MBA Fellows Program provides Tuck students interested in private equity and venture capital with opportunities that further their knowledge of and experience in these industries. The application process opens to first-years in December. Learn more Stay Connected Receive updates and reminders about the Tuck Private Equity and Venture Capital Conference. Sign up CPEVC at a Glance CPEVC Conference The Tuck Private Equity and Venture Capital Conference is presented each February by the Center for Private Equity and Venture Capital and the Private Equity and Venture Capital Club. Meet the Team Meet the Center's team, including our T'21 fellows. Student Programs Learn about opportunities open to Tuck students who are interested in private equity and venture capital, including the CPEVC MBA Fellows program. Center News Learn more about what Tuck students are up to on campus and in the industry. CONTACT US Send us an email Join our mailing list Center for Private Equity and Venture Capital Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth 100 Tuck Hall Hanover, NH 03755 100 Tuck Hall Hanover, NH 03755 USA Center for Business, Government & Society Center for Digital Strategies Center for Entrepreneurship Center for Health Care Center for Private Equity and Venture Capital Revers Center for Energy, Sustainability and Innovation Apply Admissions Financial Aid Application Deadlines Admissions FAQs Contact Directions Campus Map Accessibility Area Lodging MyTuck for Alumni TuckStuff Store TuckConnect Intranet Employment For Recruiters For Journalists Back to Top Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © , The Trustees of Dartmouth College. All rights reserved.