COVID-19 Resources Home Resources Virtual Programs Program Logistics Compliance Participant Wellbeing Finances Third-Party Programs Search website... Program Logistics dfasdfdsjhkjfhkasjfhd Skip to main content Skip to footer University Youth Programs Texas A&M University Menu Header Right A Division of the Texas A&M University Office of Risk, Ethics and Compliance Search website... About UYP Team HEPNet CPM Definitions Resources CircuiTree Resources New Program Sponsor Information Training Videos Program Sponsor Yearly Training Forms Helpful Handouts Youth Program Newsletters Resources from the American Camps Association Medical Facility Notification Letter CPT Instructions Billing Instructions UYP Staff Virtual Going Online with Youth Choosing the Right Platform Privacy Online Care of Youth Logistics Supervision Ratios Staff Screening & Selection Housing Dining Facilities Transportation & Parking Traveling Abroad Additional Campus Resources & Services Compliance Compliance Background Checks Child Protection Training Code Maroon Release Forms and Waivers Incident Reporting Itineraries and Site Visits Document Retention Minors in Labs Video Summaries Participant Wellbeing Risk Management Participant Medication Finances Insurance Support Service Fees Billing Information Third-Party Programs What is a Third Party Program? On Campus Resources CPM Sponsor Contractual Relationship with the University Background Checks Child Protection Training Certificate of Insurance Support Service Fees Billing Information University Youth Programs The requirements for hosting campus programs for minors stem from a shared commitment to provide a safe environment and meaningful experience for participants that not only meet the minimum legal requirements but also reflect the University’s core values of Excellence, Integrity, Leadership, Loyalty, Respect, and Selfless Service. The revised Texas A&M University Rule for Campus Programs for Minors (24.01.06.M0.01) outlines the requirements for compliance. Access CPM Application File Incident Report Contact Us Strategies for Reopening In-Person Youth Programs You can also view the accessible outline of the presentation. For re-occuring programs that would like to review CPM Applications from prior to January 2020, please visit the StuAct Online CPM Application portal. What is a Campus Program for Minors? Commonly referred to as CPMs, Campus Program for Minors are University-sponsored events and activities which typically include all of the following elements: The participant group is made up, in whole or in part, of individuals under the age of 18, a university department, college, administrative unit, professional school, branch campus, recognized student organization, and/or third party is assuming care, custody, and/or control of the participants, and may or may not collect fees from participants. Requirements for Hosting a Campus Program for Minors The requirements for hosting a Campus Program for Minors will be determined after a risk assessment has been completed with University Youth Programs. Examples of the levels of requirements based on the risk assessment can be found in the tiers below. For more information on these requirements, visit the Compliance page. Checklists For a checklist and timeline of the various requirements for Texas A&M Programs, please click one of the links below: Checklist for CPMs Checklist for Third Party CPMs Requirements by Tier for CPMs When considering what level your interaction with minors might be, you can use the following guidelines as a start. A full risk assessment should be scheduled with University Youth Programs and together, the appropriate levels of risk management will be decided. The tiers are described in this Overview of Youth on Campus. All programs are expected to have Check-in/Check-out procedures, have at least two staff members signed up for Code Maroon, a medical response plan, and are required to submit incident reports within 24 hours of an incident. Review Process Applications for Campus Programs Minors undergo a review process facilitated by University Youth Programs. While this process is automated, there are several levels of review and approval, so advance planning is key. To help provide a better picture of how the CPM application is processed, here’s a look at the various stages of review: Program Sponsor Person responsible for planning, direction, and/or operation of the event Additional Reviewers* Optional reviewer spots for individuals with oversight Sponsoring Department Department Head of the academic unit or Director of an administrative unit or their assigned designee Risk & Compliance Review** A representative from University Youth Programs Sponsoring Dean Dean/Associate Dean of college or similar level for department/division or the assigned designee *An individual with oversight of the program could be required to be one of the additional reviewers, for example: For recognized student organizations, it will be the primary advisor as listed in StuAct Online or for University Departments it will be the assigned departmental liaison. Programs with lab components will also have additional oversight from the Vice President of Research’s office. **Please keep in mind that there is a 60-day deadline for completing the CPM application and having it approved by your department’s director/chair. In other words, the application should be in the Risk & Compliance review phase no later than 60 days before the first day of the event. Site Footer Contact Us Medical Science Library Suite 007 | Room 024 College Station, TX 77843-4462 ☎ 979-862-3295 ✉ uyp@tamu.edu Our Philosophy The requirements for hosting campus programs for minors stem from a shared commitment to provide a safe environment and meaningful experience for participants that not only meet the minimum legal requirements but also reflect the University’s Core Values of Excellence, Integrity, Leadership, Loyalty, Respect, and Selfless Service. The Texas A&M University Rule for Campus Programs for Minors (24.01.06.M0.01) outlines the requirements for compliance. HEPNet Texas A&M University is a proud member of the Highter Education Protection Network Copyright © 2022 · Texas A&M University · Office of Risk, Ethics and Compliance | Accessibility · Site Policies · Report Fraud Click HERE for In-Person Youth Programs and COVID-19 Updates and Guidance. +