Skip to main content University of California, Riverside UCR Home More from us... Planning, Budget, & Administration Search UC Riverside Planning, Design & Construction Search Campus Planning Capital Planning Physical Planning Long Range Developmental Plan Planning Documents Master Plan Study Environmental Planning (CEQA) Space Management Facilities Management (FMS) Space Request Form University Space Committee Geographic Information Systems Consultants / Contractors Design Professionals/Consultants Contractors Project Management Projects List Batchelor Hall Renovation School of Business New Building School of Medicine Education Building II Student Health and Counseling Center Interactive Project Map R'Projects Building & Safety Apply for Campus Building Permit and Request Inspections Frequently Asked Questions Codes, Standards & Policies Request Inspection (CForms) - For Permits Issued Prior to Jan 18th, 2021 Fire Prevention UCR Home More from us... Planning, Budget, & Administration Planning, Design, and Construction Planning, Design, and Construction Planning, Design and Construction Planning, Design and Construction Planning, Design and Construction Planning, Design and Construction Planning, Design and Construction Planning, Design and Construction Planning, Design and Construction Planning, Design and Construction Planning, Design and Construction Planning, Design and Construction Planning, Design and Construction Planning, Design and Construction Planning, Design and Construction Planning, Design and Construction Planning, Design and Construction Planning, Design and Construction Previous Next Breadcrumb About Us Planning, Design & Construction (PD&C) stewards the physical development of the UCR campus in support of its teaching, research, and public service mission. PD&C’s work is guided by a strong commitment to sustainability and the acknowledgement of its truly diverse, inclusive, and globally-focused community. Through long range planning, new construction, and creative renovation of existing campus buildings, open space, and infrastructure, PDC seeks to preserve and enhance UCR’s distinct sense of place. The work of Planning, Design & Construction is divided between the responsibilities for the planning and design of the campus, and the management of construction. Video Spotlight CONTACT US Project Spotlight The Barn More Information Student Success Center More Information Plant Growth More Information School of Medicine More Information Campus News May 11, 2022 New School of Medicine building beginning to take shape Construction work on a new School of Medicine building is continuing to make progress. A large tower crane has been stationed at the construction site on the east side of campus in the last couple months as crews put up walls, columns, and components of the building structure. Read More » March 08, 2022 Campus projects win city beautification awards Two UC Riverside projects were recognized in the city of Riverside’s annual beautification awards in February. The awards were announced Feb. 24 during the State of the City address by Riverside Mayor Patricia Lock Dawson. Read More » February 23, 2022 Campus breaks ground on new health and counseling center UC Riverside marked the start of a new era in campus health and wellness Friday, Feb. 18, celebrating the groundbreaking for a new Student Health and Counseling Center. Read More » February 15, 2022 Campus power system gets a boost UC Riverside’s electrical system is getting an upgrade. An electrical infrastructure project underway for over a year will provide the campus with more reliability, capacity, and safety, said Drew Hecht, director of project management for the Office of Planning, Development, and Construction. Read More » More News QUICK LINKS CAMPUS PLANNING Planning Documents Capital Financial Plan PROJECT MANAGEMENT Contacts Project List SPACE MANAGEMENT Policy and Procedure FIRE PREVENTION Fire Prevention Training Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR Planning, Design & Construction 1223 University Village Suite 240 Riverside, CA 92507 tel: (951) 827-2433 fax: (951) 827-2402 email: pdc@ucr.edu (Address of Notice) 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Follow US: UC Riverside UC Riverside UC Riverside UC Riverside UC Riverside Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search Cancel