Skip to main content Arts NC State Crafts Center Menu Close About Virtual Tour Calendar Directions Parking Permits Staff Instructors Classes and Workshops Summer 2022 Classes Register Calendar Classes and Workshops Events and Exhibitions The Member-Made Street Gallery Events Crafts Fair Exhibitions For NC State Students Academic Support Outreach and Engagement Teach at the Crafts Center Student Volunteer Options Get Involved Volunteer Giving Teach at the Crafts Center Guilds Register Memberships Fees How to Cancel Craft Center Studios Virtual Tour Mixed Media Studio Clay Studio Fiber Studio Glass Studio Jewelry and Metals Studio Lapidary Studio Photography Studio Wood Studio Give Now About About Virtual Tour Calendar Directions Parking Permits Staff Instructors Classes and Workshops Classes and Workshops Summer 2022 Classes Register Calendar Classes and Workshops Events and Exhibitions Events and Exhibitions The Member-Made Street Gallery Events Crafts Fair Exhibitions For NC State Students For NC State Students Academic Support Outreach and Engagement Teach at the Crafts Center Student Volunteer Options Get Involved Get Involved Volunteer Giving Teach at the Crafts Center Guilds Register Register Memberships Fees How to Cancel Craft Center Studios Craft Center Studios Virtual Tour Mixed Media Studio Clay Studio Fiber Studio Glass Studio Jewelry and Metals Studio Lapidary Studio Photography Studio Wood Studio Give Now Make it here! At NC State, the arts are for everyone. Summer 2022 Classes & Workshops Registration for Summer classes begins on April 18 for NC State students and on April 25 for the public. Read more Registration for these classes begins on April 25 at 9:00am This summer, take a BREAK and learn to MAKE something wonderful! We are launching a new series of classes for NC State faculty and staff called BREAK to MAKE. These are shorter classes specifically designed for our fellow Pack colleagues. Treat yourself and your team! Read more Graduating Student Workers Crafts Center student workers that are graduating this May share their favorite memories and plans for the future. Read more Last Chance to Register Time is running out… to register for these upcoming classes! Don’t wait until the last minute – classes that have insufficient registration 5 days prior to class date may be cancelled. Read more The Crafts Center Home Thompson Hall 210 Jensen Drive Raleigh, NC 27606 Mailing Address The Crafts Center Campus Box 7320 NC State University Raleigh, NC 27695-7320 crafts-center@ncsu.edu 919.515.2457 Crafts Center Dance Program Gregg Museum of Art & Design Music Department NC State Live Ticket Central University Theatre Accessibility Compliments & Complaints Website Feedback Join our community Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.