Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Campus Recreation Center About Employment Student Employees of the Month Hours Meet Our Staff Mission, Vision, Values & Customer Service Rules & Policies Contact Us Facilities Spring 2022 Operations Sustainability in the CRC Awards & Publications Memberships Memberships Faculty & Staff Benefits Aquatics Hours Swim Lessons Lifeguard Certification Pool Parties SCUBA Programs Sports & Fitness Intramural Sports Sport Clubs Fitness Classes Personal Training Facilities & Equipment Indoor Climbing Wall Sport Simulator Virtual Fitness Move Georgia Tech Tyler Brown Pi Mile Outdoor Rec Adventure Trips Tech Treks Online Outdoor Gear Rental Get Involved CORE Leadership Program Additional Services Special Trips Tech Wreck Summer Camps Leadership Challenge Course Massage Therapy Rentals & Reservations Advertise With Us My CRC Give Now Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home From a state-of-the-art fitness center, world-class aquatics facility, the CRC offers fitness programs, competitive sports, aquatic programs, outdoor recreation, and more. Program Brochure Download the Adobe Reader to view the PDF file. CRC Building Hours Mon - Fri: 6:00 a.m. - 8:00 p.m. Sat: 9:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. Sun: 12:00 p.m. - 6:00 p.m. Additional Hours Competition Pool and Leisure Pool Lap Lanes Check specific hours here. Leisure Pool Recreation Area & Water Slide Check specific hours here. News Campus Recreation Hosts Four Championship Swim Meets this Spring Over the next two months, the Campus Recreation Center (CRC) Complex and the McAuley Aquatic Center will host three championship events: the Georgia High School Association (GHSA) meet, the Athletic Coast Conference (ACC) meet and the National Colligate Athletic Associate (NCAA) meet. CRC Expands Indoor Services Just In Time for Summer The summer is heating up, but there’s good news for those in search of well-being activities: it’s getting a lot cooler at the Campus Recreation Center (CRC). With the transition to summer, the CRC team has announced changes in operations that many in the community will be glad to see. Healthy Lifestyle Video Series Caroline Dotts, former Interim Senior Director of the CRC, hosts a five-part limited video series Healthy Lifestyles with the CRC where she shares how to achieve and maintain a healthy lifestyle. Visit the video series webpage to learn more about tour services, the foundational blocks for personal and academic success, how to beat stress, the benefits of exercise, and the power of sleep. Facebook Twitter Instagram Flickr YouTube Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Campus Services Departments Auxiliary Services Bookstore - Barnes and Noble @ Georgia Tech BuzzCard Center Campus Recreation Center Campus Services Dining Services Health Initiatives Health Services Health and Well-Being Housing Information Technology Group Parking & Transportation Services Student Center Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login