Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search UC Riverside Brand Identity Search Home Visual Identity UCR Brand Overview UCR Logos and Best Practices UCR Institutional Logo UCR Monogram UCR Seal UCR Color Palette UCR Typefaces UCR Stationery Photos/Videos Web Athletics Brand Platform Platform Overview Pillars Positioning Tone Messaging Editorial Editorial Overview Power Claims Social Media Resources Email Resources Channels Signage Banner Displays CSAG Managed Signage Locations Signage Calendar Signage Request Process Signage Types Templates and Production Temporary Signage Management Partners Training 2022 MarComm Conference Downloads Breadcrumb The UCR Brand WHY OUR BRAND MATTERS As a member of America’s most prestigious public university system, UC Riverside is one of the most dynamic campuses in the nation. To convey an image consistent with who we are and to communicate effectively with many diverse constituents and key stakeholders, UC Riverside has established a unified institutional brand and marketing program. A brand is much more than a name or logo. A strong brand defines our strengths, captures the essence of our shared identity, and tells our unique story. It significantly enhances the collective impact of our campus communications efforts, enabling UCR to more effectively compete in a crowded marketplace for new students, faculty, and funding resources. It elevates our institutional reputation by reinforcing our most distinctive qualities, assets, and accomplishments. This brand site is designed as a resource for anyone who writes, edits, or designs content for or speaks publicly about UCR. Consistent use of these resources helps ensure that UC and UCR policies and guidelines are being properly applied to official stationery, business cards, signage, university websites, seals, products, publications, and other official collateral. Explore the UCR Brand Book for message guidance and institutional power claims customized for select audiences. Would your campus unit like to request a logo updated with UCR's new brand identity? To request college, school, and center logos, contact the appropriate marketing communication manager. All other campus departments and organizations may request logo files or contact University Communications at universitycomm@ucr.edu or (951) 827-9101. Here are a few resource links for more information on how to: Request a creative design and marcom strategy project Request a video project Request a photography project Request college, school, and center logos from unit marketing manager Request administrative unit/department logos Download tools, templates, social media assets, and more Download the Brand Book (PDF) Update your email signature Access video and photography resources Access the On Brand newsletter archives New campus stationery available through Campus Business Services. Request campus stationery DOWNLOAd campus brand toolkit DOWNLOAD NOW Get the latest UCR brand updates. Sign up Logos and Monograms Read More Styleguide Read More Video Read More Downloads Get Assets Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR University Communications 900 University Avenue 1156 Hinderaker Hall Riverside, CA 92521 tel: (951) 827-6397 email: universitycomm@ucr.edu Related Links University Advancement Request a Project Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search Cancel