Skip to content Center for Regional Economic Advancement at Cornell University We fuel economic growth and diversity in Upstate New York through entrepreneurship and innovation. We support and empower people to to start and grow new ventures. Menu COVID-19 Resources About CREA People Economic Impact Programs Webinars Research News Contact Us About CREA We fuel economic growth and diversity in Upstate New York through entrepreneurship and innovation. We support and empower people to start and grow new ventures. . Meet the team at CREA “W.E. Cornell is an immensely valuable program that addresses the unique challenges women face in launching startups." - David Erickson, Sibley College Professor of Mechanical Engineering . Learn more about W.E. Cornell Rev: Ithaca Startup Works members raised over $40.4M in capital and generated over $25.8M in revenue in 2021. . Learn more about Rev 70% of Napkin-to-Prototype teams form startups, and these alumni have raised over $15M in venture capital to date. . Learn more about Napkin-to-Prototype Hardware Accelerator "Cornell is proud to support the Grow-NY competition, which plays a vital role in catalyzing food and agriculture start-ups and entrepreneurship across our region. By partnering across the public and private sectors, Grow-NY is critical to scaling new technologies and innovations needed to meet our state’s goals for more sustainable food systems that provide healthy, nutritious food to all."Ronald P. Lynch, Dean of the Cornell University College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Benjamin Z. Houlto . Learn more about Grow-NY "In I-Corps, Ph.D. students and post-docs learn what it takes to move technologies from the bench to the real world, and that knowledge not only produces successful entrepreneurs, it creates better scientists and engineers." - Lance Collins, Joseph Silbert Dean of Engineering, Cornell University . Learn more about UNY NSF I-Corps Over 300 investor meetings were arranged for clean energy companies by the Southern Tier Startup Alliance and regional incubators within the last year. . Learn more about STSA Support for Startups Through COVID-19 Explore economic development programs CREA administers and learn more about entrepreneurship programs CREA supports across Cornell: All clean energy deep tech Food & Ag For Cornell Students Hardware BioEntrepreneurship Initiative ClimateTech Prototyping Hardware Accelerator Diversity in ClimateTech SBIR/STTR Assistance Program Kessler Fellows Manufacturing Hardware Accelerator Prototyping Hardware Accelerator UNY NSF I-Corps Node 76West Clean Energy Competition Grow-NY Business Competition Rev: Ithaca Startup Works Business Incubator eLab Cornell Student Accelerator Black Entrepreneurs in Training W.E. Cornell Cleantech Hardware Scaleup Johnson Entrepreneurship Track Engineering Commercialization Fellows Cornell I-Corps Site Proudly powered by WordPress | Theme: Doo by ThemeVS. Top © Center for Regional Economic Advancement at Cornell University Hosted by CampusPress