Skip to main content University of Pennsylvania School of Arts and Sciences Penn A-Z Penn Calendar Search form SearchSearch Department of Criminology About People Undergraduate Graduate Apply Courses News Events Working Papers Fact Checking SearchSearch Teaching Research Service Undergraduate Graduate Faculty Fact Checking What Are The Chances of Becoming A Homicide Victim? With all of publicity surrounding crime statistics, it is easy to get a misleading impression about the risks that homicides pose. Recent data from the Centers for Disease Control can provide a factual basis from which to assess the real risks. Continue Reading Does Legal Regulation of the Police Impact Crime? In the past few years, the topic of police reform, and the role of legal interventions by the courts has been discussed by politicians and covered extensively in the media. One of the more intrusive forms of court interventions is the use of a consent decree – a settlement agreement filed in federal court between plaintiffs and the local government agency in charge of the police. Typically consent decrees are overseen by a judge, who can legally enforce provisions in the agreement. Continue Reading Do Russian Police Fabricate Drug Offenses? Evidence From Seized Heroin's Weight Distribution Current Russian drug policy is punitive toward people who use drugs. Moreover, criminal justice in Russia is driven by strong organizational incentives to increase performance indicators of police such as clearance rate. Taken together, these might lead to the use of extrajudicial and illegal police practices, as documented by several qualitative studies. In this article, we explore quantitative evidence of such practices, namely, weight anomalies of the seized heroin that result from minimum threshold amounts established by the law. Continue Reading Do We Incarcerate Too Many People? From the 1970s until about 2010, the number of individuals incarcerated in state prisons, federal prisons, and local jails increased dramatically. The main drivers were (1) changes in laws leading to longer, often mandatory, sentences, (2) "truth-in-sentencing" legislation requiring individuals convicted of violent crimes to serve at least 80% of their sentences, and (3) increased use of incarceration for drug-related crimes. Since then, there have been concerted efforts in some jurisdictions to reduce the number of individuals incarcerated. Continue Reading Is There A Nationwide Increase In Violent Crime? UPDATED: The FBI recently released the 2016 crime figures from its Uniform Crime Reporting (UCR) system. Based on information from all of the police departments responding, property crime fell by 2% compared to 2015, while violent crime was up 3.5% in the same time period. Continue Reading ‹ › More Fact Checking → News/In the Media Dr. Cuellar Presents: A Probabilistic Formalization of Contextual Bias in Forensic Analysis February 4, 2022 How a focused approach to policing made New York safer February 4, 2022 Fair Criminal Justice Algorithms February 2, 2022 Inside Story - CHOP Dr. David Rubin on keeping kids safe from COVID January 21, 2022 More » Working Papers Courts Crime Police Prison Probation and Parole Research Methods Other Events/Colloquium 1st Annual University of Pennsylvania Philosophy of Socially Aware Data Science and Ethical Issues in Modeling Conference June 7, 2022 Cohen Hall Room 402 Featured Video Content Rebecca Umbach Grad BEN Talks 2018: "Aggression and Sleep" Contact Information 558 McNeil Building 3718 Locust Walk Philadelphia, PA 19104-6286 (215) 573-9097 crim-info@sas.upenn.edu Penn WebLogin © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania