Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | College of Criminology & Criminal Justice Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home About Criminology & Criminal Justice Building Timeline Center for Criminology & Public Policy Research Office of Information Technology & Security National and International Recognition Research Brought to Life Message from the Dean Visiting the College Degrees Undergraduate Programs Online Degree Programs Graduate Programs Specialized Studies Academic Advising Faculty Research Internships and Careers Experiential Recognition Program Bachelor’s Internship Program Master’s Internship Program Employment Opportunities Professional Organizations Online Job Database Sponsor Agencies Workshops News Alumni & Friends Development Council Why Give? Ways to Give Recognition Awards Directory Visiting Faculty/Post Doctoral Scholars/Adjunct Faculty Center for Criminology and Public Policy Faculty Undergraduate Advising Graduate Advising College Documents College Faculty Dean’s Office College Staff Quicklinks Center for Criminology and Public Policy Research Office of Information Technology & Security Undergraduate Scholarships Faculty, Staff & Advisors Graduate Scholarships Prospective Students Current Students Alumni & Friends Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU College of Criminology & Criminal Justice Florida State University Toggle navigation Home About Criminology & Criminal Justice Building Timeline Center for Criminology & Public Policy Research Office of Information Technology & Security National and International Recognition Research Brought to Life Message from the Dean Visiting the College Degrees Undergraduate Programs Online Degree Programs Graduate Programs Specialized Studies Academic Advising Faculty Research Internships and Careers Experiential Recognition Program Bachelor’s Internship Program Master’s Internship Program Employment Opportunities Professional Organizations Online Job Database Sponsor Agencies Workshops News Alumni & Friends Development Council Why Give? Ways to Give Recognition Awards Directory Visiting Faculty/Post Doctoral Scholars/Adjunct Faculty Center for Criminology and Public Policy Faculty Undergraduate Advising Graduate Advising College Documents College Faculty Dean’s Office College Staff Quicklinks Center for Criminology and Public Policy Research Office of Information Technology & Security Undergraduate Scholarships Faculty, Staff & Advisors Graduate Scholarships Prospective Students Current Students Alumni & Friends Home Center for Criminology and Public Policy Research Center History Center Staff Institutes Center Newsroom Center General Projects Journals Recent News Spring 2022 Featured Agencies Brendan Lantz Honored by University with Undergraduate Teaching Award More News Center for Criminology and Public Policy Research Real Lives. Real Problems. Real Solutions. The Florida State University College of Criminology and Criminal Justice’s Center for Criminology and Public Policy Research (the Center) expands the influence of scholarship in the public policy arena. The Center promotes the use of evidence-based criminological research in policy and practice at the local, state, and national levels. The Center’s primary goal is to support data collection and research initiatives with application to crime and justice policy to promote social justice. The Center pursues these goals through the following research institutes: Aging Adult Fraud Research & Policy Institute Biosocial Criminology Research & Policy Institute Corrections Research & Policy Institute Crime Victim Research & Policy Institute Hate Crime Research & Policy Institute International and Comparative Criminology Research and Policy Institute Jail Research & Policy Institute Juvenile and Adult Correctional Education Research & Policy Institute Juvenile Justice Research & Policy Institute Policing, Security Technology, and Private Security Research & Policy Institute Race and Crime Research & Policy Institute Each institute produces rigorous, policy relevant research in close partnership with local, state, and national criminal justice agencies. Some of the Center’s partner agencies include the Florida Department of Corrections (FDC), the Florida Department of Juvenile Justice (DJJ), and the Palm Beach County Criminal Justice Commission. Through partnering agencies and other outlets, research findings are disseminated to policy makers, practitioners, and citizens to guide policy and practice. Finally, each research institute contributes to the discipline of criminology with theoretically relevant and methodologically sound research published in leading academic journals. RELATIONSHIP WITH THE COLLEGE The College of Criminology and Criminal Justice has built is nationally ranked programs around three overlapping principles: Research, Education, and Service. Combined theses principles are the foundation from which the College and the Center for Criminology and Public Police Research achieve their top priorities of creating future leaders in the field who will ultimately reduce the pain and suffering associated with crime though the creation of evidence-based criminal justice policy. As a branch of the College of Criminology and Criminal Justice, the Center works closely with college faculty and graduate students. Several of the Center’s institutes are directed by college faculty or have faculty affiliates, and the College’s faculty members lead most of the Center’s projects. In addition, masters and doctoral students gain valuable experience working as research assistants on externally-funded projects. Through the Center, graduate students are provided excellent opportunities to gain a wide array of experiences and diverse perspectives while training to be tomorrow’s leaders in criminal justice academia, policy, and practice. EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR | Thomas G. Blomberg, Ph.D. CO-DIRECTOR | George B. Pesta, Ph.D. CO-DIRECTOR | Julie Brancale, Ph.D. CONTACT INFORMATION For more information on the Center for Criminology and Public Policy Research, contact George B. Pesta, Ph.D., Co-Director, (850) 645-6101; gpesta@fsu.edu or Julie Brancale, Ph.D., Co-Director, (850) 644-4990; Julie.Brancale@fsu.edu Related Downloads Building Effective Partnerships Between Researchers and Practitioners Annual Report 2014-2015 Strategic Plan 2015-2016 Annual Report 2013-2014 annual-report-2015-2016 Annual Report 2016-2017 Center Annual Report 2017-2018 Center Annual Report 2018-2019 Center Annual Report 2020 Society for Prevention Research Plenary 6.1.18_Pesta Blomberg - Making a Difference 9.10.18 Making a Difference in Criminology title-inside title-centered 2 College of Criminology and Criminal Justice Criminology and Criminal Justice Building 112 S. Copeland Street Tallahassee, Florida 32306-1273 Phone: 850-644-4050 Fax: 850-644-9614 Facebook Twitter Email Us © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media