Skip to content Florida State University FSU | Critical Thinking Initiatives Navigation Home About Overview QEP Document Critical Thinking Initiatives Advisory Board College Liaisons Student Learning Outcomes Presentations Staff Initiatives Overview Faculty Fellows Program Discipline – Focused Projects Comparisons between FSU Initiatives News Latest News Faculty Profiles Ted Talks Resources Overview 2015 Critical Thinking Initiatives Colloquium Welcomes Dr. Terrel Rhodes to Campus! Library Resources Critical Thinking Assessment Test (CAT) AAC&U Critical Thinking VALUE Rubric Article: What is Critical Thinking Anyway? by Rob Jenkins 2020 Program Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Close Menu Critical Thinking Initiatives Challenging Students to Think Better Home About Overview QEP Document Critical Thinking Initiatives Advisory Board College Liaisons Student Learning Outcomes Presentations Staff Initiatives Overview Faculty Fellows Program Discipline – Focused Projects Comparisons between FSU Initiatives News Latest News Faculty Profiles Ted Talks Resources Overview 2015 Critical Thinking Initiatives Colloquium Welcomes Dr. Terrel Rhodes to Campus! Library Resources Critical Thinking Assessment Test (CAT) AAC&U Critical Thinking VALUE Rubric Article: What is Critical Thinking Anyway? by Rob Jenkins 2020 Program Section Menu Overview At Florida State University, we believe that critical thinking has five components: Explaining the issue/problem clearly and comprehensively Selecting and using evidence/information effectively in conducting a comprehensive analysis of the issue/problem Analyzing context, assumptions and perspectives when presenting a position on an issue/problem Formulating a thesis/hypothesis that takes into account the complexity of an issue/problem and the variety of perspectives on this issue Drawing logical conclusions and implications from the analysis of an issue/problem The Office of Critical Thinking Initiatives was launched in 2014 to further the development of critical thinking among our students by helping them enhance the above skills. The charge originates from our Quality Enhancement Plan Think FSU: Improving Critical Thinking in the Disciplines, but reflects an institution-wide belief in the importance of critical thinking to our graduates and the positive impact it can have on society as a whole. In December 2014, the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges accepted our plan. Since September 2014, we have been moving forward with initiatives to help us meet our goal of preparing critical thinkers for success in the world. Challenging Students to Think Better! Sidebar About Overview QEP Document Critical Thinking Initiatives Advisory Board College Liaisons Student Learning Outcomes Presentations Staff © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Like Florida State on Facebook Follow Florida State on Instagram Follow Florida State on Twitter" Follow Florida State on Youtube Connect with Florida State on LinkedIn More FSU Social Media