Skip to content Florida State University FSU | Critical Thinking Initiatives Navigation Home About Overview QEP Document Critical Thinking Initiatives Advisory Board College Liaisons Student Learning Outcomes Presentations Staff Initiatives Overview Faculty Fellows Program Discipline – Focused Projects Comparisons between FSU Initiatives News Latest News Faculty Profiles Ted Talks Resources Overview 2015 Critical Thinking Initiatives Colloquium Welcomes Dr. Terrel Rhodes to Campus! Library Resources Critical Thinking Assessment Test (CAT) AAC&U Critical Thinking VALUE Rubric Article: What is Critical Thinking Anyway? by Rob Jenkins 2020 Program Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Close Menu Critical Thinking Initiatives Challenging Students to Think Better Home About Overview QEP Document Critical Thinking Initiatives Advisory Board College Liaisons Student Learning Outcomes Presentations Staff Initiatives Overview Faculty Fellows Program Discipline – Focused Projects Comparisons between FSU Initiatives News Latest News Faculty Profiles Ted Talks Resources Overview 2015 Critical Thinking Initiatives Colloquium Welcomes Dr. Terrel Rhodes to Campus! Library Resources Critical Thinking Assessment Test (CAT) AAC&U Critical Thinking VALUE Rubric Article: What is Critical Thinking Anyway? by Rob Jenkins 2020 Program At FSU, critical thinking includes: Explaining an issue/problem clearly and comprehensively At FSU, critical thinking includes: Selecting or using evidence information effectively in conducting a comprehensive analysis of an issue/problem At FSU, critical thinking includes: Analyzing context, assumptions and perspective when presenting a position on an issue/problem At FSU, critical thinking includes: Formulating a thesis/hypothesis that takes into account the complexity of an issue/problem and the variety of perspectives on this issue At FSU, critical thinking includes: Drawing logical conclusions and implications from the analysis of an issue/problem Mission Statement: Enhance critical thinking skills among Florida State University students through instructional development, campus-wide programming and co-curricular engagement. Critical Thinking Symposium Digital Citizenship & Society February 24 – 26, 2020 Critical Thinking@FSU Since it’s founding in 1851, Florida State University has prepared graduates to succeed in their chosen field. One of the foundational elements of FSU’s academic history is developing critical thinkers. What started at the State Seminary West of the Suwannee River and carried on through both Florida State College and Florida State College for Women continues in full force at Florida State University today. Whether a student’s hopes to become a biologist, a violinist, a social worker, an author or an accountant, they have to be able to: Explain issue/problem clearly and comprehensively Select and use evidence/information effectively in conducting a comprehensive analysis of the issue/problem Analyze context, assumptions and perspectives when presenting a position on an issue/problem Formulate a thesis/hypothesis that takes into account the complexity of an issue/problem and the variety of perspectives on this issue Draw logical conclusions and implications from the analysis of an issue/problem The Office of Critical Thinking Initiatives works with faculty to bring these important skills to the classrooms in Tallahassee, Panama City, Florida and Panama City, Panama. I invite you to review these pages to learn what FSU is accomplishing and to contact us to develop partnerships that will enable us to build on our heritage. The Office of Critical Thinking Initiatives Challenging Students to Think Better TED Talks Throughout the year, TED presents talks on a variety of topics many of which are both entertaining and informative. We have complied a list of TED Talks related to critical thinking that we hope will inspire faculty and further dialog. If you find a talk you think would be great to add to our list, let us know. Read More YouTube Channel Florida State University has its own YouTube Channel dedicated to critical thinking. Here you will find talks by faculty, administrators, guests and others presented on the FSU campus. Florida State on YouTube Project Profiles Faculty from around FSU’s campus have created interesting projects to enhance critical thinking among their students. Read More © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Like Florida State on Facebook Follow Florida State on Instagram Follow Florida State on Twitter" Follow Florida State on Youtube Connect with Florida State on LinkedIn More FSU Social Media