Skip to content Florida State University FSU | Critical Thinking Initiatives Navigation Home About Overview QEP Document Critical Thinking Initiatives Advisory Board College Liaisons Student Learning Outcomes Presentations Staff Initiatives Overview Faculty Fellows Program Discipline – Focused Projects Comparisons between FSU Initiatives News Latest News Faculty Profiles Ted Talks Resources Overview 2015 Critical Thinking Initiatives Colloquium Welcomes Dr. Terrel Rhodes to Campus! Library Resources Critical Thinking Assessment Test (CAT) AAC&U Critical Thinking VALUE Rubric Article: What is Critical Thinking Anyway? by Rob Jenkins 2020 Program Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Close Menu Critical Thinking Initiatives Challenging Students to Think Better Home About Overview QEP Document Critical Thinking Initiatives Advisory Board College Liaisons Student Learning Outcomes Presentations Staff Initiatives Overview Faculty Fellows Program Discipline – Focused Projects Comparisons between FSU Initiatives News Latest News Faculty Profiles Ted Talks Resources Overview 2015 Critical Thinking Initiatives Colloquium Welcomes Dr. Terrel Rhodes to Campus! Library Resources Critical Thinking Assessment Test (CAT) AAC&U Critical Thinking VALUE Rubric Article: What is Critical Thinking Anyway? by Rob Jenkins 2020 Program Critical Thinking Symposium: Digital Citizenship & Society Florida State University | February 24 – 26, 2020 With a focus on the intersection of technology and humanity, digital citizenship and society continuously develops norms of responsible, ethical, and positive digital experiences as content creators and content consumers. We aim to empower our students, faculty, staff, and community with the values, awareness, and understanding to shape our society through critical thought and agency. The symposium will enable the FSU community to participate in technology for the common good as thoughtful and empathetic digital citizens. Monday, February 24 Opening Event: Understanding Digital Citizenship in Research & Practice 3-4pm Bradley Reading Room Explore the topic of digital citizenship as faculty share their research and foster discussion regarding digital interactions and spaces. This event will be livestreamed and available for viewing below: Watch Now E-Waste Design Sprint 5-9pm Innovation Hub Commons Area Co-Sponsored by the Center for Undergraduate Research and Academic Engagement & Sustainable Campus Electronic waste, or “e-waste,” generated by computers, TVs, cameras, printers, and cell phones, is a growing local and global issue. Through the FSU E-Waste Design Sprint, participants will explore solutions to both remediate the existing e-waste problems at FSU and prevent e-waste generation in the future. To participate, visit https://tiny.cc/20designsprint. Tuesday, February 25 Dual Citizenship: Navigating the Digital Realm 11-12pm Bradley Reading Room, Strozier Library A panel featuring faculty and students discussing expectations and realities of digital citizenship in online courses, as well as how these aspects of digital citizenship are brought into wider internet activities. This event will be livestreamed and available for viewing below: Watch Now Digital Literacy: Impacts on Teaching & Research TA Panel 2-3pm Nancy H. Marcus Great Hall, HSF House Co-Sponsored by the Program for Instruction Excellence Graduate TAs participating in the PIE program share their experiences. This event will be livestreamed and available for viewing below: Watch Now Global-to-Local: Your Call to Action 2-4pm 1st Floor, Strozier Library Join our International Campus partners as they discuss major issues impacting our world globally and how those issues impact us locally. Creativity is Connecting Things: Transdisciplinary Integration in Higher Education 4-5pm Bradley Reading Room, Strozier Library Co-Sponsored by the College of Communication and Information Dr. Youngmoo Kim, Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering and Director of the Expressive and Creative Interactive Technologies (ExCITe) Center at Drexel University, will share experiences and perspectives regarding the integration of the humanities and arts with sciences, engineering and medicine in higher education. This event will be livestreamed and available for viewing below: Watch Now Wednesday, February 26 Digital-Savvy Jeopardy 10am-1pm Market Wednesday What kind of digital citizen are you? Test your digital know-how and netiquette to win prizes and find out. Ensuring a Bright Tech Future: Getting Big Tech, Policymakers, and the Public Involved in Making Tech More Ethical Keynote Speaker: David Ryan Polgar 2-3pm Student Services Building 201 & 203 With great power comes great responsibility. Has Big Tech stepped up to the challenge? Technology is developing at a much faster rate than our ability to create necessary safeguards, best practices, and proactive policies. In order to ensure a bright tech future, now is the time to engage a broad range of stakeholders in considering how we design and deploy technologies. This presentation will offer attendees a better sense of the overall landscape and the hurdles we face, along with actionable ways of moving towards a better tech future. How can we ensure that Big Tech, which has often been accused of being ethically-challenged and focused on profits over people, is capable of handling this immense power with integrity? Will the process of how these emerging technologies are developed and deployed be transparent to the public? What is the role of policymakers and the general public? Led by pioneering tech ethicist David Ryan Polgar (founder of All Tech Is Human), this timely discussion will look at how we arrived at the juncture, the current status of Big Tech’s ethical responsibilities, and where we are likely headed in the future. This event will be livestreamed and available for viewing below: Watch Now Interested in participating virtually? Visit our Online Program to participate in activities throughout the week! Share your feedback with us! © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Like Florida State on Facebook Follow Florida State on Instagram Follow Florida State on Twitter" Follow Florida State on Youtube Connect with Florida State on LinkedIn More FSU Social Media