Skip to content Florida State University FSU | Critical Thinking Initiatives Navigation Home About Overview QEP Document Critical Thinking Initiatives Advisory Board College Liaisons Student Learning Outcomes Presentations Staff Initiatives Overview Faculty Fellows Program Discipline – Focused Projects Comparisons between FSU Initiatives News Latest News Faculty Profiles Ted Talks Resources Overview 2015 Critical Thinking Initiatives Colloquium Welcomes Dr. Terrel Rhodes to Campus! Library Resources Critical Thinking Assessment Test (CAT) AAC&U Critical Thinking VALUE Rubric Article: What is Critical Thinking Anyway? by Rob Jenkins 2020 Program Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Close Menu Critical Thinking Initiatives Challenging Students to Think Better Home About Overview QEP Document Critical Thinking Initiatives Advisory Board College Liaisons Student Learning Outcomes Presentations Staff Initiatives Overview Faculty Fellows Program Discipline – Focused Projects Comparisons between FSU Initiatives News Latest News Faculty Profiles Ted Talks Resources Overview 2015 Critical Thinking Initiatives Colloquium Welcomes Dr. Terrel Rhodes to Campus! Library Resources Critical Thinking Assessment Test (CAT) AAC&U Critical Thinking VALUE Rubric Article: What is Critical Thinking Anyway? by Rob Jenkins 2020 Program Section Menu Faculty Fellows Program Purpose: The Critical Thinking Faculty Fellows Program supports FSU’s commitment to critical thinking development in students by supporting individual faculty members as they investigate and implement various critical thinking development tools within their academic discipline.. In addition, Faculty Fellows engage in cross-disciplinary forms of evaluation in order to help build a university-wide culture of critical thinking. Application Type: Individual Faculty Member Grant Duration: Two years (Year 1: summer through spring; Year 2: fall and spring) Funding Level: 5,000 paid in two increments of $2,500 each – Year 1 and Year 2 Participant Obligations: 1) Participate in critical thinking professional development programs including presentations, group meetings and one-on-one sessions during the summer of Year 1. Participate in 1 – 2 Faculty Fellows programs during the academic years. Rationale: Provides foundation and common understanding of critical thinking as envisioned at FSU. Opportunity to develop network of campus critical thinking advocates and practitioners. Provide guidance in development of discipline-refined critical thinking practices. Continued support and professional development. 2) Develop discipline-refined critical thinking rubrics for undergraduate programs at FSU based upon the AAC&U Critical Thinking VALUE Rubric. Rationale: The AAC&U VALUE Rubric serves as the common base language for FSU’s Critical Thinking Initiatives. By design, the language of the published rubrics is generic. FSU’s Critical Thinking Faculty Fellows will serve as the department lead in translating the AAC&U rubric into discipline-specific language for use by the home department in assessing and enhancing undergraduate courses at the junior and senior level (of particular interest to the QEP). Ultimately, the institution will develop a shared language with a variety of dialects. 3) Deploy critical thinking development techniques twice in at least one key undergraduate courses/classes/sections (junior or senior level) over the course of two years with the aim of impacting a substantial number of student majors. Rationale: Through its QEP, FSU committed to developing critical thinking skills among juniors and seniors within the framework of the academic disciplines. Because the institution did not adopt a centralized approach to this task, faculty in the academic units are the key to successful implementation. 4) Administer CAT instrument at beginning and end of each semester/section of critically thinking infused course offerings for the duration of the granting period. Rationale: The CAT is a nationally recognized and normed examination measuring critical thinking skills. Because of the national data behind the instrument, FSU has selected the CAT as is primary assessment tool. 5) Demonstrate use of the data from the assessment process to make curricular adjustments. Rationale: By assessing refined course experiences, the unit has access to valuable information regarding curricular effectiveness. The hope is that units will make data driven curricular adjustments related to critical thinking. 6) Prepare progress report at the end of Year 1. Prepare final report at end of Year 2. Upload rubrics and specified reports to identified sites. 7) Serve as CAT scorer for at least two administrations beyond those associated with own project. Approved December 16, 2014 Critical Thinking Advisory Board Revised July 2016 Sidebar Initiatives Overview Faculty Fellows Program Discipline – Focused Projects Comparisons between FSU Initiatives © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Like Florida State on Facebook Follow Florida State on Instagram Follow Florida State on Twitter" Follow Florida State on Youtube Connect with Florida State on LinkedIn More FSU Social Media