Skip to content Florida State University FSU | Critical Thinking Initiatives Navigation Home About Overview QEP Document Critical Thinking Initiatives Advisory Board College Liaisons Student Learning Outcomes Presentations Staff Initiatives Overview Faculty Fellows Program Discipline – Focused Projects Comparisons between FSU Initiatives News Latest News Faculty Profiles Ted Talks Resources Overview 2015 Critical Thinking Initiatives Colloquium Welcomes Dr. Terrel Rhodes to Campus! Library Resources Critical Thinking Assessment Test (CAT) AAC&U Critical Thinking VALUE Rubric Article: What is Critical Thinking Anyway? by Rob Jenkins 2020 Program Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Close Menu Critical Thinking Initiatives Challenging Students to Think Better Home About Overview QEP Document Critical Thinking Initiatives Advisory Board College Liaisons Student Learning Outcomes Presentations Staff Initiatives Overview Faculty Fellows Program Discipline – Focused Projects Comparisons between FSU Initiatives News Latest News Faculty Profiles Ted Talks Resources Overview 2015 Critical Thinking Initiatives Colloquium Welcomes Dr. Terrel Rhodes to Campus! Library Resources Critical Thinking Assessment Test (CAT) AAC&U Critical Thinking VALUE Rubric Article: What is Critical Thinking Anyway? by Rob Jenkins 2020 Program Section Menu Staff T. Lynn Hogan T. Lynn Hogan is the Director of Critical Thinking Initiatives at Florida State University. He recently served as the Associate Dean for Academic and Student Services in the College of Visual Arts, Theatre and Dance where his areas of responsibility included academic advising, academic policy interpretation, accreditation, budget management and student services. In 2008 and 2009, he served as the Interim Chair of the Department of Art. In 2012-13, he was the Interim Dean of the College of Visual Arts, Theatre and Dance. He has taught courses in leadership in the arts in the School of Theatre. Dr, Hogan earned a PhD in higher education administration from Bowling Green State University, a masters degree in journalism from The University of Georgia, a bachelors degree in public relations from The University of Georgia and an associates degree in accounting from South Georgia College. Lynn is active in ACPA. He is the co-chair of the Commission for Academic Affairs Administrators and is a recipient of the Commission’s “Award for Service to the Commission and ACPA.” He has published and presented nationally on topics such as client services, career development, relationships between academic and student services, and HIV/AIDS in higher education. Dr. Hogan is the editor of the recently published book Student Affairs for Academic Administrators. Sidebar About Overview QEP Document Critical Thinking Initiatives Advisory Board College Liaisons Student Learning Outcomes Presentations Staff © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Like Florida State on Facebook Follow Florida State on Instagram Follow Florida State on Twitter" Follow Florida State on Youtube Connect with Florida State on LinkedIn More FSU Social Media