Go to the U of M home page MyU One Stop COVID-19 Updates Employment Directories Campus Today Search University of Minnesota Crookston homepage Crookston Duluth Morris Rochester Twin Cities Request More Info Current Students Alumni & Donors MyU One Stop COVID-19 Updates Home Academics Admissions Apply Now Visit Campus Costs & Financial Aid Athletics News & Events About Us Request More Info Current Students Alumni & Donors Hands-on learning in and out of the classroom Real world experience & research opportunities Earn a degree that gets you ready for anything Real. Hands-on. Ready. Apply Now Cost and application info JUN 25 Saturday Summer Visit Learn more and register » AUG 1 Fall 2022 Application Deadline Apply Today » Big enough to grow. Small enough to care. With the best of both worlds: Earn a University of Minnesota degree in a close-knit community—both on-campus and online. Explore 30+ Majors, Minors, & Certificates Accounting Agricultural Business Animal Science Criminal Justice Elementary Education Health Management Natural Resources Sport and Recreation Management Software Engineering More... I AM CROOKSTON Explore All Programs University of Minnesota Degree Made Affordable Curious About Cost? » 25 Years of Leading Online Learning There’s no time like now » No ACT/SAT Needed for Admission Share the REAL you » A place to call home. You’re more than a number here—we’re family. Find your niche on-campus or online. 115 years of Maroon and Gold tradition. 1800 students. 35 majors. 16 online majors. A proven leader in online delivery for more than 25 years. Golden Eagle proud, supportive and close-knit community. Laptop for on-campus students. Diverse student body from 20 countries and 40 states. Oh, and did we mention the world-class University of Minnesota degree? Yep, in a nutshell, we’re awesome. See for yourself. Discover UMN Crookston Video of Discover UMN Crookston Our Campus Tour In Person Or Virtually Experience Student Life Explore Our Video Playlist On-Campus Online Student Success On-Campus While they all have had different routes, they were all influenced by FFA in their lives. Now they are enjoying UMN Crookston and serving as Minnesota State FFA Officers while on the same campus. Trio of Minnesota FFA State Officers Find a Home at UMN Crookston Read More Online Andrada is greatly appreciative of the online program at the UMN Crookston as it has given him the chance to finish his degree while still advancing in his career. As an older student, Andrada has also taken the opportunity to mentor younger students that have yet to start a career in IT. Online Student Peter Andrada Resumes his Education After Years in the Workforce Read More Student Success When asked what he would tell a high school senior he said, “explore as much as you can at the University of Minnesota Crookston. You never know where it can take you. And go to hockey games, the sport is back!” Alumnus, Brock Anundson Read More News Scholarships/Free Tuition: Promise Programs Under the University of Minnesota’s Promise programs, eligible Minnesota resident undergraduate students meeting the family income levels outlined below and who enroll at the U of M will be guaranteed funds to support their collegiate aspirations. US News Ranked #1 UMN Crookston Ranked Top Midwest Public Regional College for Third-Consecutive Year U.S. News and World Report announced today that the University of Minnesota Crookston is ranked as the top institution among Midwest Public Regional Colleges for 2022. The campus has ranked in the top four consecutively for 26 years, and has been ranked the number one Public Regional College in the Midwest for three-consecutive years. Events All Events All News Academic Calendar All Social Media #IAmCrookston umncrookston Take The Next Steps Visit Apply Request Info Crookston Campus Connect on Social Media facebook twitter linkedin youtube instagram flickr Small Campus. Big Degree. ™ For Students, Faculty, and Staff One Stop MyU Find Employment Events Calendar Academic Calendar Library Directories Maps, Directions & Parking Quick Facts Bookstore UMC Home, Contact Webmaster, and Employee Quick Links Faculty & Staff 🔒 Email & Calendar 🔒 Contact Webmaster System Website Home 2900 University Ave., Crookston, MN 56716 800-862-6466 | 218-281-6510 | umcinfo@umn.edu © 2022 Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights reserved. The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer. Privacy Statement