Skip to main content Search Field Search Exit Search College of Agricultural Sciences » Crop and Soil Science Open search box Apply MyCAS Undergraduate Current Students Crop and Soil Science Undergraduate Degree Program Minor Programs How to Apply Undergraduate Courses Internships/Research Scholarships Graduate Crop Science Soil Science How to Apply Graduate Courses Scholarships & Financial Support Faculty Accepting Students Graduate Student Handbook Research & Extension Crops Soil Science Seminars Services Seed Certification Seed Testing Ken Gray Insect Image Collection Stable Isotope Research Unit Soil Health Lab People Administration Faculty Research Support Seed Certification Seed Laboratory Graduate Students Emeritus Directory About News Facilities Departmental Archives Contact Us Newsletter Employee Resources Undergraduate Crop and Soil Science B.S. Degree Want to get your hands dirty while making a difference? Our students work on solving the most complex agricultural and natural resource problems faced in Oregon, our nation and across the globe. Students who want to make a measurable difference in our communities are perfect candidates for a degree in either crop science or soil science. Graduates of our program, in demand across the United States, typically have several job offers by the time that they graduate. If you want to feed the people of Oregon, the United States and the world; or be part of a team exploring biofuels and bioproducts to increase energy independence in the United States; or do cutting-edge gene research in crop plants or soil microbes; or use your soils knowledge to do remediation work on contaminated sites, the Department of Crop and Soil Science at Oregon State University is where you should be. Active Learning As an undergraduate, you'll have many chances for hands-on learning. Research opportunities for students include projects in breeding plants for food, oil and other uses, the science behind soil health, small farm operations and more, while your required internship will introduce you to the different career options available to you once you graduate. Student club activities will help you hone your leadership skills, positioning you for an exciting career in agronomy, soil science, or plant breeding. In class, you'll build a strong foundation in the natural sciences, as well as participate in laboratory work, student-managed projects at Hyslop Farm, and problem-solving exercises. Explore the course catalog to get a feel for the classes you'll take, or learn more about completing an internship. Undergraduate Program Learning Outcomes Demonstrate both basic and advanced knowledge of core curriculum in crop and soil sciences. Find, synthesize, and interpret credible scientific information reported in a variety of sources. Effectively communicate scientific findings and issues in writing and in oral/visual presentations on technical and non-technical levels. Demonstrate the ability to apply the scientific method to problems in crop and soil science. Attain professional skills necessary for careers associated with crop or soil science, including tools to enable lifelong learning and skills for adapting to a changing world. Opportunities for Research You can also elect to focus on research by becoming an OSU Undergraduate Research Fellow. Research fellows uncover new knowledge or apply existing knowledge to solving problems and are recognized by a transcript-visible Research Fellow designation. Learn more about becoming an OSU Research Fellow In addition, numerous opportunities to study abroad, or to do international internships or research projects are available. Interdisciplinary Community The knowledge and understanding that comes with studying in the Department of Crop and Soil Science is comprised of a variety of disciplines. Our community of experts include specialists in Crop Science, Soil Science, Horticulture, Genetics, Molecular Biology, Economics, and Entomology. Your work as a Department of Crop and Soil Science student will touch many of these fields and provide you with the expertise to tackle problems in agriculture and natural resource management. Options: You can work towards one of three undergraduate degree options: Agronomy The Agronomy Option is targeted towards students who would like to manage or own farms and ranches or secure positions in agricultural service industries. Soil Science The Soil Science Option allows students to explore the amazing world beneath their feet and learn how to use and protect our soil as a natural resource. Plant Breeding and Genetics The Plant Breeding and Genetics Option prepares you to breed and perform genetic analysis on crops in the greenhouse, field, and lab. We also offer minors in Crop Science, Soil Science, or Entomology. Learn more: For more information, contact Stefan Seiter, advisor for Crop and Soil Science Degree: Crop and Soil Science Level: Bachelor of Science (B.S.) Department: Department of Crop and Soil Science Class Location: Corvallis Campus La Grande Campus Ecampus (Online) La Grande Campus Ecampus Degree Requirements - OSU Catalog Department of Crop and Soil Science 109 Crop Science Building Oregon State University Corvallis, OR 97331-3002 Send E-mail Phone: (541) 737-2821 Fax: (541) 737-1589 3017 Agriculture and Life Sciences Building Oregon State University Corvallis, OR 97331-7306 Send E-mail Phone: (541) 737-2441 Fax: (541) 737-1589 OSU College of Agricultural Sciences 430 Strand Agriculture Hall Corvallis, Oregon 97331 Contact Us ©2021 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Equal Opportunity and Accessibility My College of Agricultural Sciences Apply | Donate Student Resources Transfer Guides Clubs and Organizations Future Students Degrees Diversity Resources Employee Resources Funding Opportunities Safety and Compliance New Employees Orientation New Employee Information