Skip to site alert. Skip to content CRR RARAF CMCR Radiation Oncology Support our Mission Search About Us Education Facilities Research Welcome to the Center for Radiological Research Our Mission The mission of the Center for Radiological Research (CRR) is to be on the forefront of radiological science and its applications in clinical medicine, public health, and national defense. Learn More About Us Learn More About Us Using the Power of Light: Preventing the Airborne Spread of Coronavirus and Influenza Virus Get More Information Get More Information Research Research at CRR Research at CRR Center for High Throughput Minimally Invasive Radiation Biodosimetry Explore CMCR Explore CMCR Radiological Research Accelerator Facility Find out more about RARAF Find out more about RARAF Message from the Director Welcome to the website for the Center for Radiological Research For almost 100 years the Center has been at the forefront of research into the uses and biological effects of ionizing radiation. Message from the Director Men in Lead Aprons Episodes of the Center for Radiological Research Podcast: Men in Lead Aprons. A podcast that covers everything you might want to know about radiation. The good, the bad, and the not yet known! Men in Lead Aprons News Report on Philanthropic Investment in Radiation Sciences at the Center for Radiological Research January 19, 2022 This is a report on the impact of philanthropic investment in radiation sciences research at the Center for Radiological Research. Topic Cancer 2021 Radiation Oncology/CRR Research Retreat October 21, 2021 The Annual Radiation Oncology Research Retreat will be held November 5th, 2021. Topic Cancer Peter Grabham represents the CRR in NASA Spaceflight Biology Paper Coordinated Publications November 30, 2020 There has been a publication collaboration of 29 papers covering >200 researchers - including the CRR's own Drs. Peter Grabham and Hakeem Okunola. Topic Cancer View all news Events There are currently no upcoming events. Support Our Mission Donate to the CRR Training and Education Fund to help train a new generation of talented and committed young radiation scientists. The CRR Training and Education Fund The CRR Training and Education Fund Radiation Oncology The Center for Radiological Research is a part of the Columbia University Irving Medical Center, Department of Radiation Oncology Go to the Department of Radiation Oncology Go to the Department of Radiation Oncology Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Education Facilities Research RARAF CMCR Columbia University Center for Radiological Research 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top