SEARCH About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information for: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors A to Z Index People Directory Social@Brown Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Google+ Computer Science About About the Department Contact Directions Partners Rooms Systems & Software Conduit Diversity Socially Responsible Computing Positions Brown CS News Events Brown CS Blog People Our Community Faculty Staff Grad Students Ugrad Students Alums Directory Research Research Links Areas Publications Opportunities For Visiting Students Degrees Degree Programs Doctoral Master's in Computer Science Cybersecurity Undergraduate Interdisciplinary Miscellaneous Courses Course List Schedule Sections TA Program Diversity Diversity & Inclusion Who We Are Resources Action Plan & Initiatives Student Advocates Data And Demographics Student Groups Giving UTA Endowment Home » About the Department » Partners About The Dept Advantages How To Join Membership Levels Partners Symposia Tech Fair Industry Partners Program Advantages • About Brown CS • Become a Partner • Current Partners • Symposia • Tech Fair • Membership Levels The Department of Computer Science at Brown University runs an industry partners program that offers corporations and non-profit organizations opportunities to collaborate with faculty, learn about Brown's research, and meet Brown students who are looking for employment. The Department seeks partners whose activities are aligned with Brown’s mission of education and research. Brown CS celebrates diversity and is committed to creating an inclusive environment for all our constituents. Membership in the IPP is by invitation. We welcome organizations whose business practices align with our expectation for equal opportunity and fair employment, as well as the responsible, transparent, and accessible use of technology, which precludes racial profiling, mass surveilllance and other forms of discrimination and violation of civil rights. If you have questions, we are happy to discuss this with you. Industry Partners are introduced to the Department's research and development efforts and to our students. We seek to develop relationships with a limited number of Partners who share an interest in supporting faculty and students. The full scope of the Department's research interests are listed here. Member institutions are encouraged to recruit our students, participate in the selection of topics for our IPP symposia, and advise on the employment and research needs of corporations. The IPP Director and the Program Manager stay in regular contact with participating companies, arrange campus visits, identify faculty to serve as consultants, and respond to specific requests. We encourage our students to thoughtfully consider their career interests and goals, and decide for themselves which companies they should engage with. Please contact us if you have any input regarding our program. Students: If you want to receive notifications of IPP events please click this link to be added to the mailing list: http://bit.ly/brownipp Click here for upcoming IPP events Recruiting policies 2021-2022 (113.5 KB) . Recruiting Events b'Deloitte ' Mon, 9/27 2PM-3PM Job Listing No entries found Computer Science at Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912 USA Phone: 401-863-7600 Map & Directions / Contact Us Sign In