SEARCH About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information for: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors A to Z Index People Directory Social@Brown Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Google+ Computer Science About About the Department Contact Directions Partners Rooms Systems & Software Conduit Diversity Socially Responsible Computing Positions Brown CS News Events Brown CS Blog People Our Community Faculty Staff Grad Students Ugrad Students Alums Directory Research Research Links Areas Publications Opportunities For Visiting Students Degrees Degree Programs Doctoral Master's in Computer Science Cybersecurity Undergraduate Interdisciplinary Miscellaneous Courses Course List Schedule Sections TA Program Diversity Diversity & Inclusion Who We Are Resources Action Plan & Initiatives Student Advocates Data And Demographics Student Groups Giving UTA Endowment Home » About the Department » Rooms House Rules Atrium3 Atrium4 CIT 101 CIT 102 CIT 210 CIT 241 CIT 244 CIT 316 CIT 367 CIT 368 CIT 506 Library Lubrano MSlab SciLi 804 Sunlab Rooms This page lists the rooms that we use to hold classes, TA hours, labs, and many other scheduled events. A few Brown CS-operated classrooms and labs have their own web pages with information for the people who use them. CIT 101 A meeting room that features audio-visual capability with Zoom. Schedule (Contact reception at cs.brown.edu to reserve) Capacity: 25 CIT 102 A meeting room that features audio-visual capability with Zoom. Schedule (Contact reception at cs.brown.edu to reserve) Capacity: 10 CIT 143, The Sunlab A lab consisting of 73 Maxbuilt PCs running Linux and two running Windows 7, the Sunlab is the primary computing resource for computer science undergraduates. The lab is available days and evenings (and sometimes around the clock). Schedule (Contact problem at cs.brown.edu to reserve) Capacity: 135 CIT 165, Motorola A lecture hall with rows of seats. Often used for lectures, recitations, and review sessions. This room is managed by CIS, so please contact Media Services (3-3600) for any audio-visual or Zoom problems. Capacity: 73 CIT 167, The MSLab A classroom and cluster of Maxbuilt PCs running Mac and Linux. The MS-Lab is a common location for large labs and for courses which use Mac. Schedule (Contact problem at cs.brown.edu to reserve) Capacity: 22 CIT 201, Undergrad Computing Lab A large room with Linux Machines and also desks with monitors, keyboards, and mice that students can hook their laptops up to. This room follows the Sunlab hours. CIT 203 TA-Lab A computer lab used for hours and course development by TAs. CIT 205 TA-Lab A computer lab used for hours and course development by TAs. CIT 207 TA Room A room used by TAs for course development and hours. There are no computers in this room. CIT 210 A meeting room. Please note that the equipment and software in this room are not up to date and you may need to use your laptop for meetings. Brown card swipe access is required: please contact dawn_reed@brown.edu or call at 863-7612 for more information. Schedule (Contact reception at cs.brown.edu to reserve) Capacity: 18 CIT 219 A classroom with rolling whiteboards, small tables, projector, and audio-visual capability. Sometimes used for TA hours. This room is managed by CIS, so please contact Media Services (3-3600) for any audio-visual or Zoom problems. Capacity: 48 CIT 227, Moonlab A small classroom which is used by classes and for TA hours. This room is managed by CIS, so please contact Media Services (3-3600) for any audio-visual or Zoom problems. Capacity: 85 CIT 241, Swig Board Room A classroom/conference room that features audio-visual capability with Zoom. It's set up with tables and chairs. Schedule (Contact reception at cs.brown.edu to reserve) Capacity: 45 CIT 271, Fishbowl A cluster of Linux machines used by the undergraduate TA program. The handback bins used for physical assignments are located in the Fishbowl. CIT 316 A meeting room and classroom that features audio-visual capability with Zoom. Capacity: 25 Schedule (Contact reception at cs.brown.edu to reserve) CIT 348, TA-Lab A computer lab used for course development by the undergraduate TA program. CIT 367, J-Lab A computer lab used by the undergraduate TA program for course development and interactive grading sessions. CIT 368 A classroom and conference room that features audio-visual capability with Zoom. Schedule (Contact reception at cs.brown.edu to reserve) Capacity: 56 CIT 410, The Library Meeting room, conference room and graduate student lounge that features audio-visual capability with Zoom. Though it once housed books and periodicals, this room is now primarily a space for meetings and socializing. Schedule (Contact reception at cs.brown.edu to reserve) Capacity: 25 CIT 477, Lubrano Conference Room A classroom and conference room that features audio-visual capability with Zoom. Schedule (Contact reception at cs.brown.edu to reserve) Capacity: 65 CIT 506 A classroom and conference room that features audio-visual capability with Zoom. Smaller and less formal than Lubrano. Schedule (Contact reception at cs.brown.edu to reserve) Capacity: 30 CIT Atrium3 Open area on the 3rd floor, sometimes used for overflow from Room 368. Schedule (Contact reception at cs.brown.edu to reserve) CIT Atrium4 Open area on the 4th floor. Schedule (Contact reception at cs.brown.edu to reserve) SciLi 804 Conference room on the 8th floor of the SciLi. Brown card swipe access is required: please contact suzanne_alden@brown.edu or call 863-6511 for more information. Schedule (Contact reception at cs.brown.edu to reserve) Capacity: 20 Computer Science at Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912 USA Phone: 401-863-7600 Map & Directions / Contact Us Sign In