SEARCH About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information for: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors A to Z Index People Directory Social@Brown Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Google+ Computer Science About About the Department Contact Directions Partners Rooms Systems & Software Conduit Diversity Socially Responsible Computing Positions Brown CS News Events Brown CS Blog People Our Community Faculty Staff Grad Students Ugrad Students Alums Directory Research Research Links Areas Publications Opportunities For Visiting Students Degrees Degree Programs Doctoral Master's in Computer Science Cybersecurity Undergraduate Interdisciplinary Miscellaneous Courses Course List Schedule Sections TA Program Diversity Diversity & Inclusion Who We Are Resources Action Plan & Initiatives Student Advocates Data And Demographics Student Groups Giving UTA Endowment Home » About the Department » Diversity Diversity and Inclusion As a department, we have made it our mission to create and sustain a diverse and inclusive environment in which all students, faculty, and staff can thrive. The Broadening Participation in Computing BPC 2022-2024 Department Plan has been verified by BPCnet.org. The CS Diversity & Inclusion Action Plan (DIAP) Phase II: Outline is now available. The full plan draft will be released in Fall 2022. Diversity Home | Who We Are | Resources | Action Plan & Initiatives | Diversity Advocates | Wellness Advocates | Data & Demographics | Student Groups | Mosaic+ Transition Program Initiatives Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan (DIAP) Summary The CS Department's Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan submitted to Brown University's Office of Institutional Diversity and Inclusion Department on June 2016. Our actions can be categorized as follows: Data Collection and Community Input: Creating mechanisms for collecting data about department demographics and culture, and establishing metrics that aggregate those data to measure diversity and inclusivity. Education and Training: Instituting diversity and inclusion training workshops to increase awareness of and foster sensitivity towards issues facing underrepresented and/or marginalized members of our community. Community Support: Enhancing existing academic and social support structures for underrepresented and/or marginalized members of our community. Recruitment, Hiring and Retention: Improving representation of faculty, students and course staff to eventually match representation within a baseline population, such as that of the University as a whole. Outreach: Bolstering outreach efforts to spark interest in computer science among K12 students and members of our local Providence community, and increasing opportunities for students to interact with the computer science community at large. Communication and Dissemination: Pursuing an improved communication strategy to ensure that the progress we make on achieving the goals set forth in this plan is tracked and disseminated publicly. We have committed to funding internal diversity initiatives and diversity outreach at a rate of at least 50% of our annual revenue from our Industry Partners Program (IPP). A budget detailing 12 how these funds will be allocated will be approved by the department chair on an annual basis. DIAP Update Reports DIAP Update Reports are submitted annually to the Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity (OIED). You can read the full reports below: 2019 - 2020 (Fall 2019, Spring 2020) 2018 - 2019 (Fall 2018, Spring 2019) 2017 - 2018 (Fall 2017, Spring 2018) 2016 - 2017 (Fall 2016, Spring 2017) Computer Science at Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912 USA Phone: 401-863-7600 Map & Directions / Contact Us Sign In