The Center for Geometric Computing at Brown University and Johns Hopkins University and Algomagic Technologies, Inc. present a short course on High-Performance Programming in Java: Collections and Beyond January 21-22, 1999 Department of Computer Science Brown University March 18-19, 1999 Department of Computer Science Johns Hopkins University [Overview] [Audience] [Program] [Instructors] [Registration] [PDF Version for Printing] Overview In this practical, hands-on course, students will learn new techniques for rapidly developing high-performance software in Java. The recently introduced Java Collections Framework and related Java class libraries provide general-purpose algorithms and data structures that can be used to build an "algorithms layer" in an object-oriented design. These libraries have important benefits such as: Correct and efficient solutions to problems that are usually difficult and expensive to implement. Improved program readability through standard interfaces. Tailored implementations by selecting among classes that satisfy the same interface. This course teaches how to take advantage of these powerful class libraries to develop efficient and robust solutions to complex problems. A number of sophisticated and practical algorithms and data structures are presented. The first part of the course focuses on the Java Collections Framework, one of the new features of the JDK 1.2. The second part covers more advanced data-structuring techniques that extend the functionality of the Java Collections Framework. The course includes lectures and lab sessions, where students will develop a variety of applications. A certificate of completion of the course will be issued. The course is sponsored by the Center for Geometric Computing at Brown University and Johns Hopkins University, and by Algomagic Technologies, Inc.. Audience The intended audience is software developers, engineers, and scientists interested in writing more efficient Java applications. A working knowledge of the Java programming language is assumed. Program Object-Oriented Design of Data Structures and Algorithms abstract data types and Java interfaces overview of object-oriented design patterns algorithms as objects algorithmic design patterns the algorithms layer benefits of algorithms and data structures libraries The Java Collections Framework limitations of the java.util package in JDK 1.1 collections and maps iterators and comparators general-purpose and wrapper implementations abstract implementations polymorphic algorithms exceptions interoperability Using the Java Collection Classes elementary data manipulation searching sorting developing custom implementations Beyond the Java Collections Framework limitations of the Collections framework JGL[tm]: The Generic Collection Library for Java JDSL: The Data Structures Library for Java new design patterns for data access: Position, Locator, and Decoration position-based and key-based containers Sequences and Trees nodes and positions array-based and link-based implementations an improved Vector class Priority Queues and Dictionaries keys, items, and locators heaps hash tables red-black trees skip-lists Graphs and Networks decorations graph traversals shortest paths and minimum spanning trees Instructors Robert F. Cohen, President, Algomagic Technologies, Inc. Michael T. Goodrich, Professor of Computer Science, Johns Hopkins University Roberto Tamassia, Professor of Computer Science, Brown University The instructors are international experts in algorithms, data structures, and software engineering Cohen has extensive experience in teaching professional software development courses in the U.S. and internationally. Goodrich and Tamassia are authors of the highly acclaimed book Data Structures and Algorithms in Java. Registration The course fee includes class notes, the book Data Structures and Algorithms in Java by Goodrich and Tamassia (Wiley, 1998), lunches, and coffee breaks. Reduced fees are available for companies that are members of the Industrial Partners Programs of the Computer Science Departments at Brown and Johns Hopkins, for academic institutions, and for government organizations. Discounts for multiple participants from the same institution can be arranged. January 21-22, 1999 9 am - 5 pm Brown University Department of Computer Science 115 Waterman Street Providence, RI 02912-1910 March 18-19, 1999 9 am - 5 pm Johns Hopkins University Department of Computer Science 3400 N. Charles Street Baltimore, MD 21218 Fees and Registration Fees and Registration Local Information Course handout (zip) Further Information Course Program Roberto Tamassia rt@cs.brown.edu 401-863-7639 Registration and Local Arrangements Fran Palazzo maa@cs.brown.edu 401-863-7611 Further Information Course Program Mike Goodrich goodrich@jhu.edu 410-516-7708 Registration and Local Arrangements Linda Rorke linda@cs.jhu.edu 410-516-8775 Roberto Tamassia Last modified: Fri Jan 8 14:58:59 EST 1999