SEARCH About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information for: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors A to Z Index People Directory Social@Brown Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Google+ Computer Science About About the Department Contact Directions Partners Rooms Systems & Software Conduit Diversity Socially Responsible Computing Positions Brown CS News Events Brown CS Blog People Our Community Faculty Staff Grad Students Ugrad Students Alums Directory Research Research Links Areas Publications Opportunities For Visiting Students Degrees Degree Programs Doctoral Master's in Computer Science Cybersecurity Undergraduate Interdisciplinary Miscellaneous Courses Course List Schedule Sections TA Program Diversity Diversity & Inclusion Who We Are Resources Action Plan & Initiatives Student Advocates Data And Demographics Student Groups Giving UTA Endowment Home » About the Department » Positions Positions The following positions are currently available: Faculty Tenure-track Faculty in Computer Science The Department of Computer Science at Brown University is hiring multiple tenure-track faculty members at the level of Assistant Professor. The department strives to build a diverse and inclusive environment for all members of our community, and is particularly interested in candidates whose experience, teaching, service, or scholarship can further these efforts. Our department’s detailed vision and action plan for diversity fits within Brown’s broader commitment to this work. We are focused on candidates whose research addresses at least one of the following: theoretical computer science, especially design and analysis of algorithms computer science education computer systems (broadly construed, including but not limited to distributed systems, networks, security, databases, programming languages, and architecture) While we are specifically interested in candidates who connect to the areas listed above, we will also consider other candidates who have the potential to make exceptional contributions to goals around diversity and inclusion. These positions are a part of a major expansion plan for the department as it works to increase its faculty roster by close to 50% over a five-year period. While many of these positions will be used to strengthen and expand core CS areas, some will be used to build bridges with other campus disciplines to facilitate interdisciplinary research and teaching. As a part of our overall plan, we are also emphasizing socially responsible computing throughout our curriculum and research. The department has 32 tenured and tenure-track faculty members, 2 research faculty members, 5 lecturers (teaching faculty members), and several affiliated adjunct and visiting faculty members. In addition to its strong graduate program, the department has a strong undergraduate culture, anchored by a mature, endowed program for undergraduate teaching assistants and research assistants. Department members frequently take advantage of Brown's interdisciplinary culture via collaborations with numerous other Brown units including Applied Mathematics, Biology, Brain Sciences, Cognitive Linguistic and Psychological Sciences, Economics, Engineering, Mathematics, Medicine, Public Health, Public Policy, and Visual Arts, as well as the Rhode Island School of Design. CS is a founding partner and plays key roles in major university-wide programs and initiatives including Data Science, Humanity Centered Robotics, Computational Molecular Biology, and the currently-launching Center for Computing for the People. Brown University is committed to fostering a diverse, inclusive, and global academic community. As an EEO/AA employer, Brown considers applicants for employment without discrimination on the basis of gender, race, protected veteran status, disability, or any other legally protected status. The department is similarly committed to building a diverse faculty and strongly encourages women, underrepresented minorities and those who can contribute to the excellence, diversity, and inclusivity of our academic community. We ask the candidates to report any relevant experience, including work with diverse constituents, and plans in their applications. Brown University is located in Providence, RI, 60 miles from Boston and about 180 miles from New York City, both accessible via frequent rail service, and close to Narragansett Bay. Providence has been consistently rated among the Northeast's most livable cities and is home to diverse intellectual, artistic, and business communities. Applicants must have completed all requirements for the doctoral degree by the start of the position. The initial appointment as assistant professor is for four years and is renewable. Applicants should submit a cover letter, a CV, a teaching statement, and a research statement. Please also provide a diversity statement (which can be part of the teaching statement), in which you summarize your past and planned contributions to diversity and inclusion. These contributions may arise from teaching/mentoring, outreach, lived experience, or other activities. Applicants should also arrange for at least three letters of reference to be submitted through the application website. (For additional information about the university's and department's commitment to diversity and inclusion, see www.brown.edu/about/administration/institutional-diversity/pathways and www.cs.brown.edu/about/diversity.) We are eager to try to accommodate the needs of, and welcome applications from, dual career couples. Applications will be considered until the position(s) are filled but we strongly encourage the candidates to submit complete applications (including reference letters) by December 1, 2021 for full consideration. We will start application reviews and interviewing immediately and highly encourage early applications. Applicants who would like confidentiality should explicitly mention this desire in the first paragraph of their cover letters. To apply, please use Interfolio: https://apply.interfolio.com/96187. Inquiries may be addressed to: faculty_search_2022@lists.cs.brown.edu. Lecturer in Computer Science The Department of Computer Science at Brown University is seeking applicants for a faculty position at the rank of lecturer, senior lecturer, or distinguished senior lecturer. The department strives to build a diverse and inclusive environment for all members of our community, and is particularly interested in candidates whose experience, teaching, service, or scholarship can further these efforts. Our department’s detailed vision and action plan for diversity fits within Brown’s broader commitment to this work. The position and program have several distinguishing characteristics: While some of the teaching will be in first- and second-year courses, candidates will also teach some upper-level undergraduate courses, based on their expertise and department needs. Lecturers are expected to advise undergraduate research projects, and are welcome to participate in graduate research with the rest of the faculty. Lecturers with substantial research participation and supporting funds may be eligible for periodic course release. Over the past few years, the department has begun to successfully roll out an initiative to embed socially-responsible computing content across our curriculum in a pioneering model. The initiative is supported by dedicated teaching assistant positions, a faculty coordinator, and an administrative coordinator. Though all faculty take responsibility for executing this vision, interested lecturers are in a particularly good position to shape and drive it. The department has a strong undergraduate culture, anchored by a mature program for undergraduate teaching assistants (endowed at $10 million), as well as a long history of top-caliber published undergraduate research. All faculty therefore get to work closely with undergraduates in multiple capacities on a continuum from classroom to research. The initial appointment would be for a 3-year period (renewable with potential for promotion and longer-term contracts). This position is part of a major expansion plan for the department as it is increasing its roster by 50% over the next few years. The position involves teaching four undergraduate courses per year, academic advising, and engaging with the department’s intellectual culture. Lecturers participate fully in faculty meetings and department initiatives. The department values teaching and educational innovation, and welcomes candidates interested in formally researching computing education in the context of their teaching (though this is not a requirement). Brown offers a vibrant community for both teaching and research, with 32 tenured and tenure- track faculty members, five lecturers (teaching faculty members), two research faculty and several affiliated, adjunct, and visiting faculty members. Research and graduate programs leverage disciplinary strengths in CS as well as Brown’s broader interdisciplinary culture. CS is a founding partner in multiple university-wide initiatives including Data Science, Computational Molecular Biology, Human-Centered Robotics, and the currently-launching Center for Computing for the People. Brown University is committed to fostering a diverse, inclusive, and global academic community. As an EEO/AA employer, Brown considers applicants for employment without discrimination on the basis of gender, race, protected veteran status, disability, or any other legally protected status. The department is similarly committed to building a diverse faculty and strongly encourages women, underrepresented minorities and those who can contribute to the excellence, diversity, and inclusivity of our academic community. We ask the candidates to report any relevant experience, including work with diverse constituents, and plans in their applications. Brown University is located in Providence, RI, close to Narragansett Bay, an hour from Boston and about three hours from New York City. Providence has been consistently rated among the Northeast's most livable cities and is home to diverse intellectual, artistic, and business communities. The position is expected to start in the fall of 2022. In selecting candidates, we will consider quality and effectiveness of teaching, commitment to diversity and inclusion, and compatibility with the area needs and interests of the department, as well as potential for effective participation in department or university activities. For all applicants, we will consider potential for impact beyond Brown (through teaching, research, significant system building, outreach, or other professional activities, as appropriate for the candidate). Applicants must have a Ph.D. by the start of the position. Applicants must submit a cover letter, a CV, a teaching statement, a diversity statement (which can be included in the teaching statement) and a research statement (or a statement describing other significant professional activities beyond classroom instruction). Candidates must also arrange for at least three letters of reference to be submitted through the application website. To apply, please use Interfolio: http://apply.interfolio.com/96157 Review will begin on November 1, 2021, but applications will be considered until the position is filled. Inquiries may be addressed to: teaching_faculty_search_2022@lists.cs.brown.edu Staff There are no staff positions available at this time. Computer Science at Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912 USA Phone: 401-863-7600 Map & Directions / Contact Us Sign In