SEARCH About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information for: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors A to Z Index People Directory Social@Brown Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Google+ Computer Science About About the Department Contact Directions Partners Rooms Systems & Software Conduit Diversity Socially Responsible Computing Positions Brown CS News Events Brown CS Blog People Our Community Faculty Staff Grad Students Ugrad Students Alums Directory Research Research Links Areas Publications Opportunities For Visiting Students Degrees Degree Programs Doctoral Master's in Computer Science Cybersecurity Undergraduate Interdisciplinary Miscellaneous Courses Course List Schedule Sections TA Program Diversity Diversity & Inclusion Who We Are Resources Action Plan & Initiatives Student Advocates Data And Demographics Student Groups Giving UTA Endowment Home » Degree Programs » Undergrad » Fifth Year And Alternative Master's Options Our Fifth Year And Alternative Master's Options Staying A Fifth Year A student earning an ScB in one field (for example, computer science) and an AB in another (for example, economics) is permitted to stay an extra year if needed to finish up concentration requirements. The student must pass a minimum of 38 courses and declare their intent to stay for a fifth year by their fifth semester. Another option (please see below) is to earn a Master's degree. Earning A Fifth-Year Master's Degree Brown has three programs under which an undergraduate can stay for a fifth year to earn a Master's degree: The Master of Science in Cybersecurity is the only program of its kind in the Ivy League, a fully online degree designed to bring together students from all over the world. Cybersecurity at Brown is rooted in the University’s interdisciplinary approach to learning and solving problems and participants will attend the same classes as in-person students, graduating with a sophisticated understanding of subjects like cryptography, network security, and cloud security. Click here to learn more and here to apply. The Five-Year Baccalaureate/Master's Degree program allows students, after completing their Baccalaureate degree, to continue at Brown for a Master's degree and use courses taken while an undergrad to satisfy some of their Master's course requirements. In 2022, students who have not yet completed undergraduate study may apply for this program no later than May 13. In following years, they may apply no later than May 1. To apply, go to https://apply.professional.brown.edu/apply and indicate on your application that you're a current Brown senior. Of the eight courses required for the Master's degree, two may be completed while the student is an undergrad, even if taken before the student was admitted to the Master's program. At least six semester courses must be taken while in residence as a grad student. Admission must be approved by the department in which the Master's degree is sought and by the School of Professional Studies. While a student must be enrolled as an active undergrad student at the time of application, admission to the grad program can be deferred for up to two years with approval of Brown CS. (When the application is live, we'll make a link available here. Please be sure to indicate that you're applying for the Five-Year Master's and not the regular Master's.) The Concurrent Baccalaureate/Master's Degree program (click here to apply) allows exceptionally capable students to combine their last year or two of undergrad study with grad study, resulting in the simultaneous completion of both a Baccalaureate degree and a Master's degree. Students must apply for this program during their junior year. Their applications must be first approved by the Committee on Academic Standing, which will ascertain that the student's academic performance has been outstanding and that the student's undergrad program is sufficiently broad (normally meaning taking at least ten courses outside their fields of concentration). Applications then must be approved by the Graduate Council and the appropriate department, which may place additional requirements on admission to this special program. The candidate must complete a minimum of thirty-six courses within eight or nine semesters and complete the requirements of both the Baccalaureate degree and the Master's degree. No more than two courses may be used to satisfy both Baccalaureate concentration requirements and Master's requirements. Brown CS permits only those students pursuing an ScB in any of its concentrations to obtain a concurrent Baccalaureate/Master's degree. Computer Science at Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912 USA Phone: 401-863-7600 Map & Directions / Contact Us Sign In