Skip to content BROWN CS DUG Empowering Brown undergraduate students in computer science. view our events Join our Newsletter Join us on Discord Community Connect and network with a community of passionate computer science students at Brown. Academic Programs Access resources and learn more about the academic opportunities you have at Brown and in the CS department. Career Programs Discover professional opportunities and prepare for internships and jobs in computer science. CS DUG Events See below for event announcements and other news from the CS DUG! To be the first to hear about our events, we recommend you join our Discord server. CS Concentration Declaration Celebration Date: Monday, Mar 21, 2022 Time: 4:30pm – 5:30pm Location: Kasper Multipurpose Room (basement at Campus Center) CS DUG x CareerLAB Workshop Date: Tuesday, Mar 15, 2022 Time: 8:00pm – 9:00pm Location: Petteruti Lounge (second floor at Campus Center) Careers in Technology Panel Date: Thursday, Dec 2, 2021 Time: 9:00pm – 10:00pm Location: Virtual Zoom Panel About Us The Computer Science DUG works with the Brown CS department to best support undergraduates concentrating in CS! We are hear to help you make the most out of your academics at Brown and achieve all your career goals. Learn more Mission Statement The Brown Computer Science Departmental Undergraduate Group, more fondly called the CS DUG, was created to empower the undergraduate community of Brown’s Computer Science department, increase undergraduate participation, and continue Brown’s legacy of involved undergraduates. Organizing a broad range of activities from social mixers to technical talks, the DUG is always interested in new ideas to foster campus engagement and has historically been involved in many undergraduate computer science events. Activities and Events The DUG organizes a broad range of activities from social mixers to technical talks. The DUG is always interested in new ideas to foster computer science on campus and has historically been involved in many undergraduate computer science events. This year, a group of students decided to get the DUG operating again, and held great events such as a concentration declaration party, and internship application event, and a De-stress event right before finals. Let’s talk! Students can contact us with suggestions! Companies can contact us with recruitment opportunities or other offers! Let's talk: [email protected] © Copyright 2022 Brown CS DUG. All rights reserved.