SEARCH About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information for: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors A to Z Index People Directory Social@Brown Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Google+ Computer Science About About the Department Contact Directions Partners Rooms Systems & Software Conduit Diversity Socially Responsible Computing Positions Brown CS News Events Brown CS Blog People Our Community Faculty Staff Grad Students Ugrad Students Alums Directory Research Research Links Areas Publications Opportunities For Visiting Students Degrees Degree Programs Doctoral Master's in Computer Science Cybersecurity Undergraduate Interdisciplinary Miscellaneous Courses Course List Schedule Sections TA Program Diversity Diversity & Inclusion Who We Are Resources Action Plan & Initiatives Student Advocates Data And Demographics Student Groups Giving UTA Endowment Home » Degree Programs Why Study At Brown CS? Doctoral Master's Cybersecurity Undergrad Miscellaneous Data Science Studying Computer Science At Brown CS We offer one of the best environments in the world for both research and education. Our faculty, students, resources, and location are just some of the reasons why you should study at Brown CS. Graduate Study This consists of a doctoral program and two Master's programs, the Master of Science in Computer Science and the Master of Science in Cybersecurity. The latter is a fully online degree that can be completed from anywhere in the world. Doctoral students can earn a Master's degree automatically, but students admitted for a Master's don't automatically transition to the PhD track. The Data Science Initiative also offers a Master's program that prepares students from a wide range of backgrounds for careers in data science. Rooted in a research collaboration among four very strong departments (Applied Mathematics, Biostatistics, Computer Science, and Mathematics), it offers a rigorous, distinctive, and attractive education for people building careers in data science and/or big data management. Undergraduate Study Our undergraduate program pioneered the idea of undergrads contributing to teaching and research at a time when few universities even offered CS courses. Today, no other institution gives students the same opportunities to be part of the university's intellectual life, benefit from a community of collaborators, and advance the field. Undergraduate students also have the option of staying a fifth year to obtain a Masters degree. For Current Students Please visit the appropriate Resources page for undergraduate, Master's, or doctoral students. Computer Science at Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912 USA Phone: 401-863-7600 Map & Directions / Contact Us Sign In