SEARCH About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information for: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors A to Z Index People Directory Social@Brown Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Google+ Computer Science About About the Department Contact Directions Partners Rooms Systems & Software Conduit Diversity Socially Responsible Computing Positions Brown CS News Events Brown CS Blog People Our Community Faculty Staff Grad Students Ugrad Students Alums Directory Research Research Links Areas Publications Opportunities For Visiting Students Degrees Degree Programs Doctoral Master's in Computer Science Cybersecurity Undergraduate Interdisciplinary Miscellaneous Courses Course List Schedule Sections TA Program Diversity Diversity & Inclusion Who We Are Resources Action Plan & Initiatives Student Advocates Data And Demographics Student Groups Giving UTA Endowment Home » Degree Programs » Master's Applying Requirements Tracks Handbook FAQ Scholarships Our Master's Programs When they're not creating real-time Twitter trends maps, our Master's students are developing a VR framework to act as an interface between hardware and software or using Minecraft to help robots plan. (In their spare time, they're winning Google Lime Awards and taking first place at hackathons.) We offer two programs, the Master of Science in Computer Science and the Master of Science in Cybersecurity. The latter is a fully online degree that can be completed from anywhere in the world. This page is for prospective Master of Science in Computer Science students. Current students, go here or use the links in the blue bar above. "Brown CS changed my life! I have a deep understanding of the field and was able to contribute to cutting-edge research. The networking opportunities with companies and alums are fantastic! This led me to a job at Google. Ultimately, the core of Brown CS is the people: the amazing faculty, staff, and peers." — Paige Selby, Google Our program has several advantages over other institutions: Our reasonable costs make us an affordable choice, and all admitted applicants are automatically considered for a small number of merit-based, full-tuition scholarships that support our diversity and inclusion goals All courses are taught by world-class faculty who earn our reputation for innovation We offer two tracks (research and coursework-only) that can be easily customized for particular needs Strong industry partnerships let students work with government and industry on practical, high-value problems Students can take courses from Harvard, RISD, and other institutions without additional cost (see here for details and restrictions) "Getting a Master's was a great opportunity to continue my research and deepen my relationships with other students and Brown's faculty." — Finnegan Hopkins, Twitter Additional Information Why is Brown a great place to study CS at all levels? How can I apply to the Master's program? What are the Master's program graduation requirements? What are the other Brown CS degree programs? How can I learn more about grad school application and life? (Professor Shriram Krishnamurthi provides answers.) How do I find out more? Read our FAQ. How do I ask additional questions? (Email link) Computer Science at Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912 USA Phone: 401-863-7600 Map & Directions / Contact Us Sign In