SEARCH About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information for: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors A to Z Index People Directory Social@Brown Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Google+ Computer Science About About the Department Contact Directions Partners Rooms Systems & Software Conduit Diversity Socially Responsible Computing Positions Brown CS News Events Brown CS Blog People Our Community Faculty Staff Grad Students Ugrad Students Alums Directory Research Research Links Areas Publications Opportunities For Visiting Students Degrees Degree Programs Doctoral Master's in Computer Science Cybersecurity Undergraduate Interdisciplinary Miscellaneous Courses Course List Schedule Sections TA Program Diversity Diversity & Inclusion Who We Are Resources Action Plan & Initiatives Student Advocates Data And Demographics Student Groups Giving UTA Endowment Home » Brown CS News Awards Diversity Socially Responsible Computing Brown CS News Categories Diversity ( 24 articles ) Awards ( 144 articles ) Socially Responsible Computing ( 23 articles ) Brown CS Professor Michael Littman Will Join NSF As Division Director For Information And Intelligent Systems Posted by Charlie Clynes on May 30, 2022 The National Science Foundation (NSF) announced recently that Professor Michael Littman of Brown CS will join as their division director for information and intelligent systems for the next two years. While retaining his role at Brown, Michael will oversee AI-related research funding and coordinate AI efforts between government agencies in his new role. read more » A Historic Expansion Adds Five Brown CS Faculty Members Posted by Jesse Polhemus on May 25, 2022 CS With Impact, the largest expansion in Brown CS history, has added five new faculty members this spring: read more » Five Brown CS Students And Alums Receive NSF Graduate Research Fellowships Posted by Charlie Clynes on May 20, 2022 Five Brown CS students and alums, Jessica Dai, Arman Maesumi, Shane Parr, Seiji Shaw, and Benjamin Spiegel, received NSF Graduate Research Fellowships last month for their research in computer science. The fellowship program, which is the oldest of its kind, recognizes and supports graduate students in science, technology, engineering, and math who show significant potential for future contributions to their field. read more » Three Brown CS Alums Join FASPE’s 2022 Design And Technology Program Posted by Charlie Clynes on May 20, 2022 in Socially Responsible Computing Brown CS alums Shira Abramovich, Jessica Dai, and Hal Triedman are three of thirteen students chosen for the inaugural 2022 design and technology program of the Fellowships at Auschwitz for the Study of Professional Ethics (FASPE). read more » George Konidaris Wins A Salomon Award To Express Prior Knowledge To Reinforcement Learning Agents Posted by Jesse Polhemus on May 18, 2022 in Awards Brown CS Professor George Konidaris has just received a Richard B. Salomon Faculty Research Award. This honor, given annually by Brown’s Office of the Vice-President for Research, was established to support excellence in scholarly work by providing funding for selected faculty research projects of exceptional merit with preference given to junior faculty who are in the process of building their research portfolio. read more » Eli Upfal Gives The 21st Annual Kanellakis Memorial Lecture Posted by Jesse Polhemus on May 17, 2022 The Paris C. Kanellakis Memorial Lecture, a tradition of more than two decades, honors a distinguished computer scientist who was an esteemed and beloved member of the Brown CS community. Paris came to Brown in 1981 and became a full professor in 1990. His research area was theoretical computer science, with emphasis on the principles of database systems, logic in computer science, the principles of distributed computing, and combinatorial optimization. He died in an airplane crash on December 20, 1995, along with his wife, Maria Teresa Otoya, and their two young children, Alexandra and Stephanos Kanellakis. read more » Zachary Espiritu Wins The Norman K. Meyrowitz '81 Award Posted by Jesse Polhemus on May 17, 2022 in Awards Brown University's Department of Computer Science has just announced that Zachary Espiritu, a Brown CS student, SPOC (Systems Programmer, Operator, and Consultant), and one of the four Meta-TAs who coordinate the Undergraduate Teaching Assistant program, has just won the Norman K. Meyrowitz '81 Award. Named for an alum known for his contributions to the department, the award recognizes exceptionally meritorious service to Brown CS and is accompanied by a cash prize of five hundred dollars. read more » Twenty-Five Students Win Brown CS Senior Prizes Posted by Jesse Polhemus on May 16, 2022 in Awards Brown CS has just announced that it has recognized 25 graduating seniors for their academic accomplishments as well as their service to the department this year. Usha Bhalla, Ross Briden, Champ Chairattana-Apirom, Jack Ciabaton, Jason Crowley, Thomas Del Vecchio, Evan Dǒng, Shenandoah Duraideivamani, Zachary Espiritu, Aalia Habib, Chace Hayhurst, Alexander Ivanov, Isabel Lai, Xinru Li, Jing Wei Nicholas Lim, Jiaju Ma, Lily Mayo, Julia McClellan, Neev Parikh, Top Piriyakulkij, Adam Pikielny, Monica Roy, Kshitij Sachan, Seiji Shaw, and Caleb Trotz have each received the Senior Prize in Computer Science for their academic work as well as their service to Brown … read more » Seny Kamara Delivers "Crypto For The People (Part 2)" At USENIX Enigma '22 Posted by Jesse Polhemus on May 3, 2022 in Socially Responsible Computing Brown CS Professor Seny Kamara's keynote for CRYPTO 2020, "Crypto for the People", which took a critical look at who benefits from cryptography as it currently stands and explores how it can be used to fight oppression and violence, has already received more than 11,000 views. Seny describes it as an atypical keynote that was shaped by his experience of being Black, an immigrant, an applied cryptographer, and in particular, an outsider: one of perhaps only two or three Black cryptographers in the world. Last month, he followed it up with an invited talk ("Crypto for the People (Part 2)") … read more » Brown CS Remembers Isabel Cruz Posted by Jesse Polhemus on April 25, 2022 Brown CS is mourning the loss of our alum and friend, Isabel Cruz, Distinguished Professor of Computer Science at University of Illinois Chicago (UIC)’s College of Engineering. She passed away on September 19, 2021, following unexpected complications from surgery. Her life partner, Brown Plastech Professor of Computer Science Roberto Tamassia, offers her biography and their shared story on his website, and he expresses his gratitude to Isabel’s many colleagues, mentees, and friends who have sent us their own memories of her, some of which we include below. read more » Page 1 of 74 next » Computer Science at Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912 USA Phone: 401-863-7600 Map & Directions / Contact Us Sign In