SEARCH About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information for: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors A to Z Index People Directory Social@Brown Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Google+ Computer Science About About the Department Contact Directions Partners Rooms Systems & Software Conduit Diversity Socially Responsible Computing Positions Brown CS News Events Brown CS Blog People Our Community Faculty Staff Grad Students Ugrad Students Alums Directory Research Research Links Areas Publications Opportunities For Visiting Students Degrees Degree Programs Doctoral Master's in Computer Science Cybersecurity Undergraduate Interdisciplinary Miscellaneous Courses Course List Schedule Sections TA Program Diversity Diversity & Inclusion Who We Are Resources Action Plan & Initiatives Student Advocates Data And Demographics Student Groups Giving UTA Endowment Home » About the Department » Diversity Diversity and Inclusion As a department, we have made it our mission to create and sustain a diverse and inclusive environment in which all students, faculty, and staff can thrive. The Broadening Participation in Computing BPC 2022-2024 Department Plan has been verified by BPCnet.org. The CS Diversity & Inclusion Action Plan (DIAP) Phase II: Outline is now available. The full plan draft will be released in Fall 2022. Diversity Home | Who We Are | Resources | Action Plan & Initiatives | Diversity Advocates | Wellness Advocates | Data & Demographics | Student Groups | Mosaic+ Transition Program Diversity & Inclusion Student Advocates Our Mission Our primary mission as Student Advocates for Diversity and Inclusion is to improve how our department handles academic and social diversity issues. We hope to increase the retention number of HUGs (historically underrepresented groups) in upper level computer science classes, as well as increase the number of students concentrating in computer science. We also hope to raise awareness of the issues that are ongoing in our department such as the lack of diversity among our TA program, which is the main source of instruction for our introductory classes. We hope that our initiative creates a more inclusive environment that allows students to thrive academically while also creating a diverse social atmosphere that is welcoming to all. Confidentiality When students are in their roles as student advocates they are not required to share any information disclosed. They will not answer questions about people with whom they may have spoken, or disclose an individual's name or specific issue unless during the course of the discussion, the student advocate is given explicit permission by the individual to do so. The only exception to this is if the student advocate determines that there is an imminent risk of serious harm. Student advocates will, however, keep statistical information for analyzing and reporting trends of issues, and provide recommendations to the diversity committee. Student advocates are not Title IX mandatory reporters. The Advocates Valerie Aguilar Dellisanti '23 Evan Dong '22 Amal Dualeh '22 Charlotte Lee '24 Loading... Computer Science at Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912 USA Phone: 401-863-7600 Map & Directions / Contact Us Sign In