SEARCH About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information for: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors A to Z Index People Directory Social@Brown Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Google+ Computer Science About About the Department Contact Directions Partners Rooms Systems & Software Conduit Diversity Socially Responsible Computing Positions Brown CS News Events Brown CS Blog People Our Community Faculty Staff Grad Students Ugrad Students Alums Directory Research Research Links Areas Publications Opportunities For Visiting Students Degrees Degree Programs Doctoral Master's in Computer Science Cybersecurity Undergraduate Interdisciplinary Miscellaneous Courses Course List Schedule Sections TA Program Diversity Diversity & Inclusion Who We Are Resources Action Plan & Initiatives Student Advocates Data And Demographics Student Groups Giving UTA Endowment Home » About the Department » Diversity Diversity and Inclusion As a department, we have made it our mission to create and sustain a diverse and inclusive environment in which all students, faculty, and staff can thrive. The Broadening Participation in Computing BPC 2022-2024 Department Plan has been verified by BPCnet.org. The CS Diversity & Inclusion Action Plan (DIAP) Phase II: Outline is now available. The full plan draft will be released in Fall 2022. Diversity Home | Who We Are | Resources | Action Plan & Initiatives | Diversity Advocates | Wellness Advocates | Data & Demographics | Student Groups | Mosaic+ Transition Program Resources If You Need Help If you have an emergency that needs immediate attention contact the Department of Public Safety at 401-863-4111. For any other incidents that you would like addressed reach out to the Diversity Committee diversity@lists.cs.brown.edu, the Student Advocates for Diversity & Inclusion diversity.advocates@lists.cs.brown.edu, the Student Advocates for Health & Wellness, wellness.advocates@lists.cs.brown.edu or the Diversity Committee staff member, Laura Dobler laura_dobler@brown.edu (401) 863 7611 The Office of Instutional Equity and Diversity (OIED) also has an online Bias Incident Report Form that can be completed by members of the community who wish to report incidents or issues of discrimination and/or harassment. Submissions are always confidential and can also be anonymous should the submitter choose. Emergency Contacts Emergency Medical Services (EMS) (401) 863 4111 - Physical evaluations, hospital transports, medical emergencies Student Support Deans | Dean of the Day (DOD) (401) 863-3145 - Addresses academic and personal emergencies during business hours Administrator on Call (AOC) (401) 863-3322 - Addresses academic and personal emergencies on Evenings and Weekends Sexual Assault Response Line (401) 863-6000 - Immediate support in conjunction with DPS, EMS and CAPS (confidential) Helping a Student in Distress - For a full list of student support resources Academic Support and Tutoring Dean of the College (DOC) - Addresses academic concerns including open curriculum, grading, independent concentrations, gap years, leave-taking, among others Curricular Resource Center (CRC) - Part of the Dean of the College, Peer Advising supports students navigating independent concentrations, gap years, leave-taking, DUGs, fellowships, internships and research Sheridan Center - Provides resources for teaching and learning Advising Sidekick - a common on-line space for students and advisors that includes advising materials, information about the Writing Requirement, email announcements, and the Concentration declaration process. Math Resource Center - Provides tutoring for math courses during the year Student Conduct and Community Standards - Addresses student conduct and policy concerns SAS (Student Accessibility Services) - Provides students (including graduate students and postdoctoral trainees), faculty or staff members who may need accommodations or services due to a disability or medical condition Student Centers Undocumented, First-Generation College and Low-Income Student Center (U-FLi Center) The U-FLi Center, founded in the fall of 2016, is a communal, learning, and advocacy center for members of the Brown community who identify with the undocumented, first-generation college and/or low-income student experience (U-FLi). The U-FLi Center aims to contribute to the endurance of U-FLi students by providing them with a dedicated space and programming that values their lived experiences as they navigate an elite, historically white institution and acknowledges the impact of the current socio-political climate on their academic well-being. Brown Center for Students of Color (BCSC) The BCSC, established in 1976, serves as a gathering place for communities of color. Students are encouraged to build meaningful relationships across difference, develop racial and ethnic consciousness, and enact change at Brown and beyond. The BCSC advances the University’s mission of educating and preparing students to discharge the offices of life with usefulness and reputation by empowering students of color, cultivating leadership, facilitating critical reflection, fostering informed action, and promoting social justice. The LGBTQ Center The LGBTQ Center established at Brown in 2004, provides a comprehensive range of education/training, cultural, social and educational programming, support services and advocacy services to the entire Brown Community. The Center works to create and maintain an open, safe, and inclusive environment for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer and questioning students, faculty, and staff, their families and friends, and the campus community at large. Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender (SDC) The SDC, established at Brown in 1974, seeks to provide a comfortable yet challenging place for students, faculty, and staff to examine the multitude of issues around gender. The Sarah Doyle Center offers programs and services for all members of the Brown community, and is a site for research into and exploration of gender issues that extend into and beyond the classroom. Brown Muslim Student Association (BMSA) and Student Center (BMSC) BMSA was founded in the early 1990s. They are a student-led group at Brown University working to meet the needs of our Muslim community while maintaining an open and inviting space. They host a range of events from spiritual to social to interfaith and work closely with the Office of Chaplains and Religious Life. Student Activities Office (SAO) As part of the Division of Campus Life, the Student Activities Office leads campus efforts to support 400+ student groups. For a full list of student groups: BearSync: Student Group List. Student Support Student Accessibility Services (SAS) SAS coordinates and facilitates services for students (including graduate students and postdoctoral trainees), faculty, staff and visitors with physical, psychological, and learning disabilities. Students (including graduate students and postdoctoral trainees), faculty or staff members who may need accommodations or services due to a disability or medical condition should contact Student and Employee Accessibility Services to discuss their needs and begin the registration process. Disability related requests for accommodations and services are evaluated individually, based on documentation and completion of the registration process. Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) CAPS provides a range of mental health services to the Brown community, including individual counseling, medication management, skills workshops, referral services, mental health assessment, trainings and consultation for faculty and staff, crisis stabilization, after hours assessment and urgent care, outreach programming, and groups. If you have any questions that are not answered on this page, please contact us so we can help. For those looking to help students: the B.E.A.R. Project is a training run by CAPS to help members of our community identify and support students in distress. Projet LETS: Peer Mental Health Advocates (PMHA) Project LETS is a national 501(c)(3) grassroots organization led by and for folks with lived experience of mental illness, disability, trauma, & neurodivergence. We establish peer-led communities of advocacy & support; produce resources and educational materials; and aim to protect the civil and human rights of mentally ill folks through policy change — especially those who experience multiple forms of oppression and therefore are rendered especially vulnerable. Disability Justice at Brown DJAB advocates for disability justice at Brown by holding space for a broad coalition of voices in the disabled community. We seek to foster connections between disabled people across all identities and experiences, provide resources and education for each other and the broader Brown community, and serve as a seat of power to amplify our individual voices into a collective force. By creating a space for organizing and solidarity, we aim to address the pressing issues facing all disabled students at Brown and cement disability as an important part of the campus discussion on diversity and inclusion. Health Services Health Services and its affiliated departments aim to provide primary care that is patient-centered, high-quality, confidential, easily accessible and responsive to students' needs. Health Services recognizes that physical and emotional health and well-being are necessary for the student to devote meaningful efforts to the stated goals of education and self-discovery. Partnering with students, we provide holistic care that is respectful of students' personal, cultural and social identities; thus becoming a space for education, self-discovery and intellectual growth. BWell Health Promotion BWell is dedicated to facilitating interactive workshops that provide accurate health information in a non-judgmental, inclusive style. Learn about the programs we offer and request a program for your group. Sexual Harassment & Assault Resources & Education (SHARE) Advocates The SHARE Advocates in BWell Health Promotion are confidential resources on campus that can provide support to any student from any part of the University (undergraduate, graduate, and medical students) affected by issues or experiences related to: Sexual Assault; Sexual and/or Gender-based Harassment; Domestic/Dating; Violence; Relational Abuse; Stalking Title IX & Gender Equity Brown University Title IX is committed to providing an adequate, impartial, and reliable response to Complaints pursuant to the University Sexual and Gender-Based Harassment, Sexual Violence, Relationship and Interpersonal Violence and Stalking Policy. The University’s process for addressing Prohibited Conduct are grounded in fairness and support for all parties, include procedural protections that ensure notice and meaningful opportunities to participate, and recognize the dynamics involved in Prohibited Conduct. Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life The Office of the Chaplains and Reglious Life's mission is to ensure that a diversity of beliefs have voice and vitality throughout the University community. This website will introduce you to our work, programs and religious life colleagues, as well as resources available to undergraduate, graduate, medical students, staff, faculty, and alumni/ae. The Office of Residential Life The Office of Residential Life is responsible for maintaining student residences which support the educational mission of Brown University and are designed to provide a variety of learning opportunities that promote students' academic endeavors, and which encourage their growth and development. The Office of Residential Life at Brown recognizes that learning is not solely academic in nature. A large part of learning inevitably takes place outside the classroom. We are committed to supporting that learning through the residential experiences we provide. Office of International Student and Scholar Services (OISSS) The mission of the Office of International Student and Scholar Services (OISSS) is to support the University’s internationalization and to facilitate the integration of international students and scholars into the Brown community. In that, OISSS serves as a resource to admitted international students, faculty and researchers and their families as well as academic departments, and other administrative offices on and off campus. OISSS provides advising services with respect to immigration and visa matters, work permission, orientation, cultural adjustment and personal concerns. OISSS provides consulting services to hiring academic departments, and handles the immigration related aspects of the hiring process for nonimmigrant faculty, researchers, and staff. OISSS is organized under the Office of Global Engagement (OGE). Office of Military-Affiliated Students (OAMS) OAMS supports all students -- undergraduate, graduate, and medical -- and also is available as a resource to faculty, staff, alumni/ae, and families of students. While initiated by Brown's response to a review of ROTC, the Office is a campus resource for not just ROTC but for all United States military officer commissioning programs. Additionally, the Office serves student veterans, whether of the United States military or military service in other countries. The Office of Institutional Equity & Diversity (OIED) OIED serves as a critical leader, resource, and support in sponsoring programs and events related to diversity and inclusion at Brown University. OIED helps lead inclusion efforts across campus through: Accountability; Compliance; Fostering Academic Diversity; Promoting Diversity and Inclusion. Community members can report bias incident reports using the new form on OIED's website. Brown University Ombuds Office The Ombuds Office provides an independent, confidential, neutral and informal resource for faculty, staff, postdoctoral fellows and associates, graduate students and medical students who have concerns arising from or affecting their work and studies at Brown. Technical & Financial Support Computing & Information Services: Loaner Laptops CIS Help Desk: Need a loaner? The following equipment can be signed out at the IT Service Center. For current models and availability, please get in touch. [Windows laptops, Mac laptops, Webcams, Video cameras, Audio Recorders, Projectors]. Stop by the IT Service Center in the Page-Robinson 510 (69 Brown Street) during business hours [M-F 8:30A-9P, Sa closed, Sun 4P-9P] Financial Services Financial Aid: Financial aid at Brown is a partnership that draws on the combined resources of the student, his or her family, federal and state governments, and the University itself. Loan Office: As part of Financial Services, the Loan Office assists students in meeting the cost of education and managing the repayment of educational loans. We help students make informed borrowing decisions, complete loan requirements, and understand the loan process. UFunds: UFunds coordinates applications for funding from offices at Brown. You will find opportunities here for members of the Brown community, including undergraduate students, graduate students and faculty. Short-Term Loans: The Brown University Short-Term Loan Program is a zero interest loan made available to students to assist in emergencies. Computer & Information Systems: Services CIS Services: Accounts & Passwords, Computer & Printer Repair, Computer Installation & Set Up, Computer Training Consultation Sessions, Computer Training Workshops, Data Recovery, IT Knowledgebase, IT Service Center, Lynda.com Online Training, Mobile Device Repaid, On-Site Support, Undergraduate Computer Training Classes (PASS), Women and Technology Group Graduate Student Resources Graduate School Student Services: Academics, Health & Wellness, Student Experience, directory of support services for graduate students oSTEM: Out in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (oSTEM) at Brown is a chapter of the national non-profit professional society (oSTEM Incorporated) with more than 75 chapters across the United States. Our overarching mission is to empower LGBTQIA+ folks at Brown University studying or working in STEM fields to succeed personally, academically, and professionally. GSOC: Graduate Students of Color community: Our mission aims to build a communuty of graduate students of color in STEM, increase interaction between faculty and students of color in STEM, and encourage a pipeline for underrepresented groups in STEM to increase their representation in STEM fields. SACNAS: Brown University's Chapeter of the Society of Advancement of Chicanos/Hispanics and Native Americans in Science work to foster an includive community and resilient network of scientists from underrepresented identities in STEM at Brown University and behyond. Computer Science at Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912 USA Phone: 401-863-7600 Map & Directions / Contact Us Sign In