Skip banner navigation Skip to main content Close Navigation Screen Login to myCoyote View the Campus Directory CSUSB Library CSUSB Maps and Directions CSUSB Palm Desert Campus Make a Gift to CSUSB CSUSB Admissions - Global Site Navigation Admissions Overview - Global Site Navigation Apply to CSUSB - Global Site Navigation After I'm Admitted - Global Site Navigation First-year Students - Global Site Navigation Transfer - Global Site Navigation International Students - Global Site Navigation English Language Program - Global Site Navigation Undocumented Student Center - Global Site Navigation Osher Lifelong Learners - Global Site Navigation Military Veterans/Dependents - Global Site Navigation Financial Aid & Scholarships - Global Site Navigation Student Financial Services - Global Site Navigation Summer Session - Global Site Navigation Academics - Global Site Navigation Academic Calendar - Global Site Navigation Academic Advising - Global Site Navigation Degrees & Programs - Global Site Navigation Colleges & Departments - Global Site Navigation Course Catalog / Bulletin - Global Site Navigation Class Schedule - Global Site Navigation Online Programs - Global Site Navigation Academic Success and Undergraduate Advising - Global Site Navigation Graduate Studies - Global Site Navigation Office of the Registrar - Global Site Navigation Academic & Support Resources - Global Site Navigation Academic Research - Global Site Navigation Graduation Initiative 2025 - Global Site Navigation CSUSB Athletics Men's Sports Men's Sports Baseball Men's Sports Basketball Men's Sports Golf Men's Sports Soccer Women's Sports Women's Sports Softball Women's Sports Cheer & Dance Women's Sports Track & Field Women's Sports Cross Country Women's Sports Volleyball Women's Sports Soccer Women's Sports Basketball Campus Life - Global Site Navigation Events Calendar - Global Site Navigation Get Involved - Global Site Navigation Student Services - Global Site Navigation Recreation & Wellness - Global Site Navigation Student Health & Safety - Global Site Navigation Housing & Dining - Global Site Navigation Music & Arts - Global Site Navigation Student Employment - Global Site Navigation Campus Safety & Emergency Info - Global Site Navigation Palm Desert Campus Life - Global Site Navigation About CSUSB - Global Site Navigation Inside CSUSB - Global Site Navigation COVID-19 Campus Map - Global Site Navigation President's Office - Global Site Navigation Shared Governance - Global Site Navigation Strategic Plan 2015-2022 - Global Site Navigation Administrative Divisions - Global Site Navigation Organizational Chart - Global Site Navigation Strategic Communication - Global Site Navigation Mission, Vision & Core Values - Global Site Navigation Accreditation Assessment Site Header Region CSUSB Home We Define the Future Login to myCoyote View the Campus Directory CSUSB Library CSUSB Maps and Directions CSUSB Palm Desert Campus Make a Gift to CSUSB Search CSUSB Search CSUSB CSUSB Main Menu Page Header College of Social & Behavioral Sciences Page Menu Home Expand Menu Item Home About the College Message from the Dean Mission Statement Dean's Office Student Support Faculty and Staff Directory Technical Support (CSBS IT) Computer Procurement Guidelines Digital Signage Request CSBS Printing World Affairs Council Departments Degrees & Programs Expand Menu Item Degrees & Programs Certificates Programs Undergraduate Degree Graduate Degrees Centers and Institutes Our Students Expand Menu Item Our Students Advising Services Dean’s List Fall 2021 Dean's List Spring 2021 Dean's List Fall 2020 Dean's List Spring 2020 Deans List Winter 2020 Dean's List Fall 2019 Deans List Spring 2019 Dean's List Winter 2019 Dean's List Spring 2018 Dean's List Fall 2018 Dean's List Winter 2018 Dean's List Spring 2017 Dean's List Fall 2017 Dean's List Winter 2017 Dean's List Spring 2016 Dean's List Fall 2016 Dean's List Winter 2016 Dean's List Spring 2015 Dean's List Fall 2015 Dean's List Winter 2015 Dean's List Spring 2014 Dean's List Fall 2014 Dean's List Winter 2014 Dean's List Spring 2013 Dean's List Fall 2013 Dean's List Winter 2013 Dean's List Fall 2012 2020 CSBS Graduates Summer Session 2020 Degree Roadmaps Frequently Asked Questions Scholarships Faculty Expand Menu Item Faculty SBS Supervision Course Application Form The Node Service Guide CSBS Assigned Time Guidelines Faculty/Staff Directory Scholarly Achievements Giving to SBS Expand Menu Item Giving to SBS Brick Campaign Hall of Fame (2009-2016) Class of 2015 Class of 2014 Class of 2013 Class of 2012 Class of 2011 Class of 2010 Class of 2009 2019 Hall of Fame 2021 Honors and Awards Main Content Region College of Social & Behavioral Sciences Congratulations to our 2021 CSBS CSUSB Graduates! Dear Class of 2021, You did it! All your hard work and determination got you here. We wish you nothing but continued success! Congratulations! Leading by Learning Our faculty and students see challenges to be met head-on, using the past to make sense of the present, so that we can build a better future through our relationships. Watch Video Congratulations Theta Iota Chapter of Pi Sigma Alpha! Pi Sigma Alpha names the CSUSB Theta Iota chapter as the best national chapter for the 8th consecutive year. The award is the highest given by Pi Sigma Alpha to campus chapters. It's intended to recognize local chapters that are particularly active in their departments and universities and exhibit high energy and creativity levels to further the honor society's goals. Learn more here. Online Criminal Justice MA program was ranked #30 in the nation US News and World Report has ranked our online Criminal Justice MA program #30 for 2019. CSUSB to Offer Fully Online BA Degree in Social Sciences CSUSB is now offering a fully online bachelor’s degree in its Social Sciences Degree Completion Program for students interested in advancing their studies and career. The program is flexible in design and broad in application and is also for those pursuing a career in teaching social sciences. For more information on eligibility and program requirements, visit the CSUSB Social Sciences Degree Completion Program Admission Requirements page. CSBS CSUSB among top 25 colleges with master’s in security studies Cal State San Bernardino has been listed among the top 25 colleges in the nation with master’s degree programs in security studies, according to Security Degree Hub. Read more Congratulations to the Social & behavioral sciences Student research competition winners! SBS is honored to announce three of its students won the CSUSB Student Research competition. Congratulations to Xavier Resendez, Holly Timblin, and Edward Zakher! They will showcase their work and represent the university at the 35th annual California State University Student Research Competition on April 30-May 1, to be held virtually by Cal Poly Pomona. Read more here. 2020 Outstanding Student Research & Creative Activities Awardees Congratulations to Elizabeth Rahmani and Ginny Park for this year’s award as the Outstanding Student Research and Creative Activities Awardees. The award is designed to acknowledge one graduate and undergraduate student who has demonstrated exemplary scholastic work in both their academics and research. Mentored Patients-Oriented Research Career Development Awardee (K23) from the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) Congratulations to Dr. Maria Santos on receiving the NIMH K23. The NIMH K23 Award is extraordinarily competitive and typically awarded to faculty at an R1 or R2 doctoral institution.Dr. Santos' research focuses on reducing mental health disparities with a specific interest in underserved populations such as Latinos experiencing depression or a first episode of psychosis. Winners of the 2020 CSU-SSRIC Nesvold Award for "Best Graduate Student Paper" Congratulations to Elizabeth Rahmani and Holly Timblin for winning the CSU-SSRIC Nesvold Award for "Best Graduate Student Paper." Ms. Rahmani and Ms. Timblin presented the winning paper at the 45th Annual Social Science Student Symposium (S4) and received the $500 best paper award. Under the direction of Dr. Jacob Jones, Ms. Rahmani and Ms. Timblin were able to execute their paper on "Cognition, Mood, and Physical Activity: How Keeping an Active Body Keeps an Active Mind in Parkinson's Disease." Policing in Black Communities: The Beginning. NBC Palms Springs recently interviewed Dean Rafik Mohamed, Assistant Professor Marc Robinson (History), and Assistant Professor Zachary Powell (Criminal Justice) to discuss history, race, and policing. They provided context and background about our current national moment of protests and concerns about police misconduct. Watch the recap here. Congratulations to Assistant Professor Paloma E. Villegas on the publication of her book North of El Norte! North of El Norte provides an important counterpoint by examining a lesser-known migration route: that of contemporary Mexican Migrants to Canada. Paloma Villegas examines the changing landscape of Canadian immigration policy and practice, and the implications for Mexican migrants who lack permanent resident status or citizenship. Learn more here. Coming Fall 2021 - Criminal Justice Spanish Certificate The Criminal Justice department will now offer a Criminal Justice Spanish Certificate program for students majoring in criminal justice professions beginning fall 2021. Thanks to a U.S. Department of Education’s Undergraduate International Studies and Foreign Language program grant. The project intends to help students gain specialized Spanish proficiency at an intermediate level or higher. For more information about the Criminal Justice Spanish certificate, contact Carmen Jany at email cjany@csusb.edu or Nerea Marteache Solans at nmarte@csusb.edu. Congratulations to Dr. Christina Villegas, Associate Professor of Political Science Congratulations to Dr. Christina Villegas, Associate Professor of Political Science, who has been asked to join the National Executive Council of Pi Sigma Alpha, the National Political Honor Society. The twelve-member National Executive Council is the governing body for over 800 chapters of Pi Sigma Alpha, with approximately 300,000 members. We are honored that CSUSB will have such a significant presence in a national organization. May 26, 2022 Faculty in the News, May 26 May 25, 2022 Faculty in the News, May 25 May 24, 2022 Faculty in the News, May 24 May 23, 2022 Faculty in the News, May 23 May 20, 2022 Faculty in the News, May 20 View All News Upcoming Events Sep 21 Police Reform and Federal Consent Decrees, Dr. Zachary Powell, CSUSB 1:00pm - 2:15pm Zoom link: https://csusb.zoom.us/j/97960458784 Right Content Give to CSBS Contact Us College of Social & Behavioral Sciences - Office of the Dean Email csbsinfo@csusb.edu Phone Number (909) 537-7500 Location:SB-207A Office Hours Monday - Friday: 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Saturday - Sunday: Closed Mailing Address: College of Social & Behavioral Sciences 5500 University Parkway, SBS-207 San Bernardino, CA 92407 Social Media College of Social & Behavioral Sciences Twitter College of Social & Behavioral Sciences Instagram Footer Region CSUSB California State University, San Bernardino 5500 University Parkway San Bernardino, CA 92407 +1 (909) 537-5000 Follow Us CSUSB's Facebook CSUSB's Twitter CSUSB's YouTube CSUSB's Instagram CSUSB's LinkedIn CSUSB's Social Media Column 1 Login myCoyote Login Canvas Blackboard Login Student Email Login Faculty & Staff Email Login CSUSB Drupal Login Of Interest to... Future Students Interests Current Students Interests Faculty & Staff Interests Full-Time Faculty Interests Part-Time Faculty Interests Community & Visitors Interests Alumni & Friends Interests University Partners Interests Military/Veterans Interests Column 2 Employment CSUSB Job Listings - CSUSB Faculty Jobs - CSUSB Career Center - CSUSB Human Resources - CSUSB Student Employment - CSUSB Resources Contact CSUSB Clery Act Annual Safety Reports - CSUSB Title IX Notice - CSUSB Disclosure of Consumer Information - CSUSB Column 3 Campus Services Academic Advising - CSUSB Housing & Residential Life - CSUSB Ombuds Services - CSUSB Parking - CSUSB Police - CSUSB Psychological Counseling - CSUSB Services to Students with Disabilities - CSUSB Student Health Center - CSUSB Transcripts - CSUSB Accessibility Privacy and Security Non-Discrimination Notice Website Copyright/DMCA Policy