Skip to main content Current Site All the UW MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington UW Facilities Employee Portal Quick Links Home About Us History Mission Staff Committee Committee Meetings Bylaws Budget Outreach Guidelines News Announcements Press Features Projects Project Statistics Dashboard All Approved Projects Resilience Seed Grants Mini-Grants Project Ideas How to Apply Eligibility Application Process Mini-Grants Deadlines Project Criteria Funding Preferences Project Forms Calendar Contact Us Contact Us Menu Home Home About Us History Mission Staff Committee How We Operate Institutional Support Committee Meetings Bylaws Budget Outreach Guidelines News Announcements Press Features Projects Project Statistics Dashboard All Approved Projects Resilience Seed Grants Resilience Seed Grants 2019-2020 Resilience Seed Grants 2018-2019 Mini-Grants Project Ideas How to Apply Eligibility Application Process Full Proposal Guidelines Budget Guidelines Mini-Grants Deadlines Project Criteria Funding Preferences Project Forms Calendar Contact Us Contact Us Campus Sustainability Fund Resilience Seed Grants Now Open from April 1-May 1 The UW Resilience Lab and the Campus Sustainability Fund (CSF) are pleased to announce the fifth annual Resilience and Compassion Seed Grant cycle. These small grants... Need Support in Applying for the CSF? Watch the Grant-Writing Workshop Would you like extra support in applying for grants such as the Campus Sustainability Fund ? Watch the recording from our most recent grant-writing workshop. Improve your skills, get some tips and... UW custodians' photography exhibit (in)Visibility is now displayed at the UW Tower+ Magazine Op-Ed The UW custodian project, supported by the 2020's Resilience Seed grants, continue to grow and expand. The (in)Visibility photography exhibit is now displayed at the UW Tower during winter... Winter Quarter Office Hours Did you know that the Campus Sustainability Fund has virtual office hours? The CSF offers flexible one-on-one meetings via zoom, and open ‘drop-in’ times throughout the week. We are here to act as... Funded Projects Health Impacts of the (In)visibility of UW Custodial Workers Read more Husky Sustainable Storms: Bioswale (Phase 1) Read more 2019 Global Leadership Summit Read more See all funded projects Newsletter Support CSF CSF Highlights Twitter Facebook Instagram University of Washington Be boundless UW Facilities Jobs Accessibility Privacy Terms Employee Portal © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA