As of September 2021, all Ethnic & Gender (E&G) offices are open to support your student success and needs. Please check individual websites for specific, operational hours and contact info. Masks are required indoors at all times and proof of completion of Daily Wellness Survey is required to enter all E&G offices. In order to keep us all safe, we also ask that you please continue to wash your hands, maintain physical distance, and all other health measures to reduce risk. We look forward to connecting soon. × Skip to main content University of California, Riverside UCR Home A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People Search UC Riverside Chicano Student Programs MÁS DE 50 AÑOS DE FAMILIA, ORGULLO Y CORAZÓN Search Home Programs and Services Programs and Services Scholarships & Internships Awards & Honors Mundo Chicano/Latino Theme Hall Resources for Undocumented Students Get Involved Get Involved Student Organizations Outreach Chicano Link Peer Mentor Program Alumni Alumni Giving to CSP Events Events César E. Chávez 5K Run/Walk Radio Aztlan Raza Grad Contact Us Contact CSP Applications and Forms Common Ground Partners UCR Home A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People Chicano Student Programs Breadcrumb Previous Next ¡Bienvenidos a nuestra familia de UCR! We celebrate the traditions of Chicano/Latino culture while sharing the spirit of La Raza with our campus and community. To our Chicano/Latino students, we are one big familia, and like a family, we fully support your academic, cultural, and social success. If you ask our students about Chicano Student Programs, the first thing they will tell you is that we are one big family. Our caring staff supports UCR’s Chicano/Latino community with incredible programs and resources. Our faculty’s research and experiences speak to issues about La Raza, and provide priceless networking and mentorship opportunities. Our shared goals and values make the Common Ground Collective a strong branch of our family tree. Our student organizations are some of our most inspirational family members. Contact us any time. You are part of our family, too. Our Mission Read CSP's mission statement and learn more about our goals and commitments. We also invite you to visit the Ethnic and Gender Centers website to learn about the E&G group's collective mission statement. SUPPORT We create a positive environment for Chicano/Latino students at UCR by offering supportive services and programs that encourage academic success and retention. We provide service referral when necessary, and serve as a resource for advocacy as well. SHARE We educate our campus and community about Chicano/Latino culture through our exciting events, active student organizations, and rewarding outreach programs. CONNECT We collaborate with other UCR departments with shared goals encourage faculty and staff Partners mentorship; reach out to our local community; and maintain a helpful campus, community and alumni network that help our students grow. INSPIRE Our outstanding faculty, staff, and students inspire future members of our familia and demonstrate true orgullo y corazón. Contact Us Chicano Student Programs University of California, Riverside 145 Costo Hall, Riverside, CA 92521 Main Phone: 951-827-3821 Our Staff Office Hours: M-F 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. (Office hours subject to change) Campus Map Directions to UC Riverside Student Affairs COVID-19 Resources for Student Health and Safety Learn More Here for You, Always Student Affairs is here to support you. Connect Events See Events Calendar The Origins of Chicano Student Programs Former Staff and Directors The Origins of Chicano Student Programs Our office first started in 1972 on the second floor of UCR’s Library South, adjacent to the “El Centro” meeting room, across the hall from the Chicano Studies Department and the offices of EOP/SAA Support Services. As the population of Raza students continued to grow, CSP was relocated to a more visible space in the “Commons Area.” Due to renovations to this space, CSP was housed in trailers in parking lot 19 until it was moved to Costo Hall. The office is now located at 145 Costo Hall, which offers more space for offices, student meeting rooms, and the planning and execution of our events. While the location of CSP has varied over the years, the mural representing the history of Raza students and CSP still remains part of the office. The wall-length mural was created by local artist Chano Gonzalez, and funded by a National Council of the Arts grant in 1975. During the first relocation of the office, the mural was threatened to be white-washed. However, student, faculty, and staff protests ensured the security of the artwork. The remaining 10 panels are now displayed at CSP’s current location. Former Staff and Directors The program was founded by a committee that included faculty members organizing around the needs of Raza faculty and students at UCR. Dr. Eugene Cota-Robles was a microbiologist and the department chair of Chicano Studies at the time. Dr. Carlos Cortés was a historian and Chicano studies professor. Alberto Richard Chavez was the assistant dean of student services. With the support of many students, staff, and community members, the committee was able to advocate for a “home away from home” for Chicano students at the UCR campus. Alberto R. Chavez served as director of Chicano Student Programs for 15 years. In 1986, he was succeeded by Rebecca Chavez, who held the position for one year. Robert Nava was appointed to serve as director in 1989. Alfredo Figueroa, currently an assistant dean at UCR, served as director for another 15 years. During a one-year interim period in the early eighties, UCR alumnus Raymond Navarro also served as program director. In 2004, after having worked as CSP’s student assistant, senior clerk and social/cultural programmer Estella Acuña became CSP’s present director. Support staff has included Aurora Gonzalez, Armida Amaya, Estela Figueroa, Jacalyn López Garcia, Lydia Enriquez, Nora Cornejo and currently John Valdez. The social/cultural programmer position, created in 1988, has been held by Josefina Canchola, Carolyn Sandoval, Veronica O.Hernandez, Elena Perez and now Arlene Cano. Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR Chicano Student Programs 145 Costo Hall Riverside, CA 92521 tel: (951) 827-3821 email: estella.acuna@ucr.edu Find Us Follow US: Facebook Csp_UCR Related Links African Student Programs Asian Pacific Student Programs Chicano Student Programs LGBT Resource Center Native American Student Programs Middle Eastern Student Center Undocumented Student Programs Women's Resource Center Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search Cancel