Skip to Main Content Brown University Center for the Study of Slavery and Justice Search Menu Site Navigation Home Work of the Center Research Clusters Public Humanities Projects CSSJ Arts Initiative Seminar Series Public Engagement Annual Reports Collaborating Partners News Events Video Archive About Us History People Get Involved Friends of the Center Donate Visit Stay Connected Opportunities Search Center for the Study of Slavery and Justice This Is America Embedded within the American social, political, and economic systems are various forms of structural violences. The Center for the Study of Slavery and Justice's series This Is America explores how these structures and systems are rooted in anti-Black racism. Breadcrumb Home Work of the Center Public Engagement Sub Navigation In This Section CRMI Slavery and Legacy Walking Tour High School Curriculum Project This Is America June 10th, 2021 2020, A Year in Review Register for the event here. June 2nd, 2021 After Life: Commutation, Redemption, and making an impact after incarceration To view the recording of the event, please click here. May 26th, 2021 Serving Life: Juvenile Lifers and the Struggle for Freedom and Redemption To view the recording of the event, please click here. May 19th, 2021 Legal Advocacy from Inside To view the recording of the event, please click here. April 20th, 2021 Black Monument Builders To view the recording of the event, please click here. April 13th, 2021 Design Practices and Memorializing Difficult Histories To view the recording of the event, please click here. April 8th, 2021 Memorializing Black Death To view the recording of the event, please click here. April 6th, 2021 Black Politics and US Democracy, Beyond Mourning and Sacrifice To view the recording of the event, please click here. March 29th, 2021 Halfway Home: Race, Punishment and the Afterlife of Mass Incarceration To view the recording of the event, please click here. February 23rd, 2021 Reimagining Memorials and Commemoration To view the recording of the event, please click here. February 11th, 2021 CRMI, A Bridge to Understanding our Present To view the recording of the event, please click here. January 26th, 2021 Roundtable on Education in Rhode Island during COVID-19 To view the recording of the event, please click here. January 22nd, 2021 Post-Election Conversation To view the recording of the event, please click here. November 16th, 2020 The Torture Letters: Reckoning with Police Violence To view the recording of the event, please click here. October 28th, 2020 2020 Debra Lee Lecture: Reparations for Black Americans in the Twenty First Century featuring Dr. William A. Darity and Kirsten Mullen To view the recording of the event, please click here. October 20th, 2020 Voter Suppression To view the recording of the event, please click here. September 29th, 2020 Defunding the Police: Organizing Against the Carceral State in Providence To view the recording of the event, please click here. September 17th, 2020 Race, Injustice, and Health Disparities: Barriers to Equity and Citizenship To view the recording of the event, please click here. July 16th, 2020 Challenges to Global Anti-Black Racism: A Conversation To view the recording of the event, please click here. June 29th, 2020 Breaking the Thin Blue Line of Bigotry: How Outcries for Police Reform have led to Calls for Abolition To view the recording of the event, please click here. June 11th, 2020 Black Lives: Structural Violence, Protest and Change To view the recording of the event, please click here. Funded in part through support from Brown University's Addressing Systemic Racism Seed Fund. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Work of the Center Research Clusters Public Humanities Projects CSSJ Arts Initiative Seminar Series Public Engagement Annual Reports Collaborating Partners News Events Video Archive About Us History People Get Involved Friends of the Center Donate Visit Stay Connected Opportunities This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search This Is America Open details for This Is America Bookmark this Page