Skip to Main Content Brown University Center for the Study of Slavery and Justice Search Menu Site Navigation Home Work of the Center Research Clusters Public Humanities Projects CSSJ Arts Initiative Seminar Series Public Engagement Annual Reports Collaborating Partners News Events Video Archive About Us History People Get Involved Friends of the Center Donate Visit Stay Connected Opportunities Search Center for the Study of Slavery and Justice Opportunities Breadcrumb Home Get Involved Sub Navigation In This Section Friends of the Center Donate Visit Stay Connected Opportunities Opportunities at the Center Manager of Public Education Initiatives and Community Outreach The Manager of Public Education Initiatives and Community Outreach fills a central role at the Center for the Study of Slavery & Justice (CSSJ) in keeping with the Center’s mission to uphold the educational and community recommendations outlined in Brown’s landmark Slavery & Justice Report. The position’s focus will be on developing, managing, and implementing youth and education-based initiatives including, but not limited to courses, workshops, public programs, and special projects (such as curriculum development initiatives) to help teachers integrate topics related to slavery and social justice into their classrooms. Additionally, a central aspect of the position will be leading the expansion of a rigorous pre-college program focused on the history and legacies of racial slavery and indigenous dispossession. The position will serve as the Center’s connection to community programming, ensuring that local public and charter schools and their constituencies are a central part of the Center’s participant community. The ideal candidate should have strong administrative, organizational, and computer skills, as well as an educational background in the mission and content of the Center, including the history and legacy of slavery. Learn more and apply Global Curatorial Project Archivist About the Global Curatorial Project Reporting to the Head of Collection Services and Metadata, the Global Curatorial Project Archivist accessions, arranges, describes, and catalogs the oral histories and related documentation, in all types of digital and analog formats, created and collected by the Global Curatorial Project. The Archivist will contribute the resulting collections and descriptive metadata to existing online databases and a new digital archive site dedicated to the GCP. The work is done in a user-centered and access-driven approach to processing and cataloging archival collections while paying close attention to the ethical needs of diverse cultural materials and their creators. Learn more and apply Postdoctoral Fellowships Postdoctoral Fellow in Slavery and the Public Humanities The Center for the Study of Slavery and Justice (CSSJ) at Brown University invites applications for a one-year postdoctoral fellowship (2022-2023) in Slavery and the Public Humanities. The primary responsibility of the postdoctoral fellow will be to serve as project manager and to guide the coordination and implementation of a digitally published platform in support of the documentary film series Creating the New World: The Transatlantic Slave Trade in collaboration with Firelight Media directed by Stanley Nelson. The Center for the Study of Slavery and Justice is a scholarly research center with a public humanities mission. Recognizing that racial and chattel slavery were central to the historical formation of the Americas and the modern world, the CSSJ creates a space for the interdisciplinary study of the historical forms of slavery while also examining how these legacies shape our contemporary world. We are also attentive to contemporary forms of human bondage and injustice. The Center is devoted to interdisciplinary scholarly research around issues of racial slavery, contemporary forms of injustice, as well as freedom. Given the work of the CSSJ is focused on the history and legacies of racial slavery, the Center has a broad network of scholars and institutions that also are deeply committed to values of diversity and inclusion. The CSSJ is interested in qualified candidates who have demonstrated commitment to excellence by providing leadership in teaching, research or service toward building an equitable and diverse scholarly environment. Qualifications Applicants must have completed doctoral work by the time of application and should have a Ph.D. in any humanities or social science discipline with scholarship focused upon the history and legacies of slavery. Applications from candidates with experience in public humanities and digital scholarship are particularly welcome. The successful applicant will be expected to be an active participant in the intellectual life of CSSJ. Application Instructions The position salary is $61,500 and includes benefits and a modest research account. For full consideration, applicants should submit a Cover Letter, CV, writing sample, public humanities scholarship sample, or portfolio, and three letters of reference. Applications received by July 4, 2022 will receive full consideration. Apply Opportunities Beyond the Center Mystic Seaport Museum Summer Internship Spend your summer on the banks of the beautiful Mystic River as you learn more about museums and the maritime world. The summer internship program at Mystic Seaport Museum is for college students interested in pursuing a career in museum studies, museum education, anthropology, public humanities, maritime studies, or other related fields including Native American, African, or African American Studies. The summer youth intern program is part of a multi-year initiative funded by the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation called Reimagining New England Histories: Historical Injustice, Sovereignty and Freedom. This project will explore and reinterpret histories of New England to students, scholars, and a national public, challenging prevailing narratives about the region as founded on principles of liberty and justice for all. The Center for the Study of Slavery and Justice at Brown University, Mystic Seaport Museum, and Williams College will use maritime history as a basis for studying the relationship between European colonization, dispossession of Native American land, and racial slavery. Learn more and apply Munson Institute: Summer Fellowships will Reimagine New England's Past During the summer of 2022, Munson Institute classes will be a part of the Reimagining New England Histories: Historical Injustice, Sovereignty and Freedom project. The Frank C. Munson Institute at Mystic Seaport Museum, in collaboration with the Center for the Study of Slavery & Justice at Brown University and Williams College, will hold classes at Mystic Seaport to interrogate the region’s past. The history and legacies of settler colonialism, racial slavery, servitude, dispossession, Indigenous resistance, and African-American strategies for fashioning pursuits of freedom will be considered. A distinctive feature of this summer program will be the framing of these topics within the context of New England’s maritime setting, an environment that fostered interaction, mobility, and exploitation. Applicants for the 2022 summer session may apply for one of the twelve fellowships being offered through the Mellon Foundation grant starting on December 1, 2021. These positions are most particularly intended for junior faculty and graduate students. We also encourage applications from the region’s tribal nations and African American communities. Each of the resident fellowships, set to run from June 27 – July 29, will be supported with a $2,000 stipend plus museum-owned housing, and book purchases. Learn more and apply Proctorships No opportunities available at this time Summer Institutes No opportunities available at this time Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Work of the Center Research Clusters Public Humanities Projects CSSJ Arts Initiative Seminar Series Public Engagement Annual Reports Collaborating Partners News Events Video Archive About Us History People Get Involved Friends of the Center Donate Visit Stay Connected Opportunities This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Opportunities Open details for Opportunities Bookmark this Page