Skip to Main Content Brown University Center for the Study of Slavery and Justice Search Menu Site Navigation Home Work of the Center Research Clusters Public Humanities Projects CSSJ Arts Initiative Seminar Series Public Engagement Annual Reports Collaborating Partners News Events Video Archive About Us History People Get Involved Friends of the Center Donate Visit Stay Connected Opportunities Search Center for the Study of Slavery and Justice Center for the Study of Slavery and Justice The Center for the Study of Slavery and Justice (CSSJ) at Brown University is a scholarly research center with a public humanities mission. Center for the Study of Slavery and Justice The Center for the Study of Slavery and Justice (CSSJ) at Brown University is a scholarly research center with a public humanities mission. Recognizing that racial slavery was central to the historical formation of the Americas and the modern world, the CSSJ creates a space for the interdisciplinary study of the historical forms of slavery while also examining how these legacies continue to shape our contemporary world. Since its inception in 2012, the Center has organized hundreds of public programs to examine issues of social justice and racial equality, including the impact of anti-black racism on our nation’s educational systems, and racial segregation and its persistent structural legacies. As well we have paid attention to issues around contemporary human trafficking. As part of its mission to examine the history and legacies of slavery in ways that engage a broad public, the CSSJ has built a global network of scholars, museums, and universities. The Center has initiated joint projects with universities and museums around the world and fostered relationships with high school educators across the nation. Through its research, exhibitions, convenings, and curriculum, the Center has become a leading institution for understanding how slavery’s legacy directly impacts all of our lives, yet is “hidden in plain sight.” Slavery and Justice Report - First Readings 2020 The 2006 Report of the Brown University Steering Committee on Slavery and Justice made a deep and permanent contribution to historical scholarship on racial slavery in the Americas and transformed higher education’s engagement with its history of slavery. This digital edition features an interactive reading experience, an expanded set of historical documents, and an array of supplemental resources. Read online here Work of the Center The Center's work is organized around a set of research clusters, projects, seminars, and public engagement initiatives that drive our scholarly and public humanities focus. Exhibitions Visit us in our renovated 19th century house, which includes a gallery exhibition space, the stunning glass wall art piece Rising to Freedom, and a symbolic garden. This Is America Embedded within the American social, political, and economic systems are various forms of structural violences. The Center for the Study of Slavery and Justice's series This Is America explores how these structures and systems are rooted in anti-Black racism. Stay Connected Subscribe to Our Newsletter Flickr View images from our events. Facebook Twitter Youtube Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Work of the Center Research Clusters Public Humanities Projects CSSJ Arts Initiative Seminar Series Public Engagement Annual Reports Collaborating Partners News Events Video Archive About Us History People Get Involved Friends of the Center Donate Visit Stay Connected Opportunities This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Center for the Study of Slavery and Justice Open details for Center for the Study of Slavery and Justice Bookmark this Page