Skip to Main Content Brown University Center for the Study of Slavery and Justice Search Menu Site Navigation Home Work of the Center Research Clusters Public Humanities Projects CSSJ Arts Initiative Seminar Series Public Engagement Annual Reports Collaborating Partners News Events Video Archive About Us History People Get Involved Friends of the Center Donate Visit Stay Connected Opportunities Search Center for the Study of Slavery and Justice Visit The Center for the Study of Slavery & Justice is located at 94 Waterman Street. Our renovated 19th-century house includes a rotating gallery exhibition space, the stunning glass wall art piece “Rising to Freedom” and a symbolic garden. Breadcrumb Home Get Involved Sub Navigation In This Section Friends of the Center Donate Visit Stay Connected Opportunities The CSSJ gallery is open by appointment only on Tuesdays-Fridays from 10am–3pm. Please schedule your visit here. The Center also offers the “Slavery & Legacy” walking tours that examines the history behind the street names on College Hill and includes a visit to the Slavery Memorial. Please visit the Walking Tour page for more information. History of the Building The earliest information we have about the Center’s building comes from the Brown University archive. It is a letter written by Susan Ely, granddaughter of the building’s first owner, Joseph Cady. Mr. Cady served as what was then known as the Steward of the University from 1812–1826. His job was to look after the students’ well being including their rooms and meals, collect their tuition payments, as well as take care of the University grounds. Around the time of his appointment he purchased a lot on George Street near where Rhode Island Hall stands today. Mr. Cady purchased the lot from Mrs. Sarah Hopkins, the daughter-in-law of Esek Hopkins, the captain of the slave ship Sally commissioned by Nicholas, John, Joseph, and Moses Brown decades earlier in 1764. In 1866, after Mr. Cady’s death the present building moved to the corner of Waterman and Prospect street. His granddaughter's letter tells us that “the old house commenced a journey across the back campus to a new location.” It remained there for just one year before again moving to its present location at 94 Waterman Street in 1867. For over a century Joseph Cady’s descendants lived in the home. These included the prominent physician and founder of the Providence Medical Association, Dr. James W.C. Ely ’42 and Joseph Cady Ely ’57, a prominent lawyer who helped reform the state’s laws and judicial system as part of an 1890 commission. The last Ely family member to live in the home, Ruth, bequeathed the building to the Providence Athenaeum upon her passing in the early 1970s, an organization she and her family had supported for many decades. For many in the community, the building is most recently remembered as a real estate company before it was transformed into CSSJ’s present home. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Work of the Center Research Clusters Public Humanities Projects CSSJ Arts Initiative Seminar Series Public Engagement Annual Reports Collaborating Partners News Events Video Archive About Us History People Get Involved Friends of the Center Donate Visit Stay Connected Opportunities This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Visit Open details for Visit Bookmark this Page