Skip to Main Content Brown University Center for the Study of Slavery and Justice Search Menu Site Navigation Home Work of the Center Research Clusters Public Humanities Projects CSSJ Arts Initiative Seminar Series Public Engagement Annual Reports Collaborating Partners News Events Video Archive About Us History People Get Involved Friends of the Center Donate Visit Stay Connected Opportunities Search Center for the Study of Slavery and Justice Public Humanities Projects Public Humanities projects include gallery exhibitions, arts programming and the development of new high school curriculum. The Center has created partnerships with many museums, universities and film makers developing projects that are reshaping the way we understand racial slavery and its impact on our world today. Breadcrumb Home Work of the Center Sub Navigation In This Section Research Clusters Public Humanities Projects Global Curatorial Project Slave Trade Film Project Exhibitions Reimagining New England Histories Unfinished Conversations Series CSSJ Arts Initiative Seminar Series Public Engagement Annual Reports Collaborating Partners For the 2020-2021 academic year, the Center’s work is organized around the following projects: Global Curatorial Project This exhibition and curatorial project presents both the global interconnectedness of Atlantic slavery and the slave trade, as well as illuminates an alternative view about the history of our global modernity. Jointly led by CSSJ and the Smithsonian's National Museum of African American History & Culture. Slave Trade Film Project This research and workshop project aims to support the development of a multi-part documentary series on the Atlantic slave trade. Creating a New World: The Transatlantic Slave Trade will chart the economic and human cost of the slave trade across the Atlantic basin, underscoring how this expansive system of trade, violence, and profit built the modern world. Exhibitions Visit us in our renovated 19th century house, which includes a gallery exhibition space, the stunning glass wall art piece Rising to Freedom, and a symbolic garden. Reimagining New England Histories This project is organized by the Center for the Study of Slavery & Justice at Brown University, Williams College, and Mystic Seaport Museum. It is made possible through the generous support of the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation’s Just Futures Initiative. Unfinished Conversations Series "Unfinished Conversations” (UC) is a new form of curatorial practice, public engagement, and programing to collect, give voice to, and provide a platform for untold histories, memories, and narratives related to the history of racialized slavery and its afterlives. It is a collaborative project with museums and communities around the world. Gallery Public Hours The CSSJ gallery is open by appointment only on Tuesdays-Fridays from 10am–3pm. Please schedule your visit here. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Work of the Center Research Clusters Public Humanities Projects CSSJ Arts Initiative Seminar Series Public Engagement Annual Reports Collaborating Partners News Events Video Archive About Us History People Get Involved Friends of the Center Donate Visit Stay Connected Opportunities This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Public Humanities Projects Open details for Public Humanities Projects Bookmark this Page