Skip to Main Content Brown University Center for the Study of Slavery and Justice Search Menu Site Navigation Home Work of the Center Research Clusters Public Humanities Projects CSSJ Arts Initiative Seminar Series Public Engagement Annual Reports Collaborating Partners News Events Video Archive About Us History People Get Involved Friends of the Center Donate Visit Stay Connected Opportunities Search Center for the Study of Slavery and Justice Research Clusters Led by CSSJ Faculty Fellows, research clusters examine the legacies of racial slavery through scholarship and public engagement. The clusters encourage new scholarship and critical debates to create forms of knowledge which intervene in the world. Breadcrumb Home Work of the Center Sub Navigation In This Section Research Clusters Human Trafficking Race, Medicine and Social Justice Freedom Archive Race, Slavery, Colonialism and Capitalism Historical Injustice and Democracy Mass Incarceration and Punishment in America Stolen Relations Public Humanities Projects CSSJ Arts Initiative Seminar Series Public Engagement Annual Reports Collaborating Partners For the 2021-2022 academic year, the Center’s work is organized around the following research clusters: Human Trafficking This project explores contemporary forms of human bondage and engages in public programming around this issue. Freedom Archive This project creates an inventory of materials in Brown University Library's Special Collections related to slavery and abolition to help scholars more easily access these items. Race, Medicine and Social Justice This cluster explores the history and persistence of structural racism in biomedicine as it intersects with economic and social conditions. We focus on reimagining the knowledge we produce about race and health from a social justice perspective. Race, Slavery, Colonialism and Capitalism This new research cluster explores the way that race, slavery, and colonialism have shaped global capitalism. This is a three year project that is co-led by CSSJ and the International Institute of Social History (Amsterdam). Historical Injustice and Democracy The making of the modern world was in part constituted by the historical injustices of colonialism and racial slavery, a joint project between the Watson Institute of International and Public Affairs and the Center for the Study of Slavery and Justice. Mass Incarceration and Punishment in America This research cluster seeks to examine punishment and the U.S. carceral state through an interdisciplinary lens. The cluster operates from the frame that race and anti-Black racism are cornerstones to understanding the vast leviathan of punishment in America. Stolen Relations: Recovering Stories of Indigenous Enslavement in the Americas This community based project, housed at Brown University, is a collaborative effort to build a database of enslaved indigenous people throughout time all across the Americas in order to promote greater understanding of the historical circumstances and ongoing trauma of settler colonialism. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Work of the Center Research Clusters Public Humanities Projects CSSJ Arts Initiative Seminar Series Public Engagement Annual Reports Collaborating Partners News Events Video Archive About Us History People Get Involved Friends of the Center Donate Visit Stay Connected Opportunities This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Research Clusters Open details for Research Clusters Bookmark this Page