Council on Science and Technology Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Main Menu Menu About Submenu People Submenu Administration Executive Committee CST Affiliates Student Advisory Board Mission Annual Reports Employment Teaching & Learning Submenu CST Courses SEN/SEL Designation Educational Research & Grants Events Submenu Upcoming Events Anthony B. Evnin Lecture Series Submenu Past Evnin Lectures Biennial Conference (LIS) Submenu Living at the Intersection Symposium 2020 Submenu Morning Keynote Afternoon Keynote Panelists Submenu Stephanie Anglin Matt Daniels Joel Cooper Maria Garlock David Robert Grimes Daniel Kahneman Mike Lemonick Simon Levin Daniel R. Marlow Mala Murthy Ali Nouri Katie Peek Mary Roth Jen Schwartz Olga Troyanskaya Sam Wang Jevin West Musical Performance LIS 2020 Videos Living at the Intersection Symposium 2018 Submenu Symposium Image Gallery Submenu Performance-There Might be Others Showcase Keynote Speaker, Janet Echelman Panels LIS 2018 Performance - Bora Yoon and Joshue Ott Symposium Video LIS 2018 Performances Showcase Presenters Keynote Janet Echelman Panels Interactive Stations Organizing Committee Summit on Science Literacy Opportunities Submenu Faculty Opportunities Student Opportunities Scientist Spotlight StudioLab Submenu Equipment Submenu 3D Printing 3D Print-by-Mail CNC Milling Craft Cutter Critical Play Collections Electronics Station Equipment Checkout Laser Cutting Performance Space Raspberry Pi Kits Sewing Machines Trainings and Reservations RadLab Community Contact News Search Search Council on Science and Technology Advancing STEM Literacy across Princeton and Beyond Harrison Shapiro '22 Named Winner of Pope Prize for Science Writing Harrison Shapiro '22 was named the 2022 recipient of the Pope Prize for Science Writing in recognition of his demonstrated dedication to and passion for science writing. Read the Article The Modern Face of Science Whose stories do you tell when you teach science and engineering? Newton? Galileo? Maybe Marie Curie? Read the Article Teaching & Learning Discover how the CST creates and supports courses at Princeton. Explore Opportunities Find your connection to the CST through funding, fellowships, prizes, leadership, and employment opportunities. Search Opportunities " I absolutely loved interning with the CST. [Their] mission is such a great cause that I feel really proud of the impact of my work. I will definitely find ways to continue being involved with the CST after my internship is over! Ilene E., Undergraduate Class of 2021, VIS Find Your Connection to the CST Create with Us! : Create StudioLab events are open to all members of the Princeton University community. Create Learn with Us! : Learn CST courses are creative and engaging. Learn Explore with Us! : Explore CST events promote creativity, collaboration, and community. Explore 1 / 3 Start animation ▶ < > Upcoming Events No content available to show. View All Wonder Walk Join Us RadLab: Mechanical Keyboard Design Join Us RadLab: The Secret Life of Hermit Crabs Join Us 1 / 3 Start animation ▶ < > CST Newsletter Sign up for the CST Newsletter to stay up-to-date with CST news and events! Newsletter Signup @princetoncst Follow Us Elfsight Feed Footer Council on Science and Technology Peter B. Lewis Library, 2nd Floor Princeton, New Jersey 08544 PrincetonCST@princeton.edu Instagram Facebook Twitter Footer Menu About Submenu People Mission Annual Reports Employment Teaching & Learning Submenu CST Courses SEN/SEL Designation Educational Research & Grants Events Submenu Upcoming Events Anthony B. Evnin Lecture Series Biennial Conference (LIS) Summit on Science Literacy Opportunities Submenu Faculty Opportunities Student Opportunities Scientist Spotlight StudioLab Submenu Equipment Trainings and Reservations RadLab Community Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University