Apply To CSU CSU Career Center Give to CSU and this is the CSU Effect. Colorado State University we are scroll down to learn more close and this is the CSU Effect. Colorado State University we are 4,500 Employers Members of CSU’s last three graduating classes were hired by 4,500 unique employers in 49 states in 53 countries and attended more than 200 graduate schools. 3-Out-of-4 Graduates are employed in a field related to their major. 84% 84 Percent of graduates secured employment or continuing education within 6 months of graduation. These are the statistics. But at CSU, the value of your experience is more than a number. Hear it from the graduates themselves. CSU prepared me for this job by helping me find an internship while I was in school that provided my first experience in research, and gave me a lot of the tools necessary to work in this field. Through one of my professors, I was able to work for two summers at an oceanographic institute in Florida. The focus of my work was to explore the relationship between several environmental issues previously identified in dolphins and people who share this environment with the animals. This position allowed me to complete a research study from beginning to end. I also had the opportunity to present this study at two professional conferences.” Emily Jensen, ’13 Environmental Health Research Assistant Children’s Hospital of Colorado I highly recommend CSU to prospective students – especially if they are looking into the Construction Management program. Between the career fair, resume reviews and mock interviews, I was getting more offers than I knew what to do with.” Ellen Ford ’13 Construction Management Post-graduation: Project Engineer, Morley Builders Current position: Facilities Coordinator, USC School of Cinematic Arts Looking back, CSU is the sole reason why I do what I do today. Through my classes, the mentors I had, and the organizations I was a part of during college, I was able to truly learn more about myself and my role in working toward enabling positive social change within my community. I would recommend CSU to anyone who wants to broaden their world views and have a better understanding of who they are in relation to the world.” Josef Canaria ’13 Political Science/Communication Studies Program Assistant Louisiana Foundation Against Sexual Assault CSU offers a wide array of service-learning and community-engagement opportunities. Through these extra-curriculars, I learned the importance of giving back to the community, how to truly work with others, and what it means to be an engaged citizen. I also valued all of my supply chain classes. The professors were outstanding and the ‘real world’ experience I got from working with local companies and organizations was invaluable. I’m very happy that I chose CSU. It truly is a place where the community and faculty care about each individual student, and invest time and energy into their success. I would recommend it to anyone.” Ryan Ellis ’14 Business Management Merchandise Planner Sierra Trading Post I couldn’t have asked for better preparation for this next step in my life. CSU is an amazing institution, brimming with individuals and opportunities to support each student in their next step. For me, my next step was law school. CSU prepared me through the many people and involvement activities that were available during my undergraduate career. At this point, I’ve only made a few of those ‘life-changing decisions,’ that when you look back on them, you realize how much your choice genuinely affected your path. Choosing CSU was one of those decisions.” Kellen Wittkop, ’13 Economics/English Juris Doctor, Harvard Law School Associate, Faegre Baker Daniels Curiosity. Passion. Rigor. Innovation. These academic values are the foundation of our students’ success. Thanks to our investments, 79 percent of our graduates complete their degrees in 4.5 years or less. 5% Only 5 percent of CSU’s budget goes to administration; the rest goes to Instruction, Academic Support, and Scholarships. 18:1 With a 13 percent increase in our faculty in the past five years, our student-faculty ratio is holding steady at 18:1. 53% The average institutional aid has increased by 53% in the last five years. Don’t take it from us. Here’s what others are saying about CSU: We achieved the highest score ever reported to STARS, the Sustainability Tracking, Assessment & Reporting System. Sustainable Colorado State was recognized by Forbes Magazine as one of “America’s Most Entrepreneurial Universities” in 2014. Entrepreneurial Our Campus Recreation Center was listed as one of “The 25 Most Amazing Campus Student Recreation Centers” by Best College Reviews. Active Colorado State University ranks highly for graduation rates and affordability on U.S. Department of Education College Scorecard. Exceptional The Fort Collins Equation We set out to define the reasons we love our town. What we found didn’t surprise us, and we call it the Fort Collins equation. Philosophy Inviting. Accepting. Supportive. Fort Collins puts its value in its most valuable asset – its people – not in its ego. Region Fort Collins is an hour from Denver and known for innovation, technology, and entrepreneurialism. Geography The Colorado Front Range. That means a beautiful city with access to the best mountains and recreation in the nation. Learn More About Being A Student at CSU Office of Admissions Copyright © 2014 by the Office of Admissions Colorado State University - All Rights Reserved Apply to CSU | Search CSU | Contact CSU | Disclaimer | Equal Opportunity | Privacy Statement Sign in to your account Account Login Username Password Sign in Forgot your password?