Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS School of Education and Human Sciences Department of Curriculum and Teaching myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Admission Academics Select to follow link Minor Bachelor's Select to follow link Elementary Elementary unified Foreign language History & government Physical education plus » Secondary English Unified early childhood Music education » Secondary STEM education » Visual art education » Graduate certificates » Master's Select to follow link Online curriculum & instruction » Online reading education » TESOL education Online TESOL education » Online master's programs » Endorsements Select to follow link Online reading specialist » Online TESOL » Doctoral Select to follow link Ed.D. » Ph.D. Faculty & Staff Mission & Vision Select to follow link News Research Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Student Life Events & Resources Select to follow link Forms & Documents » Contact Us Info for Prospective Students Current Students Current Faculty Alumni Donors myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo School of Education and Human Sciences Department of Curriculum and Teaching Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Academics Bachelor's Degrees Teacher Education Programs Elementary education Leads to initial licensure for kindergarten through 6th grade. Elementary education unified Leads to initial licensure (inclusive settings) for kindergarten through 6th grade. Foreign language education Leads to initial licensure for pre-kindergarten through 12th grade. Music education Leads to initial licensure for pre-kindergarten through 12th grade. Physical education plus Leads to initial licensure for pre-kindergarten through 12th grade. Secondary English education Leads to initial licensure for 6th through 12th grade. Secondary history & government education Leads to initial licensure for 6th through 12th grade. STEMTeach KU Leads to initial licensure for 6th through 12th grade. Unified early childhood Leads to initial licensure (inclusive settings) for birth through 3rd grade. Visual art education Leads to initial licensure for pre-kindergarten through 12th grade. Joseph R. Pearson Hall, Rm. 321 1122 West Campus Rd. Lawrence, KS 66045-3101 Bus Routes: Route 42 ctdepartment@ku.edu 785-864-4435 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin School of Education & Human Sciences Online Programs Tuition & Costs Accreditation Licensure Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.