Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS School of Education and Human Sciences Department of Curriculum and Teaching myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Admission Academics Select to follow link Minor Bachelor's Select to follow link Elementary Elementary unified Foreign language History & government Physical education plus » Secondary English Unified early childhood Music education » Secondary STEM education » Visual art education » Graduate certificates » Master's Select to follow link Online curriculum & instruction » Online reading education » TESOL education Online TESOL education » Online master's programs » Endorsements Select to follow link Online reading specialist » Online TESOL » Doctoral Select to follow link Ed.D. » Ph.D. Faculty & Staff Mission & Vision Select to follow link News Research Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Student Life Events & Resources Select to follow link Forms & Documents » Contact Us Info for Prospective Students Current Students Current Faculty Alumni Donors myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo School of Education and Human Sciences Department of Curriculum and Teaching Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Department of Curriculum & Teaching at the University of Kansas Preparing educators as leaders since 1909 data #9 School of Education & Human Sciences #19 Curriculum & Instruction Program #15 Online Graduate Program Explore Programs Explore Programs Apply for Admission Apply for Admission soehs stats $1M Scholarships Awarded $49M Research Expenditures 300+ Annual Publications Review our research View our Research Our latest news KU Medical Center biochemist brings interactive science to area middle schools Douglas Huffman, Ph.D., professor of science education in the Department of Curriculum and Teaching on KU’s campus in Lawrence, Kansas, said this project aligns with the National Science Education Standards, which were recently updated. Thoughts on teaching science during the pandemic. Featuring Ms. Betsy Lawrence, Doctoral candidate in C&T, and Dr. Douglas Huffman, Professor C&T. KU leading program to bring teachers into research labs, design education to draw diverse scholars to engineering LAWRENCE — Improved recruitment of women, racial and ethnic minorities to engineering and the sciences has long been a goal in the field. Five KU staff, faculty members take on additional diversity, equity responsibilities LAWRENCE – Five individuals at the University of Kansas are taking on enhanced roles in diversity, equity, inclusion and belonging, either as a promotion or an expansion of their current responsibilities: View all news Upcoming Events See all events Give to the Department of Curriculum & Teaching Department Give Give Follow us on social media FacebookInstagramTwitterYouTube Joseph R. Pearson Hall, Rm. 321 1122 West Campus Rd. Lawrence, KS 66045-3101 Bus Routes: Route 42 ctdepartment@ku.edu 785-864-4435 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin School of Education & Human Sciences Online Programs Tuition & Costs Accreditation Licensure Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.