About Curriculum People Spaces Events Apply About Curriculum People Spaces Events Apply About Welcome to the Creative Technologies Certificate in the Art and Art Education Program at Teachers College, Columbia University. OVERVIEW The Creative Technologies Curriculum (CTC) is a 15-credit course sequence specializing in technology-infused art and design education. The specialization expands and further develops the existing degree offerings of the Art & Art Education progam. CTC explores the relationship between Art, Technology, and Education, and enables our students to become leaders in today's technology-infused art education landscape. The curriculum is designed for individuals with work experience and/or undergraduate or graduate degrees in studio art, art education, art history, media design, or instructional technology, among others. Ideal candidates for the CTC include art educators, artists, designers, technologists, and others who wish to incorporate creative technologies in various educational settings. There are three options for enrolling: 1) Students can apply directly to the standalone CTC Advanced Certificate program, which was recently approved by the New York State Education Department. 2) Students already admitted to one of the existing degree tracks at Teachers College (MA, EdM, EdD) can choose CTC as a concentration (comparable to a minor). 3) Students enrolled at Teachers College can sign up for individual CTC courses; for students outside the Art and Art Education program, these courses may fulfill their out-of-program and/or breadth requirements. New media and digital technologies have changed the making, teaching, learning, and accessibility of art. These changes have influenced formal and informal learning environments such as universities, schools, libraries, community centers, after school programs, and art studios. Consequently, the landscape of traditional art itself is changing as a new creative reality steeped in media, technology, and social experience emerges. download program brochure LEARNING Our program is taught by faculty with extensive artistic, educational, and industry experience who are actively engaged with creative technology in their respective fields. CTC enables students to learn digital fabrication and computational media skills that are pertinent to their artistic practice, research, and teaching. The program prepares students to use creative technologies in hands-on explorations and encourages them to participate in a critical dialogue about current issues related to art, technology, and education. Fluency: The curriculum is designed to empower students to approach new and emerging technologies with confidence. Building and Making: Students engage in making, building, and hands-on dialogue with creative technologies. Integration: Students learn to integrate and understand the role of art, design, and making in education across the curriculum. Teaching and Research: Students learn to lead and facilitate educational experiences and research based on the creative use of technologies. Meaning-Making: Students learn to use technology purposefully and as a means to communicate creative intent and educational purpose. Collaboration: Students gradually expand creative collaboration to an increasingly wider audience. Stewardship: Students become advocates and leaders in interdisciplinary and educational ecologies. The CTC program offers a variety of opportunities for accepted students. Please see below for details: CTC Fellowship: The CTC fellow helps coordinate the CTC program development and engages with the larger Teachers College community as well as with partnering organizations. The fellow oversees our visiting artist program and workshop series, maintains our social media campaign, and co-organizes the annual creative technologies symposia, which provide a public forum to discuss recent developments and trends in the field of making and teaching with Creative Technologies. The fellow is also in charge of curating the end-of-semester showcases in the Fall and Spring and offers hands-on support to our CTC students on technically involved projects. Zankel Fellowship: Qualified CTC students who have completed one CTC course are eligible to apply for the Zankel Fellowship. This scholarship supports students who develop and teach creative technology-infused after school programs to underserved inner-city youth in New York City. For Academic Year 2017-2018, the Zankel Fellowship has funded a partnership between CTC and the Teachers College Community School. Myers Media Studio Fellow: The Myers Media Art Studio (MMAS) is one of our two makerspaces in the Art and Art Education program. Select CTC students with in-depth knowledge of emerging media art practices help and mentor students in their digital making. The two studio fellows operate a space that houses an advanced computer lab, 3D-printers, and digitial fabrication tools. Thingspace Fellow: Thingspace, our former sculpture studio, is a newly renovated makerspace and digital fabrication lab that integrates electronic media and digital design with traditional ways of making, including a metal and wood shop. To better help students understand three-dimensional art practice and meaning-making in a modern context, we have qualified CTC students manage this space and assist users of the studio. Professional Development Bootcamp: Each year, CTC invites K-12 teachers and all art educators to attend a three-day professional development workshop, where they learn new STEAM techniques through hands-on workshops and create custom lesson plans ready to use in their own classrooms. This Bootcamp is organized, managed, and led by CTC students who are experts in the area of creative technology-infused pedagogy. Visiting Artist Residency Program: During each academic semester, three new media artists whose practices embody emerging technologies are invited to join the CTC program for a semester. Each artist leads a workshop and serves as a mentor for students currently enrolled in our advanced CTC studio courses. Residents receive an honorarium, access to the Teachers College art studios, and opportunities to lecture and show artwork to the Teachers College community and beyond. SUPPORT Tuition and fee rates are set annually by the Board of Trustees. For the 2018-2019 Academic Year (including Summer 2019), tuition for all full credit TC courses will be $1,635 per point, and the college fee will be $448. Columbia University's tuition is assessed at a per-point rate determined by the University's Board of Trustees. Each school's rate may vary. Please visit the Student Accounts Office web site for detailed information on the following: Detailed list of tuition rate and fees Payment options Payment deadlines Student refunds TUITION AND FEE APPLY The program accepts students on a rolling basis. The CTC admission process for the standalone certificate takes a minimum of two weeks. CTC requires all applicants to have a bachelor's degree and a background in either art, technology, or education. In addition to fulfilling the Teachers College admission requirements, candidates need to submit an art, design, and/or teaching portfolio. This portfolio of ten items may include digital images of your or your students' work, publications and/or other professional materials related to your experience. APPLY NOW Top Program of Art and Art Education 525 West 120th Street, New York, NY 10027 Teachers College, Columbia University 444 Macy Hall Phone: (212) 678-3360 Email: arted@tc.edu Email Address Sign Up Sign up to receive CTC news, events, and opportunities. We respect your privacy. Thank you!