About CTL News Events Cornell Plants Cornell Technologies Search Contact CTL Search Cornell FOR INVENTORS Protect & Commercialize Your Innovations FOR INVENTORS Tech Transfer Process Overview Disclosing Inventions Patenting Inventions Marketing Inventions Material Transfers Disclosure Forms Cornell Policies Women Innovators Initiative FOR INDUSTRY Information about Licensing, & Industry/Campus Alliances FOR INDUSTRY COVID-19 Solutions at Cornell University Licensing Cornell Technologies Express Licensing Research Alliances & Partnerships FOR ENTREPRENEURS & INVESTORS Resources for Entrepreneurs & Startups FOR ENTREPRENEURS & INVESTORS Startup Guide Cornell Startups FastTrack Startup License McGovern Center Incubator Praxis Center for Venture Development Entrepreneur Resources IGNITE GAP FUNDING Funding resources to support commercialization Search The Center for Technology Licensing (CTL) is Cornell University's technology transfer office. We manage technology for Cornell's Ithaca campus, Weill Cornell Medicine, Cornell Tech, and Cornell AgriTech in Geneva. Home Weill Digital Health Series Weill Digital Health Series CTL Home Weill Digital Health Series In three 1-hour panel discussions, the Weill Digital Health Series invites a panel of experts to discuss the increased use of digital technologies for the improvement of the healthcare system and services that would result in better patient wellness, outcome, and cost management. The series focuses on diverse topics, including intellectual property (IP) and market trends, regulatory matters, challenges of reimbursement, and investment opportunities. Moderator: Lisa Placanica, Senior Managing Director, Center for Technology Licensing at Weill Cornell Medicine (WCM) Series 1: Digital Health Innovations – What They Are, How to Protect Them, and Commercialization Strategies Date: March 12th, 2021 The term digital health has evolved over the years and includes various types of technologies, including telemedicine, digital therapeutics, mobile health, wearables, remote monitoring, etc. During the first session of the series, our panel of experts will provide a snapshot of the industry, will talk about strategies to protect and commercialize digital health technologies, and will address the acceleration of the digital transformation. Panelists: Kathryn Bowsher, Commercial Strategist, ACT ONE Healthcare Peter Fleischut, Sr VP & Chief Transformation Officer, Digital Health: Innovation Center, NY Presbyterian Jason Novak, Partner, Precision Medicine, and Digital Health Practice Group, Haynes and Boone Roger Kuan, Partner, Chair – Precision Medicine and Digital Health Practice Group, Haynes and Boone Anshu Vaish, MD, Director, Data Science External Innovation Janssen Research & Development, LLC Moderator: Lisa Placanica, Senior Managing Director, Center for Technology Licensing at Weill Cornell Medicine (WCM) Series 2: Regulatory Landscapes and Reimbursement Strategies and Why it Matters Date: April 7th, 2021 In 2017, the FDA launched its Digital Health Action Plan with legislation specifically targeting digital health, in which it intends to harness the potential of digital health in a conscientious manner. In this second session, our guest experts will present an overview of the regulatory landscape and the challenges related to privacy and data protection. They will also address the future of reimbursement for digital health products. Panelists: Sally Bowden, COO, Renalytix AI Melissa Hudzik, Senior Counsel, Regulatory Vernessa Pollard, Partner, McDermott Will & Emery Moderator: Lisa Placanica, Senior Managing Director, Center for Technology Licensing at Weill Cornell Medicine (WCM) Download the presentation deck from this webinar. Series 3: Securing Financing and the Founders Experience Date: May 6th, 2021 12 PM Investment in the U.S. digital health sector has significantly increased from $7.5B in 2019 to $14.1B in funding in 2020 [1]. With that number in mind, in the last session of the series, we bring together founders and investors to discuss the increased investors’ interest in digital health innovations, the investment opportunities, and the founders’ experience in this sector. Speakers: Katie Baker, Director Innovation – Digital Care Delivery, Anthem, Inc. Michael Laskoff, Serial Entrepreneur; Founder, AbleTo, Inc. Alex Morgan, Partner, Khosla Ventures Asaf Zviran, CEO & CSO, C2i Genomics Moderator: Lisa Placanica, Senior Managing Director, Center for Technology Licensing at Weill Cornell Medicine (WCM) [1] DeSilva J., & Zweig J. 2020 Market Insights Report: Chasing a new equilibrium. Rock Health Report. About CTL News Events Cornell Plants Cornell Technologies About CTL CTL Staff Contact CTL News Spotlight Stories Annual Report Cornell Products Upcoming Events CTL Events CTL Office Hours Cornell Community Events Partner Events Plant Varieties at Cornell Cornell™ Grapes Available Technologies Express Licensing Web Accessibility Help | Site Map | Contact CTL Ithaca: 395 Pine Tree Road, Suite 310, Ithaca, NY 14850 | 607-254-4698 WCM: 1155 York Avenue, New York, NY 10065 | 646-962-7045 CENTER FOR TECHNOLOGY LICENSING AT CORNELL UNIVERSITY