About CTL News Events Cornell Plants Cornell Technologies Search Contact CTL Search Cornell FOR INVENTORS Protect & Commercialize Your Innovations FOR INVENTORS Tech Transfer Process Overview Disclosing Inventions Patenting Inventions Marketing Inventions Material Transfers Disclosure Forms Cornell Policies Women Innovators Initiative FOR INDUSTRY Information about Licensing, & Industry/Campus Alliances FOR INDUSTRY COVID-19 Solutions at Cornell University Licensing Cornell Technologies Express Licensing Research Alliances & Partnerships FOR ENTREPRENEURS & INVESTORS Resources for Entrepreneurs & Startups FOR ENTREPRENEURS & INVESTORS Startup Guide Cornell Startups FastTrack Startup License McGovern Center Incubator Praxis Center for Venture Development Entrepreneur Resources IGNITE GAP FUNDING Funding resources to support commercialization Search The Center for Technology Licensing (CTL) is Cornell University's technology transfer office. We manage technology for Cornell's Ithaca campus, Weill Cornell Medicine, Cornell Tech, and Cornell AgriTech in Geneva. Home For Industry Licensing Cornell Technologies For Industry GateWay to Partnership Licensing Cornell Technologies Research Alliances & Partnerships Express Licensing Available Cornell Technologies CTL Home Licensing Cornell Technologies Over the years, Cornell technologies have been licensed to industry partners all over the world in support of Cornell’s land-grant mission and to develop these technologies and plant varieties into products and services for public good. If you are interested in licensing a technology from Cornell, contact a licensing professional at CTL. Our Licensing Goals CTL’s goals in working with industry partners include: contributing to innovation in industry by connecting cutting edge Cornell research to product development efforts in industry, e.g. to advance human health, to promote the new information age economy, to ensure food security and safety, and to improve sustainability. providing commercialization services to entrepreneurial faculty, staff, and graduates. driving regional economic development and creating jobs in New York state by attracting venture capital funding to small businesses based on Cornell technologies. CTL works to: grant licenses for patented and copyrighted inventions to existing and startup companies that are capable, technically and financially, of developing early-stage technology into commercially successful products be the bridge between the university and industry to provide a point of access to Cornell inventions in medical sciences, biology and life sciences, engineering, veterinary sciences, physical sciences and computer science In all license agreements, Cornell’s primary interests will be to: ensure diligent development and sales of products receive reasonable and customary consideration comply with any obligations we have to sponsors of the research that led to the invention protect Cornell’s name and protect Cornell from liability Interested in Licensing a Technology from Cornell? If you are interested in licensing technology from Cornell, below are the steps you can expect to follow. Contact a licensing professional at CTL. CTL and the company sign a Nondisclosure Agreement to further discuss details of the technology. CTL’s licensing professional and the company negotiate license terms. A Letter of Intent or an Evaluation License may be signed by the licensee. CTL and the company negotiate and sign the license agreement. About CTL News Events Cornell Plants Cornell Technologies About CTL CTL Staff Contact CTL News Spotlight Stories Annual Report Cornell Products Upcoming Events CTL Events CTL Office Hours Cornell Community Events Partner Events Plant Varieties at Cornell Cornell™ Grapes Available Technologies Express Licensing Web Accessibility Help | Site Map | Contact CTL Ithaca: 395 Pine Tree Road, Suite 310, Ithaca, NY 14850 | 607-254-4698 WCM: 1155 York Avenue, New York, NY 10065 | 646-962-7045 CENTER FOR TECHNOLOGY LICENSING AT CORNELL UNIVERSITY