About CTL News Events Cornell Plants Cornell Technologies Search Contact CTL Search Cornell FOR INVENTORS Protect & Commercialize Your Innovations FOR INVENTORS Tech Transfer Process Overview Disclosing Inventions Patenting Inventions Marketing Inventions Material Transfers Disclosure Forms Cornell Policies Women Innovators Initiative FOR INDUSTRY Information about Licensing, & Industry/Campus Alliances FOR INDUSTRY COVID-19 Solutions at Cornell University Licensing Cornell Technologies Express Licensing Research Alliances & Partnerships FOR ENTREPRENEURS & INVESTORS Resources for Entrepreneurs & Startups FOR ENTREPRENEURS & INVESTORS Startup Guide Cornell Startups FastTrack Startup License McGovern Center Incubator Praxis Center for Venture Development Entrepreneur Resources IGNITE GAP FUNDING Funding resources to support commercialization Search The Center for Technology Licensing (CTL) is Cornell University's technology transfer office. We manage technology for Cornell's Ithaca campus, Weill Cornell Medicine, Cornell Tech, and Cornell AgriTech in Geneva. Home For Inventors Women Innovators Initiative Women Innovators Initiative (WI2) The Women Innovators Initiative is a Cornell program to Engage, Empower, and Grow women faculty, staff, and graduate students on the path toward technology innovation and entrepreneurial leadership. Goals: Introduce women faculty, staff, and students to technology innovation and commercialization, and help increase their participation in inventorship. Support their interests and exploration in entrepreneurship and leadership roles. Programs: Women Innovator Awards A celebration of Cornell women innovators for their contributions to innovation and commercialization WI2 Event series A series of seminars, webinars, and networking events. Learn from inspiring women inventors and entrepreneurs WI2 Mentor program Match mentors (seasoned women innovators, entrepreneurs, and/or investors) with mentees (aspiring and novice inventors and entrepreneurs) Cultivate the next generation of leaders with the help of our volunteering alumnae Partner Programs and Events Details: Women Innovator Awards The Center for Technology Licensing at Cornell University (CTL) launched the inaugural Women Innovator Awards, a celebration of Cornell women innovators for their contributions in innovation and commercialization. For more information and application, visit here. WI2 Event series June 2020: Webinar “Women Inventors at Cornell – Creating and Growing an Ecosystem of Innovation” Read about the webinar and the speakers here. September 2020: Webinar “Investing in Women Entrepreneurs”. Read about the webinar and the panelists here. April 2021: Webinar “Running a Startup: Perspective of Two Women Founders and CEOs from Cornell” Read about the webinar and the panelists here. March 17, 2022: Webinar “CTL@WCM Special Panel on Women’s Health” Read about the webinar and the panelists here. WI2 Mentor program Duration: Commitment of a year. Eligibility criteria / Requirements Mentors Mentee Who Alumnae volunteers willing to provide advice and perspectives on technology innovation, commercialization, startups, and other related activities. Cornell Faculty, Staff (post-doctoral fellows), and Grad students who are interested in technology, commercialization, and new ventures and wish to learn from experienced women leaders Background Experienced in technology commercialization and Startup creation Conducting research at Cornell Process Review a list of pre-selected candidates Express a substantiated interest in the program Match Select up to three mentees per year One designed mentor Commitment At least two meetings per mentee in a year. Willing to share their email with a mentee. At least two one-on-one meetings with a mentor per year Respectful of mentor time Responsive to mentor’s emails For Mentees: Application process: Submit an online application here. The team at CTL will screen the application and propose them for review to the mentors. Once selected, mentees are introduced to their mentor through a virtual introduction. For more information, please contact Lynda Inseque at Lci2@cornell.edu. For mentors: If you are interested in serving as a mentor, please contact Lynda Inseque at Lci2@cornell.edu. Partner Programs & Events Weill Cornell Medicine Women Founders Initiative The Women Founders Initiative at WCM will host and promote several initiatives to help women innovators become successful entrepreneurs and leaders. Learn more. Equalize Equalize is a virtual mentor program and pitch competition designed to take national action around the disparity of women academic inventors forming university startups. >> Call for applications Application Info Sessions (Video) Register here to attend the virtual pitch competition on June 30, 2022. About CTL News Events Cornell Plants Cornell Technologies About CTL CTL Staff Contact CTL News Spotlight Stories Annual Report Cornell Products Upcoming Events CTL Events CTL Office Hours Cornell Community Events Partner Events Plant Varieties at Cornell Cornell™ Grapes Available Technologies Express Licensing Web Accessibility Help | Site Map | Contact CTL Ithaca: 395 Pine Tree Road, Suite 310, Ithaca, NY 14850 | 607-254-4698 WCM: 1155 York Avenue, New York, NY 10065 | 646-962-7045 CENTER FOR TECHNOLOGY LICENSING AT CORNELL UNIVERSITY