About CTL News Events Cornell Plants Cornell Technologies Search Contact CTL Search Cornell FOR INVENTORS Protect & Commercialize Your Innovations FOR INVENTORS Tech Transfer Process Overview Disclosing Inventions Patenting Inventions Marketing Inventions Material Transfers Disclosure Forms Cornell Policies Women Innovators Initiative FOR INDUSTRY Information about Licensing, & Industry/Campus Alliances FOR INDUSTRY COVID-19 Solutions at Cornell University Licensing Cornell Technologies Express Licensing Research Alliances & Partnerships FOR ENTREPRENEURS & INVESTORS Resources for Entrepreneurs & Startups FOR ENTREPRENEURS & INVESTORS Startup Guide Cornell Startups FastTrack Startup License McGovern Center Incubator Praxis Center for Venture Development Entrepreneur Resources IGNITE GAP FUNDING Funding resources to support commercialization Search The Center for Technology Licensing (CTL) is Cornell University's technology transfer office. We manage technology for Cornell's Ithaca campus, Weill Cornell Medicine, Cornell Tech, and Cornell AgriTech in Geneva. Home For Entrepreneurs & Investors FastTrack Startup License For Entrepreneurs & Investors Startup Guide Cornell Startups FastTrack Startup License McGovern Center Incubator Rev Ithaca Startup Works Available Cornell Technologies CTL Home FastTrack Startup License The FastTrack Startup License program was introduced in July 2018 for new ventures based on Cornell technologies. It’s an experimental approach to licensing Cornell technologies to startups, designed to enhance our pro-startup ecosystem at Cornell, and increase the transparency and speed of the licensing process. The program started in the field of engineering and physical sciences. Since the launching of the program, we have received overwhelmingly positive results and feedback, with people choosing the FastTrack in the ratio of 2:1 in the offered fields. In January 2022, the FastTrack Startup License program has been expanded to two additional fields: a) medical device and selected life science fields, and b) software and copyright materials from the Ithaca, Geneva and Cornell Tech campuses. We are committed to continually evaluating and improving the program, with the goals to help increase the quality and quantity of startups based on Cornell technology and catalyze technology commercialization. Main Features The FastTrack Startup license is a ‘ready to be executed’ agreement with favorable, balanced, and fixed terms. Minimal negotiation focuses on the field-of-use and due diligence from the Licensee in its commitment/milestones to commercialize the innovation. There are menu options to choose from, designed to accommodate different types of businesses, from those geared towards VC funding, to those focused on strategic partnerships, to bootstrapped efforts. Eligibility Current Technology Fields See descriptions under agreements for different fields and specific information. Team Any new startups based on Cornell technologies in the applicable fields, provided that the inventors and CTL agree with the path of new venture and the team selection. Requirements To make sure that Cornell’s technologies are licensed to parties who have the capability and reasonable plans to develop the inventions to commercial products and services, CTL requires the startups to provide their business plans or canvas, or similar materials to describe the following: A viable team of founders/committed advisors for the startup Value proposition for the market Commercialization plan Development milestones Startups must be incorporated as C corporations At the time of the license execution, the startup should have committed funding from awarded SBIR/STTR grants or at least $100 K seed funding. If the founding team involves Cornell employees, clearance of conflict of interests is also required prior to the execution of the license. We understand that business plans may evolve as companies grow and adapt to the marketplace, especially at the early-stage development. When the startup is not ready to license the Cornell technology but has the promise to be a viable opportunity: A simple 6-month option can be offered to the company with a low fee of $1000 (waived if the inventors are part of the founding team). The option period can be extended for another 6-months for a low fee of $2500 at CTL’s discretion. During the option period, the team is expected to work with regional incubators, accelerators, and/or other training programs to sharpen the business idea and connect to suitable resources. Key financial terms for the Exclusive License See descriptions under agreements for different fields Benefits Benefits from the FastTrack Startup License program include: Quicker turnaround time to obtain the license to move forward with the business opportunity Lower upfront and early stage expenses Clearer expectations at the idea incubation stage before launching the company FastTrack EngineeringFastTrack Medical Device+FastTrack Software For more information about the FastTrack Startup License and our general startup licenses, please contact your licensing officer. About CTL News Events Cornell Plants Cornell Technologies About CTL CTL Staff Contact CTL News Spotlight Stories Annual Report Cornell Products Upcoming Events CTL Events CTL Office Hours Cornell Community Events Partner Events Plant Varieties at Cornell Cornell™ Grapes Available Technologies Express Licensing Web Accessibility Help | Site Map | Contact CTL Ithaca: 395 Pine Tree Road, Suite 310, Ithaca, NY 14850 | 607-254-4698 WCM: 1155 York Avenue, New York, NY 10065 | 646-962-7045 CENTER FOR TECHNOLOGY LICENSING AT CORNELL UNIVERSITY