About CTL News Events Cornell Plants Cornell Technologies Search Contact CTL Search Cornell FOR INVENTORS Protect & Commercialize Your Innovations FOR INVENTORS Tech Transfer Process Overview Disclosing Inventions Patenting Inventions Marketing Inventions Material Transfers Disclosure Forms Cornell Policies Women Innovators Initiative FOR INDUSTRY Information about Licensing, & Industry/Campus Alliances FOR INDUSTRY COVID-19 Solutions at Cornell University Licensing Cornell Technologies Express Licensing Research Alliances & Partnerships FOR ENTREPRENEURS & INVESTORS Resources for Entrepreneurs & Startups FOR ENTREPRENEURS & INVESTORS Startup Guide Cornell Startups FastTrack Startup License McGovern Center Incubator Praxis Center for Venture Development Entrepreneur Resources IGNITE GAP FUNDING Funding resources to support commercialization Search The Center for Technology Licensing (CTL) is Cornell University's technology transfer office. We manage technology for Cornell's Ithaca campus, Weill Cornell Medicine, Cornell Tech, and Cornell AgriTech in Geneva. Home For Inventors Disclosing Inventions For Inventors Inventor Portal Tech Transfer Process Disclosing Inventions Patenting Inventions Marketing Inventions Material Transfers Inventor Forms Cornell Policies IGNITE program Available Cornell Technologies CTL@WCM Special Panel Series Women Innovators Initiative Cornell Startups Social Science Innovation Series CTL Home Disclosing Inventions Disclosure of the invention is the first formal step in the commercialization process. All inventions made by faculty, staff and students must be disclosed to CTL regardless of the monies (federal, private, etc.) that funded the research leading to the invention. The invention disclosure form should be submitted with a written description of the invention (additional manuscripts, explanatory drawings, and supporting data are also very helpful). When you disclose the invention to CTL, a licensing professional will be assigned to manage the invention and will be in contact with you shortly. To complete your disclosure, CTL will work with you to: arrive at a concise definition of your invention explore potential commercial applications of your invention complete any remaining gaps in the invention disclosure form – the more information you provide up front, the more efficient your first meeting will be Cornell Policy 1.5 – Inventions and Related Property Rights Invention Disclosure Form For Plant Breeders, please see the Disclosing Plant Materials guide. Disclosing a Work of Authorship As an academic institution, Cornell appointees generate work of authorship (“Work”) in many of their endeavors. If the Work is the result of the official activities at Cornell, the copyrights that subsist in the Work are owned by Cornell and the appointees are encouraged to attach to their Work and all copies thereof a “copyright notice” as illustrated below: Copyright © Year A to Year B Cornell University. All Rights Reserved. Please note that in the above notice statement, Year A is the year when the Work was first completed. Year B is the year when the Work was last updated. If the Work has never been updated, the use of Year A alone in the above notice is sufficient. Most Work, once fixed in a medium, is automatically protected by copyrights. There is no need to proceed through a special application process at that point. Due to the vast quantity of scholarly Work done in a university like Cornell, authors are required to disclose their Work to the university through CTL only when they intend to broadly distribute their Work or to commercialize the Work and/or the copyrights subsisting therewith. Authors should also disclose their Work to CTL if they believe the Work and the copyrights subsisting therein are of great value to the university. Once CTL receives your disclosure, a licensing professional will contact you to learn more about your Work and to explore with you the proper channel for distribution. Cornell Policy 4.15 – Copyright Copyright Disclosure Form About CTL News Events Cornell Plants Cornell Technologies About CTL CTL Staff Contact CTL News Spotlight Stories Annual Report Cornell Products Upcoming Events CTL Events CTL Office Hours Cornell Community Events Partner Events Plant Varieties at Cornell Cornell™ Grapes Available Technologies Express Licensing Web Accessibility Help | Site Map | Contact CTL Ithaca: 395 Pine Tree Road, Suite 310, Ithaca, NY 14850 | 607-254-4698 WCM: 1155 York Avenue, New York, NY 10065 | 646-962-7045 CENTER FOR TECHNOLOGY LICENSING AT CORNELL UNIVERSITY