About CTL News Events Cornell Plants Cornell Technologies Search Contact CTL Search Cornell FOR INVENTORS Protect & Commercialize Your Innovations FOR INVENTORS Tech Transfer Process Overview Disclosing Inventions Patenting Inventions Marketing Inventions Material Transfers Disclosure Forms Cornell Policies Women Innovators Initiative FOR INDUSTRY Information about Licensing, & Industry/Campus Alliances FOR INDUSTRY COVID-19 Solutions at Cornell University Licensing Cornell Technologies Express Licensing Research Alliances & Partnerships FOR ENTREPRENEURS & INVESTORS Resources for Entrepreneurs & Startups FOR ENTREPRENEURS & INVESTORS Startup Guide Cornell Startups FastTrack Startup License McGovern Center Incubator Praxis Center for Venture Development Entrepreneur Resources IGNITE GAP FUNDING Funding resources to support commercialization Search The Center for Technology Licensing (CTL) is Cornell University's technology transfer office. We manage technology for Cornell's Ithaca campus, Weill Cornell Medicine, Cornell Tech, and Cornell AgriTech in Geneva. Home Plants Plant Varieties Plants Disclosing Plant Materials Plant Varieties Cornell™ Grapes Available Cornell Technologies CTL Home Plant Varieties Apple Rootstocks Apple Scions Barley Cherries Grapes Melons Ornamentals Peppers Potatoes Raspberries Squash Strawberries Wheat Apple Rootstocks The joint Cornell University and United States Department of Agriculture-Agricultural Research Service (USDA-ARS) Apple Rootstock Breeding and Evaluation Program develops new rootstock cultivars with an emphasis on ease of nursery propagation, fireblight resistance, tolerance to extreme temperatures, resistance to the soil pathogens of the sub-temperate regions of the US, and tolerance to apple replant disorder. GENEVA® ‘G.16’ GENEVA® ‘G.202’ GENEVA® ‘G.210’ GENEVA® ‘G.213’ GENEVA® ‘G.214’ GENEVA® ‘G.222’ GENEVA® ‘G.30’ GENEVA® ‘G.41’ GENEVA® ‘G.814’ GENEVA® ‘G.890’ GENEVA® ‘G.935’ GENEVA® ‘G.969’ GENEVA® Apple Rootstock Comparison Chart Apple Scions Apple ‘NY56’ CORDERA® Apple ‘NY73’ PINK LUSTER® Apple ‘NY109’ FIRECRACKER® Barley Excelsior Gold Spring Malting Barley for evaluation Cherries The stone fruit breeding program selected for qualities to improve: flavor, insect and disease resistance, cold tolerance, and reduced cracking. Sweet Cherry BLACKPEARL® Sweet Cherry BURGUNDYPEARL® Sweet Cherry EBONYPEARL® Sweet Cherry RADIANCEPEARL® Grapes Since 1888, Cornell viticulturists have introduced more than 45 new table, juice, and wine grape varieties adapted to cool-climate growing regions. Cornell University offers research and educational facilities that positively impact not only local winery businesses and tourism, but also present the world with novel varieties that can provide a sustainable future. Blue Table Grape Grape EVEREST SEEDLESS® Red Wine ‘Arandell’ ‘Corot noir’ ‘Geneva Red’ ‘Noiret’ Selections Available for Evaluation D6292 Red Seedless Table Grape D6293 Blue Seedless Table Grape D6294 Red Seedless Table Grape D6295 White Seedless Table Grape D6296 White Seedless Table Grape D6297 Blue Seedless Table Grape White Table ‘Marquis’ White Wine ‘Aromella’ ‘Valvin Muscat’ Cornell Grape Varieties Comparison Chart Melons The cucurbit breeding program has developed varieties and lines that were selected based upon the following qualities: improved flavor, high nutrition content, production quality, disease and insect resistance, as well as, novel traits. Honeydew ‘Grusha’ Ornamentals The ornamental varieties are a new frontier for Cornell’s Horticulture Department. The varieties were chosen for characteristics including: unique and unusual leaf and flower colors, insect and disease resistance, as well as, cold tolerance. ‘Alstroemeria ‘Mauve Majesty’ ‘Alstroemeria ‘Tangerine Tango’ Peppers The pepper breeding program has developed varieties and lines that were selected based upon the following qualities: improved flavor, high nutrition content, production quality, disease and insect resistance, as well as, novel traits. ‘Peacework’ Potatoes Cornell’s potato breeding program centers around the genetic improvement of potato, both by conventional and molecular means. The highest breeding priority is to develop agronomically-acceptable varieties that are resistant to the golden nematode. It aims to develop new chipping and tablestock varieties that are adapted to the Northeast, and to meet ever-changing needs of the regional potato industry. Chipping Varieties White Skin White Flesh ‘Lady Liberty’ Late-season chipstock producing smaller round-shaped tubers with netted skin. Excellent chip color from cold storage. Good-yielding ability. Moderate-to-good resistance to common scab. Suitable for the small-sized snack-pack market. Previously tested as NY152. ‘Brodie’ Full season maturity chipstock producing large tubers with oblong shape. Smooth white skin with white flesh. Excellent chip color from cold storage. Excellent yielding ability. Resistant to the golden nematode (Ro1 & Ro2). The resistance to both strains is what makes this variety special. Previously tested as NY140. ‘Lamoka’ Late maturity chipstock that produces attractive, round tubers. Specific gravity has averaged 0.004 less than ’Atlantic’. Excellent chip color from cold storage. Good resistance to common scab. Resistant to the golden nematode (Ro1). Previously tested as NY-139. ‘Marcy’ Late maturity chipstock. Large vines with white flowers. Tubers have scurfy skin with attractive round shape. Outstanding yield of large tubers. Generally free of pickouts due to external defects, small percentage of internal defects. Resistant to golden nematode and scab. Formerly test selection NY112. ‘Waneta’ Late maturity chipstock. Large tubers with attractive shape and moderately textured skin. In Cornell trials, yield has been comparable to ’Atlantic’, while gravity has averaged 0.01 less than ’Atlantic’. Few pickouts, but large tubers have shown 5 to 10% hollow heart. Very good chip color from 44 degree storage. Dormancy is six weeks longer than ’Atlantic’. Less susceptible to blackspot than ’Snowden’. Moderately resistant to common scab. Resistant to the golden nematode (Ro1). Previously tested as NY138. Table-stock Varieties White Skin White Flesh ‘Brodie’ Full season maturity chipstock producing large tubers with oblong shape. Smooth white skin with white flesh. Excellent chip color from cold storage. Excellent yielding ability. Resistant to the golden nematode (Ro1 & Ro2). The resistance to both strains is what makes this variety special. Previously tested as NY140. ‘Algonquin’ Early to mid-season maturity white table-stock that features attractive large and oval tubers with a smoother skin than ‘Superior’. Good resistance to common scab. Resistant to race Ro1 of the golden nematode. Previously tested as NY141. ‘Upstate Abundance’ Early season maturity white table-stock that produces many small round tubers with smooth skin. Resistant to race Ro1 of the golden nematode. Some resistance to common scab and late blight. Previously tested as NY150. Test Selections for Evaluation and Testing For Chipping Use For Tablestock Use Cornell Potato Varieties Comparison Chart Cornell Potato Express Licensing Raspberries The primary goal of the small fruit breeding program is to develop improved berry varieties with disease and insect resistance, and fruit quality by traditional breeding practices. Golden Blush ‘Double Gold’ Red ‘Crimson Treasure’ ‘Crimson Giant’ ‘Crimson Night’ Cornell Raspberry Varieties Comparison Chart Squash The cucurbit breeding program has developed varieties and lines that were selected based upon the following qualities: improved flavor, high nutrition content, production quality, disease and insect resistance, as well as, novel traits. Butternut ‘Amber Delight’ Winter Squash ‘Bush Delicata’ Strawberries The primary goal of the small fruit breeding program is to develop improved berry varieties with disease and insect resistance, and fruit quality by traditional breeding practices. ‘Dickens’ ‘Archer’ ‘Clancy’ ‘Herriot’ ‘L’Amour’ Cornell Strawberry Varieties Comparison Chart Wheat Wheat research began in the fall of 1907. The goals of the wheat breeding program are to introduce new cultivars and germplasm having improved yield, nutritional quality, disease resistance, and other characteristics that increase the crop value and production efficiency. Soft White Winter Wheat ‘Bridgeport’ ‘Hopkins’ ‘Jensen’ ‘Medina’ About CTL News Events Cornell Plants Cornell Technologies About CTL CTL Staff Contact CTL News Spotlight Stories Annual Report Cornell Products Upcoming Events CTL Events CTL Office Hours Cornell Community Events Partner Events Plant Varieties at Cornell Cornell™ Grapes Available Technologies Express Licensing Web Accessibility Help | Site Map | Contact CTL Ithaca: 395 Pine Tree Road, Suite 310, Ithaca, NY 14850 | 607-254-4698 WCM: 1155 York Avenue, New York, NY 10065 | 646-962-7045 CENTER FOR TECHNOLOGY LICENSING AT CORNELL UNIVERSITY