About CTL News Events Cornell Plants Cornell Technologies Search Contact CTL Search Cornell FOR INVENTORS Protect & Commercialize Your Innovations FOR INVENTORS Tech Transfer Process Overview Disclosing Inventions Patenting Inventions Marketing Inventions Material Transfers Disclosure Forms Cornell Policies Women Innovators Initiative FOR INDUSTRY Information about Licensing, & Industry/Campus Alliances FOR INDUSTRY COVID-19 Solutions at Cornell University Licensing Cornell Technologies Express Licensing Research Alliances & Partnerships FOR ENTREPRENEURS & INVESTORS Resources for Entrepreneurs & Startups FOR ENTREPRENEURS & INVESTORS Startup Guide Cornell Startups FastTrack Startup License McGovern Center Incubator Praxis Center for Venture Development Entrepreneur Resources IGNITE GAP FUNDING Funding resources to support commercialization Search The Center for Technology Licensing (CTL) is Cornell University's technology transfer office. We manage technology for Cornell's Ithaca campus, Weill Cornell Medicine, Cornell Tech, and Cornell AgriTech in Geneva. Home News Spotlight Stories News Spotlight Stories Upcoming Events Annual Report Cornell Products Available Cornell Technologies CTL Home Spotlight The Center for Technology Licensing’s mission is to bring the University's scientific discoveries, technological innovations, and medical advances to the marketplace for societal benefit and to foster economic development within New York State and across the nation. Below is a selection of technologies developed at Cornell and managed by CTL. For more information about these and other innovations available for licensing, please e-mail ctl-connect@cornell.edu. Articles Fundamentals of Academic Business Development Gain hands-on experience in academic technology transfer and business development University Technology Startup (UTS) Series #2 – Pitching 101 How an entrepreneur, or a faculty-entrepreneur can develop and deliver a pitch to gain interest and commitment from potential investors? Weill Cornell Digital Health Series Watch all the webinars from the Weill Cornell Digital Health Series University Technology Startup Series 1: Founder’s Equity & CEO Assessment Kirsten Leute and Margalit Haber at Osage University Partners (OUP) will provide an in-depth look at venture capital perspectives on the economics of university startup formation. Video of Running a Startup: Perspective of Two Women Founders & CEOs from Cornell Watch the third WI2 webinar, where Rachel Dorin, Ph.D., President and CEO, and Co-Founder, Terapore and Siyu Huang, Ph.D., Co-Founder and CEO, Lionanowe speak with Alice Li, Ph.D., Executive Director, Center for Technology Licensing, Cornell University about their experience as female founders/CEOs. Fruit & Vegetable Markets Webinar Join us for a panel discussion on the impacts of COVID-19 on the fruit and vegetable markets across the U.S.A. and specifically in New York State. Women Innovators Initiative (WI2) #3 For the third WI2 webinar, we speak with two women founders and CEOs from Cornell University to find out about their experience as female founders/CEOs and to hear about the lessons learned during the formation and the growth of their venture. Blood-Brain Barrier, Protecting the Brain After Margaret Bynoe and her lab discovered that an FDA-approved drug, Lexiscan, used in cardiac imaging, could open the blood-brain barrier, the lab went to work, exploring how it could be used as a therapeutic for brain diseases. From Lab to Invaluable Energy Innovations Lynden Archer is searching for ways to give fossil fuels a different life. His lab has already discovered some invaluable new processes and products. Mindless Computing Technology for Health A wrist device lowers heart rate; a bedside device monitors sleep quality; a dinner plate controls food quantity. Tanzeem Choudhury makes it happen. Mobile Gene Content Ilana L. Brito and her team are developing a suite of computational tools for examining the mobile gene content in multiple datasets — to identify those genes that may shape the response of microbial communities to stress. Tackling Cyberfinance Security Emin Gün Sirer’s research group developed and tested Falcon — which they call fast and fierce — for processing Bitcoin blockchains, digital transaction ledgers. The Lifestyle of Bacteria When bacteria live in a community known as biofilm, antibiotics can’t enter to fight infection. Holger Sondermann wants to disperse that community. Innovating with Single-Molecule Imaging As a pioneer of single-molecule imaging, Peng Chen applies the technology to studying metal atoms in cells, with implications for the development of antibacterial agents. Videos Sirtuins: New Understanding, New Inhibitors, and New Applications Dr. Hening Lin is an Investigator in the Howard Hughes Medical Center and Professor of Chemistry and Chemical Biology at Cornell University. Dr. Lin’s understanding of sirtuin enzymatic activity has enabled the development of a potent sirtuin2-specific inhibitor called “TM.” Peptide-Based Nanofibers Dr. Benedict Law is an Assistant Professor of Pharmacology in Radiology at Weill Cornell Medicine. Dr. Law’s team is interested in a new type of two-dimensional nanomaterial, such as nanofiber (PF) that is biocompatible, able to penetrate inside a tumor, and has a short circulation time to avoid non-specific in vivo distribution with a high tumor uptake. Soft Robotics for AR/VR Dr. Robert Shepherd, Assistant Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, and his team have developed foam actuators and sensors to create soft robotics that are safe for use in prosthetics and enhance augmented and virtual reality experiences. Switchable Adhesion Device Paul Steen, Professor in Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, has developed a switchable electronically- controlled adhesion device that allows for maximum adhesion to various surfaces. Among the applications for the device are wafer handling, large-format printing, gripping gloves and shoes, and drone parking pods. About CTL News Events Cornell Plants Cornell Technologies About CTL CTL Staff Contact CTL News Spotlight Stories Annual Report Cornell Products Upcoming Events CTL Events CTL Office Hours Cornell Community Events Partner Events Plant Varieties at Cornell Cornell™ Grapes Available Technologies Express Licensing Web Accessibility Help | Site Map | Contact CTL Ithaca: 395 Pine Tree Road, Suite 310, Ithaca, NY 14850 | 607-254-4698 WCM: 1155 York Avenue, New York, NY 10065 | 646-962-7045 CENTER FOR TECHNOLOGY LICENSING AT CORNELL UNIVERSITY