A Healthy, Welcoming Community Providing a safe, equitable, diverse, and inclusive campus Dartmouth is committed to fostering a culture where student wellness is a priority. Dartmouth is focused on cultivating individual success by ensuring a healthy and welcoming learning and living environment for all students. We are doing this by taking on a series of actions and initiatives promoting: Racial diversity, equity, and inclusion through a robust set of initiatives Increased faculty diversity through strategic recruitment and retention Supporting mental health programs and clinical positions Launching a four-year partnership with JED foundation to promote emotional health PRIORITY INITIATIVES A Healthy, Welcoming Community $20 Million Gift Addresses National STEM Diversity Gap A gift by Eileen Chamberlain Donahoe ’81 and John Donahoe ’82 honors Dartmouth alumnus E.E. Just and supports strides towards diversity, equity, and inclusion. Learn More A Bequest to Help Students Seeking Community Rob Saltzman ’76 has made a bequest to support Triangle House and other on-campus resources supporting Dartmouth’s LGBTQIA+ community. Read More. Tribal Service and Solutions Project Empowering the Dartmouth community to make positive change in Native American communities. Read More. Young Alumni Shine Light on Student Mental Health and Wellness Young alumni support a $1 million initiative launched to enhance Student Mental Health Services on campus. Read More. WHY I GIVE “The E. E. Just Program has been one of the most supportive communities for me.” Dartmouth’s E. E. Just Program seeks to increase the number of underrepresented minorities pursuing degrees and careers in STEM Read More READ MORE Check out more stories about creating a healthy, welcoming campus Healthy Students Make Better Doctors Read More Alumni React to $20 Million Gift Supporting Diversity in STEM Read More New Fund Supports African and African American Studies Program Read More Four-Week Orientation Welcomes First-Generation Students Read More Copyright © 2022 Dartmouth College. All Rights Reserved.