Skip to content Get the latest Covid-19 health information, operational status updates, and campus guidelines. Toggle navigation Center for Teaching and Learning About Us CTL Vision and Mission People Contact Us Annual Reports EU GDPR Privacy Notice Faculty New to Teaching at Georgia Tech? Consultations Signature Events Workshops Faculty Groups Course Instructor Opinion Surveys (CIOS) Awards Office of Faculty Affairs Thank a Teacher TAs and Future Faculty Teaching Assistants Teaching Assistant Orientation Teaching Opportunities International TA Program Awards Preparing Future Faculty Tech to Teaching CIRTL Network Academic Career Development GSI Teaching Seminar Graduate Teaching Fellows CETL Courses Workshops Consultations/Observations Learning Technology Learning Technology Partnership Resources Spotlight Strategies Open Education Initiative Teaching and Learning Resources Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Welcome to the Center for Teaching and Learning New to teaching at Georgia Tech? Here are some resources to get you started. Course Design Studio 2022 Register for the Course Design Studio 2022 Design or redesign your 2022-23 courses with feedback from CTL and colleagues at the Course Design Studio! Choose to participate in an in-person or online experience. Provost Teaching and Learning Fellows 2022-2024 PTLF Application Application are now open for the 2022-2024 cohort for tenured faculty, senior/principal academic professionals, and senior/principal lecturers. Featured Resources CTL 2020-2021 Accomplishments Teaching at Georgia Tech Guidebook Technologies and Strategies for Engaging Students Learning Environment Toolkit Web version | PDF version Academic Well-Being Project On Teaching and Learning @ Georgia Tech Blog Teaching & Learning Buzz Podcast Thank a Teacher Program Task Force on Teaching Effectiveness Final Report Faculty Programs More Info Since opening its doors in 1986, the Center for Teaching and Learning (CTL) has served as a faculty development center... TA and Future Faculty Programs More Info As a member of CTL’s Future Faculty program, you will interact with a cohort of fellow graduate students and postdocs along with faculty experts in teaching and learning. Learning Technology More Info A variety of learning technology initiatives and resources from CTL to support technology integration and innovation in teaching and learning. Accessibility Information Per accessibility compliance standards, this page may have links to files that would require the downloading of additional software: Click here to download Microsoft Products. Click here to download Adobe Reader. Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © Georgia Institute of Technology Login