About CTL News Events Cornell Plants Cornell Technologies Search Contact CTL Search Cornell FOR INVENTORS Protect & Commercialize Your Innovations FOR INVENTORS Tech Transfer Process Overview Disclosing Inventions Patenting Inventions Marketing Inventions Material Transfers Disclosure Forms Cornell Policies Women Innovators Initiative FOR INDUSTRY Information about Licensing, & Industry/Campus Alliances FOR INDUSTRY COVID-19 Solutions at Cornell University Licensing Cornell Technologies Express Licensing Research Alliances & Partnerships FOR ENTREPRENEURS & INVESTORS Resources for Entrepreneurs & Startups FOR ENTREPRENEURS & INVESTORS Startup Guide Cornell Startups FastTrack Startup License McGovern Center Incubator Praxis Center for Venture Development Entrepreneur Resources IGNITE GAP FUNDING Funding resources to support commercialization Search The Center for Technology Licensing (CTL) is Cornell University's technology transfer office. We manage technology for Cornell's Ithaca campus, Weill Cornell Medicine, Cornell Tech, and Cornell AgriTech in Geneva. Home News Featured Technology University Technology Startup Series News Spotlight Stories Upcoming Events Annual Report Cornell Products Available Cornell Technologies CTL Home University Technology Startup Series April 16, 2021 The University Technology Startup Series focuses on diverse topics to support the formation and growth of technology startups (e.g., challenges in early-stage venturing, resources available, etc.). CTL team will invite investment & market experts who will talk about best practices as well as serial entrepreneurs who will share their experience, successes, or failures. This series is addressed to Cornell-licensed startup executives and entrepreneurs interested in starting a university spin-out company. Series 1: Founder’s Equity & CEO Assessment Date: May 20, 2021, from 12 pm to 1:30 pm Speakers: Kirsten Leute, Partner, University Relations, OUP Margalit Haber, Associate – life science investment team, OUP Kirsten Leute and Margalit Haber at Osage University Partners (OUP) will provide an in-depth look at venture capital perspectives on the economics of university startup formation. In the first part of the session, they will take the participants step-by-step through the life of a company, illustrating the uses of equity and potential outcomes for founders. In the second part of the session, they will take the participants through the CEO search process, how VCs evaluate potential entrepreneurs and some observations about drivers for long-term success as an entrepreneur. The participants will assess mock candidate profiles and learn methods of diligence to choose the right leader for their startup. Download the slide deck of the Series #1. Series 2: Pitching 101: How to Present Your Startups and Technology Innovation to Potential Funders Date: 11/02/2021 Speakers: Margalit Haber, PhD, Associate, Life Sciences, OUP Ajay Rayasam, M.S., Associate, Technology, OUP For CTL second UTS series, Margalit Haber and Ajay Rayasam at Osage University Partners (OUP) will focus the session on how an entrepreneur, or a faculty-entrepreneur can develop and deliver a pitch to gain interest and commitment from potential investors. Pitching an early-stage science- and technology-based startup to potential funders can be intimidating. Learning how to tailor your presentation and understanding what motivates funders to say yes, or at least not give you an outright no, are important aspects of preparing for your initial pitch. This talk will be structured around OUP’s many years of experience in hearing pitches and reviewing pitch decks to provide insight on creating and presenting an initial startup pitch to funders. Download the slide deck of the Series #2. Access to the on-demand recording here. About CTL News Events Cornell Plants Cornell Technologies About CTL CTL Staff Contact CTL News Spotlight Stories Annual Report Cornell Products Upcoming Events CTL Events CTL Office Hours Cornell Community Events Partner Events Plant Varieties at Cornell Cornell™ Grapes Available Technologies Express Licensing Web Accessibility Help | Site Map | Contact CTL Ithaca: 395 Pine Tree Road, Suite 310, Ithaca, NY 14850 | 607-254-4698 WCM: 1155 York Avenue, New York, NY 10065 | 646-962-7045 CENTER FOR TECHNOLOGY LICENSING AT CORNELL UNIVERSITY