Skip to main content Google Tag Manager SEARCH: Limit search to: Cornell AES Cornell Cornell University Agricultural Experiment Station Back to top menu About Us Staff and Contact Information Diversity Staff Awards Employee Award Recipients Sustainability Award Recipients Nominations Research Farms Dilmun Hill Student Farm Community and Governance History and Farm Reports Contact and Directions Farm Services / Compost Facility Compost Facility Teaching and Research Contact and Directions Campus Area Farms Contact and Directions Bluegrass Lane Contact and Directions Cornell Orchards Contact and Directions Homer C. Thompson Research Farm Contact and Directions Musgrave Research Farm Contact and Directions Long Island Horticultural Research & Extension Center About Research People Directions Willsboro Research Farm Contact and Directions Information for Cornell Researchers (login required) Greenhouses & Growth Chambers Research Highlights Liberty Hyde Bailey Conservatory Cornell AES Growth Chamber Prototypes Sustainable Greenhouses & Growth Chambers Energy Use Sarkaria Arthropod Research Laboratory Information for Cornell Researchers (login required) Contact and Directions Greenhouse & Growth Chamber Staff Directory Digital Agriculture Digital Ag News Research Impacts Funding for Research Information for Researchers News & Events In the News Events Back to top Home Research Farms Dilmun Hill Student Farm Dilmun Hill Student Farm Mission Statement Dilmun Hill is a student run farm that seeks to foster community and empower students through active engagement in ecological agriculture. Dilmun Hill is open to anyone and is a place for experiential learning, group collaboration, research, and outreach. Welcome to Dilmun Hill. We are a student-run farm that has been practicing sustainable agriculture on Cornell University's campus for more than a decade. We provide students with opportunities for experiential learning, group collaboration and research. Stay connected - join our email list by sending an email to dilmunhill@cornell.edu See our Dilmun Hill brochure (pdf) In this Section Community History Contact and Directions We closely collaborate with on-campus organizations such as the Cornell Farmers' Market, Anabel's Grocery, the Cornell Food Pantry, and the Bee Club at Cornell. Dilmun Hill donated all produce during the 2020/21 growing seasons Most years, Dilmun Hill is buzzing with activities of student farmers and volunteers. But last season, the farm remained closed until mid-July, when just three student-farmers were permitted to resume operations – right in time to harvest the garlic planted by students last fall. Despite the late start and the skeleton crew, we — co-farm managers Lily Cowen and Brian Caine with the help from Zoe Loomis — had an extraordinarily productive season, donating our entire harvest to the Cornell Food Pantry. Our growing season was jumpstarted when we received a generous donation of transplants from Blue Heron Farm, certified organic growers near Lodi, N.Y. Just a month after reopening, we donated our first boxes of beets, chard, radishes, and strawberries to the food pantry. Later donations included summer staples like basil, beans, lettuce, leeks, and cucumbers, as well as less common crops like tatsoi, romanesco, and eggplants — in total over 80 large boxes. In collaboration with Cornell’s Small Farms Program we were able to add cultivated mushrooms to the mix of donations. Donations have always been a part of our mission and as the pressure on food pantries increased around the country due to COVID-19 we realized the opportunity Dilmun had to contribute to food security on campus. As the university’s student farm, we felt an obligation to serve the Cornell community and found an ideal partnership with the Cornell Food Pantry. This season proved to us just how much you can do in a short period of time and the impact we can have as a small student farm, cementing our desire to make donations a larger part of our mission. A new barn at Dilmun Hill The new barn features working and storage space, and a covered porch with a great view of the farm. This project has been funded in part by a generous donation from Michael and Ellen Wolfson. Students from Cornell Landscape Architecture and from the project 'Sustainable Design for the Circular Bionutrient Economy' meet at Dilmun Hill to discuss research project opportunities. Ellen and Michael Wolfson visit with students at the new barn at Dilmun Hill. Research Farms Dilmun Hill Student Farm Community and Governance History and Farm Reports Contact and Directions Farm Services / Compost Facility Campus Area Farms Bluegrass Lane Cornell Orchards Homer C. Thompson Research Farm Musgrave Research Farm Long Island Horticultural Research & Extension Center Willsboro Research Farm Information for Cornell Researchers (login required) Stay Connected Dilmun Hill on Facebook Dilmun Hill on Instagram Support Dilmun Hill Donate to Dilmun Hill Student Farm Thank you! Many thanks to our generous donors for their commitment to Dilmun Hill: Michael and Ellen Wolfson Harris Seeds Organic Cornell's School of Integrative Plant Science Cornell's Student Activities Funding Commission Our Dilmun Hill community and Cornell AES appreciate your support! © 2022 Cornell University Secondary menu Web Accessibility Assistance Privacy Policy Log in Contact Us