Skip to content Cornell University Search Close Navigation Search Search Toggle Navigation Home New Campus Alerts Resources Contact CUinfo Faculty & Staff Ithaca Weather Ithaca, New York 79°F / 26°C Feeney Way Closed Morning of 6/3/22 Jun 01, 2022 12:26 PM Special Condition Feeney Way from Tower Rd to University Ave will close to all traffic from 6 am to 10 am on Friday, June 3. Travel will be detoured to West Ave for the duration of the closure. Only the northbound lane will reopen after the completion of the utility work. Please comply with all detour signage and flagger instructions. Visit tcatbus.com for route and schedule adjustments. Feeney Way from Tower Rd to University Ave will close to all traffic from 6 am to 10 am on Friday, June 3. Travel will be detoured to West Ave for the duration of the closure. Only the northbound lane will reopen after the completion of the utility work. Please comply with all detour signage and flagger instructions. Visit tcatbus.com for route and schedule adjustments. Feeney Way Travel Impacts 5/31-7/31/2022 May 26, 2022 7:00 AM Special Condition The southbound lane of Feeney Way from Tower Rd to University Ave will close on Tuesday, May 31, 2022, for utility work. The lane will reopen briefly from June 9 to June 12 to accommodate increased traffic during reunion weekend. The northbound lane will remain open to one-way traffic until both lanes close in July for resurfacing. Full closure dates are weather-dependent and will be announced separately. Detour signage will direct vehicles to West Ave. For impacts on TCAT bus routes and schedules, visit tcatbus.com. Please comply with all safety signage and flagger instructions, and use caution when traveling through the work zone. The southbound lane of Feeney Way from Tower Rd to University Ave will close on Tuesday, May 31, 2022, for utility work. The lane will reopen briefly from June 9 to June 12 to accommodate increased traffic during reunion weekend. The northbound lane will remain open to one-way traffic until both lanes close in July for resurfacing. Full closure dates are weather-dependent and will be announced separately. Detour signage will direct vehicles to West Ave. For impacts on TCAT bus routes and schedules, visit tcatbus.com. Please comply with all safety signage and flagger instructions, and use caution when traveling through the work zone. Performance Issue - Networking Issues at CIT Data Centers May 24, 2022 2:08 PM IT Alert CIT data centers are experiencing networking issues that intermittently impact connectivity. CIT data centers are experiencing networking issues that intermittently impact connectivity. Scheduled Service Change - Annual e-List Renewal Process May 16, 2022 10:00 AM IT Alert The annual e-List Renewal will be launched Monday May 16, 2022 by emailing the e-list (primary) owners asking that they renew their e-lists. Additionally, email will be sent to the (secondary) administrators of the e-lists notifying them that the owners need to renew their e-lists. The Renewal will close Wednesday June 8, 2022. The annual e-List Renewal will be launched Monday May 16, 2022 by emailing the e-list (primary) owners asking that they renew their e-lists. Additionally, email will be sent to the (secondary) administrators of the e-lists notifying them that the owners need to renew their e-lists. The Renewal will close Wednesday June 8, 2022. Security Alert - Scam emails and phone calls for COVID-19 benefits Apr 13, 2022 11:03 AM IT Alert Scam alert: Watch out for fake emails (https://it.cornell.edu/phish/9288) and phone calls offering COVID-19 financial benefits. Scammers are targeting New York universities using legitimate marketing sites, such as Sendinblue.com, to create official-looking forms sent from a fake university email address. Users are also reporting robot phone calls using the COVID-19 Benefits message. This scam is similar to the Employee Assistance Program phish (https://it.cornell.edu/phish/9108) seen in January and March. For more information and the text of the message see: https://it.cornell.edu/news/new-phishing-scam-suny-covid-19-benefits/20220408 Scam alert: Watch out for fake emails (https://it.cornell.edu/phish/9288) and phone calls offering COVID-19 financial benefits. Scammers are targeting New York universities using legitimate marketing sites, such as Sendinblue.com, to create official-looking forms sent from a fake university email address. Users are also reporting robot phone calls using the COVID-19 Benefits message. This scam is similar to the Employee Assistance Program phish (https://it.cornell.edu/phish/9108) seen in January and March. For more information and the text of the message see: https://it.cornell.edu/news/new-phishing-scam-suny-covid-19-benefits/20220408 Olin Hall Renovation Project Impacts 4/1/-12/31/2022 Mar 30, 2022 12:20 PM Special Condition A major rehabilitation project at Olin Hall will impact access to and parking on Sage Avenue beginning Friday, April 1, and continuing through the end of December. The parking spaces adjacent to Olin Hall will be fenced-off for the duration of the project to facilitate construction material storage and debris collection. Crane work and equipment and material deliveries will, at times, impede access to Sage Ave., including the parking spaces along the drive and the Cornell Store loading dock. Flaggers and barricades will be in place to direct vehicle and pedestrian traffic. Please comply with all safety measures and exercise caution when traveling through the work zone. A major rehabilitation project at Olin Hall will impact access to and parking on Sage Avenue beginning Friday, April 1, and continuing through the end of December. The parking spaces adjacent to Olin Hall will be fenced-off for the duration of the project to facilitate construction material storage and debris collection. Crane work and equipment and material deliveries will, at times, impede access to Sage Ave., including the parking spaces along the drive and the Cornell Store loading dock. Flaggers and barricades will be in place to direct vehicle and pedestrian traffic. Please comply with all safety measures and exercise caution when traveling through the work zone. Fall Creek Suspension Bridge Closed 4/4-7/29/2022 Mar 29, 2022 3:45 AM Special Condition The Fall Creek Suspension Bridge will be closed from April 4 to July 29, 2022, for project work. The parking spaces adjacent to the bridge on Fall Creek Dr. will be reserved for contractor use for the duration of the project. Please comply with all safety signage and barriers. The Fall Creek Suspension Bridge will be closed from April 4 to July 29, 2022, for project work. The parking spaces adjacent to the bridge on Fall Creek Dr. will be reserved for contractor use for the duration of the project. Please comply with all safety signage and barriers. new alerts People Search Search: Favorite links Customize You haven't added any favorites. You can customize this section with your favorite links from the Resources page. This week's highlights Pollack to grads: ‘Have an influence that will matter’ ‘Boomerang’ effect in droplets could help clean sensitive surfaces Contemporary and ancient art exhibit enlivens Ithaca mall Weill Cornell Medicine Commencement returns to Carnegie Hall Annual steam shutdown begins on May 31 Campus New building to create ‘unified complex’ for Bowers CIS 3D-printed statues celebrate women in STEM Safe Cycling On Campus Project (outdoor) runway: Spring fashion show returns Workplace Special events will impact traffic circulation and parking Mentoring and coaching Cornell named a top employer for 2022 by Forbes Review information on COVID-19 test reimbursement through Cornell insurance plans Academics & Research 3D-printing robot enables sustainable construction Scott J. Peters to conduct participatory action research with University of Minnesota Chemist Song Lin honored by Chemical & Engineering News Cross-college researchers unravel mummy bird mystery Awards & Honors Arts and Sciences faculty honored for teaching, advising excellence Staff, faculty win SUNY Chancellor’s Awards for Excellence ILR alumni honored at Groat and Alpern Award celebration Students honored for local community impact Diversity & Inclusion Student films document Cornell’s LGBTQ history First Black fraternity to build monument at its birthplace ILR creates workplace inclusion, diversity education program Classroom tips, resources provided in new LGBTQ guide Wellness & Well-being Partnerships fuel COVID testing lab’s success Watch an interview series on ways to improve your overall health Join virtual mid-day meditation sessions, Wednesdays throughout the year Learn about wellness offerings available to your department People Search Search: Favorite links Customize You haven't added any favorites. You can customize this section with your favorite links from the Resources page. Faculty & Staff News We care about providing faculty and staff with the news, information and resources they need. If you have an update or a story that belongs here, please let us know. Submit your story COVID-19 Awareness COVID-19 Information and Resources Copyright Site Information Privacy Notice Contact Feedback Web Accessibility Assistance Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube