Skip to content Cornell University Search Close Navigation Search Search Toggle Navigation Home New Campus Alerts Resources Contact People Search Search: CUinfo Campus Alerts Ithaca Weather Ithaca, New York 79°F / 26°C The latest information on road closures, construction delays, changes to operating status, or other unusual events on campus. Feeney Way Closed Morning of 6/3/22 Jun 01, 2022 12:26 PM Special Condition Feeney Way from Tower Rd to University Ave will close to all traffic from 6 am to 10 am on Friday, June 3. Travel will be detoured to West Ave for the duration of the closure. Only the northbound lane will reopen after the completion of the utility work. Please comply with all detour signage and flagger instructions. Visit tcatbus.com for route and schedule adjustments. Feeney Way from Tower Rd to University Ave will close to all traffic from 6 am to 10 am on Friday, June 3. Travel will be detoured to West Ave for the duration of the closure. Only the northbound lane will reopen after the completion of the utility work. Please comply with all detour signage and flagger instructions. Visit tcatbus.com for route and schedule adjustments. Feeney Way Travel Impacts 5/31-7/31/2022 May 26, 2022 7:00 AM Special Condition The southbound lane of Feeney Way from Tower Rd to University Ave will close on Tuesday, May 31, 2022, for utility work. The lane will reopen briefly from June 9 to June 12 to accommodate increased traffic during reunion weekend. The northbound lane will remain open to one-way traffic until both lanes close in July for resurfacing. Full closure dates are weather-dependent and will be announced separately. Detour signage will direct vehicles to West Ave. For impacts on TCAT bus routes and schedules, visit tcatbus.com. Please comply with all safety signage and flagger instructions, and use caution when traveling through the work zone. The southbound lane of Feeney Way from Tower Rd to University Ave will close on Tuesday, May 31, 2022, for utility work. The lane will reopen briefly from June 9 to June 12 to accommodate increased traffic during reunion weekend. The northbound lane will remain open to one-way traffic until both lanes close in July for resurfacing. Full closure dates are weather-dependent and will be announced separately. Detour signage will direct vehicles to West Ave. For impacts on TCAT bus routes and schedules, visit tcatbus.com. Please comply with all safety signage and flagger instructions, and use caution when traveling through the work zone. Performance Issue - Networking Issues at CIT Data Centers May 24, 2022 2:08 PM IT Alert CIT data centers are experiencing networking issues that intermittently impact connectivity. CIT data centers are experiencing networking issues that intermittently impact connectivity. Scheduled Service Change - Annual e-List Renewal Process May 16, 2022 10:00 AM IT Alert The annual e-List Renewal will be launched Monday May 16, 2022 by emailing the e-list (primary) owners asking that they renew their e-lists. Additionally, email will be sent to the (secondary) administrators of the e-lists notifying them that the owners need to renew their e-lists. The Renewal will close Wednesday June 8, 2022. The annual e-List Renewal will be launched Monday May 16, 2022 by emailing the e-list (primary) owners asking that they renew their e-lists. Additionally, email will be sent to the (secondary) administrators of the e-lists notifying them that the owners need to renew their e-lists. The Renewal will close Wednesday June 8, 2022. Security Alert - Scam emails and phone calls for COVID-19 benefits Apr 13, 2022 11:03 AM IT Alert Scam alert: Watch out for fake emails (https://it.cornell.edu/phish/9288) and phone calls offering COVID-19 financial benefits. Scammers are targeting New York universities using legitimate marketing sites, such as Sendinblue.com, to create official-looking forms sent from a fake university email address. Users are also reporting robot phone calls using the COVID-19 Benefits message. This scam is similar to the Employee Assistance Program phish (https://it.cornell.edu/phish/9108) seen in January and March. For more information and the text of the message see: https://it.cornell.edu/news/new-phishing-scam-suny-covid-19-benefits/20220408 Scam alert: Watch out for fake emails (https://it.cornell.edu/phish/9288) and phone calls offering COVID-19 financial benefits. Scammers are targeting New York universities using legitimate marketing sites, such as Sendinblue.com, to create official-looking forms sent from a fake university email address. Users are also reporting robot phone calls using the COVID-19 Benefits message. This scam is similar to the Employee Assistance Program phish (https://it.cornell.edu/phish/9108) seen in January and March. For more information and the text of the message see: https://it.cornell.edu/news/new-phishing-scam-suny-covid-19-benefits/20220408 Olin Hall Renovation Project Impacts 4/1/-12/31/2022 Mar 30, 2022 12:20 PM Special Condition A major rehabilitation project at Olin Hall will impact access to and parking on Sage Avenue beginning Friday, April 1, and continuing through the end of December. The parking spaces adjacent to Olin Hall will be fenced-off for the duration of the project to facilitate construction material storage and debris collection. Crane work and equipment and material deliveries will, at times, impede access to Sage Ave., including the parking spaces along the drive and the Cornell Store loading dock. Flaggers and barricades will be in place to direct vehicle and pedestrian traffic. Please comply with all safety measures and exercise caution when traveling through the work zone. A major rehabilitation project at Olin Hall will impact access to and parking on Sage Avenue beginning Friday, April 1, and continuing through the end of December. The parking spaces adjacent to Olin Hall will be fenced-off for the duration of the project to facilitate construction material storage and debris collection. Crane work and equipment and material deliveries will, at times, impede access to Sage Ave., including the parking spaces along the drive and the Cornell Store loading dock. Flaggers and barricades will be in place to direct vehicle and pedestrian traffic. Please comply with all safety measures and exercise caution when traveling through the work zone. Fall Creek Suspension Bridge Closed 4/4-7/29/2022 Mar 29, 2022 3:45 AM Special Condition The Fall Creek Suspension Bridge will be closed from April 4 to July 29, 2022, for project work. The parking spaces adjacent to the bridge on Fall Creek Dr. will be reserved for contractor use for the duration of the project. Please comply with all safety signage and barriers. The Fall Creek Suspension Bridge will be closed from April 4 to July 29, 2022, for project work. The parking spaces adjacent to the bridge on Fall Creek Dr. will be reserved for contractor use for the duration of the project. Please comply with all safety signage and barriers. People Search Search: Related links Crime Alert Archive Daily Crime Log Ithaca Police Department Traffic Safety Tips Emergency Notification Tools Emergency Action Guide IT Service Alerts SPECIALCONDITIONS-L Subscribe to the Special Conditions mailing list to get email notifications of road closures, construction delays, or other unusual events on campus. To subscribe, send an email message to: SpecialConditions-L-request@cornell.edu. The body of the message should read, "join" (without the quotes). Copyright Site Information Privacy Notice Contact Feedback Web Accessibility Assistance Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube