Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University Information Technology Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Resources For I Want To Services Security and Privacy About Students Alumni Faculty Retirees Researchers Visitors Staff Access My Email Log in to LionMail Log in to ADCU Outlook Web App Log in to CUIMC Email Check CUIT Service Alerts Connect to Columbia WiFi Contact the CUIT Service Desk Download Software Log in to CourseWorks Manage My University ID (UNI) Activate My UNI or Email Change My Password Manage My Duo MFA Account Print on Campus Use Zoom View Computer and System Recommendations Visit the ServiceNow Customer Portal Academic Systems Accounts and Access Administrative Systems Cloud Services Computer Lab and Classroom Technologies Email and Calendar Endpoint Device Technologies IT Professional Services Network and Wireless Research Services Security and Risk Management Servers, Backup and Storage Service Desk Software and Apps Telephony and Communications Services Web Services Anti-malware CUIT Security Downloads Data Security Guidelines for International Travel Get Started with Computer Security at Columbia General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) Handling Personally Identifying Information Keep Your Operating System Up To Date Phishing: Recognize and Report Secure Resources for Systems Administrators Using Strong Passwords Staff Directory and Org. Chart Senior Leadership Departments Locations IT Policies and Strategies IT Partners at the University Careers Columbia University Information Technology You are here: Home Services Multifactor Authentication — Duo Multifactor Authentication — Duo Manage your Duo MFA Account Use multifactor authentication to protect systems with valuable data...as well as your account. Related Information MFA installation and troubleshooting FAQ Duo MFA for Windows RDP Duo MFA for Unix logins Identity and Access Management services available to Columbia groups Identity Enrollment and Management at Columbia Also known as MFA, two-factor authentication, TFA, Duo and two-step verification. On this page: About MFA Duo MFA Setup Using Duo with Landlines FAQ About MFA Multifactor authentication (MFA) uses multiple proofs of identity to ensure you are authorized to access the service or resource that you are requesting. These proofs include more than one of: something you know (a secret piece of information, such as a password) something you have (a token, card or device) something you are (a biometric measurement or representation) CUIT uses Duo as the MFA service to verify your identity for Columbia’s centralized applications. With Duo, you can use a mobile app, or a phone call to authenticate. Duo can be combined with other authentication factors like username and password authentication to create multifactor authentication. Most people use Duo via the mobile app, Duo Mobile, which runs on a variety of smartphones and tablets. Duo multifactor authentication will soon be required for access to all CAS-protected services, including Columbia Health, View Your Paycheck, Courseworks and others. Duo MFA Setup Click here to set up or test Duo MFA if: You want to set it up now You've already set up Duo and want to test it General FAQ You can find detailed FAQs for installation, troubleshoooting, Windows RDP, and Unix on our expanded MFA FAQ page. Expand all Collapse all What is authentication? Authentication is the process of ensuring that something is genuine. Username and password authentication uses a shared secret (the password) to establish that a user of an application is actually who or what the user claims to be. What is multifactor authentication? Multifactor authentication (MFA) uses multiple forms, or factors, of proof, including: Something you know (a secret like a password) Something you have (a token, card or device) Something you are (a biometric measurement or representation) The number and independence of the authentication factors add to the degree of confidence we have in the identity of the person or thing. This degree of confidence is sometimes called the level of assurance. A multifactor authentication is said to have a higher level of assurance than an authentication that uses a single factor. What is Duo and what is Duo authentication? Duo is a service that can use a mobile app, a token, or a phone call to authenticate you. It can be combined with other authentication factors like username and password authentication to create multifactor authentication. Most people use Duo via the mobile app, Duo Mobile, which runs on a variety of smartphones and tablets. Here are descriptions and screenshots of Duo Mobile for Android and Apple iOS. How is Duo being used at Columbia? Duo has been added to Columbia's CAS authentication service to create multifactor authentication for web browser-based applications. It is required for all CAS logins for faculty, staff and students. Duo authentication has also been added to Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) logins for CUIT-managed Windows servers, logins to CUIT-managed Linux hosts including cunix, VPN logins, and logins to various other services. Duo MFA login Make a Request Please submit a ticket to discuss adding MFA to your local application. Support Contact Please submit a ticket to the CUIT Service Desk to ask questions or report an issue. You can also call the Service Desk at 212-854-1919. Customers can expect a response within one business day. Submit a ticket Department Identity and Access Management Office of the Chief Information Security Officer Audience Faculty Researchers Students Staff Categories Accounts and Access Columbia University Information Technology (CUIT) Administrative OfficesStudebaker Building, 5th & 6th Floors, 615 West 131st Street · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University Information Technology (CUIT) Walk-in Center202 Philosophy Hall, 1150 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-1919 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close