Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University Information Technology Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Resources For I Want To Services Security and Privacy About Students Alumni Faculty Retirees Researchers Visitors Staff Access My Email Log in to LionMail Log in to ADCU Outlook Web App Log in to CUIMC Email Check CUIT Service Alerts Connect to Columbia WiFi Contact the CUIT Service Desk Download Software Log in to CourseWorks Manage My University ID (UNI) Activate My UNI or Email Change My Password Manage My Duo MFA Account Print on Campus Use Zoom View Computer and System Recommendations Visit the ServiceNow Customer Portal Academic Systems Accounts and Access Administrative Systems Cloud Services Computer Lab and Classroom Technologies Email and Calendar Endpoint Device Technologies IT Professional Services Network and Wireless Research Services Security and Risk Management Servers, Backup and Storage Service Desk Software and Apps Telephony and Communications Services Web Services Anti-malware CUIT Security Downloads Data Security Guidelines for International Travel Get Started with Computer Security at Columbia General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) Handling Personally Identifying Information Keep Your Operating System Up To Date Phishing: Recognize and Report Secure Resources for Systems Administrators Using Strong Passwords Staff Directory and Org. Chart Senior Leadership Departments Locations IT Policies and Strategies IT Partners at the University Careers Columbia University Information Technology You are here: Home I Want To Print on Campus PawPrint Quick Start Guide PawPrint Quick Start Guide Related Links PawPrint Center Upgrade Your PawPrint Quota PawPrint Drivers for Faster Printing PawPrint Printer Locations PawPrint FAQ Columbia Print Services Administrative Printing — Badger ***PawPrint is now touch-free!*** Log in to the PawPrint Center in advance to activate your account and verify your balance. If this is your first time logging in to PawPrint, it might take up to 60 minutes for your account to become active. Simply tap your CUID or scan the printer's QR code to print. Expand all Collapse all Step 1: Submit your print job Use print driver (Recommended) The recommended and easiest way to print with PawPrint is to use the PawPrint driver; all that is required is a one-time installation of the PawPrint print driver on your computer. All CUIT-managed CNet kiosks and lab computers already have these drivers installed. Open the document ("job") you want to print. Select Print from the File Menu. Alternatively press Ctrl+P (Windows) or Command (⌘)+P (MacOS). Select PawPrint or PawPrint Color Select Print Properties (i.e. single or double sided, portrait or landscape, number of pages per sheet, etc.). The default is one copy, one page per sheet, double-sided (for black-and-white) and single-sided for color-printing. Select Print. Enter your UNI into the pop-up window. Use PawPrint Center website Note: Once a document is uploaded, you must wait until you can log in to a PawPrint station on campus to select a range of pages to be printed. You can specify page ranges using the print driver. Using any web browser, navigate to the PawPrint Center and log in with your UNI and password. Click on the Upload button, and select the document(s) that you want to send to the print queue, up to 50 MB each. Use the Print Options to select additional preferences. By selecting a document in the queue (checking the box next to it), you can adjust the following options (which will be reflected in the cost): Sides: Changes double-sided printing (default for black-and-white) to single-sided. Pages per side: Resizes your document to fit 2 pages per side (default is 1 page per side) Copies: Changes the number of copies to print (default is 1 copy) Use Pharos Print app (iOS or Android) Note: Once a document is uploaded, you must wait until you can log in to a PawPrint station on campus to select a range of pages to be printed. You can specify page ranges using the print driver. iOS (iPhone or iPad) mobile device Launch the Pharos Print app for iOS on your mobile device and log in using your UNI and password. If it's your first time using the app, connect to PawPrint with: Server Name: pawprint.columbia.edu Port: 443 Open the document(s) you want to upload to the PawPrint Center. Tap the Open In/Share icon. Select the Pharos Print app. Tap Print to upload your document to your print queue. Open the Pharos Print app to edit finishing options (color, single/double-sided, and number of copies) by tapping the icons at the bottom of the app. Android mobile device Launch the Pharos Print app for Android on your mobile device and log in using your UNI and password. If it's your first time using the app, connect to PawPrint with: Server Name: pawprint.columbia.edu Port: 443 In the app, tap on the Upload icon and select the documents you want to upload to PawPrint Center. A green check will appear. Tap on Open in the upper right corner of the app. Your print job will be uploaded to your PawPrint queue. To edit any finishing options (color, single/double-sided, and number of copies), tap Print options. Expand all Collapse all Step 2: Manage your print jobs (Delete unwanted print jobs) Use PawPrint Center website To remove pending documents from your queue, navigate to the PawPrint Center. Log in with your UNI and password. Select the document(s) that you don't want to print. Click on the Delete button. Use Pharos Print app (iOS or Android) Launch the Pharos Print app. Select the document(s) that you don't want to print. Tap the Delete button. Expand all Collapse all Step 3: Release your print job Use Columbia ID card reader Go to one of the PawPrint stations on campus. Tap the card reader at the PawPrint station with your CUID card. NOTE: All documents (jobs) that you have sent to your print queue will be released. See Manage Print Jobs to remove unwanted print job(s). Collect your documents at the printer connected to the PawPrint station. Use QR code with Pharos Print app (iOS or Android) Open the Pharos Print app. Select the documents ("jobs") you want to release. If no selection is made, all jobs will be released. Tap on the QR icon on the top-right corner of the screen. Scan the QR code affixed to the printer. Tap Confirm. The documents will be released Collect your documents at the printer connected to the PawPrint station. Expand all Collapse all Quotas, Print Funds, and Account History Printing Quotas Who Undergraduates (Columbia College, Engineering, General Studies, Barnard) Weekly Quota Fall & Spring Semesterly Quota $150 Summer Semesterly Quota $90 Who Faculty (CU, Journalism, BC, TC and UTS) and Columbia Library Staff Weekly Quota Fall & Spring Semesterly Quota $150 Summer Semesterly Quota $90 Who Graduate Students (any non-SSW and TC, UTS and CUIMC) Weekly Quota $2 Fall & Spring Semesterly Quota Summer Semesterly Quota Who Columbia Business School Students Weekly Quota Fall & Spring Semesterly Quota $150 Summer Semesterly Quota $150 Who Columbia Law School Students Weekly Quota $2 Fall & Spring Semesterly Quota Summer Semesterly Quota Who Officers of Research Weekly Quota Fall & Spring Semesterly Quota $150 Summer Semesterly Quota $90 Who Undergraduate Student Officers Weekly Quota Fall & Spring Semesterly Quota $250 Summer Semesterly Quota $150 Who Graduate Student Officers Weekly Quota $2 Fall & Spring Semesterly Quota $100 Summer Semesterly Quota $60 Who Summer Conference Attendees Weekly Quota $10 Fall & Spring Semesterly Quota Summer Semesterly Quota Who Barnard High School Summer Program Weekly Quota $10 Fall & Spring Semesterly Quota Summer Semesterly Quota Printing Quotas Quota is measured per sheet of paper printed, not per printed side. CUIT weekly quotas reset between Saturday night and Sunday morning; specifically on every Sunday at 12:10 AM ET, just after midnight. CUIT weekly quota funds are reset each week to the maximum weekly amount per the table below, even if there are unused quota funds from the previous week. Semesterly quotas for most schools are refreshed on the following days: Fall - August 30th Spring - January 1st Summer - May 20th Semesterly quotas for the Columbia Business School are refreshed on the following days: Fall - August 16th Spring - January 1st Summer - May 24th When you print a document, funds will be automatically be deducted from your quota. Funds are not deducted until the document is actually printed at a PawPrint station. If your quota balance reaches $0, funds will be deducted from any Printing Dollars you have purchased. If your print job does not print because of a printer issue, PawPrint will list the job as failed and will mark the job as a "Free Print." You can then go to any other PawPrint station and print the job without incurring any further deduction of Quota or Printing Dollars. Most students located across the Morningside and Barnard campuses receive a printing quota for use on PawPrint printers. Anyone with an active UNI can use PawPrint by purchasing Printing Dollars. In some cases, faculty are provided with a Printing Quota by their school, which can be used to print with PawPrint. Note: Columbia University Medical Center and Columbia Business School maintain their own standalone printing quota management systems, which cannot be used at Morningside or Barnard PawPrint locations. CUIT Weekly Quota: Most graduate students and some faculty will receive a weekly printing quota from CUIT, providing a dollar amount that you can use to print at CUIT-managed facilities. CUIT Weekly Quota funds cannot be used at non-CUIT-managed printers (i.e., at the School of Social Work). In these locations, PawPrint will not display a CUIT Weekly Quota amount, although it will still be available and can be viewed within the PawPrint Center or at a CUIT-managed PawPrint station. CUIT Weekly Quotas have no dollar value other than for printing and do not carry over week to week. Semesterly Quota: Undergraduate students in Columbia College, the School of Engineering and Applied Science, the School of General Studies, and Barnard College, along with most faculty receive a Semesterly Quota. Graduate students in the School of Social Work also receive a Semesterly Quota; the SSW quota only works at School of Social Work printers, while all other students' Semesterly Quota works at CUIT-managed printers. Semesterly Quotas have no dollar value other than for printing and do not carry over semester to semester. Printing Dollars: Printing Dollars are funds that a student or faculty member may add as additional printing dollars outside of their CUIT Weekly Quota and Semesterly Quota. These funds may be used to print at any PawPrint station. Once purchased, Printing Dollars are non-refundable. How to Check Your Printing Quota Balances: You can see quota balances and activity history in the PawPrint Center. Printing Quota Allotments School of Social Work Printing Quota Allotments School of Social Work students receive a printing quota for use on all School of Social Work printers (located in the Social Work building). Semesterly Quotas refresh at the end of a semester and can only be used for black-and-white printing. If your quota is usable only at the School of Social Work, you will need to purchase Printing Dollars, available at the PawPrint Center, in order to print in other locations. Who SSW Faculty CUIT Weekly Quota $10 SSW Semesterly Quota $2,500 Who SSW Administrative Staff CUIT Weekly Quota SSW Semesterly Quota $2,500 Who SSW Student Officers CUIT Weekly Quota $10 SSW Semesterly Quota $250 Who SSW Students CUIT Weekly Quota $2 SSW Semesterly Quota $250 ($150 Summer) Who SSW Dual Degree Program Students CUIT Weekly Quota $2 SSW Semesterly Quota $250 Who SSW Post-Graduate Students CUIT Weekly Quota SSW Semesterly Quota $50 Printing Quota Upgrades Printing Quota Upgrades for Graduate Students: Printing quota upgrades (aka "extended printing accounts") are a way for graduate students (only) to temporarily upgrade their printing quota from $2.00 per week (20 black-and-white sheets) to $10.00 per week (100 black-and-white sheets.) Upgraded printing quotas expire from week-to-week, and don't carry over. Upgrading your printing quota attaches a $35 charge to your Student Account. The $35 charge is non-refundable and cannot be prorated. An account upgrade lasts through the end of the current semester. Graduate students are encouraged to upgrade immediately after the start of each semester where you anticipate needing an upgrade. Upgraded printing quotas can be purchased on the Graduate Student Quota Upgrade site. This transaction will not be finalized (reflected in your quota) until you have logged into PawPrint Center. Social Work Students: Quota upgrades only apply on Morningside and Barnard public printers. Graduate students can upgrade a printing quota for the semester. Student Officers: TAs formally designated by their department as a Student Officer in the identity management system automatically receive an upgraded quota and should not attempt to purchase the upgrade themselves. For the fastest resolution, Student Officers without an upgraded quota should first speak with their mentor or Departmental Administrator to confirm their status as formal Student Officers before contacting CUIT. Teachers College Students: TC students cannot upgrade online. They must purchase the upgrade through TC Information Technology. Understanding Print Funds There are two funding options to use PawPrint: The quota your school provides (you’ll have either Weekly and/or Semesterly Quotas) You may buy additional amounts, called Printing Dollars. When printing, funds are deducted from your account in this order: First the Weekly Quota is used, if you have one. When that reaches $0.00, ...then the Semesterly Quota is used, if you have one. When that reaches $0.00, ...then Printing Dollars are used. Once all funds run out, you will no longer be able to print until either your quota is refreshed or more Printing Dollars are purchased. How to Add Funds Click on the Add Funds link in the PawPrint Center, in the Payment method box at the bottom left of the screen. Enter the dollar amount you would like to add with a minimum of $5.00 (if adding dollars and cents, enter the amount using a decimal point: 5.10, 7.50, etc.). Please note: There is no transaction fee to add funds. Click the checkbox next to I agree to pay the total above. Please note: Funds are nonrefundable. Click Continue to Payment. Follow the payment instructions on the next screen. Printing Dollars Students, faculty and staff with a valid UNI and password may purchase Printing Dollars. Once purchased, Printing Dollars are nonrefundable. In the event of a printing error (faded, crumpled, etc.), you may ask to have a credit refunded to your PawPrint account. Library Guests will need to obtain a UNI by going to the Library Information Office in 201 Butler. Why and how to buy Printing Dollars Printing Dollars are used when you need to print but have exceeded your allotted quota or are not eligible for a printing quota. Printing Dollars are credits towards printing, at a rate of 10 black-and-white sheets or 1 color sheet per $1.00. While printing quotas are reset every week and semester, Printing Dollars are "durable"—they carry over as long as your UNI account remains valid. However, please note that once purchased, Printing Dollars are nonrefundable. Anyone with a valid UNI may purchase Printing Dollars, which are automatically added to your account for use at any PawPrint station. How to Buy Printing Dollars: Printing Dollars can be purchased with a credit card at https://pawprint.columbia.edu/. Log in with your UNI, then click “Add Funds” at the bottom left of the screen and follow the instructions. Printing Dollars can be purchased in any amount above the $5 minimum, and is added to your account when you see the confirmation message indicating a successful purchase. Because Printing Dollars are nonrefundable, it is recommended that you only purchase what you plan to use; more can always be added later. Credit card holders with non-U.S./Canadian mailing addresses may experience problems completing transactions. Reviewing your printing account and printing history The PawPrint Center (https://pawprint.columbia.edu/) allows you to view your currently queued print jobs, your job history, and current balances for your Weekly and Semesterly Quotas and Printing Dollars. Overview: Go to the PawPrint Center (https://pawprint.columbia.edu/) from a web browser: Log in with your UNI and password. Note: The PawPrint Center does not use the standard CAS login interface you may be accustomed to seeing when logging into our systems, but is a secured system. Once logged in, you will be able to view: Your Job List, showing any print jobs currently queued but not yet printed. Your Activity, providing a history of prints, Quota refreshes and any Printing Dollars you have added. Your Total Quota + Printing Dollars, displaying all your available printing funds. An Add Funds link, allowing you to purchase additional Printing Dollars. Expand all Collapse all PrinterFix App What is PrinterFix? PrinterFix is a mobile-friendly web application designed to help you quickly report printer issues, such as paper jams and toner outages. Using a simple online form, PrinterFix allows you to alert a technician to printer issues from a browser, or your iPhone, iPad or Android device in seconds. And with so many PawPrint print stations at Morningside, there's no need to wait for a technician or resubmit your print job. Adding PrinterFix to Your iPhone/iPad (iOS) Open Safari and visit the PrinterFix page at printerfix.cuit.columbia.edu. Sign in with your UNI and password. Once the page is loaded, click the icon with the up arrow at the bottom of the screen. Touch the “Add to Home Screen” icon. The PrinterFix icon will now display on your device's home screen. Adding PrinterFix to Your Android Phone/Tablet Open Google Chrome and visit the PrinterFix page at printerfix.cuit.columbia.edu. Sign in with your UNI and password. At the bottom of the homescreen touch the menu button. Because Android devices do not use a consistent design or placement for the menu icon, some examples are provided in the image below. A menu window will open. Select "Add to Home Screen". Click “Add”. The PrinterFix icon will now display on your device's home screen. Make a Request Please submit a ticket to make a request. Support Contact Please submit a ticket to the CUIT Service Desk to ask questions or report an issue. You can also call the Service Desk at 212-854-1919. Customers can expect a response within one business day. CUIT has a web app, PrinterFix, to help you quickly report printer issues, such as paper jams and toner outages. Submit a ticket Columbia University Information Technology (CUIT) Administrative OfficesStudebaker Building, 5th & 6th Floors, 615 West 131st Street · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University Information Technology (CUIT) Walk-in Center202 Philosophy Hall, 1150 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-1919 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close