Skip to navigation Skip to main content Skip to footer Janelia Research Campus Biointeractive Tangled Bank Studios UGP Home About Our Scientists Programs Education News Diversity Search Menu About About HHMI is a science philanthropy whose mission is to advance basic biomedical research and science education for the benefit of humanity. Overview History Leadership Governance Financials Careers Policies For Our Hosts Doing Business with HHMI Our Scientists Our Scientists HHMI supports people, rather than projects, because it’s individual scientists who break barriers to advance knowledge. Overview HHMI Investigators Janelia Scientists International Scientists HHMI Professors Nobel Laureates Browse All Scientists An Inside Look Programs Programs HHMI empowers exceptional scientists and students to pursue fundamental questions in basic science. Overview Open Competitions Biomedical Research Science Education Education Education HHMI believes every student and citizen can experience science in a meaningful way. Overview Science Education Programs BioInteractive Tangled Bank Studios Resources Order Educational Materials News News HHMI shares the latest on our research, education, and organizational news. HHMI News Research News Science Education News Institute News Search News Archive Press Room Diversity Diversity HHMI is advancing academic science by creating opportunities for everyone to learn, contribute, and thrive. Overview Our Commitment Our Approach Our Goals Our Data Janelia Research Campus Biointeractive Tangled Bank Studios HHMI - Howard Hughes Medical Institute At the Howard Hughes Medical Institute, we believe in the power of individuals to advance science through research and science education, making discoveries that benefit humanity. Learn more about how we move science forward. James Bardwell Investigator » INSTITUTE May 26 2022 New Program Pledges $1.5 Billion for Early Career Faculty Committed to Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion The Freeman Hrabowski Scholars Program will support up to 150 early career scientists for their research and their efforts to create labs in which everyone can thrive. Applications to the program are open now. Research May 18 2022 Spying on Thousands of Neurons in the Brain’s Vision Center Simultaneously Neurons across eight areas of the brain team up to process visual information. Researchers have now documented these neurons’ activity at a breadth and resolution never before reported. Research May 11 2022 Structure of ‘Gliding Bird’ Plant Protein Could Lead to Better Crops When pathogens attack, the NPR1 protein steps in to control a plant’s immune response. Scientists have now figured out what the protein looks like and how it works – a possible boon for agriculture. Research May 05 2022 Cutting Calories and Eating at the Right Time of Day Leads to Longer Life in Mice In a study that followed hundreds of mice over their lifespans, calorie restriction combined with time-restricted eating boosted longevity. Research Mar 31 2022 Complete Human Genome Deciphered for the First Time Twenty years after scientists first reported reading the human genome, the Telomere-to-Telomere consortium has now unveiled a complete version. Their work uncovered hundreds of new genes and opens the door to new insights into evolution and disease. Research Mar 30 2022 Discovery of How Hyaluronic Acid Is Made Could Spur New Therapeutics For over two decades, scientists have puzzled over how vertebrates make the essential polysaccharide hyaluronic acid, which has broad medical applications. One team took a different tack and solved the mystery. Research Mar 10 2022 After More than 20 Years, Scientists Have Solved the Full-Length Structure of a Janus Kinase More than two decades of effort went into a project that has now revealed the structure of a crucial signaling molecule, opening the door to new and better drugs for some cancers. Research Mar 09 2022 When Ribosomes Collide: How Bacteria Clean Up After Molecular Crashes Tiny cellular machines called ribosomes build proteins. When this building process goes awry in bacteria, ribosomes collide, triggering the arrival of a first responder molecule that begins a rescue operation. Research Mar 01 2022 Viral Cover-Up: SARS-CoV-2 Cap Offers New Target for Antivirals Before it can wreak havoc in human cells, the virus that causes COVID-19 must hide the tip of its genetic material. By delving into how the virus puts on this disguise, researchers have identified a unique way to fight it. Load More INSTITUTE May 26 2022 New Program Pledges $1.5 Billion for Early Career Faculty Committed to Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion The Freeman Hrabowski Scholars Program will support up to 150 early career scientists for their research and their efforts to create labs in which everyone can thrive. Applications to the program are open now. Research May 18 2022 Spying on Thousands of Neurons in the Brain’s Vision Center Simultaneously Neurons across eight areas of the brain team up to process visual information. Researchers have now documented these neurons’ activity at a breadth and resolution never before reported. Research May 11 2022 Structure of ‘Gliding Bird’ Plant Protein Could Lead to Better Crops When pathogens attack, the NPR1 protein steps in to control a plant’s immune response. Scientists have now figured out what the protein looks like and how it works – a possible boon for agriculture. Research May 05 2022 Cutting Calories and Eating at the Right Time of Day Leads to Longer Life in Mice In a study that followed hundreds of mice over their lifespans, calorie restriction combined with time-restricted eating boosted longevity. Research Mar 31 2022 Complete Human Genome Deciphered for the First Time Twenty years after scientists first reported reading the human genome, the Telomere-to-Telomere consortium has now unveiled a complete version. Their work uncovered hundreds of new genes and opens the door to new insights into evolution and disease. Research Mar 30 2022 Discovery of How Hyaluronic Acid Is Made Could Spur New Therapeutics For over two decades, scientists have puzzled over how vertebrates make the essential polysaccharide hyaluronic acid, which has broad medical applications. One team took a different tack and solved the mystery. Research Mar 10 2022 After More than 20 Years, Scientists Have Solved the Full-Length Structure of a Janus Kinase More than two decades of effort went into a project that has now revealed the structure of a crucial signaling molecule, opening the door to new and better drugs for some cancers. Research Mar 09 2022 When Ribosomes Collide: How Bacteria Clean Up After Molecular Crashes Tiny cellular machines called ribosomes build proteins. When this building process goes awry in bacteria, ribosomes collide, triggering the arrival of a first responder molecule that begins a rescue operation. Research Mar 01 2022 Viral Cover-Up: SARS-CoV-2 Cap Offers New Target for Antivirals Before it can wreak havoc in human cells, the virus that causes COVID-19 must hide the tip of its genetic material. By delving into how the virus puts on this disguise, researchers have identified a unique way to fight it. Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Subscribe to our YouTube channel Sign up for our Email Newsletter Back to Top Contact Us / Careers / © 2022 Howard Hughes Medical Institute / Privacy Policy & Cookie Notice / Terms of Use / Log In