Skip to content CUIMC Home Columbia University Departments Giving Maps People Department of Rehabilitation and Regenerative Medicine About Us Patient Resources Education Research Health Library Locations Contact Patient Services Musculoskeletal and Sports Medicine Interventional Spine Care Neuromuscular and Stroke Rehabilitation Pediatric Rehabilitation Acute Inpatient Rehabilitaiton Subacute Inpatient Rehabilitation Cardiopulmonary Rehabilitation Center for Robotic Rehabilitation Find a Doctor Search By: Last Name Specialty List All Last Name Specialty Same day appointments are often available for acute musculoskeletal injuries, back and neck pain. Please check with your insurance plan to see if a referral is required. Ways to Give Support the Department of Rehabilitation Medicine today! Learn more COVID-19 Update for Our Patients Patients who have an appointment scheduled should be in touch with our office to determine if they should keep the scheduled appointment, convert the appointment to a video-visit, or defer the appointment until a later date. Read more about COVID-19 Updates. Joel Stein, MD Chair of the Department of Rehabillitation and Medicine A Message from the Chairman The field of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation has entered an exciting time of growth and development. In the clinical realm, physiatrists have incorporated the use of spine injections to complement traditional rehabilitation techniques, and musculoskeletal ultrasound is routinely used in the office setting as an aid to the diagnosis and treatment of musculoskeletal conditions. Public awareness of the issues of traumatic brain injury has been expanded as a result of the rehabilitation needs of returning soldiers, as well as increased a wareness of sports-related concussions. Read More. News Research | Patient Care Challenges and Lessons Learned for Acute Inpatient Rehabilitation of Persons With COVID-19. American Journal of Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation Maltser, S. , Trovato, E. , Fusco, H. , Sison, C. , Ambrose, A. , Herrera, J. , Murphy, S. , Kirshblum, S. , Bartels, M. , Bagay, L. , Oh-Park, M. , Stein, A. , Cuccurullo, S. , Nori, P. , Donovan, J. , Dams-O’Connor, K. , Amorapanth, P. , Barbuto, S. , B Research | Patient Care Intraarticular Platelet Rich Plasma vs Corticosteroid Injections for Sacroiliac Joint Pain—a Double Blinded, Randomized Clinical Trial Allen S Chen, MD, MPH, Joseph Solberg, DO, Clark Smith, MD, Michelle Chi, MD, Ryan Lowder, BA, George Christolias, MD, Jaspal Ricky Singh, MD, Research | Patient Care Shared functional connections within and between cortical networks predict cognitive abilities in adult males and females. Dhamala, E., Jamison, K. W., Jaywant, A., & Kuceyeski, A. Read More News © 2020 Columbia University | Privacy Policy | Terms and Conditions | HIPAA | General Information: 212-305-2862