Skip to site alert. Skip to content ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Patient Login Contact Us About Us About Us History Children's Board at Columbia Firsts & Awards Research Frequently Asked Questions Patient Stories Make a Gift Welcome Back Safely ColumbiaDoctors practices are open and we are here to care for you. How We Are Keeping Everybody Safe Pediatric Specialties Pediatric Specialties Allergy Cancer & Blood Disorders Cardiology & Cardiac Surgery Child & Adolescent Health Dentistry Dermatology Digestive & Liver Disorders Ear, Nose & Throat Endocrinology, Diabetes & Metabolism Genetics & Inherited Disorders Gynecology Hospital Services Immunodeficiency Disorders Infectious Diseases Kidney & Bladder Lungs & Breathing Disorders Neonatal Neurology Neurosurgery Ophthalmology & Strabismus Orthopedics Pain Management Primary Care Pediatrics Psychiatry & Psychology Rehabilitation Medicine Rheumatology Surgery Urology Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor Treatments & Conditions Locations Find a Doctor I want to… I want to… Access Connect Access Digital Health Services Get a Second Opinion Pay a Bill Refer a Patient Request Medical Records Request a Virtual Visit Request an Appointment Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor DISCOVER Program You are here Home > Pediatric Specialties > Genetics & Inherited Disorders > Innovative Programs & Services > DISCOVER Program DISCOVER Program About Us Our Services Planning Your Visit Your Healthcare Team How You Can Help Contact Us DISCOVER Program The DISCOVER (Diagnosis Initiative: Seeking Care and Opportunities with Vision for Exploration and Research) Program integrates excellent clinical care with cutting-edge research to rapidly arrive at a diagnosis of rare diseases and complex conditions. Our Goal Is to Develop Novel, Individualized Treatments for Patients The DISCOVER Program team strives to provide an accurate clinical diagnosis, and will not stop once the diagnosis is made. Patients will also have the opportunity to continue care and enroll in cutting-edge research studies with the vision of moving beyond the diagnosis, toward the development of innovative treatments. How to Refer To begin a referral to The DISCOVER Program, you or your doctor should call our administrative assistant, Nandi Hill, at 212-305-5890. About Us The goal of the DISCOVER Program is to integrate excellent clinical care with cutting-edge research to make a diagnosis more quickly and to develop novel, individualized treatments for patients. About Us Planning Your Visit If you are accepted into the DISCOVER program, you will be provided with a detailed itinerary outlining your visit. Planning Your Visit Our Services We provide comprehensive services including review of records, consultation with medical specialists, genetic testing and analysis, case management, and access to research studies. View Our Services View Our Services Your Healthcare Team View your healthcare team at DISCOVER Program. Your Healthcare Team How You Can Help Make a Gift Make a Gift Contact Us Contact the Program Contact the Program Columbia University Irving Medical Center New York Presbyterian Kids - Morgan Stanley Children's Hospital Clinical Trials Jobs Donate Contact Us ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States General Information / Find a Doctor 855-550-5437 Patient safety email cdsafety@cumc.columbia.edu Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube Back to top