Search Donate Books New Books Books about Race, Protest, and Violence Books About Russia’s War in Ukraine Subjects Series Catalogs Distinguished Book Award Columbia Business School Publishing Wallflower Woodrow Wilson Center Press E-books Extras! Distributed Presses CUP Distribution Services Agenda Publishing Association for Asian Studies Austrian Film Museum Columbia Books on Architecture and the City East European Monographs Fernwood Publishing Harrington Park Press Hitchcock Annual ibidem Press Jagiellonian University Press Lincoln Institute of Land Policy Maria Curie-Sklodowska University Press Peterson Institute for International Economics Slovenian Cinematheque Social Science Research Council The Chinese University of Hong Kong Press The Wallach Art Gallery transcript publishing Tulika Books University of Tokyo Press Verlag Barbara Budrich Reference The Columbia Gazetteer of the World Online The Columbia Granger’s World of Poetry Online Columbia International Affairs Online Columbia University Press Reference Books Contact Contact CUP Editors About Vision and Mission Our History Advisory Council and Board Faculty Publication Committee Initiatives Code of Conduct Support CUP Blog Cart Regardless of Frontiers Global Freedom of Expression in a Troubled World Edited by Lee C. Bollinger and Agnes Callamard Columbia University Press Share Pub Date: February 2021 ISBN: 9780231196994 Format: Paperback List Price: $30.00£25.00 Add To Cart Shipping Options Choose a Country United States of America (the) Canada United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (the) ---------- Afghanistan Åland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas (the) Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia (Plurinational State of) Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory (the) Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Cape Verde Cayman Islands (the) Central African Republic (the) Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands (the) Colombia Comoros (the) Congo (the Democratic Republic of the) Congo (the) Cook Islands (the) Costa Rica Côte d'Ivoire Croatia Cuba Curaçao Cyprus Czechia Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic (the) Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Eswatini Ethiopia Falkland Islands (the) [Malvinas] Faroe Islands (the) Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories (the) Gabon Gambia (the) Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and McDonald Islands Holy See (the) Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran (Islamic Republic of) Iraq Ireland Isle of Man Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Korea (the Democratic People's Republic of) Korea (the Republic of) Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao People's Democratic Republic (the) Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macao Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands (the) Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia (Federated States of) Moldova (the Republic of) Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands (the) New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger (the) Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands (the) Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestine, State of Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines (the) Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Réunion Romania Russian Federation (the) Rwanda Saint Barthélemy Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Martin (French part) Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten (Dutch part) Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka Sudan (the) Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands (the) Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates (the) United States Minor Outlying Islands (the) Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) Viet Nam Virgin Islands (British) Virgin Islands (U.S.) Wallis and Futuna Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Add To Cart Add To Cart Purchasing options are not available in this country. Pub Date: February 2021 ISBN: 9780231196987 Format: Hardcover List Price: $95.00£74.00 Add To Cart Shipping Options Choose a Country United States of America (the) Canada United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (the) ---------- Afghanistan Åland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas (the) Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia (Plurinational State of) Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory (the) Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Cape Verde Cayman Islands (the) Central African Republic (the) Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands (the) Colombia Comoros (the) Congo (the Democratic Republic of the) Congo (the) Cook Islands (the) Costa Rica Côte d'Ivoire Croatia Cuba Curaçao Cyprus Czechia Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic (the) Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Eswatini Ethiopia Falkland Islands (the) [Malvinas] Faroe Islands (the) Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories (the) Gabon Gambia (the) Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and McDonald Islands Holy See (the) Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran (Islamic Republic of) Iraq Ireland Isle of Man Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Korea (the Democratic People's Republic of) Korea (the Republic of) Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao People's Democratic Republic (the) Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macao Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands (the) Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia (Federated States of) Moldova (the Republic of) Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands (the) New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger (the) Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands (the) Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestine, State of Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines (the) Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Réunion Romania Russian Federation (the) Rwanda Saint Barthélemy Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Martin (French part) Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten (Dutch part) Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka Sudan (the) Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands (the) Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates (the) United States Minor Outlying Islands (the) Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) Viet Nam Virgin Islands (British) Virgin Islands (U.S.) Wallis and Futuna Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Add To Cart Add To Cart Purchasing options are not available in this country. Pub Date: February 2021 ISBN: 9780231551922 Format: E-book List Price: $29.99£25.00 Get the E-Book Amazon Barnes and Noble Google Play Kobo Apple Regardless of Frontiers Global Freedom of Expression in a Troubled World Edited by Lee C. Bollinger and Agnes Callamard Columbia University Press Main Reviews Contents Excerpt Links Awards The United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights in 1948 proclaimed a vision of freedom of expression exercised regardless of frontiers. Nonetheless, laws and norms regarding the freedom or limits of expression are typically established and understood at the national level. In today’s interconnected world, newfound threats to free expression have suddenly arisen. How can this fundamental right be secured at a global level? This volume brings together leading experts from a variety of fields to critically evaluate the extent to which global norms on freedom of expression and information have been established and which actors and institutions have contributed to their diffusion. The authors also consider ongoing and new challenges to these norms, from conflicts over hate speech and the rise of populism to authoritarian governments, as well as the profound disruption introduced by the internet. Together, the essays lay the groundwork for an international legal doctrine on global freedom of expression that considers issues such as access to government-held information, media diversity, and political speech. As the world risks renouncing previous commitments to the freedom of expression, Regardless of Frontiers serves as a timely reminder of just how much is at stake and what needs protecting. Will freedom of expression survive the twenty-first century? Bollinger and Callamard offer an essential primer on how the interpretation, violation, and defense of this core human right continue to evolve. In each essay, top experts address specific challenges and opportunities. This volume is required reading for anybody working to defend and protect free speech in today’s digitally networked world. Rebecca MacKinnon, author of Consent of the Networked: The Worldwide Struggle for Internet Freedom This collection establishes a rigorous idea of global norms of freedom of expression. Headed by Lee C. Bollinger and Agnès Callamard, it is a rallying cry for continued attention to global norms of freedom of expression and a celebration of the global project of freedom of expression at Columbia. Monroe Price, author of Free Expression, Globalism, and the New Strategic Communication At this existential moment when freedom of expression is under attack globally and the law weaponized to silence independent journalism, we need an authoritative public record of how free speech is protected as a universal human right and to be reminded of its many defenders globally. That’s what this volume provides: a sweeping, rigorous, and balanced compendium of the nature and extent of these protections and their key actors, grounded clearly in diverse viewpoints—a vibrant reminder that freedom of speech is ours to defend or lose. Maria A. Ressa, CEO and executive editor, Rappler Regardless of Frontiers explores the extent to which the global norms, values, and systems around free expression are under duress. And it is a timely reminder of the major implications, set against the background of how the free flow of information is facilitated in practice. Jonathan Peters, University of Georgia, press freedom correspondent for the Columbia Journalism Review U.S. teachers and researchers who are beginning to explore international communication law more closely and those who have been doing so for a while will learn a great deal from this book, including the ways that “soft power,” often undervalued in U.S. law, has considerable influence internationally. Journalism and Mass Communication Educator Preface: The Idea of Global Norms of Freedom of Speech and Press, by Lee C. Bollinger Introduction: Regardless of Frontiers? Global Freedom of Expression Norms for a Troubled World, by Agnès Callamard Freedom of Expression and Three Concepts of the Global, by Frederick Schauer Part I: A Global Threshold 1. Global Norms on Media Regulation: The Devil Is in the Detail, by Toby Mendel 2. The Right of Access to Information Held by Public Authorities: Emergence as a Global Norm, by Sandra Coliver 3. The Protection of Political Expression, by Nani Jansen Reventlow and Jonathan McCully 4. International, Regional, and National Approaches to the Protection of Reputation and Freedom of Expression, by Peter Noorlander 5. Is There a Global Norm for the Protection of Journalists’ Sources?, by Richard Danbury Part II: Intergovernmental Institutions and International Actors as Norm Entrepreneurs 6. The Norm Entrepreneurship of the United Nations, by Tarlach McGonagle and Emmanuel Vargas Penagos 7. On “Balancing” and “Social Watchdogs”: The European Court of Human Rights as a Norm Entrepreneur for Freedom of Expression, by Jan Oster 8. The Role of the Inter-American Human Rights System in the Emergence and Development of Global Norms on Freedom of Expression, by Catalina Botero-Marino 9. The African Human Rights System: A New Actor of Normative Integration, by Catherine Anite 10. Globalizing the Battle Against Impunity, by Joel Simon and Elisabeth Witchel Part III: Conflicts, Competition, Antiglobalization 11. Norms in Conflict: The Restraints on the Emergence of a Global Free Speech Norm, by Agnès Callamard and Sejal Parmar 12. Making Choices: Social Media Platforms and Freedom of Expression Norms, by Chinmayi Arun 13. China, Information Technology, and Global Freedom of Expression: A Story of Sovereignty and Global Capitalism, by Séverine Arsène 14. The Rise of Global Counternorms, by Alexander Cooley Part IV: Interactive Global Jurisprudence 15. New York Times Co. v. Sullivan, by Hawley Johnson 16. Handyside v. the United Kingdom, by Amalie Bang 17. Claude Reyes et al. v. Chile: A Global Trailblazer, by Sofía Jaramillo-Otoya 18. Lohé Issa Konaté v. Burkina Faso: A Tipping Point for Decriminalization of Defamation in Africa, by Hawley Johnson 19. Fast, Far, and Deep: The Journey of the Right to Be Forgotten, by Bach Avezdjanov List of Contributors Index Lee C. Bollinger and Agnès Callamard Discuss Press Freedom and Jamal Khashoggi Watch video of Lee C. Bollinger and Agnes Callamard in conversation at the Columbia Global Center Paris Read an interview with Agnès Callamard in Columbia News About the Author Lee C. Bollinger is the nineteenth president of Columbia University and the Seth Low Professor of the University. He is one of the United States’s foremost scholars of the First Amendment, and his most recent book is The Free Speech Century, with Geoffrey R. Stone (2018). Agnès Callamard is the director of Columbia University’s Global Freedom of Expression initiative and the United Nations special rapporteur on extrajudicial, summary, or arbitrary killings. She has led human rights fact-finding missions in more than forty countries and headed the UN investigation into the murder of the Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi. Subjects Journalism Law and Legal Studies Social Sciences Back to top Privacy & Cookie Policies FAQ Job Opportunities For Instructors Mailing List Created by Supadü X This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors’ experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University Press’ usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Press Website Cookie Notice. CUP Books New Books Books about Race, Protest, and Violence Books About Russia’s War in Ukraine Subjects Series Catalogs Distinguished Book Award Columbia Business School Publishing Wallflower Woodrow Wilson Center Press E-books Extras! Back Distributed Presses CUP Distribution Services Agenda Publishing Association for Asian Studies Austrian Film Museum Columbia Books on Architecture and the City East European Monographs Fernwood Publishing Harrington Park Press Hitchcock Annual ibidem Press Jagiellonian University Press Lincoln Institute of Land Policy Maria Curie-Sklodowska University Press Peterson Institute for International Economics Slovenian Cinematheque Social Science Research Council The Chinese University of Hong Kong Press The Wallach Art Gallery transcript publishing Tulika Books University of Tokyo Press Verlag Barbara Budrich Back Reference The Columbia Gazetteer of the World Online The Columbia Granger’s World of Poetry Online Columbia International Affairs Online Columbia University Press Reference Books Back Contact Contact CUP Editors Back About Vision and Mission Our History Advisory Council and Board Faculty Publication Committee Initiatives Black Lives in the Diaspora: Past / Present / Future Back Code of Conduct Support CUP Back Blog Cart Development Home Support CUP Join the Publisher’s Circle CUP Donors Book Funds and Endowments Contact Development Give CUP Home