Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | CPRC Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Who We Are Research Activities Events Resources News Becoming a Member Directory Primary Research Areas Children, Youth, and Families Immigration/Migration Reproductive Health and HIV/AIDS Urbanism Cross-Cutting Theme Working Groups Signature Research Projects The New York City Longitudinal Survey of Wellbeing NYC Longitudinal Study of Young Children’s Health and Development COVID-19 Research Seed Grant Awards Fragile Families Summer Data Workshop Mini-Conferences Seminar Series Visiting Scholar Program Video Library Proposal Development Seed Grant Program Guidelines NIH Grant Workshop Computing, Data, and Methodology Publication Support Acknowledging CPRC NIH Public Access Policy Compliance Presentation and Poster Templates Columbia | CPRC Home The Columbia Population Research Center supports population health researchers across Columbia University, galvanizing new interdisciplinary and cross-campus collaborations, promoting the professional development of junior scientists, and enabling members to do work that is more innovative and impactful. Our members’ interests encompass four primary research areas: Children, Youth, and Families; Reproductive Health and HIV/AIDS; Immigration/Migration; and Urbanism, with cross-cutting attention to inequalities and policies to mitigate those inequalities. Events There are no upcoming events. More Events Recent News March 31, 2022 New to CPRC - Jasmine A. McDonald Dr. McDonald’s research centers on factors influencing breast cancer risk across the life course. Tags New to CPRCReproductive Health and HIV/AIDSCross-Cutting Themes January 11, 2022 New to CPRC - Morgan C. Williams, Jr. This is a series to introduce CPRC members to a broader community. Tags New to CPRCCross-Cutting Themes January 11, 2022 New to CPRC - Kate Lovero This is a series to introduce CPRC members to a broader community. Tags New to CPRCChildren, Youth, and Families More News A Twitter List by ColumbiaCPRC Google Map Location Columbia Population Research Center1255 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-851-2384 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Twitter Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close