{xtd_wp_head} Skip to content Home About About CURF Our Team Our Services Technology Transfer Process INSPIRE News Innovators Inventor Resources Glossary of Terms FAQ Inventor’s Club Technology Transfer Process Inquiry Intake Form CURF Maturation Fund Prisma Innovation Maturation Fund Disclose An Invention Contact Forms & Policies Students Student Resources Forms & Policies Graduate Internships Inquiry Intake Form Glossary of Terms Contact Industry Industry Resources Inquiry Intake Form Connect with CURF For Startups Available Technology Contact CURF Startups Startup Resources Available Technology All Technologies Advanced Materials Agriculture Automotive Biomedical Biotechnology Info & Communication Manufacturing Sustainable Energy Contact Inquiry Intake Form General Contact Contact Open Mobile Menu Home About About CURF Our Team Our Services Technology Transfer Process INSPIRE News Innovators Inventor Resources Glossary of Terms FAQ Inventor’s Club Technology Transfer Process Inquiry Intake Form CURF Maturation Fund Prisma Innovation Maturation Fund Disclose An Invention Contact Forms & Policies Students Student Resources Forms & Policies Graduate Internships Inquiry Intake Form Glossary of Terms Contact Industry Industry Resources Inquiry Intake Form Connect with CURF For Startups Available Technology Contact CURF Startups Startup Resources Available Technology All Technologies Advanced Materials Agriculture Automotive Biomedical Biotechnology Info & Communication Manufacturing Sustainable Energy Contact Inquiry Intake Form General Contact Contact About Meet the Team at CURF The CURF team has a broad background and depth of experience guiding new technologies from concept to commercialization. + Meet Our Team Technology Search All Available Technologies from CURF Browse a full library of technologies available for commercialization. + Search Available Tech Innovators Ready to disclose your invention to CURF? Submit an Invention Disclosure through the CURF Inventor Portal. + Disclose Your Invention Students Now Accepting Graduate Interns Apply for our internship program at the Clemson University Research Foundation. + Apply Now Industry Search our library of Available Technologies Looking for a technology or invention to commercialize? + Search Available Tech Advanced Materials, Biotechnology Luminescent Carbon Dots for Optical Imaging Inventors: Dr. Ya-Ping Sun View on Technology Publisher Site Keywords: Imaging, Biosensors Market Overview Carbon dots (also called "carbon quantum dots", "carbon nanodots", etc.) represent a new class of photoactive nanomaterials that compete effectively with semiconductor quantum dots, a market that was valued at $961.4 million in 2013 and is projected to be larger than $5 billion in 2020. In addition to being benign and nontoxic, carbon dot performance is comparable to the much more expensive fullerene-based materials used in various optoelectronic devices. Carbon dots can be produced from abundant and environmentally-friendly precursors, and thus are suitable for low to ultralow cost applications. Carbon dots brightly fluoresce across the entire visible spectrum and near-IR, making them ideal for serving as fluorescence probes for bioimaging. The uniquely small size of quantum dots enables them to go anywhere in the body, making them suitable for bio-medical applications like medical imaging, biosensors, cell separation, etc. Applications: Healthcare & biotechnology research, general optic imaging Technical Summary Advantages Technical Summary: This quantum dot technology can be comprised of a single material with uniform internal compositions, such as chalcogenides of metals like cadmium, lead or zinc. The photo- and electroluminescence properties of core-type quantum dots can be fine-tuned by simply changing crystallite size. The luminescent properties of quantum dots arise from the recombination of electron hole pairs through radiative pathways. However, excitation decay can also occur through non-radiative methods, reducing the fluorescence quantum yield. One of the methods used to improve efficiency and brightness of these semiconductor nanocrystals is growing shells of another, higher-band gap semiconducting material around them. These quantum dots with small regions of one material embedded in another with a wider band gap are known as core-shell quantum dots (CSQDs) or core-shell semiconducting nanocrystals (CSSNCs). Coating quantum dots with shells improves quantum yield by passivizing non-radiative recombination sites and also makes them more robust to processing conditions for various applications. Advantages: Available in a wide variety of bright colors visible to the naked eye, making them ideal for medical imaging Small-sized with zero dimensionality, allowing them to be used anywhere within the body or electronic devices Relatively inexpensive, reducing costs when compared to currently-used technologies Download Printable PDF Technology Overview State of Development Proof of Concept Patent Type Divisional Category Advanced Materials, Biotechnology Serial Number 12/892,117 CURF Reference No. 2005-042 Inventors Dr. Ya-Ping Sun For More Info, Contact: Chris Gesswein Director of Licensing agesswe@clemson.edu Contact Contact Latest News from CURF Stay up-to-date with the latest trends in the innovation and research industry. Sign up for our newsletter to see how CURF is making a difference and impacting the economy where we live. Sign Up Form Email Address * Submit All Technologies Get Started Ready to Get Started? Contact our team at CURF Contact CURF CURF in the News Let's Work Together CURF Home About CURF Our Services News & Events Our Team Available Technologies Innovators Inventors Resources Frequently Asked Questions Process of Innovation CURF Maturation Fund Clemson Inventor’s Club Industry Industry Resources For Startups Students Student Resources Internship Opportunities Clemson University Research Foundation (864) 656-0797 391 College Avenue, Suite 401 Clemson, SC 29631 facebook twitter linkedin Clemson University Research Foundation © 2022 All Rights Reserved Powered by The Brand Leader Login Sitemap