{xtd_wp_head} Skip to content Home About About CURF Our Team Our Services Technology Transfer Process INSPIRE News Innovators Inventor Resources Glossary of Terms FAQ Inventor’s Club Technology Transfer Process Inquiry Intake Form CURF Maturation Fund Prisma Innovation Maturation Fund Disclose An Invention Contact Forms & Policies Students Student Resources Forms & Policies Graduate Internships Inquiry Intake Form Glossary of Terms Contact Industry Industry Resources Inquiry Intake Form Connect with CURF For Startups Available Technology Contact CURF Startups Startup Resources Available Technology All Technologies Advanced Materials Agriculture Automotive Biomedical Biotechnology Info & Communication Manufacturing Sustainable Energy Contact Inquiry Intake Form General Contact Contact Open Mobile Menu Home About About CURF Our Team Our Services Technology Transfer Process INSPIRE News Innovators Inventor Resources Glossary of Terms FAQ Inventor’s Club Technology Transfer Process Inquiry Intake Form CURF Maturation Fund Prisma Innovation Maturation Fund Disclose An Invention Contact Forms & Policies Students Student Resources Forms & Policies Graduate Internships Inquiry Intake Form Glossary of Terms Contact Industry Industry Resources Inquiry Intake Form Connect with CURF For Startups Available Technology Contact CURF Startups Startup Resources Available Technology All Technologies Advanced Materials Agriculture Automotive Biomedical Biotechnology Info & Communication Manufacturing Sustainable Energy Contact Inquiry Intake Form General Contact Contact About Meet the Team at CURF The CURF team has a broad background and depth of experience guiding new technologies from concept to commercialization. + Meet Our Team Technology Search All Available Technologies from CURF Browse a full library of technologies available for commercialization. + Search Available Tech Innovators Ready to disclose your invention to CURF? Submit an Invention Disclosure through the CURF Inventor Portal. + Disclose Your Invention Students Now Accepting Graduate Interns Apply for our internship program at the Clemson University Research Foundation. + Apply Now Industry Search our library of Available Technologies Looking for a technology or invention to commercialize? + Search Available Tech CURF Maturation Fund Fund Innovation. Accelerate Commercialization. Learn More Maturation Fund How to Apply The Technology Maturation Fund is a program managed by CURF and, unlike any other source of funding available to Clemson faculty, the sole purpose of this funding is to support the next critical research steps that will significantly increase the likelihood of commercializing Clemson intellectual property. Funding Applying for Funds Determining Eligibility We accept proposals from any Clemson faculty member who has had interactions with CURF via the invention disclosure and patenting or copyright process for the maturation of their previously disclosed intellectual property. While postdoctoral research associates, graduate students, and undergraduate students may participate as co‐investigators, they are not eligible to submit and lead a project as the principal investigator. Preparing a Proposal As a first step in preparing a maturation fund proposal, consult with your Technology Commercialization Officer (TCO) about your desire to participate. Your TCO will be able to provide information about the process and help you to prepare your proposal to its best advantage. Submitted proposals are evaluated by a panel of industry subject matter experts and CURF professional staff. The existing intellectual property disclosed to CURF, support from a potential industry licensee or research collaborator, a demonstrated path to commercialization, and the technical merit of the project are the primary criteria for award. Submit A Proposal CURF 2019 Fiscal Year Recipients We are privileged to work alongside some great minds in their perspective industries. Below are a few who have been able to partner with CURF to develop their technology in their field. Recipients + Dr. Kendall Kirk Edisto Research & Education Center + Dr. Alexey Vertegel Bioengineering + Dr. Liang Dong Electrical & Computer Engineering + Dr. Igor Luzinov Materials Science & Engineering + Dr. Christopher Post Forestry & Environmental Conservation + Dr. Dan Simionescu Bioengineering + Dr. Jiro Nagatomi Bioengineering Dr. Kendall Kirk Bioengineering Dr. Kirk will pursue construction of five pre-production hay yield monitor prototypes to be used in test and evaluation field trials. The monitoring system, which can be retro-fitted to existing hay balers currently in the market, will allow hay growers to generate precision yield data for zones within a specific field. See All Recipients Dr. Alexey Vertegel Bioengineering Dr. Vertegel will further develop a polymeric coating that can cling to metal implants. The technology can significantly reduce the burden of orthopedic implant pin site infections through the utilization of highly adhesive anti-microbial drug-eluting polymeric coatings. View Bio See All Recipients Dr. Liang Dong Bioengineering Dr. Dong will create efficient all-solid photonic bandgap fiber lasers based on a three-level laser scheme system. The system, which operates at a 976nm wavelength, will improve scale precision processes in industrial micro-machining. See All Recipients Dr. Igor Luzinov Bioengineering Dr. Luzinov will further develop a textile dyeing and finishing technology, created in conjunction with the University of Georgia (UGA), for exceptionally efficient and sustainable textile dyeing machinery using nanocellulosic (NC) fibers. The refined technology will decrease the amount of water, salt and alkali used in cotton/blended fabric dyeing processes to mitigate the environmental impact of these by-products. See All Recipients Dr. Christopher Post Bioengineering Dr. Post will further develop a commercial color sensor smart-phone application that can be used for soil evaluation. Assessment of soil color has traditionally been accomplished by matching soil color with color ‘chips.’ This innovative color sensor will greatly improve the soil classification process. See All Recipients Dr. Dan Simionescu Bioengineering Dr. Simionescu will continue development of vascular grafts that are resistant to diabetes. Numerous surgeons use small diameter synthetic grafts during bypass surgery to salvage failing limbs or hearts in diabetic patients; however, many of these grafts fail dramatically in diabetic patients. See All Recipients Dr. Jiro Nagatomi Bioengineering Dr. Nagatomi will work to develop a novel mesh-adhesive system for abdominal hernia repair by combining a bifunctional polyamine hydrogel adhesive with a surface modification technology. This method does not have the drawbacks of traditional processes used to repair abdominal hernias and will be valuable in delivering a patient-specific solution for hernia repair. See All Recipients Get Started Ready to Get Started? Contact our team at CURF Contact CURF CURF in the News Let's Work Together CURF Home About CURF Our Services News & Events Our Team Available Technologies Innovators Inventors Resources Frequently Asked Questions Process of Innovation CURF Maturation Fund Clemson Inventor’s Club Industry Industry Resources For Startups Students Student Resources Internship Opportunities Clemson University Research Foundation (864) 656-0797 391 College Avenue, Suite 401 Clemson, SC 29631 facebook twitter linkedin Clemson University Research Foundation © 2022 All Rights Reserved Powered by The Brand Leader Login Sitemap