{xtd_wp_head} Skip to content Home About About CURF Our Team Our Services Technology Transfer Process INSPIRE News Innovators Inventor Resources Glossary of Terms FAQ Inventor’s Club Technology Transfer Process Inquiry Intake Form CURF Maturation Fund Prisma Innovation Maturation Fund Disclose An Invention Contact Forms & Policies Students Student Resources Forms & Policies Graduate Internships Inquiry Intake Form Glossary of Terms Contact Industry Industry Resources Inquiry Intake Form Connect with CURF For Startups Available Technology Contact CURF Startups Startup Resources Available Technology All Technologies Advanced Materials Agriculture Automotive Biomedical Biotechnology Info & Communication Manufacturing Sustainable Energy Contact Inquiry Intake Form General Contact Contact Open Mobile Menu Home About About CURF Our Team Our Services Technology Transfer Process INSPIRE News Innovators Inventor Resources Glossary of Terms FAQ Inventor’s Club Technology Transfer Process Inquiry Intake Form CURF Maturation Fund Prisma Innovation Maturation Fund Disclose An Invention Contact Forms & Policies Students Student Resources Forms & Policies Graduate Internships Inquiry Intake Form Glossary of Terms Contact Industry Industry Resources Inquiry Intake Form Connect with CURF For Startups Available Technology Contact CURF Startups Startup Resources Available Technology All Technologies Advanced Materials Agriculture Automotive Biomedical Biotechnology Info & Communication Manufacturing Sustainable Energy Contact Inquiry Intake Form General Contact Contact About Meet the Team at CURF The CURF team has a broad background and depth of experience guiding new technologies from concept to commercialization. + Meet Our Team Technology Search All Available Technologies from CURF Browse a full library of technologies available for commercialization. + Search Available Tech Innovators Ready to disclose your invention to CURF? Submit an Invention Disclosure through the CURF Inventor Portal. + Disclose Your Invention Students Now Accepting Graduate Interns Apply for our internship program at the Clemson University Research Foundation. + Apply Now Industry Search our library of Available Technologies Looking for a technology or invention to commercialize? + Search Available Tech About CURF is a knowledgeable insider in both business and academia, guiding faculty members from idea to commercialization. We're creating a pathway for innovation. About Get to know CURF Who We Are: Passionate About Research Ambassadors for Tech Transfer Trusted Associates Innovative and Nimble Vested In Your Success 01 We are Passionate about Research. Our primary mission is to build meaningful, ongoing relationships with Clemson University faculty, students, and administrative leadership involved in the university research enterprise, as well as external innovation and commercialization resources and industry partners. It is our goal to create and maintain a scalable and sustainable model for research collaboration, technology maturation, and technology commercialization opportunities to feed back into the broader university research enterprise. See Our Services 02 We are Ambassadors for Research and Tech Transfer. We work alongside our researchers as subject matter experts, facilitators, and translators to avail them to external opportunities to advance their research and mature their technologies. With our established track record in business development, entrepreneurship, corporate partnerships, and the public sector, we can bridge knowledge gaps, interpreting and communicating the unique requirements of academia to industry partners and vice versa. Meet Our Team 03 We are Trusted Associates. We work in collaboration, first and foremost, with individuals engaged in research, supporting faculty researchers, graduate students, department heads, and research administrative business units at Clemson University to protect IP, add value to research projects, and simplify the tech transfer process. Through our intake and outreach processes, we help researchers secure additional funding and identify a variety of federal, state, for-profit and nonprofit innovation and technology commercialization funding opportunities. Explore Our Process 04 We are Innovative and Nimble. As an independent, affiliated 501(c)3 and 509(a) organization, we support the University research enterprise in a variety of ways including, but not limited to, greater contracting flexibility, streamlined access to external resources, and targeted marketing of research resources and capabilities. We are able to accept equity as a form of financial consideration in licensing of University intellectual property and are able to be innovative and nimble in our pursuit of external research opportunities for our faculty and students engaged in research. Discover Opportunities for Industry 05 We are Vested Partners in Your Success. We invest all available resources in the promotion of the University’s research talent and infrastructure. As a support organization for the research enterprise, our primary motivation is to ensure faculty success through improved researcher-industry engagement, increased sponsored research funding, and technology adoption through licensing and start-ups. Our Services Find Tech Explore. Discover. Translate. Explore Available Technologies: Search CURF in the News Let's Work Together CURF Home About CURF Our Services News & Events Our Team Available Technologies Innovators Inventors Resources Frequently Asked Questions Process of Innovation CURF Maturation Fund Clemson Inventor’s Club Industry Industry Resources For Startups Students Student Resources Internship Opportunities Clemson University Research Foundation (864) 656-0797 391 College Avenue, Suite 401 Clemson, SC 29631 facebook twitter linkedin Clemson University Research Foundation © 2022 All Rights Reserved Powered by The Brand Leader Login Sitemap