{xtd_wp_head} Skip to content Home About About CURF Our Team Our Services Technology Transfer Process INSPIRE News Innovators Inventor Resources Glossary of Terms FAQ Inventor’s Club Technology Transfer Process Inquiry Intake Form CURF Maturation Fund Prisma Innovation Maturation Fund Disclose An Invention Contact Forms & Policies Students Student Resources Forms & Policies Graduate Internships Inquiry Intake Form Glossary of Terms Contact Industry Industry Resources Inquiry Intake Form Connect with CURF For Startups Available Technology Contact CURF Startups Startup Resources Available Technology All Technologies Advanced Materials Agriculture Automotive Biomedical Biotechnology Info & Communication Manufacturing Sustainable Energy Contact Inquiry Intake Form General Contact Contact Open Mobile Menu Home About About CURF Our Team Our Services Technology Transfer Process INSPIRE News Innovators Inventor Resources Glossary of Terms FAQ Inventor’s Club Technology Transfer Process Inquiry Intake Form CURF Maturation Fund Prisma Innovation Maturation Fund Disclose An Invention Contact Forms & Policies Students Student Resources Forms & Policies Graduate Internships Inquiry Intake Form Glossary of Terms Contact Industry Industry Resources Inquiry Intake Form Connect with CURF For Startups Available Technology Contact CURF Startups Startup Resources Available Technology All Technologies Advanced Materials Agriculture Automotive Biomedical Biotechnology Info & Communication Manufacturing Sustainable Energy Contact Inquiry Intake Form General Contact Contact About Meet the Team at CURF The CURF team has a broad background and depth of experience guiding new technologies from concept to commercialization. + Meet Our Team Technology Search All Available Technologies from CURF Browse a full library of technologies available for commercialization. + Search Available Tech Innovators Ready to disclose your invention to CURF? Submit an Invention Disclosure through the CURF Inventor Portal. + Disclose Your Invention Students Now Accepting Graduate Interns Apply for our internship program at the Clemson University Research Foundation. + Apply Now Industry Search our library of Available Technologies Looking for a technology or invention to commercialize? + Search Available Tech Advanced Materials Super-resolution Microscopy for Live Cell Imaging (2017-048) Inventors: Tong Ye, Yang Li View on Technology Publisher Site Market Overview This method of super-resolution microscopy uses subtracted interleaved solid and doughnut-shaped laser pulses to improve spatial resolution, resulting in real-time imaging of live microscopic organisms. The live cell imaging market has an estimated worth of $3.57 billion and is expected to grow due to increased government funding and the demand for high-content screening microscopy techniques in drug discovery. Conventional super-resolution microscopy requires high light dosage or special dyes to achieve improved spatial resolution, which can lead to damage in live cells during the imaging process. Clemson University researchers have developed a method of super-resolution microscopy using low power laser pulses that is compatible with an unrestricted menu of dyes or chromophores, allowing for imaging of live samples without causing damage to the cellular architecture. This innovative use of low power settings makes this technology promising for the future of biological research. Applications: Real-time, live cell imaging Technical Summary Advantages Technical Summary: In this method of super-resolution microscopy, interleaved solid and doughnut-shaped laser pulses are used to excite the biological sample, and the signal generated from each pulse is recorded. The signals between neighboring pulses are subtracted to effectively yield a shrunken point spread function, providing improved spatial resolution. The improvement factor is over two without deconvolution. This method uses only one laser at a single wavelength, which removes the need for high powered lasers used by other super-resolution microscopy techniques. The reduced power allows for imaging of live samples without damaging them. Low power pulsed lasers on the market cover a wide range of wavelengths, spanning from UV to near infrared. This allows for an unlimited selection of dyes or chromophores to use during the imaging process Advantages: Pulse-to-pulse deduction with multiplexed two modes of pulse illumination, improving spatial resolution at least twice over the diffraction limit Single wavelength laser is used, simplifying the equipment traditionally needed for super-resolution microscopy. Lower excitation power compared to Stimulated Emission Depletion microscopy, preventing cell damage Download Printable PDF Technology Overview State of Development Proof of concept Patent Type Provisional Category Advanced Materials Serial Number 62/482,251 CURF Reference No. 2017-048 Inventors Tong Ye, Yang Li For More Info, Contact: CURF Clemson University Research Foundation techtransfer@clemson.edu Contact Contact Latest News from CURF Stay up-to-date with the latest trends in the innovation and research industry. Sign up for our newsletter to see how CURF is making a difference and impacting the economy where we live. Sign Up Form Email Address * Submit All Technologies Get Started Ready to Get Started? Contact our team at CURF Contact CURF CURF in the News Let's Work Together CURF Home About CURF Our Services News & Events Our Team Available Technologies Innovators Inventors Resources Frequently Asked Questions Process of Innovation CURF Maturation Fund Clemson Inventor’s Club Industry Industry Resources For Startups Students Student Resources Internship Opportunities Clemson University Research Foundation (864) 656-0797 391 College Avenue, Suite 401 Clemson, SC 29631 facebook twitter linkedin Clemson University Research Foundation © 2022 All Rights Reserved Powered by The Brand Leader Login Sitemap