{xtd_wp_head} Skip to content Home About About CURF Our Team Our Services Technology Transfer Process INSPIRE News Innovators Inventor Resources Glossary of Terms FAQ Inventor’s Club Technology Transfer Process Inquiry Intake Form CURF Maturation Fund Prisma Innovation Maturation Fund Disclose An Invention Contact Forms & Policies Students Student Resources Forms & Policies Graduate Internships Inquiry Intake Form Glossary of Terms Contact Industry Industry Resources Inquiry Intake Form Connect with CURF For Startups Available Technology Contact CURF Startups Startup Resources Available Technology All Technologies Advanced Materials Agriculture Automotive Biomedical Biotechnology Info & Communication Manufacturing Sustainable Energy Contact Inquiry Intake Form General Contact Contact Open Mobile Menu Home About About CURF Our Team Our Services Technology Transfer Process INSPIRE News Innovators Inventor Resources Glossary of Terms FAQ Inventor’s Club Technology Transfer Process Inquiry Intake Form CURF Maturation Fund Prisma Innovation Maturation Fund Disclose An Invention Contact Forms & Policies Students Student Resources Forms & Policies Graduate Internships Inquiry Intake Form Glossary of Terms Contact Industry Industry Resources Inquiry Intake Form Connect with CURF For Startups Available Technology Contact CURF Startups Startup Resources Available Technology All Technologies Advanced Materials Agriculture Automotive Biomedical Biotechnology Info & Communication Manufacturing Sustainable Energy Contact Inquiry Intake Form General Contact Contact About Meet the Team at CURF The CURF team has a broad background and depth of experience guiding new technologies from concept to commercialization. + Meet Our Team Technology Search All Available Technologies from CURF Browse a full library of technologies available for commercialization. + Search Available Tech Innovators Ready to disclose your invention to CURF? Submit an Invention Disclosure through the CURF Inventor Portal. + Disclose Your Invention Students Now Accepting Graduate Interns Apply for our internship program at the Clemson University Research Foundation. + Apply Now Industry Search our library of Available Technologies Looking for a technology or invention to commercialize? + Search Available Tech Glossary of Terms See Common FAQs Glossary Glossary of Terms Technology Transfer The transfer of technology refers to the process of moving technology, created through research, out of the laboratory and into commercial markets. To learn more about Technology Transfer, check out CURF's Process of Innovation. Conflict of Interest A conflict of interest refers to anything that will significantly or directly impact Clemson University’s interests, compromise a person’s objectivity, or compromise a person’s ability to perform their responsibilities to Clemson. Check out the Clemson University Conflict of Interest Policy for more information. Intellectual Property Intellectual property is any invention, discovery, technology or know-how that is a result of creativity and is eligible to be protected with a patent, trademark, or copyright. For more information, read the Clemson University Intellectual Property Policy. Trademark The Clemson University Intellectual Property Policy defines trademark as "a word, phrase, symbol or design, or a combination thereof, that identifies and distinguishes the source of the goods of one party from those of others." Copyright A copyright gives the author or creator of an original work of authorship the exclusive right to reproduce, distribute, or display their works. Computer software typically falls within this category. Patent A patent is a form of intellectual property that gives an inventor the right to “exclude others from making, using, offering for sale, or selling the invention throughout the United States or importing the invention into the United States” for a limited period of time. A patentable invention must be useful, novel and non-obvious. License A license grants a third-party the right to use a patentable invention, copyright or other material. Procurement Procurement refers to the process of acquiring supplies, equipment, construction, and services from an external source. For information, check out the Clemson University Research Foundation Procurement Policy. Non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA) An NDA is a legally-binding contract that requires one or more parties to refrain from disclosing confidential information for a defined period of time. Non-Confidential Summary A Non-Confidential Summary, or NCS, is a one-page summary document created by CURF that describes a technology for purposes of potential commercialization. Grant A grant is a transfer of funds, or a product, from one party—usually from the Federal government—to another non-federal party. Grants are used to fund specific projects, ideas, or inventions that benefit the general public. Get Started Ready to Get Started? Contact our team at CURF Contact CURF CURF in the News Let's Work Together CURF Home About CURF Our Services News & Events Our Team Available Technologies Innovators Inventors Resources Frequently Asked Questions Process of Innovation CURF Maturation Fund Clemson Inventor’s Club Industry Industry Resources For Startups Students Student Resources Internship Opportunities Clemson University Research Foundation (864) 656-0797 391 College Avenue, Suite 401 Clemson, SC 29631 facebook twitter linkedin Clemson University Research Foundation © 2022 All Rights Reserved Powered by The Brand Leader Login Sitemap