{xtd_wp_head} Skip to content Home About About CURF Our Team Our Services Technology Transfer Process INSPIRE News Innovators Inventor Resources Glossary of Terms FAQ Inventor’s Club Technology Transfer Process Inquiry Intake Form CURF Maturation Fund Prisma Innovation Maturation Fund Disclose An Invention Contact Forms & Policies Students Student Resources Forms & Policies Graduate Internships Inquiry Intake Form Glossary of Terms Contact Industry Industry Resources Inquiry Intake Form Connect with CURF For Startups Available Technology Contact CURF Startups Startup Resources Available Technology All Technologies Advanced Materials Agriculture Automotive Biomedical Biotechnology Info & Communication Manufacturing Sustainable Energy Contact Inquiry Intake Form General Contact Contact Open Mobile Menu Home About About CURF Our Team Our Services Technology Transfer Process INSPIRE News Innovators Inventor Resources Glossary of Terms FAQ Inventor’s Club Technology Transfer Process Inquiry Intake Form CURF Maturation Fund Prisma Innovation Maturation Fund Disclose An Invention Contact Forms & Policies Students Student Resources Forms & Policies Graduate Internships Inquiry Intake Form Glossary of Terms Contact Industry Industry Resources Inquiry Intake Form Connect with CURF For Startups Available Technology Contact CURF Startups Startup Resources Available Technology All Technologies Advanced Materials Agriculture Automotive Biomedical Biotechnology Info & Communication Manufacturing Sustainable Energy Contact Inquiry Intake Form General Contact Contact About Meet the Team at CURF The CURF team has a broad background and depth of experience guiding new technologies from concept to commercialization. + Meet Our Team Technology Search All Available Technologies from CURF Browse a full library of technologies available for commercialization. + Search Available Tech Innovators Ready to disclose your invention to CURF? Submit an Invention Disclosure through the CURF Inventor Portal. + Disclose Your Invention Students Now Accepting Graduate Interns Apply for our internship program at the Clemson University Research Foundation. + Apply Now Industry Search our library of Available Technologies Looking for a technology or invention to commercialize? + Search Available Tech Process The Technology Transfer Process CURF is here to protect your IP and add value to your project. You can engage with us at any point during your research, but we recommend contacting our offices early. By engaging our office early in the project, we can help you avoid challenges and pitfalls that may compromise your ability to protect your IP. 2/2/2 The 2/2/2 Framework About our Process We guide you through the technology transfer process quickly and transparently. We aim for a 2/2/2 framework: 2 days until our initial response to your official invention disclosure, 2 weeks until your first inventor meeting, 2 months to our final invention evaluation decision. Disclosure TCO Assignment TCO Meeting Evaluation Inventor Pitch Patent & License Collaboration An invention has to make sense in the world it finishes in, not in the world it started. - Tim O'Reilly 01 Step 1 Submit an Invention Disclosure The first step in the technology transfer process is a completed Invention Disclosure Form. The more information you provide to us upfront, the more quickly we will be able to evaluate your inquiry and provide service. You may hear from us during this time to ensure a clear understanding of the disclosed invention. Once the disclosure has been accepted, you will receive an electronic notice that all required information has been received for processing. We recommend you take the invention disclosure tutorial before submitting a disclosure. TAKE TUTORIAL Disclose Invention 02 Step 2 Assigning Your Disclosure Next, we assign your disclosure to a Technology Commercialization Officer (TCO) for review. Disclosures processed the previous week are presented and assigned every week. 03 Step 3 The Inventor/TCO Meeting We’ll contact you to schedule a meeting with your Technology Commercialization Officer. We'll contact you for a meeting with a Technology Commercialization Officer (TCO) within two weeks of the official disclosure acknowledgement. Your initial TCO meeting is an informal, confidential discovery session that helps us learn more about your IP, your goals as a researcher, and possible commercial applications for your technology. 04 Step 4 Opportunity Assessment The CURF team evaluates your IP. Our opportunity assessment is based on many factors, including patentability, marketability, and potential return on investment (ROI). During the assessment process, we give you the opportunity to provide more information if questions arise. We won’t leave you in the dark; you’ll receive our thorough assessment whether or not we choose to move forward with financial investment to formally protect your disclosed IP (e.g. patent prosecution, copyright registration), and commit personnel time and effort to commercialize your technology. 05 Step 5 Moving Forward / Inventor Pitch If we decide to move forward, we will invite you back to our office to pitch your technology. You’ll have the opportunity to pitch to the CURF team and outside subject matter experts. To help you, we provide a presentation template to follow as well as our feedback and any market research data we have gathered. Our hope for this pitch meeting is that, together, we can identify the best path forward, keeping in mind that our decision process is driven by our ability to realize a favorable ROI. It is not our practice to make financial investments to protect IP that does not have an attractive commercialization profile. 06 Step 6 Obtaining the Patent & Licensing Agreement At this point, the process becomes completely collaborative. We identify a patent attorney most suited to work with you on crafting the patent application. After filing the application, we work with you to identify the best path forward to mature the technology toward licensing and commercialization. 07 Step 7 Ongoing Collaboration This is the fun part - visualizing your IP entering the marketplace. We seek licensees that can collaborate with you to further develop the technology and introduce the technology to market. We also handle all compliance terms and conditions related to the license: collecting licensing fees and royalties, ensuring non-financial adherence to non-financial obligations, and distributing any licensing and royalty income (per the University Intellectual Property Policy). Next Steps Contact CURF Ready to Get Started? Disclose Your Invention Frequently Asked Questions CURF in the News Let's Work Together CURF Home About CURF Our Services News & Events Our Team Available Technologies Innovators Inventors Resources Frequently Asked Questions Process of Innovation CURF Maturation Fund Clemson Inventor’s Club Industry Industry Resources For Startups Students Student Resources Internship Opportunities Clemson University Research Foundation (864) 656-0797 391 College Avenue, Suite 401 Clemson, SC 29631 facebook twitter linkedin Clemson University Research Foundation © 2022 All Rights Reserved Powered by The Brand Leader Login Sitemap