{xtd_wp_head} Skip to content Home About About CURF Our Team Our Services Technology Transfer Process INSPIRE News Innovators Inventor Resources Glossary of Terms FAQ Inventor’s Club Technology Transfer Process Inquiry Intake Form CURF Maturation Fund Prisma Innovation Maturation Fund Disclose An Invention Contact Forms & Policies Students Student Resources Forms & Policies Graduate Internships Inquiry Intake Form Glossary of Terms Contact Industry Industry Resources Inquiry Intake Form Connect with CURF For Startups Available Technology Contact CURF Startups Startup Resources Available Technology All Technologies Advanced Materials Agriculture Automotive Biomedical Biotechnology Info & Communication Manufacturing Sustainable Energy Contact Inquiry Intake Form General Contact Contact Open Mobile Menu Home About About CURF Our Team Our Services Technology Transfer Process INSPIRE News Innovators Inventor Resources Glossary of Terms FAQ Inventor’s Club Technology Transfer Process Inquiry Intake Form CURF Maturation Fund Prisma Innovation Maturation Fund Disclose An Invention Contact Forms & Policies Students Student Resources Forms & Policies Graduate Internships Inquiry Intake Form Glossary of Terms Contact Industry Industry Resources Inquiry Intake Form Connect with CURF For Startups Available Technology Contact CURF Startups Startup Resources Available Technology All Technologies Advanced Materials Agriculture Automotive Biomedical Biotechnology Info & Communication Manufacturing Sustainable Energy Contact Inquiry Intake Form General Contact Contact About Meet the Team at CURF The CURF team has a broad background and depth of experience guiding new technologies from concept to commercialization. + Meet Our Team Technology Search All Available Technologies from CURF Browse a full library of technologies available for commercialization. + Search Available Tech Innovators Ready to disclose your invention to CURF? Submit an Invention Disclosure through the CURF Inventor Portal. + Disclose Your Invention Students Now Accepting Graduate Interns Apply for our internship program at the Clemson University Research Foundation. + Apply Now Industry Search our library of Available Technologies Looking for a technology or invention to commercialize? + Search Available Tech PRISMA Maturation Fund Funding Innovation in Healthcare. Advancing Science. Learn More Innovation Maturation Fund About The Innovation Maturation Fund is a program managed by CURF designed to advance the development and implementation of new medical initiatives, advance translational science, create job and educational opportunities, improve health care and drive economic growth in the region. The fund was created from a partnership with the Health Sciences Center at Prisma Health. Funding Applying for Funds Determining Eligibility We accept proposals from any Clemson faculty member or Prisma Health staff member. Eligibility is restricted to tenure and tenure- track faculty at Clemson AND Prisma Health clinical and administrative employees. Proposals submitted must contemplate joint participation of both Clemson University and Prisma Health eligible staff. Preparing a Proposal As a first step in preparing an innovation maturation fund proposal, consult with your Technology Commercialization Officer (TCO), or CURF personnel, about your desire to participate. CURF will be able to provide information about the process, connect you with a Prisma Health employee or Clemson University faculty member, and help you to prepare your proposal to its best advantage. Submitted proposals are evaluated by a panel of industry subject matter experts and CURF professional staff. The specific healthcare need the project addresses and the potential for implementation into current healthcare practices are the primary criteria for the award. Submit A Proposal CURF 2020 Fiscal Year Recipients We are privileged to work alongside some great minds in their perspective industries. Below are a few who have been able to partner with CURF to develop their technology in healthcare. Recipients Terri Burce Dr. Terri Bruce, academic program director and research assistant professor in the Clemson Department of Bioengineering, will work with her research team to develop a novel point of care test that can easily detect the COVID-19 virus with unprecedented levels of sensitivity. Melinda Harman Dr. Melinda Harman, an associate professor in the Clemson Department of Bioengineering, and Jim Kilton, the Manager of Performance Improvement at Prisma Health, will work to develop an efficient mask cleaning system that will enhance N95 respirator mask reprocessing. Dev P. Arya Dr. Dev P. Arya, a professor in the Clemson Department of Chemistry, and J. William Kelly, MD, a physician in the Prisma Health–University Medical Group Division of Infectious Diseases, will work to further develop a small library of compounds identified as topoisomerase inhibitors that can be expanded to aid in Coronavirus specific antiviral screening, with the potential to be broad spectrum therapeutics. Sabarish Babu Dr. Sabarish Babu, an associate professor in the Clemson School of Computing, along with Jennica Siddle, an Emergency Department physician at Prisma Health, are continuing their work on a patient-centered self-management tool to support patients’ self-care at home. Learn More about the Recipients Get Started Ready to Get Started? Contact our team at CURF Contact CURF CURF in the News Let's Work Together CURF Home About CURF Our Services News & Events Our Team Available Technologies Innovators Inventors Resources Frequently Asked Questions Process of Innovation CURF Maturation Fund Clemson Inventor’s Club Industry Industry Resources For Startups Students Student Resources Internship Opportunities Clemson University Research Foundation (864) 656-0797 391 College Avenue, Suite 401 Clemson, SC 29631 facebook twitter linkedin Clemson University Research Foundation © 2022 All Rights Reserved Powered by The Brand Leader Login Sitemap