{xtd_wp_head} Skip to content Home About About CURF Our Team Our Services Technology Transfer Process INSPIRE News Innovators Inventor Resources Glossary of Terms FAQ Inventor’s Club Technology Transfer Process Inquiry Intake Form CURF Maturation Fund Prisma Innovation Maturation Fund Disclose An Invention Contact Forms & Policies Students Student Resources Forms & Policies Graduate Internships Inquiry Intake Form Glossary of Terms Contact Industry Industry Resources Inquiry Intake Form Connect with CURF For Startups Available Technology Contact CURF Startups Startup Resources Available Technology All Technologies Advanced Materials Agriculture Automotive Biomedical Biotechnology Info & Communication Manufacturing Sustainable Energy Contact Inquiry Intake Form General Contact Contact Open Mobile Menu Home About About CURF Our Team Our Services Technology Transfer Process INSPIRE News Innovators Inventor Resources Glossary of Terms FAQ Inventor’s Club Technology Transfer Process Inquiry Intake Form CURF Maturation Fund Prisma Innovation Maturation Fund Disclose An Invention Contact Forms & Policies Students Student Resources Forms & Policies Graduate Internships Inquiry Intake Form Glossary of Terms Contact Industry Industry Resources Inquiry Intake Form Connect with CURF For Startups Available Technology Contact CURF Startups Startup Resources Available Technology All Technologies Advanced Materials Agriculture Automotive Biomedical Biotechnology Info & Communication Manufacturing Sustainable Energy Contact Inquiry Intake Form General Contact Contact About Meet the Team at CURF The CURF team has a broad background and depth of experience guiding new technologies from concept to commercialization. + Meet Our Team Technology Search All Available Technologies from CURF Browse a full library of technologies available for commercialization. + Search Available Tech Innovators Ready to disclose your invention to CURF? Submit an Invention Disclosure through the CURF Inventor Portal. + Disclose Your Invention Students Now Accepting Graduate Interns Apply for our internship program at the Clemson University Research Foundation. + Apply Now Industry Search our library of Available Technologies Looking for a technology or invention to commercialize? + Search Available Tech Industry Where Academia & Industry Meet Helping companies connect with a vibrant community of inventors and innovators—check out the great work that our faculty, graduate students, and affiliate organizations are doing. Resources Confidence in The Process A guide to Securing IP CURF offers multiple types of agreements to provide the appropriate level rights to a company for specified technologies. Before IP can be secured from Clemson, the company must complete a License Application to begin the commercialization process. Our Licensing Process Process Seven Steps Licensing & Commercialization Our process guides companies who are looking to license or commercialize proprietary intellectual property developed by inventors at Clemson University. CURF uses their resources and expertise to smoothly bring the invention to market. Identify Technologies A company or an individual intending to form a company identifies a technology of interest. Technologies available for licensing can be found at http://curf.technologypublisher.com. Our Technologies Submit Application Company submits a CURF Technology Licensing Application to CURF. The licensing application is available upon request. Term Sheet CURF will provide a term sheet outlining key license terms for review and negotiation. Company Offer Company makes an offer of financial consideration and commercialization due diligence/development terms and conditions. License Agreement CURF drafts a License Agreement based on the key terms accepted by both parties. Execute Agreement CURF and company execute the License Agreement. Technology Development Company develops and commercializes the technology. Affiliates & Partners Key organizations within our community that are assisting local entrepreneurs. Impact Inquiry Intake Form CURF is here to connect you with the inventor and technology that meets your needs. To ensure a timely response from the appropriate CURF representative, we use an Inquiry Intake Form to prioritize and streamline processing requests related to research or technology transfer. Submit Intake Form 01 Centers & Institutes Center for Advanced Fiber and Films The Center for Advanced Fiber and Films (CAEFF) provides an integrated research and education environment for the systems-oriented study of fibers and films. To control structure in polymeric fibers and films, industries need sophisticated tools and models as well as a new generation of engineers and scientists with experimental, modeling, and visualization expertise. CAEFF will promote the transformation from trial-and-error development to computer-based design of fibers and films. Visit Our Site 02 Centers & Institutes Clemson University Advanced Materials Center Clemson’s Advanced Materials Center is anchored by the Advanced Materials Research Laboratory (AMRL). The AMRL is home to one of the nation’s finest electron microscope facilities, which enables researchers to examine materials at the atomic level. Visit Our Site 03 Centers & Institutes Center for Advanced Power Engineering Research As a membership drive consortium among universities and industry partners in the Southeast region of the United States, The Center for Advanced Power Engineering Research (CAPER) works to develop grid modernization technologies and improve the education opportunities for students studying electric power engineering. Visit Our Site 04 Centers & Institutes Ceramic, Composite and Optical Materials Center The Ceramic, Composite and Optical Materials Center (CCOMC) is a cooperative research program between Clemson University and Rutgers University. Combining both Rutgers researchers’ expertise in ceramic processing and structural materials with the Clemson researchers’ expertise in synthesis of ceramic, related optical materials, and the processing of particulate materials, the CCOMC provides unique advantages to its members. Visit Our Site 05 Centers & Institutes Center for Flexible Packaging The Center for Flexible Packaging (CEFPACK) is an extension of Clemson University’s Department of Food Nutrition and Packaging Sciences. The center provides laboratory experiences to undergraduate and graduate students at Clemson University and offers a broad range of packaging support services to industry partners. Visit Our Site 06 Centers & Institutes Center for Optical Materials Science & Engineering Technologies An interdisciplinary unit of the College of Engineering and Science at Clemson University. COMSET provides an organized framework with significant centralized infrastructure for faculty with common interests to collaborate in developing advanced materials, devices and systems that generate, transmit, manipulate and utilize light. Visit Our Site 07 Centers & Institutes Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research Anchored by the Carroll A. Campbell Jr. Graduate Engineering Center, CU-ICAR is working to become the premier automotive and motorsports research and education facility in the world. To date, public and private partners have invested more than $215 million in CU-ICAR. Visit Our Site 08 Centers & Institutes National Brick Research Center The National Brick Research Center will advance the technology of clay brick materials and products, augment the education of ceramic and materials engineering students, and educate and serve individuals in the brick industry with a resultant increase and improved use of structural clay building products. Visit Our Site 09 Centers & Institutes Sonoco Institute of Packaging Design & Graphics The Sonoco Institute was created to exploit the synergies that exist between the graphic communications and packaging science departments. It is the only university program in the country with this one-of-a-kind multidisciplinary approach to packaging as a core competency. Visit Our Site CURF in the News Let's Work Together CURF Home About CURF Our Services News & Events Our Team Available Technologies Innovators Inventors Resources Frequently Asked Questions Process of Innovation CURF Maturation Fund Clemson Inventor’s Club Industry Industry Resources For Startups Students Student Resources Internship Opportunities Clemson University Research Foundation (864) 656-0797 391 College Avenue, Suite 401 Clemson, SC 29631 facebook twitter linkedin Clemson University Research Foundation © 2022 All Rights Reserved Powered by The Brand Leader Login Sitemap