{xtd_wp_head} Skip to content Home About About CURF Our Team Our Services Technology Transfer Process INSPIRE News Innovators Inventor Resources Glossary of Terms FAQ Inventor’s Club Technology Transfer Process Inquiry Intake Form CURF Maturation Fund Prisma Innovation Maturation Fund Disclose An Invention Contact Forms & Policies Students Student Resources Forms & Policies Graduate Internships Inquiry Intake Form Glossary of Terms Contact Industry Industry Resources Inquiry Intake Form Connect with CURF For Startups Available Technology Contact CURF Startups Startup Resources Available Technology All Technologies Advanced Materials Agriculture Automotive Biomedical Biotechnology Info & Communication Manufacturing Sustainable Energy Contact Inquiry Intake Form General Contact Contact Open Mobile Menu Home About About CURF Our Team Our Services Technology Transfer Process INSPIRE News Innovators Inventor Resources Glossary of Terms FAQ Inventor’s Club Technology Transfer Process Inquiry Intake Form CURF Maturation Fund Prisma Innovation Maturation Fund Disclose An Invention Contact Forms & Policies Students Student Resources Forms & Policies Graduate Internships Inquiry Intake Form Glossary of Terms Contact Industry Industry Resources Inquiry Intake Form Connect with CURF For Startups Available Technology Contact CURF Startups Startup Resources Available Technology All Technologies Advanced Materials Agriculture Automotive Biomedical Biotechnology Info & Communication Manufacturing Sustainable Energy Contact Inquiry Intake Form General Contact Contact About Meet the Team at CURF The CURF team has a broad background and depth of experience guiding new technologies from concept to commercialization. + Meet Our Team Technology Search All Available Technologies from CURF Browse a full library of technologies available for commercialization. + Search Available Tech Innovators Ready to disclose your invention to CURF? Submit an Invention Disclosure through the CURF Inventor Portal. + Disclose Your Invention Students Now Accepting Graduate Interns Apply for our internship program at the Clemson University Research Foundation. + Apply Now Industry Search our library of Available Technologies Looking for a technology or invention to commercialize? + Search Available Tech Startups CURF works closely with faculty, students, and outside entrepreneurs to develop university intellectual property. Forming companies to license and commercialize university intellectual property. Startups Launch Successful Startups How CURF Can Help From the pre-licensing discussions through licensing and strategic implementation of the company’s business plan, CURF helps startups navigate university policy, connects them to statewide support systems, and provides the necessary support letters for grants and investment submissions. Our Licensing Process Let CURF Help Resources for New Companies For Clemson students who are seeking to form companies around their proprietary intellectual property or novel idea there are other Clemson University Resources available to support you. Resources Additional Opportunities Arthur M. Spiro Institute for Entrepreneurial Leadership Providing an educational and research program in entrepreneurship that will contribute to the economic development of the region, state and nation, with a focus is on wealth creation through entrepreneurial activity. Learn More Additional Opportunities Design & Entrepreneurship Network A student-led open mic platform for sharing ideas for a business product or concept, and receive instant feedback and mentorship from DEN mentors- real entrepreneurs, designers, CEOs, founders. Learn More Our Community Partners Key organizations within our community that are assisting local entrepreneurs. Impact From Idea to Impact Below are several startups that we have assisted in the process of launching their business. See Startups 01 Clemson Startups KIYATEC, Inc. KIYATEC, Inc. performs standard and custom in vitro cell based assays through contract service offerings for the medical device and pharmaceutical industries. The company creates and utilizes live phenotypic 3D cell-based models for drug response profiling and applies them to generate information relevant to preclinical testing, clinical trials and clinical cancer diagnostics applications. Kiyatec Inc. 02 Clemson Startups VRM Labs VRM Labs owns a technology for production of new natural antioxidant, called Prot-X, that is a cost-effective substitute for synthetic preservatives used in pet food. The natural antioxidant has been proven to safely increase the shelf life of pet and animal feed. VRM Labs is a spin-off from Clemson University and has received several grants for their research. VRM Labs 03 Clemson Startups Aptus Bioreactors Aptus will provide sophisticated yet easy to use laboratory equipment for developing and testing tissue-engineered and regenerative-medicine products. We will work with our customers using these products to help bring their research to clinical applications. Future expansion will offer clinical grade bioreactors for these tissues engineered products. Aptus Bioreactors 04 Clemson Startups Elastrin Therapeutics Elastrin is a biotechnology Clemson University spin-off company that is developing a groundbreaking new treatment capable of reserving tissue and organ calcification. Elastrin Therapeutics 05 Clemson Startups Carolina Seed Systems Carolina Seed Systems is an agricultural company that works to optimize crop seeds using genomic technologies. A spinoff of Clemson's Advanced Technology Program (APT), Carolina Seed Systems seeks to increase the value for growers and their buyers by delivering hybrid seeds fit for the Southeast. Carolina Seed Systems 06 Clemson Startups Recovr Recovr researches, develops, and distributes engaging, virtual therapy solutions to improve the daily lives of people with disabilities. Recovr 07 Clemson Startups Purilogics Purilogics makes the Puri™, a disposable membrane chromatography column that increases purification speed and productivity during drug discovery and early stage research and development efforts. The end result helps scientists get biologics to market faster. The line of columns come pre-packed and are compatible with chromatography systems. Purilogics 08 Clemson Startups Nectero Medical Nectero Medical is an early-stage medical device company that focuses on producing a treatment for abdominal aortic aneurysms. The treatment uses a patented compound that stabilizes elastin and improves tissue strength. Nectero Medical 09 Clemson Startups Annoviant Annoviant, formerly known as TGen Tech, produces a number of innovative technologies designed to improve soft tissue healing. Their TxGuard™ is a regenerative, calcification resistant technology that reduces the risk of repetitive surgeries in pediatric patients who are suffering from various medical conditions. Annoviant Get Started Ready to Get Started? Contact our team at CURF Contact CURF CURF in the News Let's Work Together CURF Home About CURF Our Services News & Events Our Team Available Technologies Innovators Inventors Resources Frequently Asked Questions Process of Innovation CURF Maturation Fund Clemson Inventor’s Club Industry Industry Resources For Startups Students Student Resources Internship Opportunities Clemson University Research Foundation (864) 656-0797 391 College Avenue, Suite 401 Clemson, SC 29631 facebook twitter linkedin Clemson University Research Foundation © 2022 All Rights Reserved Powered by The Brand Leader Login Sitemap