Menu Home Hotels Reunions Close Orange Central 2021 Syracuse University Alumni Awards The 2021 Syracuse University Alumni Awards Celebration will be held during Orange Central on Friday, October 29, to recognize the achievements of some of our most outstanding alumni. Learn more about this year's honorees and take a look at their bios below. George Arents Award Syracuse University’s highest alumni honor, the Arents Award recognizes alumni who have excelled in their fields. Keith Cartwright ’97 Keith Cartwright ’97 is founder, president and chief creative officer of Cartwright, co-founder of the SATURDAY MORNING creative collective and former ECD at 72& Sunny. He has worked at the most creative agencies in the country. He was named by Adweek as one of the 50 top Creatives in the industry, by Campaign Magazine as a top 10 Most Influential People in Advertising and was listed to the inaugural Blacklist 100. Cartwright is on the board of the Ad Council, the One Club for Creativity and Syracuse University College of Visual and Performing Arts. He has been recognized by every major awards organization in his field. María D. Meléndez ’89 María D. Meléndez ’89 is Sidley Austin LLP’s Chief Diversity Officer. As CDO, she leads Sidley’s efforts to further advance and increase diversity and inclusion across the firm’s 20 global offices, and within the legal profession as a whole. A frequent speaker on issues surrounding equity and fairness, Meléndez is dedicated to bolstering the framework of policy and practices that have advanced Sidley’s recognition as a top law firm for women and lawyers of diverse backgrounds. She is a member of the Association of Law Firm Diversity Professionals and proudly serves on the boards of The Thurgood Marshall College Fund, LatinoJustice PRLDEF and the Advisory Board of the Institute for Inclusion in the Legal Profession. Prior to becoming CDO, Meléndez was a partner in Sidley’s Commercial Litigation and Disputes practice for more than 18 years. She has earned acknowledgement from various industry groups, including being named one of the Top 250 Women in Litigation by Benchmark Litigation from 2017 through 2019, and was elected as a member of the American Law Institute in 2019. Dan Mezzalingua ’60 Syracuse University Trustee Daniel Mezzalingua ’60 is a successful businessman and philanthropist. After receiving a bachelor’s degree in liberal arts from Syracuse University’s College of Arts and Sciences and attending law school, Mezzalingua developed and managed his family’s Syracuse-based business that manufactured coaxial cable connectors for the cable television industry. As the company flourished, Mezzalingua and his wife, Kathy G’62, became committed to sharing their successes through philanthropy. A past member of the Metropolitan Development Association, Mezzalingua was selected as Citizen of the Year at a dinner given by Temple Adath Yeshurun. Mezzalingua has given back to many civic organizations, including the United Way Resource Development Committee, Community General Hospital Foundation and the Manlius Pebble Hill School Board of Trustees. Besides serving on Syracuse University’s Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees, Mezzalingua was also a member of the Society of Fellows and the Chancellor’s Council. He served on the Martin J. Whitman School of Management Advisory Council and was the lead trustee on the Schine Student Center Campaign. The Mezzalinguas are major supporters of the Naples Wine Festival and serve as trustees on the Naples Children Education Fund that organizes the festival. They have six children and eleven grandchildren and split their time between Naples, Florida and Skaneateles, New York. Jim Morris ’77, G’78 Jim Morris ’77, G’78 is President of Pixar Animation Studios and films under his supervision have included Ratatouille, Up, Toy Story 3, Cars 2, Brave, Monsters University, Inside Out, The Good Dinosaur, Finding Dory, Cars 3, Coco, Incredibles 2, Toy Story 4, Onward and Soul. He also produced Pixar’s WALL•E, which won the Oscar® for Best Animated Feature. Morris previously held key positions over 17 years at Lucasfilm, including President of Lucas Digital Ltd., and its three divisions, Industrial Light & Magic (ILM), Skywalker Sound and Lucasfilm Animation. With his oversight, ILM created the groundbreaking effects in 165 movies, including the Academy Award®-winning visual effects in Jurassic Park, Death Becomes Her, Terminator 2 and Forrest Gump. Melvin A. Eggers Senior Alumni Award The Melvin A. Eggers Senior Alumni Award is presented to those alumni who have graduated more than 50 years ago and have demonstrated loyalty and service to Syracuse University. Russell King ’52 Russell King ’52 earned his degree from Syracuse University’s School of Architecture and was partner and CEO of King + King Architects in Syracuse until his retirement in 1993. Founded in 1868 by Archimedes Russell, King + King is the oldest architecture firm in New York State and the fourth oldest in the country. Among the firm’s projects at Syracuse University are Crouse College, Bird Library, Huntington Beard Crouse Building, Manley Field House and Heroy Geology Building. Other local projects include the Niagara Mohawk Building (National Grid), Onondaga County Courthouse, Onondaga County Office Building, Center for Forensic Sciences, Pioneer Homes, Weedsport School System Building, YMCA branch in Fayetteville and the Jewish Home of Central New York. King is a former director of OnbanCorp and M&T Bank and was president of the Syracuse Society of Architects from 1969-1970. Generation Orange Award Introduced in 2013, the Generation Orange Award recognizes graduates of the last 10 years for their continued commitment to Syracuse University. Katie Hoole ’13 Katie Hoole ’13 is currently a MBA Candidate at Goizueta Business School and a former elementary school teacher and leader. As a student, Hoole was an Orientation Leader, member of University 100, TA in the Policy Studies Program and founding member of the Student Philanthropy Council, now called the Forever Orange Student Alumni Council (FOSAC). As an alumna, she has been proud and honored to serve as the Founding President of the Generation Orange Leadership Council and a member of the National Campaign Council. Hoole is grateful for all of the Syracuse University staff, faculty and alumni who have given her a chance to learn and lead as a student and as an alumna. Nicole Osborne ’14, G'20 Nicole Osborne ’14, G'20 is an education policy consultant and data strategist who is passionate about using technology for good. As an undergraduate, Osborne was a resident advisor, peer mentor advisor in the Office of Multicultural Affairs, teacher’s assistant in the Policy Studies Program and member of the University Conduct Board. She’s lived out her alumni engagement motto, "Be the Orange you want to see in the world," through service on the Generation Orange Leadership Council since 2016. Osborne has also served as the Generation Orange Chair of the SU Alumni Club of Atlanta, a FullCircle alumni mentor and member of the National Campaign Council. Osborne actively volunteers with Abundant Life Christian Center, Hiscock Legal Aid Society, the Onondaga Community College Foundation and Inkululeko. Osborne is proud to call Syracuse home with her husband Erin Smith ’15 and their puppy, Ernie (Davis) Smith. Ivan Robles ’15 Ivan Robles ’15 graduated from the Maxwell School of Citizenship & Public Affairs and Whitman School of Management. He is currently a Senior Strategy Consultant at Altman Solon, a Boston-based strategy consulting firm that focuses exclusively on the Technology, Media, & Telecommunications sectors. Robles is a Los Angeles native and recently moved back after spending some time in Washington, D.C. and Philadelphia. As an undergrad, Robles was involved in OrangeSeeds, U100, the Student Philanthropy Council (now FOSAC), and the Student Association. He continues to be engaged with SU through his involvement in the Generation Orange Leadership Council and his local SU Alumni Club (SoCal Orange). Leo Wong ’14 Leo Wong ’14 is a proud Newhouse graduate who was involved in a variety of organizations ranging from Otto Tunes, TNH, University 100, First Year Players and Phi Delta Theta, among others during his time at Syracuse University. After college, he went to work for renowned advertising agencies such as Droga5, McCann Worldgroup and Digitas in roles ranging from account management to diversity & inclusion and had the opportunity to create influential campaigns for iconic brands such as Google Pixel, Dos Equis and Scion. Wong continues to stay engaged with Syracuse University by serving on the Generation Orange Leadership Council. He lives in Las Vegas, NV where he is an adjunct professor for the University of Oklahoma, co-director of nonprofit Gold House’s A100 List, a licensed real estate agent and owner of a memory care home. Military/Veteran Award Established in 2019, the Military-Veteran Alumni Award is presented annually to Syracuse University U.S. military service members or veteran alumni who have distinguished themselves through exceptional meritorious service and achievement while serving in the United States military and/or in their post-service careers in the private, business, government, or philanthropic sectors. Col. Eileen Collins ’78, H’01, USAF, Ret. Col. Eileen M. Collins ’78, H’01, USAF, Ret. is a former astronaut who was the first woman pilot and first woman commander of a space shuttle. She received a bachelor’s degree in mathematics and economics from Syracuse University’s College of Arts and Sciences, where she was an Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) Distinguished Graduate. In 1990, Collins graduated from the Air Force Test Pilot School at Edwards Air Force Base, California. She was selected by NASA and became an astronaut in July 1991. In 1995, after tours at Kennedy Space Center (shuttle launch and landing) and Johnson Space Center (shuttle engineer and capsule communicator), Collins piloted the space shuttle Discovery. This mission was the first space shuttle to rendezvous with the Russian Space Station MIR. Collins also piloted Atlantis in 1997, where her crew docked with MIR. In 1999, Collins became the first woman commander of a U.S. spacecraft with Space Shuttle Columbia, the deployment of the Chandra X-Ray Observatory. Her final space flight was as commander of Discovery in 2005, the “Return to Flight Mission” after the tragic loss of Columbia. Collins logged more than 6,751 hours in 30 different types of aircraft and more than 872 hours in space as a veteran of four space flights. Collins currently serves on several boards and advisory panels, is a professional speaker and an aerospace consultant. Her book, Through the Glass Ceiling to the Stars: The Story of the First American Woman to Command a Space Mission, was published in October 2021. She is married with two children. SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY 640 Skytop Road, 2nd Floor Syracuse, NY 13244-5160 Phone: +1.315.443.1848 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Home Hotels Reunions © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy Mobile Menu Close Home Hotels Reunions