Connect About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Update My Info Find Classmates Help Syracuse University Alumni Association Menu Sign In site search site search Update My Info Find Classmates Help Connect with ’Cuse About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance Your Career #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend an Event Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact and FAQs FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Connect with ’Cuse Advance Your Career Attend an Event Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Contact and FAQs About SUAA SUAA Board Benefits of Membership Alumni Awards Arents Award Chancellor’s Citation Eggers Senior Alumni Award Generation Orange Award Military/Veteran Award Orange Circle Award Outstanding Alumni Award Outstanding Young Alumni Award Alumni of Color Alumni News The Slice ’Cuse Conversations Podcasts News Archive Class Notes Connect Virtually Zoom Instructions and Tips Current Students Forever Orange Student Alumni Council Generation Orange Generation Orange Leadership Council Welcome to the City Guides Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Home Connect Alumni News An Open Letter to Graduates of the Class of 2022 « Back We asked the Orange alumni family to provide some well wishes and advice for Syracuse University's graduating class of 2022 ahead of Commencement. They delivered wise and powerful words of guidance and motivation, empowerment and inspiration. We've aggregated the alumni offerings in this open letter to graduates. Dear Graduates of Syracuse University’s Class of 2022, Congratulations on your achievement! (DeAnna '18) Soak up every memory! You’ve worked so hard! (Olivia '21) Take these moments and be really proud of yourself – you deserve this! (Tekhara '12) Be proud of your achievements, look forward to exciting experiences ahead and follow your heart. (Anne G'72) Congrats on the first step towards your brighter future. (Tiffany '21) Celebrate your accomplishments and take time to enjoy them! (Gillian '20) Keep grinding… this is only the first step. (Joanne '90) The fun has just begun. (Nicola '99) Where you are now is just the beginning… enjoy the ride! (Nicole '16) You don’t have to have all the answers just because you’re now a college graduate. ’Cuse has prepared you for whatever comes your way and being successful. (Barbara '91) Have faith in yourself and your abilities. There is so much to see out there. You’ve got this! (Diana '08) Take a moment to breathe. Create a plan. Keep learning. (Omari '21) Use that education and become a lifelong learner, never settle. (Jody '76) Go out and explore the world around you. (Rowel '98) You have everything you need to be whatever you want to be in life! (Deprina '20) You be you! (Adam '01) Trust yourself. (Matthew '94) Think for yourself; trust your instincts. (Jocelyn '99) Be true to yourself. (Donna '04) Stay true to you!! (Karin '97) Stay true to your principles (Tracy G'98) Stay true to your intentions. And remember that in the real world, when there is a will— there is always a way! (Teresa '07) You don't need to have it all figured out now. Just find something you love and fight every day for it. (Brianna '17) Life is short and time is a gift. Decide how you want to make your impact and DO IT. Claim what you want and take action. (Kelsey '17) Do what fulfills you. (Danielle G'21) Follow your heart, give yourself in service and you will continue to grow and succeed. (Kecia '96) Work for peace. Work for justice. (Carla L'79) Be good to yourself while you do good for the world. (Tamara '82) Take advantage of all opportunities that serve your soul. (Karla ’97) Get involved in your community… (Stacey G'02) and be part of the positive change. (Valeska '88) Be that change. Make your own footprint. (Andre '99) Make a difference. (Linda '89) Stay strong and seek truth. (Bambi '81) (Karla '97) Use your voice because it matters. (Diana '05) Always leave a place a little better than you found it. (Bettina '21) Believe in YOU! Live every day! (Joyce '83) Live your life to the fullest. (Latia '01) Do what feels good in your soul. (Anniese '99) Follow your dreams… (Elizabeth '09) and no one’s expectations of what you should be doing. Put your head down and work hard, always. (Cinthya '00) Work hard but play harder. (Naomi '09) Work hard but love harder. Don’t accept less than you deserve in all aspects of your life. (Jennifer '93) Put time and effort into all your relationships both professional and personal! (Melanie '96) What you dare to dream, dare to do. (Genesis '21) If you can dream it, you can do it! (Ivory '17) Go hard in pursuit of all of your dreams! (Tracy '91) If you are passionate about something, go for it! (Jeremy '10) If there is a will, there is a way. Never give up, never surrender. (Cassidy G'09) Never give up! No matter what. (Aditya '16) Never give up even when it’s hard. (Jennifer '91) Never give up on your dream. (Eileen '14) Never, ever give up! (Jennifer '08) Don’t give up. It’s worth it. (Quanterrius '15) Go for it, all of it! (Tiffany '07) Go many places, do many jobs, have many partners, try new things… this is the only way you will know when you find what is best for you. (Melanie '08) You can set your own path to success in life, just don’t give up too soon as it is not an expressway. (Ronnie '94) Only you can get in the way of your own success. Do not ever let anyone tell you otherwise. (Mateo '17) You create your own destiny! Have conviction in who you are and what you want. You can do anything you put your mind to. Go out there and get it!!! (Lori '85) Keep chasing what excites you. It may feel like you’re falling behind – you may even lose sight – but if you keep after it, you will catch it! (Robert '20) Keep pushing to get what and where you want. If an opportunity falls through give yourself 24 hours and then get back in the game. It will happen and sometimes when you aren't expecting it. (Valerie '20) Take chances, get knocked down, and rise even stronger. (Mark G'93) Don’t stress yourself out with the job you end up getting/not getting. (Danial '21) Don’t be too hard on yourself that your expectations or dreams aren’t becoming reality immediately after graduation, use your support systems and carry on and do great things. (Randy '97) Don't rush the future, it won't necessarily turn out as planned but it will turn out great! (Erin '21) Trust the process! (Mike '99) If you get caught up in comparing yourself with others, remember you’re walking your own life journey, at your own pace. Let it be magical. (Jenna '13) Focus on what you love and never give up just because you don’t get the opportunity in the beginning keep trying and keep striving never settle for anything but the best and what makes you happy in your personal and work like! (Auralisa '10) Always remember to never give up on your dreams, you made it this far to accomplishing them, keep going. (Nicole '20) You’ll never have life completely figured out and that’s okay. Enjoy every moment of the process of becoming your best self. (Briana '17) Everything may not always go according to your “plans,” but some of the best things happen when you steer off your path. Embrace the present moment and enjoy the adventures of life. (Kathleen '11) Success comes from embracing new things, being uncomfortable is often the first step. (Tina '20) Step out of your comfort zone and set the world on fire! (Lisa '87) Whatever you choose to do, be sure it makes you happy! That is the most important thing. (Chinyarai '10) Stay true to yourself; do something you love. (William '91) Do what you love! (Corrie G'01) Never let anyone tell you that you cannot do what you love! (Jessica '92) Find a job you love... (Christine '86) then it won't feel like work. (Lora '12) Choose what you love… (Ghita '14) so work is fun, enjoyable, and rewarding. (Deborah '75) Work to live, don’t live to work. (Lauren '02) Have a good work/life balance. Make it a priority. (Alison '99) Be open-minded about pursuing your career goals. Don’t limit yourself. Continue to explore the areas that interest you. (Randolph '90) Be flexible. Your goals might change. (Katy G'05) Be open to new ideas and experiences. It will create an environment for you to discover a new passion or validate something you believe about yourself. (Celeste '91) Be open to growth (Natalie '03) Learn to ride the waves. (Rebecca '05) Remember, above all, to be both ethical and kind in all that you do. You have but one reputation. Guard it zealously. (Martha '84) You will meet many people in your career, from the custodian to the CEO, so treat everyone with the same respect. Take the time to talk to everyone and let them know you appreciate them. Respect, kindness and appreciation will take you far in your career! (Linda '97) Be kind to others. Be kind to yourself. (Gloria '98) Stay present in all you do. (Maureen '96) Be brave. Take chances. Be humble. (Ruschell '97) Think outside the box! (Leslie '69) Know your worth, set boundaries, and stay positive! (Tessa '10) Believe. (Michele '02) Smile often. (Shawn '08) Always look for the good! (Kristin '99) Enjoy the little things. (Monique G'13) Love. (Connie '80) Walk in your purpose. (Sheryl '95) Remember your sense of humor. (Lillian '67) Reach for your dreams! (Sandra '89) Follow your heart! (Jacqueline '85) Cast a wide net. (Elizabeth '07) Make real money, learn to save, plan for your future. (Catherine '81) Always look forward but enjoy the ride. (Samantha '93) Believe in yourself and remember only you can shape your future. Reflect on the awesome experiences of college and plan ahead for the future you want regardless of what’s happened in the past. Your education and degree don’t define you, but they are the foundation of your career and those lessons learned in school will pay off in your career. (Hamid '16) Give yourself credit for all your hard work, remember all the incredible things you've learned and cherish all the memories you made. (Elizabeth '04) They will remain with you forever! (Rose '75) The experiences, bad and good, will serve you well your whole life. (Tracey '88) You belong in every wonderful place you ever want to go. (Kellie '18) With your friends and classmates taking jobs in different cities and spreading out, don’t be afraid to branch out and meet new friends but keep your ’Cuse ones close. (Steven '20) Take advantage of your resources! Keep your connections forever. (Ashlyn '20) Use the alumni network! If truly can help open so many doors. (Laura '05) Stay in touch with as many Orange friends as you can! (Kristen '05) You will always bleed Orange and be a member of our huge family! (Barbara '91) In all of your life, never forget, you are a graduate of Syracuse University! (Lauren '98) If ever the opportunity presents itself to return to SU, always, always take it! (Sarah '00) Make time to go back and visit! (Amy '93) Stay Orange! (Teresea '99) Be proud to bleed ORANGE! (Julie '96) Best Wishes and Go Orange!! (Karen '02) Best wishes, Syracuse University Alumni Association 200 Walnut Place Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.3258 Email: sualumni@syr.edu Alumni Links Upcoming Events Career Services Alumni Clubs Make a Gift About SUAA SU Links SU Home SU Admissions SU News Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Social Media Directory © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.