Connect About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Update My Info Find Classmates Help Syracuse University Alumni Association Menu Sign In site search site search Update My Info Find Classmates Help Connect with ’Cuse About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance Your Career #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend an Event Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact and FAQs FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Connect with ’Cuse Advance Your Career Attend an Event Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Contact and FAQs About SUAA SUAA Board Benefits of Membership Alumni Awards Arents Award Chancellor’s Citation Eggers Senior Alumni Award Generation Orange Award Military/Veteran Award Orange Circle Award Outstanding Alumni Award Outstanding Young Alumni Award Alumni of Color Alumni News The Slice ’Cuse Conversations Podcasts News Archive Class Notes Connect Virtually Zoom Instructions and Tips Current Students Forever Orange Student Alumni Council Generation Orange Generation Orange Leadership Council Welcome to the City Guides Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Home Connect Alumni Awards Alumni Awards The Syracuse University Alumni Association and the Office of Alumni Engagement present the following awards to those whose achievements are truly exceptional. To submit a nomination for an award go to our nomination form. George Arents Award Syracuse University’s highest alumni honor, the Arents Award recognizes alumni who have excelled in their fields. The presentation of the award is a highlight of Orange Central. Learn more about the Arents Award and see a list of past recipients Chancellor’s Citation The Chancellor’s Citation is awarded to alumni from diverse backgrounds in recognition of significant civic or career achievements. It was introduced in 1983 and has been presented since then at the triennial Coming Back Together reunion. Learn more about the Chancellor’s Citation Orange Circle Award Introduced in 2009, the Orange Circle Award recognizes altruistic SU people who have done extraordinary things in the service of others. Learn more about the Orange Circle Award See a list of past Orange Circle Award recipients Generation Orange Award Introduced in 2013, the Generation Orange Award recognizes graduates of the last 10 years for their continued commitment to Syracuse University. Learn more about the Generation Orange Award Melvin A Eggers Senior Alumni Award The Melvin A. Eggers Senior Alumni Award is presented to those alumni who have graduated more than 50 years ago and have demonstrated loyalty and service to Syracuse University. This award will be conferred at the Syracuse University Alumni Awards Celebration during Orange Central weekend. Learn more about the Melvin A. Eggers Senior Alumni Award and see a list of past recipients. Military/Veteran Award Established in 2019, the Military-Veteran Alumni Award is presented annually to Syracuse University U.S. military service members or veteran alumni who have distinguished themselves through exceptional meritorious service and achievement while serving in the United States military and/or in their post-service careers in the private, business, government, or philanthropic sectors. Learn more about the Military/Veteran Award and see a list of past recipients. Outstanding Alumni Award Annually from 1960 through 2007, the Syracuse University Office of Alumni Engagement presented the Outstanding Alumni Award to distinguished graduates in recognition of their service to Syracuse University and their communities. See the list of recipients Outstanding Young Alumni Award Until 2007, the Syracuse University Office of Alumni Engagement presented the Outstanding Young Alumni Award to those who had graduated within the past 15 years and had distinguished themselves either professionally or through service to the University. Today, we know this award as the Generation Orange Award-which recognizes outstanding graduates of the past ten years. See the list of recipients Syracuse University Alumni Association 200 Walnut Place Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.3258 Email: sualumni@syr.edu Alumni Links Upcoming Events Career Services Alumni Clubs Make a Gift About SUAA SU Links SU Home SU Admissions SU News Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Social Media Directory © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.