Connect About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Update My Info Find Classmates Help Syracuse University Alumni Association Menu Sign In site search site search Update My Info Find Classmates Help Connect with ’Cuse About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance Your Career #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend an Event Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact and FAQs FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Connect with ’Cuse Advance Your Career Attend an Event Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Contact and FAQs FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Home Contact FAQs FAQs Have a question that’s not covered here? Contact us! How can I use the library or recreational facilities on campus? With your Syracuse University Alumni Association ID card, you can obtain Access to Bird Library. Discounted rates for recreation services. Discounted skate rental and use fees for you and your family at Tennity Ice Pavilion. To receive your SU Alumni ID card, stop by the Office of Alumni Engagement at 200 Walnut Place during normal business hours. Not in Syracuse? Contact Alumni Engagement at 315.443.3258 or sualumni@syr.edu to request your card. What other benefits can alumni take advantage of? Insurance Programs Syracuse University partners with Mercer Consumer, a service of Mercer Health & Benefits Administration LLC, to offer Syracuse University alumni access to auto, homeowner/renters, life, health, long-term care, and disability insurance (subject to state laws). Visit Mercer for more information. Liberty Mutual offers Syracuse University alumni great savings on quality auto and home insurance.* Call 800.699.4283 or visit Liberty Mutual to get a free quote. Alumni Tours: Travel with SU The Syracuse University Alumni Association offers a variety of exceptional tours each year. Check out our list of tours, and read all about our upcoming travel destinations. We hope you’ll consider traveling with your fellow alumni! Free access to BrandYourself BrandYourself is an online reputation management services company that provides do-it-yourself tools and in-house services to help people monitor, improve, build, and protect their online presence. Sign up using your “syr.edu” email address. How can I obtain my Syracuse University transcript? The Office of the Registrar has implemented a new electronic transcript request and fulfillment process that offers advanced security features and improved efficiency and speed. Requests can be made online 24/7, and you will have access to real-time, end-to-end tracking that shows when the transcript request was fulfilled and when it is received. As a result of the new process, average transcript delivery will be within hours of the request. Transcripts will be provided at a charge of $12, which helps cover the cost of the added security and other enhanced features of the new system. There is an additional charge of $2.50 for U.S. domestic delivery and $5 for international delivery for paper transcripts. For more information, please contact the Office of the Registrar. Why aren’t I receiving email invitations to events in my area? We rely on the information alumni provide on their ’Cuse Community profile for our email communications. To update your communication preferences and your profile in the Alumni Directory, first log in with your ’Cuse Community username and password. If this is your first visit please sign up before continuing. If you are unable to log in, you can send us an update using the Alumni Update form. You can also read our detailed list of instructions for updating your profile. Why aren’t I receiving emails from Syracuse University? We may need an updated email address for you or it's also possible you need to update your email communication preferences. To update your communication preferences and your profile in the Alumni Directory, first log in with your ’Cuse Community username and password. If this is your first visit please sign up before continuing. You can also read our detailed list of instructions for updating your profile. For communication specific updates, look for the Email Preferences section in your ’Cuse Community profile and click Edit. When reviewing your email preferences, check your subscription preferences and make sure the checkbox at the bottom labeled "I have opted out by marking community email as Spam" is NOT checked. If everything looks correct and you are still not receiving emails, email cusecommunity@syr.edu for assistance. Can I keep my @syr.edu email address? Stay connected to your SU family by maintaining your @syr.edu email address—just keep your NetID updated. If one year passes from the last time the password was updated, your NetID password will expire and your account will lock. You can unlock your account, even if the password has expired, by resetting your password on the NetID website. By keeping your “syr.edu” email address updated, you’ll receive event invitations and communications from your school or college, including news about alumni events happening in your area. Can I send email from my alumni email address from another email provider such as Gmail? Alumni can no longer send email using @syr.edu or @alum.syracuse.edu email addresses from unsupported email providers such as Gmail. Syracuse University made changes to email delivery protocol to prevent unauthorized senders from using Syracuse University domains to send emails, mainly to prevent email spoofing (someone changes the content of an email to make it look like it's being sent from another person). Since the university does not have an agreement with Google for alumni email, Gmail accounts are not authorized to send messages using Syracuse University domains. Alternatively, as an alum, you can sign up to get an @syr.edu SUmail email account if you don't already have one from when you were a student. If you are interested in taking advantage of this option, send an email to help@syr.edu to request the SUmail account. Full details on this option can be found on the SUMail Account Page. What are some of the ways I can volunteer with Syracuse University? Our passionate alumni can get involved with SU in many ways: Join one of the 75+ alumni clubs and groups across the world. Visit campus for alumni events, including Orange Central, our annual reunion and homecoming celebration. Or attend an alumni event where you live! Support Syracuse by giving to the part of Syracuse University you love most. Is your company hiring? Post job leads to the #HireOrange jobs board. Find us on social media and spread your ’Cuse pride. Learn about all of the ways you are forever Orange! How can Syracuse University help advance my career? The Office of Alumni Engagement and the Syracuse University Alumni Association (SUAA) are pleased to offer access to programs and services that help alumni navigate the many career starts, stops, and transitions that can occur during your lifetime. For more information about services and how to get involved, visit our resources page. How do I get tickets to upcoming Syracuse University sporting events? All Syracuse University athletics events are run through the SU athletics department. Tickets for football, men’s and women’s basketball, and men’s and women’s lacrosse games can be purchased through the Carrier Dome, or by calling 888.DOMETIX (888.366.3849). Who is the current Chancellor at Syracuse University? Kent Syverud assumed the leadership post in January 2014 as the 12th leader of the University. For more information on the Chancellor’s office, visit chancellor.syr.edu. How many Syracuse University alumni are there in the world? The Orange Network includes 241,981 alumni in 160 countries across the globe. * Discounts and savings are available where state laws and regulations allow and may vary state to state. To the extent permitted by law, applicants are individually underwritten; not all applicants qualify. Syracuse University Alumni Association 200 Walnut Place Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.3258 Email: sualumni@syr.edu Alumni Links Upcoming Events Career Services Alumni Clubs Make a Gift About SUAA SU Links SU Home SU Admissions SU News Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Social Media Directory © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.