Connect About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Update My Info Find Classmates Help Syracuse University Alumni Association Menu Sign In site search site search Update My Info Find Classmates Help Connect with ’Cuse About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance Your Career #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend an Event Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact and FAQs FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Connect with ’Cuse Advance Your Career Attend an Event Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Contact and FAQs About SUAA SUAA Board Benefits of Membership Alumni Awards Arents Award Chancellor’s Citation Eggers Senior Alumni Award Generation Orange Award Military/Veteran Award Orange Circle Award Outstanding Alumni Award Outstanding Young Alumni Award Alumni of Color Alumni News The Slice ’Cuse Conversations Podcasts News Archive Class Notes Connect Virtually Zoom Instructions and Tips Current Students Forever Orange Student Alumni Council Generation Orange Generation Orange Leadership Council Welcome to the City Guides Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Home Connect Alumni News The Slice The Slice for May 20. 2022 « Back Commencement 2022 Proud family and friends packed the Dome Sunday morning (May 15) to celebrate Syracuse University graduates from the Class of 2022 during Commencement. The ceremony began with the traditional procession of students from each of the University's schools and colleges, followed by the academic procession of administrators, deans and other dignitaries. The ceremony featured remarks from Chancellor Kent Syverud, who praised grads for doing "wondrous things here in the most challenging of times." Student speaker Ghael Fobes Mora '22, a broadcast and digital journalism major from Newhouse, shared highlights from the past four years and emphasized that each graduate has a unique story. The Commencement address was delivered by Syracuse native David Muir (photo left), anchor and managing editor of "ABC World News Tonight with David Muir." Muir, who said he was humbled to be inside the Dome in his hometown, recalled the doors that opened in Syracuse that allowed him to begin his journalism career and encouraged graduates to find their own doors. See photos from Syracuse University's Commencement 2022. Dome Sweet Dome It's official! Syracuse University's iconic home for basketball, football and lacrosse for more than 40 years is beginning a new era with a new name. The University and JMA Wireless (JMA), a local 5G wireless technology company, announced a 10-year partnership for naming rights of the stadium—the JMA Wireless Dome, which will be referred to as the JMA Dome. "The Dome will have the most advanced 5G network of any collegiate stadium," said John Mezzalingua, JMA's CEO. In addition to upgrading the entire digital infrastructure, the next phase of renovations includes a complete reseating of the entire venue and the construction of an on-site and publicly accessible event facility. Make Your Mark The generosity of Syracuse University donors helps the next generation of promising students rise and achieve their goals. The ongoing Forever Orange campaign is committed to ensuring current and future students are guaranteed access to academic excellence, an unsurpassed student experience and unique learning opportunities. "You can see the impact of alumni generosity essentially anywhere you look on campus," says rising iSchool senior Damyon Maw-Coe. Read his story - and stories other students have shared about their experiences - and make your mark on Syracuse University's future. CAMPUS NEWS 🍊 CLASS OF 1960 RETURNS COMES HOME FOR THEIR 60th(+2) REUNION: After having their scheduled 60th Reunion disrupted by the COVID-19 pandemic which shifted Orange Central 2020 to a virtual event, members of the Class of 1960 have returned to the Syracuse University campus this weekend to celebrate in person. The group will spend time reminiscing and reconnecting, touring campus and enjoying meals together. 🍊 NEW TRUSTEES AND STUDENT REPRESENTATIVES: Syracuse University has announced the election of five new members to its Board of Trustees, all with extraordinary backgrounds in business and philanthropy. The new members are Steven R. Becker ’73, Raquel-Ann “Roxi” Nurse McNabb ’98, G’99, Sandra Cordova Micek ’91, Edward G. Mitzen ’88 and Michael R. Venutolo ’77. The Board of Trustees also named the four students who will serve as representatives to the board. 🍊 DEANS STEPPING DOWN: Karin Ruhlandt (photo right-left side)will conclude her tenure as Dean of Syracuse University's College of Arts and Sciences on June 30. Ruhlandt will return to the Chemistry faculty after taking a research leave. Rajiv 'Raj' Dewan (photo right-right side) will leave his post as Dean of the School of Information Studies (iSchool) on June 30, as well. Dewan also intends to return to full-time faculty duties and continue his research. 🍊 SUMMER HEALTH PROTOCOLS: Syracuse University announced summer campus health protocols for students, faculty, staff and visitors as it continues to align its policies and recommendations with best practices for endemic management. ALUMNI EVENTS SU Sports Network Launch Party / Orange Experience Fly Eagles Fly Syracuse University alumni gathered this week in New York City and Philadelphia for a pair of fun events. On Wednesday, we helped launch the SU Sports Network—and a group designed to connect alumni working in all aspects of the sports industry with students, faculty and each other (photo left-top). On Thursday, alumni were treated to an exclusive Orange Experience—a behind-the-scenes reception and tour of Lincoln Financial Field in Philadelphia, home of the NFL's Philadelphia Eagles (photo left-bottom). Forever Orange Campaign Events in Washington DC and NYC We're celebrating the impact of our Orange family and showcasing Syracuse University's bold vision for the future at special events in Washington, DC and New York City that will bring together students, faculty, alumni and guests. Please join us for this special evening to recognize everyone who has supported the ongoing Forever Orange: The Campaign for Syracuse University. Join us in Washington DC Join us in New York City Monday, May 23 Friday, June 17 6-9 p.m. 6-9 p.m. The Conrad Hotel Cipriani 950 New York Avenue NW 110 E 42nd St. Washington, DC 20001 New York, NY 10017 Featured Upcoming Events Orange Experiences: Crafting 'Cuse Cupcakes: Join us Thursday, June 9 at 6 p.m. for a delicious evening awaits you in Andover! Enjoy appetizers and drinks as Nadine Levin ’95, founder and CEO of Pipe Dream Cupcakes, leads a hands-on cupcake decorating demo. DC Sports Night: Thursday, June 16 will be a night for Orange fans in the Washington DC! Join us at 6:30 p.m. for an evening with Athletic Director John Wildhack, several coaches and the 'Voice of the Orange' Matt Park '97. Orange Central 2022: Start making plans to join us on campus this fall for Orange Central, Syracuse University's annual Homecoming and Reunion Weekend. Orange Central 2022 will be the weekend of the football game against Wagner: Thursday, Sept. 29 - Sunday, Oct. 2. CAREER & PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT We're here to help you take the next step in your career - no matter where you are on your professional journey. -Hire Orange Job of the Week- (Cuse Community log-in required) Project Manager | Thermo Systems Associate Producer | Entertainment Studios Executive Director | Mayan Hands Foundation CGI Artist Co-op | SharkNinja, LLC Social Media Manager Vice President & Social Media Community Manager Analyst | JPMorgan Chase ... and many more! Visit the #HireOrange website! CLASS NOTES This is where you'll find links to the latest stories, podcasts and info about alumni on the move. Plus, we invite you to submit your big news! Dan D'Aniello '68, H'20: The Life Trustee and his wife Gayle are gifting $10 million toward significantly enhancing the Syracuse Abroad Florence program in support of academic excellence and the University’s expansion as a global institution. Hon. Theodore A McKee L'75: Syracuse University College of Law is pleased to announce the establishment of the Hon. Theodore A. McKee L’75 Endowed Law Scholarship with a generous gift from Syracuse University Trustee and College of Law Board of Advisors Member Richard M. Alexander L’82, a partner at Arnold & Porter, and his wife Emily. Mike Tirico'88: The NBC sportscaster addressed graduates from the Maxwell School and the College of Arts and Sciences at Convocation on Saturday, May 14, telling them how his political science degree helped prepare him for the challenge of covering the Olympics in China. Reda Raad '95: The CEO at TBWA/RAAD was named one of the 2021 Top 30 Leaders by AdAge/Communicate. Laura M. Spenceley G'12: Spenceley was named dean of the School of Education at SUNY Oswego. Michelle Sczpanski '16: Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh G'05 appointed Sczpanski the city's deputy commissioner of neighborhood development. Sara Jo Soldovieri ’18, G’19: Soldovieri, a doctoral student researching inclusive education, credits a course offered by the School of Education and Syracuse Abroad in Italy with setting her on her path. Hunter Pomerantz '20: The former Syracuse University men's basketball manager who started "The Players Trunk" to help college athletes sell athletic gear online will pitch the business on tonight's (Friday, May 20) episode of Shark Tank on ABC. Tyler Jones G'21: Jones has been named deputy press secretary for New Jersey Governor Tim Murphy. Syracuse University Alumni Association 200 Walnut Place Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.3258 Email: sualumni@syr.edu Alumni Links Upcoming Events Career Services Alumni Clubs Make a Gift About SUAA SU Links SU Home SU Admissions SU News Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Social Media Directory © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.