Connect About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Update My Info Find Classmates Help Syracuse University Alumni Association Menu Sign In site search site search Update My Info Find Classmates Help Connect with ’Cuse About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance Your Career #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend an Event Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact and FAQs FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Connect with ’Cuse Advance Your Career Attend an Event Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Contact and FAQs Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Home Support Volunteer Volunteer You loved your Syracuse University experience. Your Orange pride is strong. And now you’re looking for ways to give back—to stay forever Orange. The Syracuse University Alumni Association helps to connect you with several different volunteer opportunities, including: Volunteering on a reunion committee. Celebrating a milestone reunion? Reach out to Kate Ludwig, assistant director of affinity programs, if you’d like to be part of reunion planning efforts at kludwig@syr.edu. Offer to mentor and connect with fellow alumni. We launched our new and improved ’Cuse Community, and we also overhauled our mentoring capabilities. In order to connect you with the right opportunities, please update your profile and choose which areas you’d like to get involved with in the “Mentoring Interests” tab. Sharing job opportunities. Post job opportunities at your company to the #HireOrange jobs board, giving the Orange network a competitive advantage through special job opportunities only available to the SU community, giving you a competitive advantage in your job search. Connect with students. Post internships to Handshake, the web-based recruiting system used by Career Services that targets current students. Connect with Career Services for other mentoring opportunities or student career engagements. Recruiting the future. Become an alumni representative with the Office of Admissions. Check back here for additional informational on this opportunity as soon as it becomes available! Joining an alumni club or group. Volunteer for a board role with your local alumni club or with one of our special interest groups. There’s no better way to spread Orange pride where you live. Syracuse University Alumni Association 200 Walnut Place Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.3258 Email: sualumni@syr.edu Alumni Links Upcoming Events Career Services Alumni Clubs Make a Gift About SUAA SU Links SU Home SU Admissions SU News Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Social Media Directory © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.