Connect About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Update My Info Find Classmates Help Syracuse University Alumni Association Menu Sign In site search site search Update My Info Find Classmates Help Connect with ’Cuse About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance Your Career #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend an Event Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact and FAQs FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Connect with ’Cuse Advance Your Career Attend an Event Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Contact and FAQs Home Join a Club Alumni Club of Boston « Back This group is for alumni, parents, students and friends of Syracuse University to connect with each other and stay connected to our University. We often hold game watches to cheer on the Orange, and our other events include: attending local sporting events, professional development and networking opportunities, hosting a new student send-off and participating in community service projects. If you have ideas/suggestions for an activity/event or want to get more involved with the club, please email us. GO ORANGE! Club Leaders Open Receive Club Emails If you’d like to receive information about club events, share your current email and mailing address with us. Update My Info Stay Connected Stay up to date on the latest club news and events! boston.syr.edu Events Upcoming events appear below as soon as they are confirmed. Jun 09 Orange Experience: Crafting ’Cuse Cupcakes 34 Park - 34 Park St, Andover, MA 01810 6:00 PM to 8:30 PM ANDOVER - A delicious evening awaits you in Andover! Enjoy appetizers and drinks as Nadine Levin ’95, founder and CEO of Pipe Dream Cupcakes, leads a hands-on cupcake decorating demo. Jun 11 Wine Tasting at Debevino Winery Debevino Winery - 2255 Providence Hwy, Walpole, MA 02081 1:00 PM to 3:00 PM WALPOLE - The Syracuse University Alumni Club of Boston is excited to partner with the Debevino family for a wonderful day of socializing, wine education and drinking amazing, award-winning wine! Jun 22 #SUGrad22 Welcome to Boston Barrel House Z - 95 Woodrock Rd, Weymouth, MA 02189 6:00 PM to 8:00 PM BOSTON - Enjoy a guided tasting at Barrel House Z as we welcome recent graduates to the Boston area. Syracuse University Alumni Association 200 Walnut Place Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.3258 Email: sualumni@syr.edu Alumni Links Upcoming Events Career Services Alumni Clubs Make a Gift About SUAA SU Links SU Home SU Admissions SU News Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Social Media Directory © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.