Connect About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Update My Info Find Classmates Help Syracuse University Alumni Association Menu Sign In site search site search Update My Info Find Classmates Help Connect with ’Cuse About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance Your Career #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend an Event Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact and FAQs FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Connect with ’Cuse Advance Your Career Attend an Event Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Contact and FAQs About SUAA SUAA Board Benefits of Membership Alumni Awards Arents Award Chancellor’s Citation Eggers Senior Alumni Award Generation Orange Award Military/Veteran Award Orange Circle Award Outstanding Alumni Award Outstanding Young Alumni Award Alumni of Color Alumni News The Slice ’Cuse Conversations Podcasts News Archive Class Notes Connect Virtually Zoom Instructions and Tips Current Students Forever Orange Student Alumni Council Generation Orange Generation Orange Leadership Council Welcome to the City Guides Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Home Connect Alumni News News Archive News Archive Writing a Legacy English professor and New York Times bestselling author George Saunders G’88 is inspiring the next generation of writers—and readers. Read More A Reunion to Remember The third time was the charm for the Class of 1960's 60th Reunion. COVID-19 forced their first attempt to become a "Zoom-union," then a handful of classmates returned to Syracuse for a combined celebration with the Class of 1961 in the fall of 2021, but an enthusiastic group came home to campus May 20-22 for a reunion to remember. Read More An Open Letter to Graduates of the Class of 2022 We asked the Orange alumni family to provide some well wishes and advice for Syracuse University's graduating class of 2022 ahead of Commencement. They delivered wise and powerful words of guidance and motivation, empowerment and inspiration. We've aggregated the alumni offerings in this open letter to graduates. Read More Introducing the SU Sports Network: Harnessing the power of Orange! The SU Sports Network, which will officially launch in May, aims to harness the power of the Orange network by bringing together alumni working in all aspects of the sports industry and keeping them engaged with Syracuse University by strengthening their bond with faculty and current students. Read More Four Alumni to Receive Honorary Degrees Syracuse University will award honorary degrees to four impressive alumni during Commencement on Sunday, May 15. Nina V. Fedoroff ’66, Thomas Magnanti ’67, Howard “Howie” Phanstiel ’70, G’71 and Gloria Somolekae G’94 will be recognized during Commencement exercises for their distinguished accomplishments in their professional careers and in service to others. Read More From Crouse to Carnegie Hall, Meet Sara Villagio ’04 As part of Carnegie Hall’s senior management team, Sara Villagio '00 oversees marketing, driving ticket sales, digital content and engagement, educational outreach, volunteers, even the gift shop. Having a hand in every aspect of the organization’s operations is part of what she enjoys most about her job. It’s also what she recommends to students aspiring to work in the music industry – try a little bit of everything and build relationships with everyone you meet. Read More A birthday, a basketball game, a Forever Orange bond More than a dozen alumni from the 1980s returned to campus Feb. 25-27, 2022 for the Syracuse vs. Duke game (and a special birthday celebration). It was a reunion many years in the making—and one made even more special because many members of the group now have children attending Syracuse. Read More Episode 102: Grammy Award winner Joanie Leeds '00 It’s a musical Cuse Conversation with Joanie Leeds '00, 2021 Grammy Award winner for best children’s music album. She teamed up with a female producer and several talented female musicians to create "All the Ladies, " an album designed to entertain, inspire, educate and empower. Joanie shares the story of her journey and the chances, odd jobs and interesting gigs she took along the way to becoming a successful artist who creates music loved by children and their parents. Learn about Joanie's spring/summer concert dates on her website and find her music on YouTube, Spotify and more. Episode 102 Audio and transcript (coming soon). Total run time: 34:40 Read More Felisha Legette-Jack '89 Comes Home Felisha Legette-Jack, a 1989 graduate of Syracuse University and Orange All-American, is coming home. The Syracuse native and 20-year collegiate head coach will take the reins of the Orange basketball program immediately. Read More Episode 101: Author, speaker and life coach David Essel '79 As a kid growing up in Utica, David Essel wanted to be an NBA star. While he walked on to the Syracuse University men's basketball team, his time at the University ultimately led him on a very different professional journey. He's built a successful career writing about and supporting people through addiction recovery, relationship difficulties, grief counseling and professional challenges.Visit his website to learn more about Essel's work. He is a big believer in the power of positivity, which has been both difficult to come by and more important than ever during the last two years of pandemic living. Essel talks about his education and experience at Syracuse University and his drive to help others in this 'Cuse Conversation. Episode 101 Audio and Transcript (coming soon) Total run time: 21:42. Read More Episode 100: NFL Network Host Andrew Siciliano '96 Andrew Siciliano '96 doesn't know how he got so lucky. Every Sunday is surreal as he brings highlights from around the NFL to millions of fans around the world as host of DIRECTV's RedZone Channel. As Super Bowl 56 approaches, Siciliano will be in Los Angeles as part of NFL Network’s coverage of the big game. On this 'Cuse Conversation, Siciliano discusses the Super Bowl and the role he will play for NFL Network. He shares the biggest ways Syracuse University and WAER impacted his broadcasting style, reveals the big break that launched his career, and gives advice to sportscasters looking to follow in his footsteps. Episode 100 Audio and Transcript (coming soon). Total run time: Read More #OrangeLove on campus and beyond Valentine's Day is a time to celebrate love. Around here, it's the perfect opportunity to highlight #OrangeLove - couples who met as students and are living happily (Orange) ever after. About 30 alumni couples gathered virtually Thursday evening for a vow renewal and commitment ceremony hosted by the Office of Alumni Engagement and Hendricks Chapel and led by Dean Brian Konkol. Read on to see how some of those couples share their #OrangeLove, both personally and professionally as Syracuse University employees! Read More Episode 99: Fueling Team USA's Olympians with Dietitian Maggie McCrudden '14 The Winter Olympics are underway in Beijing, and Team USA’s top athletes have their sights set on winning gold on the world stage. But before these athletes compete, many of them work on developing healthy nutrition habits with Maggie McCrudden '14, the food and nutrition registered dietitian for the U.S. Olympic and Paralympic Committee who leads Team USA’s nutrition program. McCrudden, a former rower at Syracuse University, discusses how she developed a lifelong appreciation for food and its impact on our bodies, and how her approach to nutrition incorporates data and science with meeting people where they are. She shares how being a former Division I student-athlete helps her gain the trust of these Olympians and why her four years at Syracuse University were truly transformative. Episode 99 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 31:53. Read More Episode 98: Jared Kraham '13: Binghamton's History-Making Mayor When Jared Kraham '13 was sworn in as the mayor of Binghamton on Jan. 1, he made history as the youngest mayor in the city’s 220-year history. On this Cuse Conversation, Kraham shares how his time at Maxwell and Newhouse influenced him to become a politician, and why Syracuse University inspired him to join the next generation of policymakers and make a difference in his hometown. Kraham discusses the challenges of leading during COVID-19, how he convinced voters to entrust the future of their city to a 30-year-old, why his whole life was building up to serve as Binghamton's mayor, and why he was determined to help save Binghamton's minor league baseball team. Episode 98 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 32:31. Read More Episode 97: Rob McClanaghan '01 Opens Up On the surface, Rob McClanaghan '01 seemed to be "living his best life." As a skills trainer for some of the NBA's biggest superstars, he was traveling the world in private jets, sitting courtside at big games and had just published a book about his work with the league's elite. But McClanaghan says that lifestyle was a "façade" that was hiding his struggles with anxiety and depression, something he kept quiet until sharing his story - including his 2019 suicide attempt - in a powerful essay in The Player's Tribune in December 2021. In this 'Cuse Conversation podcast, McClanaghan talks about the importance of opening up and the impact his story has already had on so many people. He also explains how his hard work and resilience earned him a spot on the Syracuse University basketball team, shares some stories about his training career and, most important, emphasizes the importance of opening up and addressing mental health issues. Episode 97 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 34:41 Read More YES! Recounting the career of Hall of Fame Sportscaster Marv Albert '63 When he was in the third grade, Marv Albert '63 wanted to become a sportscaster. He studied journalism at Syracuse University's S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications, and soon, Albert was calling Syracuse Chiefs games alongside Orange legend Carl Eilenberg H'53. Albert's big break came when Marty Glickman '39 hired Albert to be his researcher, spotter, statistician and backup announcer. After a 55-year career that included calling 13 NBA finals, eight Super Bowls and eight Stanley Cup finals, Albert retired after the 2021 NBA Eastern Conference Finals. The Hall of Famer discusses his career, how he came up with his signature "YES!" call, how he found his voice at Syracuse University and on WAER, and why calling the 1992 Dream Team’s gold medal-winning performance stands out among his favorite sportscasting moments. Episode 96 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 35:37. Read More Episode 95: Felisha Legette-Jack '89: Using Basketball to Transform Lives Felicia Legette-Jack ’89 was a standout for the Syracuse University women's basketball team who recently became the University's first female student-athlete to have her jersey number retired high atop the Dome. Syracuse transformed Legette-Jack's life, and now, Legette-Jack is helping to change the lives of her student-athletes as the head women's basketball coach at the University at Buffalo. Hear how Legette-Jack received a life-altering experience on campus, why she wanted to establish a dominant women's basketball program, how an injury opened her eyes to becoming a coach, and why she preferred playing in the intimate Manley Field House atmosphere. Episode 95 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 33:48. Read More Theresa Cross ’99: Bringing the Right Shade of Orange to Tampa Bay Florida is known as the Sunshine State, but for Theresa Cross ’99, Florida is also the Orange State. Cross grew frustrated when she looked around Tampa Bay and saw many different shades of Orange, but none that represented Syracuse University. So she worked to form the Alumni Club of Tampa Bay in 2013. Get to know Cross in our latest Q&A with an Orange volunteer. Read More With Adele’s Assistance, Quentin Brunson '12, G'13 Proposes to Girlfriend on National Television It's the love story that got everyone's attention this week after a surprise engagement during Adele's nationally televised concert on Sunday night on CBS. A man brought his girlfriend of seven years on stage to pop the question... and when she said yes, Adele serenaded the overjoyed couple. It turns out, the groom-to-be is Quentin Brunson '12, G'13 and he says he owes so much to Syracuse University -- in fact, he credits an Orange connection with introducing him to his fiancée Ashleigh Mann. Read More Nick Armstrong G’08, Ph.D. ’14 Uses Data to Help Veterans Achieve Their Goals In Nick Armstrong’s role as the managing director of research and data at the Institute for Veterans and Military Families (IVMF) at Syracuse University, he interprets data to deliver educational and training programs that advance our nation’s veterans and the military-connected community. Read More Old Friends and New Memories Abound at Orange Central 2021 After more than a year apart, Orange Central 2021 brought together more than 1,600 alumni and friends of Syracuse University for a celebration of all things Orange. The weekend featured something for everyone, including special milestone reunion gatherings, the Alumni Awards Celebration, and the always-popular 'Cuse Cookout on the Quad and pre-game tailgate. Read More Episode 94: Pixar Animation Studios President Jim Morris '77, G'78 As a child, Jim Morris ’77, G’78 dreamed of creating visually appealing films that connect with audiences; as the president of Pixar Animation Studios, he is living out that dream. Forty-four years after his first animated film, Morris produced the Academy Award-winning hit "WALL-E," bringing his love of movies full circle. Morris, one of the 2021 Arents Award winners, reflects back on his distinguished career while discussing his favorite Pixar projects. He reveals how he abandoned his career as a local news cameraman to pursue his dreams, shares how Pixar navigated the challenges of COVID 19 and gets emotional talking about how Pixar's films change lives, especially for children with autism. Episode 94 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 39:28. Read More Episode 93: SEC Commissioner Greg Sankey G'93 Greg Sankey G’93 never forgot the important lessons he learned about leadership and crisis management during his pursuit of a master’s degree in education from Syracuse University's School of Education. As COVID-19 was threatening to shut down college athletics in the spring of 2020, Sankey, the commissioner of the Southeastern Conference, relied on his Syracuse education to guide one of the most powerful conferences in the NCAA through the global pandemic. Sankey reveals how those lessons learned at Syracuse University helped him lead the SEC through COVID-19, discusses the changing landscape of college athletics, shares the important place Syracuse holds in his life, and much more. Episode 93 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 39:59. Read More Thank You for Boosting the ’Cuse! The Syracuse University community rallied to support academic excellence during Boost the ’Cuse, Syracuse University’s fifth annual day of giving. On Oct. 7, during a 24-hour span, 5,109 donors gave $1,286,344.55 towards supporting Syracuse University students, with gifts coming in from 49 states and 12 countries around the world! Read More Orange Central Programming Will Focus on Your Fitness While Orange Central 2021 is the perfect time to reconnect with classmates, make new friends and discover what’s new on campus, it's also a great opportunity to focus on fitness with your Orange family through in-person workouts at the beautiful Barnes Center at the Arch to a virtual 5K and on-demand classes that fit your schedule. Read More Episode 92: Bana Miller '04: Advocating for Veterans and their families Bana Miller's '04 career focuses on advocating for our nation's veterans and their families. As the spouse of a U.S. Army veteran, Miller has seen the difficulties facing veterans and their families as they transition from active duty to civilian life. This summer, Miller was accepted into the 2021 Class of the George W. Bush Institute's Stand to Veterans Leadership program. Miller, the director of marketing and communications for Team Red, White and Blue, connects veterans to their community via physical and social activities. She discusses how being a Bush Institute Scholar will make an impact for our veterans and the military-connected community, how she enjoyed a transformative experience at Syracuse University, and her best advice for current students. Episode 92 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 30:35. Read More Encouraging Teachers to Find Opportunity in Their Challenges Writer and educator Peter Mishler G'07, G'08 recognizes that teaching during the pandemic has added new stressors to an already challenging profession. But in those challenges, Mishler sees opportunity. He hopes his new book will help to encourage and empower teachers to improve the educational system for their students and themselves. Read More Episode 91: Kevin Richardson H'20: From Wrongly Imprisoned to Criminal Justice Reform Advocate When he was 14, Kevin Richardson H'20 and four friends were arrested and charged with raping and beating a white woman in Central Park. The case flamed racial tensions, as Richardson and the Central Park 5 were vilified in the media and deprived of their rights by the police. Coerced into confessing, Richardson served five years in a juvenile detention facility. In 2002, thanks to DNA evidence and a confession from the real perpetrator, Richardson was released. Richardson and the Exonerated 5 are reforming the criminal justice system through their work with The Innocence Project. He shares how receiving an honorary bachelor of fine arts degree from Syracuse University is the realization of a dream delayed 32 years, and how the Our Time Has Come Kevin Richardson Scholarship supports underrepresented students who are passionate about social justice. Episode 91 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 35:39. Read More Reflections on the 20-Year Anniversary of 9/11 As the world commemorates the 20-year anniversary of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, four Syracuse University alumni reflect on where they were when the attacks occurred, and a current student shares how she’s pursuing her academic dreams, thanks to her father’s service to our country and the Post-9/11 GI Bill. Read More Episode 89: NFL RedZone Host Scott Hanson '93 While Scott Hanson '93 has enjoyed a decorated sportscasting career since graduating with a broadcast journalism degree from Newhouse, he's best known for his role as host of NFL Red Zone. For seven commercial-free hours each Sunday, Hanson brings NFL fans every big play and clutch ending through his fast-paced show. Hanson discusses why he was born for this role, how he prepares for his hosting duties, how a letter writing campaign to Coach Dick MacPherson earned him a spot as a walk-on for Syracuse Football, and his legendary iron bladder. Episode 89 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 30:28. Read More Gladstones Providing Resources for Autistic Children Stemming from their frustrations over the lack of resources for autistic children and their families, Mark '70 and Debbie Gladstone '73 opened the Alpine Learning Group in 1988. Today, the non-profit organization has served thousands of autistic children, providing valuable classroom instruction and resources to families living with autism in Bergen County, New Jersey. Read More Make Your Plans for Orange Central 2021! After more than a year apart, the Syracuse University Alumni Association is excited to safely welcome alumni and their families back home to Syracuse University for Orange Central 2021, Oct. 28-31. Read More Episode 88: JetBlue's Kevin Dong '09, G'11 Found his Wings at Syracuse Before coming to Syracuse University, Kevin Dong '09, G'11 didn't know what direction he wanted to take his life. But after a transformative experience at Syracuse, Dong launched a successful career with JetBlue Airways. He is currently an operations analyst, collecting and studying data and feedback from customers to improve the flying experience. Dong discusses how the airline industry responded to COVID-19 and how airlines are making customers feel safe when they fly. Dong also shares how Syracuse helped him discover his voice and his direction in life, how the loss of his father to cancer motivated Dong to give back to his community and his advice to current students. Episode 88 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 33:43. Read More Episode 87: Ola Idowu '14: Providing Mentorship Opportunities to Young Black Professionals Ola Idowu '14 knows the important role mentors play in the lives of young professionals. Idowu, who works in internal events at Twitter, is also the CEO of Sisters in Media, which provides mentor opportunities to young Black professionals seeking media careers. Through networking events, job postings and a network of talented mentors, Idowu's company highlights the resources available to these underserved communities. Idowu discusses her motivation for creating Sisters in Media, her struggles finding a mentor who looked like her, how finding the right mentor can have a life-changing impact and her best networking tips. Episode 87 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 30:43. Read More Pixar President Jim Morris ’77, G’78 Among Honorees at 2021 Alumni Awards Ten distinguished alumni — Keith Cartwright ’97, Maria D. Melendez ’89, Dan Mezzalingua ’60, Jim Morris ’77, G’78, Russ King '52, Eileen Collins '78, H'01, Katie Hoole ’13, Nicole Osborne ’14, G’20, Ivan Robles ’15 and Leo Wong ’14 — will be honored during the third annual Syracuse University Alumni Awards Celebration at Orange Central. Read More Episode 86: Matt Zeller G'06: Rescuing our Allies in Afghanistan U.S. Army veteran Matt Zeller G’06 wouldn't be alive if it weren't for the heroic actions of Janis Shinwari, the interpreter who intervened when Zeller's unit was ambushed in Afghanistan. Now, Zeller is fighting to save thousands of U.S. allies who played a pivotal role for the military in fighting the Taliban through his organization, No One Left Behind. Zeller discusses the efforts to rescue these allies, who are being hunted down and killed by the Taliban for supporting the U.S. Zeller relives how Shinwari saved his life, shares how the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks motivated him to enlist, and reveals why he owes everything to Syracuse University. Episode 86 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 42:51. Read More Episode 85: Chasing Olympic Dreams with Track Star Justyn Knight '18 For someone who didn't start competitively racing until his sophomore year of high school, Justyn Knight '18 certainly has made quite the impression. Knight, the most decorated distance runner in Syracuse University history, goes for gold in the 5,000 meters with Team Canada during the upcoming Summer Olympics in Tokyo. Knight enters the Olympics a man on a mission. He shares how he altered his training regimen during COVID-19, how the sting of missing out on the 2016 Olympics by one second fueled him, and how he discovered a unique family atmosphere and sense of community at Syracuse University. Episode 85 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 39:58. Read More Episode 84: Chris Lewis '13: Summer Olympics Voice of Table Tennis Ever since he attended a sports broadcasting summer camp as a teenager, Chris Lewis '13 dreamed of a career in sports broadcasting. Lewis will make his Olympic broadcasting debut as the official voice of table tennis for NBC Olympics' coverage. Lewis, the longtime radio voice for the Boise State Broncos, discusses how he landed the role of a lifetime, how he is preparing for the Olympics, the lessons learned from his time at Syracuse University and how he serves as a voice for social justice issues. Episode 84 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 40:27. Read More An Orange Summer Tradition Returns A favorite Orange summer tradition is back in New York City, as SU Day at Yankee Stadium returns on Saturday, August 7. Join Syracuse University students, alumni, faculty, staff and their families for a day at the ballpark in the Bronx cheering on the Yankees as they host the Seattle Mariners at 1 p.m. and a get an exclusive baseball cap with a very special 'Cuse connection. Read More Episode 83: Covering COVID-19 and Indigenous Issues with Reporter Jourdan Bennett-Begaye G'16 Jourdan Bennett-Begaye G’16 serves as managing editor of Indian Country Today, a national multimedia news publication covering Indigenous issues, including the COVID-19 pandemic. With a background in public health, Bennett-Begaye created a real-time COVID-19 database that tracked the number of cases, tests, vaccinations and deaths among Native American communities, the first of its kind. Bennett-Begaye discusses her work developing this database, how COVID-19 impacted Native American communities differently, the culture of mistrust around the vaccine on reservations, how she discovered a strong Native American support system at Syracuse University and more. Episode 83 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 38:26. Read More SUAA Board of Directors Welcomes Four New Directors The Syracuse University Alumni Association (SUAA) Board of Directors is pleased to announce the addition of four new directors. Sheri Askew-Johnson ’97, Alonna Berry ’11, Bill Gargano ’81 and Frank Slazer ’80, ’81 became directors on the SUAA Board on July 1, 2021. The SUAA Board also has a new president, Ryan McNaughton ’96, who takes over for past president Jim Kidder L’01. Read More Save the date for Orange Central 2021! Read More Episode 81: Serving up Love and Soul with Chef Derrell Smith '10, G'13 When Derrell Smith '10, G'13 was at Syracuse University, he excelled as a linebacker on the football team and was known for forcing fumbles and causing chaos on the field. Today, his cooking show, "Mad Good Food," blends preparing and enjoying delicious meals with telling stories that are representative of Black culture. Smith discusses why cooking is about more than just eating a good meal, it’s about emphasizing community and spending time with loved ones. He shares how he serves up love and soul through his dishes, how the strong females in his family brought out his culinary skills, the role Syracuse University played in his career as a chef, why he ties in social justice issues to his cooking, how he felt right at home the first time he stepped onto the Syracuse University campus, and why he is proud to be Forever Orange. Episode 81 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 44:36. Read More Honoring the 2021 Orange Circle Award Winners This year's Orange Circle Award winners are Lisa Gordon G'90, Marcelle Haddix, and the student organizations Black Reign Step Team, Food Busters and a Hand for Wuhan. Read More Episode 79: Kevin Michael Richardson '88: Talented Voiceover Actor Growing up, Kevin Michael Richardson ’88 loved to impersonate characters from his favorite television shows and movies, entertaining friends and family members with his spot-on impressions. Today, Richardson is one of the best known voiceover talents in the world with more than 530 credits, including animated TV shows like “Family Guy,” “The Simpsons,” "The Cleveland Show," “Sponge Bob Square Pants,” and “Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles.” Richardson shares how he went from a classically trained actor to the world of voiceovers, his all-time favorite voiceover roles, how Syracuse University pushed him to pursue his dreams of being an entertainer and more! Episode 79 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 37:08. Read More Episode 77: Kate Ryan '22: Committed to Eradicating Mercury from Water Rower Kate Ryan ’22 is studying biology and ecology as a driven STEM scholar who wants to solve the growing problem of mercury exposure in our waters. Ryan, who has always loved being around water, shares why she's passionate about solving the mercury issue, how being a student-athlete has helped with her time management skills, the expectations for the eighth-ranked rowing team at the upcoming ACC championships, why she was drawn to study at and row competitively for Syracuse, and more. Episode 77 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 34:47. Read More Melissa Richards-Person '89: Providing a lifeline to those who serve up our meals APRON, Inc., a non-profit co-founded by Melissa Richards-Person '89, has served as a lifeline for nearly 600 furloughed and laid-off independent restaurant employees in and around Louisville. Since the COVID-19 pandemic, more than $600,000 has been awarded to help these individuals get back on their feet. Read More Episode 76: Journalist Mitchell Kuga '09: Learning to Embrace Your Identity Mitchell Kuga '09 is a fourth generation Japanese American, and he also self-tokenizes as a queer Asian person. As part of Syracuse University's Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month celebrations, we tell Kuga's story of struggling to embrace his identity. Kuga discusses using writing to learn more about himself, overcoming the tension that came with growing up as a Japanese American and a queer Asian person, how Syracuse University helped him come to terms with his identity, and how he's seen the Asian American community rally together during this rash of bias incidents. Episode 76 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 30:41. Read More Episode 75: Allison Deegan '80: Transforming Young Women's Lives Through WriteGirl Before Amanda Gorman mesmerized the country with her passionate recital of her poem, "The Hill We Climb," during the inauguration of President Joe Biden L'68 and Vice President Kamala Harris, she was another at-risk girl from Los Angeles whose life was transformed by WriteGirl. Launched in 2001 thanks in part to Allison Deegan '80, this writing and mentoring program annually helps more than 500 girls in grades 8 through 12 hone their writing skills, discover their voices and develop into college-bound young women. The program has also placed 100 percent of its participants in college. Deegan discusses how WriteGirl empowers these teenagers to become confident leaders, how COVID-19 expanded its reach across the country, and the important role Syracuse University has played in her life. Episode 75 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 37:50. Read More Using Acupuncture Leads to Compelling YouTube Series for David Levine ’20 David Levine '20 was brainstorming ways to develop a talk show where guests could leave their comfort zones and participate in candid conversations. In his new YouTube digital series, "Gettin' to the Point," Levine asks questions of his guests while they are both receiving acupuncture treatment. Think of it as eastern medicine meets western culture. Read More Get a Fresh Start with our April Orange Experiences This April, a pair of timely and engaging Orange Experience programs are designed to help you get a fresh start for spring – whether you're hoping to awaken mentally and physically after a cold, gray winter or tackle some long-neglected projects around the house. Read More Inaugural Alumni SUccess Week Leans on Strength of Orange Network Syracuse University alumni representing Disney, ESPN, Google, Harvard Medical School, Peloton, Twitter, the U.S Environmental Protection Agency and more will share advice, answer questions and foster connections within the Orange network during the inaugural Alumni SUccess Week, April 5-9. SUccess Week is a a week of virtual, professional development programming designed for people at any stage of their careers. Read More From Unlikely Solider to Decorated Leader: Peggy Combs ’85 Reflects on her Service Retired U.S. Army Maj. Gen. Peggy (Huther) Combs ’85, the first female general officer from upstate New York, overcame an inauspicious start to her military career as a student cadet in Syracuse University's Army ROTC program to become a decorated and respected leader and the highest-ranking female military officer to graduate from Syracuse. Read More Episode 74: Joe Castiglione G'70: Radio Voice of the Boston Red Sox In the rich history of the Boston Red Sox, one voice has called more games on the radio than anyone else: Joe Castiglione G'70, the voice of the Red Sox since 1983. Castiglione was the first broadcaster to proclaim “The Boston Red Sox are World Series champions" after they snapped an 85-year championship drought in 2004, the first of four World Series championships over the last 16 years. With Major League Baseball starting up, Castiglione discusses the challenges of calling games during the pandemic, how he became passionate about sports play-by-play, how Syracuse University and WAER helped him find his voice, and his advice for aspiring broadcasters. Episode 74 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 33:40. Read More Episode 73: Jacqueline Welch '91: New York Times Executive VP and Chief HR Officer Jacqueline Welch '91 is a highly successful human resources professional and award-winning leader in diversity, equity and inclusion. Welch's leadership style concentrates on a company's moral obligation to the employees while focusing on the human in human resources, a field that has forever been impacted by COVID-19. Welch discusses how the pandemic has altered workplace environments and attitudes towards remote work, how she came to embrace a non-traditional human resources view, how a Syracuse co-op experience led her to become a human resources professional, and the lasting impression that Syracuse University African American studies associate professor Dr. Janis Mayes made on her during her time at Syracuse. Episode 73 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 37:59. Read More Steve Bradbury ’80: Lifelong Entrepreneur Reinvents Career Focus…Again In a career that has taken Steve Bradbury '80 from the early days of the internet and streaming video services to providing valuable training opportunities for those looking to strengthen their skills during a pandemic, there have been two constants: a love for the Orange and a desire to use his entrepreneurial spirit to help people educate themselves. Read More Forever Orange Week 2021 Alumni and students will celebrate their lifelong connection to Syracuse University during Forever Orange Week, March 22-28. The week features a variety of virtual programming, community service projects and philanthropic initiatives designed to bring the Orange family together, highlight the power of giving back and demonstrate what it means to #BeOrange while celebrating the University’s 151st birthday on March 24, National Orange Day. Read More Episode 72: Maria Palmer '03: Author and Community Advocate Growing up, Maria Palmer '03 idolized her father, Joseph Costanzo Jr., the owner of the Primadonna Restaurant, a popular Italian eatery in Pittsburgh. Costanzo rose to fame as a successful restaurateur who was heavily involved in the community before serving time in a federal prison for tax evasion. Having an incarcerated father ignited a passion to advocate for marginalized members of society, and she recounts her father's rise and fall in her book, On the Rocks. Palmer discusses her efforts to connect children with their incarcerated parents, how Syracuse University influenced her career, and how she's making a difference as a grant writer/development associate for St. Paul’s Community Development Corporation in Paterson, N.J. Episode 72 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 36:58. Read More Episode 71: Tia Thevenin '18, L'23: From Olympic Hopeful to Aspiring Lawyer Tia Thevenin '18, L'23 was a standout hurdler on the Syracuse University track and field team, and she entertained dreams of qualifying for the Summer Olympics in the 100-meter hurdles. But after COVID-19 postponed the Tokyo games, Thevenin decided to walk away from track and focus on her other passion: making the legal system more accessible for disenfranchised citizens by studying at Syracuse University's College of Law. Thevenin shares why she became interested in the law, her passion for helping those less fortunate, why trading in her track spikes for a law career was the most difficult decision of her life, and how Syracuse University helped redefine her perspective. Episode 71 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 36:15. Read More Friday Five with SUAA Board Member Terry Marshall ’09, G’11 Terry Marshall '09, G'11, a director on the Syracuse University Alumni Association (SUAA) Board, discusses why he serves on the Board, how Syracuse University impacted his life, the best piece of advice he ever received and more in our debut Friday Five feature. Read More Carla Tardif ’87: Fulfilling a Deathbed Promise to Help Families Coping with Cancer It started as a deathbed promise to help families dealing with the financial burdens associated with cancer treatment. As Pat Kelly '88 was dying of brain cancer, Carla (Turner) Tardif '87 vowed to assist these families. Today her company, Family Reach, has provided more than $45 million to help 40,000 people pay non-medical bills like their mortgages, car payments and utilities. Read More Episode 70: Bershan Shaw '95: Inspiring Others After Beating Terminal Cancer Diagnosis In 2009, Bershan Shaw ’95 was given a death sentence when she learned she had stage four breast cancer, the cancer that killed her mother. Rather than wallow in pity over her second cancer diagnosis in three years, Shaw used it as a wakeup call, turning pain into purpose, reinventing herself through a healthier lifestyle and a positive mindset. Today, Shaw is cancer-free and inspiring others to transform their lives. A leadership coach, motivational speaker, women’s empowerment advocate and reality TV star, Shaw shares her Warrior Way, how her cancer diagnosis was a gift, why Oprah Winfrey told her story on "Love in the City" and how Syracuse University taught her she could accomplish anything. Episode 70 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 31:25. Read More Mark Holtzman ’01: Advocating for At-Risk Students Mark Holtzman ’01 grew up in McKeesport, Pa, where many students come from low-income families. As school superintendent, Holtzman is driven to provide these at-risk students with the best possible education. Recognizing Holtzman's passion for his students and the challenges of remote learning during a pandemic, Comcast provided 2,500 free laptops for students, teachers and staff members in the middle and high school to close the digital divide. Read More Episode 69: First a Cancer Diagnosis, then a Community Created When Caroline Koller '15 started suffering from persistent, debilitating pain, she began desperately seeking out a place to find answers. After a cancer diagnosis and extensive treatment, Caroline founded femUNITY—a community and crowdsourcing platform for women to discuss their health and wellness questions, thoughts and experiences. It was the platform she had been looking for, but never found. We sit down with Caroline and her sister Laurie Beth Koller '18 for an emotional discussion on how navigating this negative experience has inspired the sisters to ensure other women have support no matter what health challenge they're facing. It's called femUNITY, and Caroline and Laurie Beth hope fellow 'Cuse alumnae will feel the community's welcome embrace. Episode 69 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 28:33. Read More Alumni Podcast Advances to International CASE Awards Competition ’Cuse Conversations, the podcast produced by the Office of Alumni Engagement, is advancing to a global judging panel as part of the CASE (Council for the Advancement and Support of Education) Platinum Awards competition. Read More Episode 68: Quentin Hillsman: Turning Women's Basketball Into a Perennial Power Head coach Quentin Hillsman has transformed the Syracuse University women's basketball program during his 15 seasons. Hillsman, the winningest coach in program history, has led the Orange to their first NCAA Division I title game with seven trips to the NCAA Tournament, producing 18 all-conference selections, five All-Americans and four WNBA Draft picks. Hillsman shares how he turned the program into a national power, how basketball brings out the best in his student-athletes, playing games during COVID-19, how star Tiana Mangakahia’s recovery from stage 2 breast cancer inspired the team and more. Episode 68 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 27:50. Read More Episode 67: Improving Mental Health and Well-Being with Olivia Bowser '16 Olivia Bowser ’16 owns and operates Liberate, a mental wellness studio that brings people together through movement, community, and mindfulness. Bowser wants to take mental wellness mainstream, helping people reach their full potential and become their best selves. Bowser shares how she pivoted careers and reinvented herself by launching Liberate during the pandemic, how she learned to become more resilient, her tips for dealing and coping with anxiety, how Syracuse University influenced her career, and the most valuable piece of advice she ever received. Episode 67 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 30:53. Read More Orange Love 2021 to Include Virtual Vow Renewal Orange Love — Syracuse University’s celebration of alumni couples who met at Syracuse University, and those who connected after graduation — will feature a virtual vow renewal ceremony on Valentine’s Day, a digital Orange Love celebration kit and an Orange Love certificate. Read More Episode 66: Finding her Identity with Malaka Gharib '08: NPR Journalist, Author, Cartoonist Growing up, Malaka Gharib '08 struggled to find her identity as a first-generation American and didn't know how to balance embracing her Egyptian and Filipino roots with assimilating into American culture. Eventually, Gharib learned it was up to her to define her cultural identity. Today, Gharib covers the global health beat for NPR and is an award-winning author, illustrator and cartoonist. Gharib is also the author of "I Was Their American Dream: A Graphic Memoir" and is working on a new book, "It Won't Always Be Like This." Gharib discusses how she found her identity, her adjustment to life in the U.S., what it has been like reporting on the pandemic, how Syracuse University prepared her for a career as a journalist, and the most valuable piece of advice she ever received at SU. Episode 66 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 31:47. Read More Orange Experiences for Mind and Body Syracuse University's Office of Alumni Engagement is focusing on wellness in the new year, offering a pair of upcoming Orange Experience programs for your mind and body. Read More Episode 65: Chris Snow '03: Calgary Flames Asst. GM Battling ALS Chris Snow '03, the assistant general manager of the NHL's Calgary Flames, is battling ALS, the degenerative disease that took the lives of Snow's father, two uncles and a cousin. Diagnosed in June of 2019, Snow was given a death sentence of 12-18 months, but he's made remarkable strides thanks to an experimental gene therapy. Snow shares how the gene therapy is making a difference, how he maintains a positive outlook, how alumni can support his cause, his transition from sports journalist to front office executive and why he bleeds Orange. Episode 65 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 38:56. Read More Recreating Classic Movie Scenes to Feed Hungry Families When COVID-19 struck, Dan '05 and Beth Presser were looking for ways to entertain their two young children. The Pressers undertook an ambitious quarantine project: remaking famous movie clips from Dan and Beth’s childhood that feature Maddie and Barton, and have recreated 50 iconic film scenes while raising more than $50,000 for Feeding America. Read More Episode 64: John Murphy '78: Radio Voice of the Buffalo Bills For more than three decades, John Murphy '78 has worked in the Buffalo Bills' radio booth, broadcasting NFL games to Bills fans around the world. As Buffalo prepares to host a playoff game for the first time in 24 years, Murphy reflects on his career as a sports broadcaster and his path to the NFL, the challenges of calling games during the pandemic, how Syracuse University influenced his career and his advice to aspiring sports broadcasters. Episode 64 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 29:36. Read More Remembering Floyd Little The first weekend of 2021 was filled with stories of remarkable athletic talent, incredible warmth and kindness, and unwavering Orange passion as the Syracuse University family remembered Floyd Little. Read More Inspired by Pan Am Flight 103, Author Johanna Garton ’92 has Traveled the World Author Johanna Garton ’92 was a freshman when 35 Syracuse University students were among the 270 people to lose their lives in the Pan Am 103 terrorist attack. Garton became inspired to travel the world and dedicated her life to those who died in the bombing. Her most recent book, "Edge of the Map," is a tribute to her mother, Jane, who started writing the book but couldn't finish it because of Parkinson's disease. Garton finished the book and published it on her behalf this year. Read More Episode 63: Emma Simches '18: Certified Child Life Specialist As a certified child life specialist, Emma Simches ’18 supports children dealing with illnesses and their families. Through her work with Team IMPACT, Simches matches children with college student-athletes and coaches to form unique relationships. Simches makes a difference in the lives of these children, and on this 'Cuse Conversation, Simches discusses her career, how Team IMPACT is a win-win for both the children and the partner student-athletes and coaches, why she's passionate about this line of work, and why she always knew she would study at Syracuse. Episode 63 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 20:13. Read More Episode 62: Career Services Advice with Jenna Collins G'19 and Russ Terry G'00 Jenna Collins G'19, associate director of alumni professional development, discusses the redesigned #HireOrange job board, highlights the revamped career services offerings and shares an exclusive career design fellowship with Mission Collaborative. Then Russ Terry G'00, the featured career coach for December, offers tips for alumni who lost their jobs or are looking to switch careers, discusses why he focuses on the holistic approach to being a life coach and shares how he transitioned from a sports reporter to a life coach. Episode 62 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 29:54. Read More Alan Verdun ’94: Matchmaker for Shoppers and Brands While COVID-19 has forever altered the ways companies interact with potential clients, the same is true for E-Commerce companies who are interested in sampling — using information about shoppers’ lifestyles and previous purchases to introduce them to new brands. As president of BrandShare, Alan Verdun '94 relies on data analysis and metrics to execute online sampling around the world on behalf of consumer brands and retailers alike. Read More Orange Shines Bright on Forbes “30 Under 30” List While 2020 has been a challenging year as the world grapples with the COVID-19 pandemic, the entrepreneurial spirit of Syracuse University is strong, as evidenced by the University's presence on the recently-released Forbes Magazine “30 Under 30” listings of the most influential people under the age of 30. Read More Episode 59: Matthew Berry '92: Fantasy Football Guru Matthew Berry '92 is one of the best known and most respected voices in the world of fantasy sports. Better known as the Talented Mr. Roto, Berry is the Senior Fantasy Sports analyst at ESPN. After graduating from Newhouse with a degree in producing for electronic media, and at a time when fantasy sports were starting to rise in popularity, Berry seized on the opportunity and has been helping fantasy owners set their lineups since 1999. Berry shares how he became the king of fantasy football after a career as television and film writer in Hollywood, the growth of fantasy sports, how he honed his writing style at Syracuse, the unusual ways people ask for fantasy lineup advice, and much more! Episode 59 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 38:00. Read More Health Scare Leads Entertainment Attorney Doug Davis ’94 Down Social Justice Path Doug Davis ’94, the son of Grammy-winning record producer and music executive Clive Davis, has built a decorated career as an entertainment, sports and music industry attorney and Grammy-winning producer. Following a health scare in 2007, he experienced a rebirth, focusing his efforts on the social justice movement. Read More Episode 58: Eric Devendorf '09: Dishing out Assists in the Community Fans of Syracuse University basketball got to know Eric Devendorf ’09 on the basketball court – knocking down shots and talking trash, a role he’s reprised as an anchor member of Boeheim’s Army in the TBT. Members of the Syracuse community have gotten to know Devendorf off the court – organizing winter coat drives, hosting free basketball clinics and delivering hundreds of Thanksgiving dinners to families in need. Devendorf talks about his special relationship with this community, the new podcast he’s hosting, what made a kid from Michigan ultimately choose Orange over Spartan green and much more. Episode 58 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 23:23. Read More Episode 57: Elizabeth Strout L'82: Pulitzer Prize-Winning Author From an early age, Elizabeth Strout L'82 was fascinated with seeing life through someone else's perspective, so it's no surprise she envisioned a career in writing, penning works of fiction as a teenager. Upon arrival at Syracuse University, Strout aspired to be a lawyer during the day and an author at night. While her legal career was short-lived, Strout's writing career took off. Strout's books have garnered major literary awards, including a Pulitzer Prize for "Olive Kitteridge" in 2008, which was adapted into an Emmy Award-winning mini-series starring Frances McDormand. Strout discusses how she creates her characters and the authors who inspire her, reveals how she was virtually the last person to know about the Pulitzer Prize, and shares how Syracuse shaped her development both as a person and as an author by teaching her to think differently. Episode 57 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 31:34. Read More Episode 55: Patrick Garrigan '01, Global Head of Bloomberg Live Patrick Garrigan '01 learned to be fearless, think audaciously and go after what he wanted as a musical theater student at Syracuse University. Those core tenets served Garrigan well as he carved out a successful communications career, including his current job as Global Head of Bloomberg Live at Bloomberg Media Group. Garrigan discusses how COVID-19 affected his job, how he transitioned from musical theater to creative communications and marketing, how Bloomberg relies on a data-driven approach to communicate the news, and why he's grateful for the lessons learned and the people he met at Syracuse University. Episode 55 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 31:12. Read More Suzanne Hill ’20: Fulfilling Family Obligation to Service, Strengthening Ties to Syracuse After fulfilling her family's obligation to serve her country, Suzanne Hill '20 added an Orange branch to her family tree, joining her father, Oliver R. Hill Jr. '75, and daughter, Danielle Montoya '17 as proud Syracuse University alumni. Read More Episode 54: Greg Allen '73 and the Syracuse 8 In the spring of 1970, Greg Allen '73 and seven of his teammates on the Syracuse University football team, frustrated at how they were treated by the football coaches, sacrificed their shot at glory and took a stand for equality by boycotting spring practices. They demanded a more diverse coaching staff, equal access to academic support and medical care, and playing assignments determined by merit and not the color of their skin. When their demands were denied, the Syracuse 8 sat out the 1970 season. Allen discusses the racial climate on campus, why the Syracuse 8 fought to ensure life was better for future generations of students, how their efforts ultimately led to change, and the role faith and forgiveness played in the healing process with his alma mater. Episode 54 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 39:19. Read More Led by Colin ’08 and Catherine Timbers ’07, Kognition Inc. Helps Prevent Cyberattacks In the battle to protect the United States government from cyberattacks, Catherine '07 and Colin Timbers '08 play a pivotal role with Kognition Inc., an industry leader in cloud engineering, big data analytics and cyber security. Kognition also helps homeland security and prepares the nation's intelligence and civilian agencies for what’s next in the technological revolution. Read More Episode 53: John Dellas '77: Co-Owner of Varsity If you’re a Syracuse University alumnus, you probably haven’t heard of John and Jerry Dellas, but chances are good that you’ve been inside one of their restaurants before. John and Jerry co-own Varsity, which has occupied the same location at the corner of Marshall St. and Crouse since its founding in 1926. The Varsity has evolved into a staple for alumni, faculty, staff, and friends of the Orange. John Dellas '77 discusses how the Varsity came to play such a prominent role, how former head football coach Dick MacPherson came up with the tradition of flipping over the opposing football team's banner whenever Syracuse gets a win, and the lessons he learned from his days as a Syracuse student. Episode 53 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 22:14. Read More Virtual Orange Central a Celebration of Syracuse University Virtual Orange Central, Syracuse University’s annual celebration of all things Orange, runs from Oct. 29-Nov. 1 and features dozens of complimentary conversations, interactive demonstrations and lively gatherings designed to bring our Orange family together. Read More Episode 52: Ben Clymer '05: Founder and CEO of Hodinkee What started with a surprise gift from his grandfather led to quite the career for Ben Clymer '05, the founder and CEO of Hodinkee. After receiving his grandfather’s OMEGA Speedmaster watch, Clymer began blogging about vintage watches in 2008, and he quickly discovered there was a market for content about watches. Hodinkee buys and sells new and vintage watches, produces a print magazine, podcast and a series of videos with watch aficionados like musician John Mayer, actor Fred Savage, comedian Aziz Ansari, and golfers Jack Nicklaus and Greg Norman. Clymer discusses his passion for watches, his keys to growing Hodinkee, the role Syracuse University played in his career, and how smart watches will help keep us healthy. Episode 52 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 35:23. Read More Episode 51: Supporting the Our Time Has Come Scholarship Since its founding in 1987, the Our Time Has Come Scholarship has changed the lives of more than 1,500 Black and Latino students at Syracuse University. On this 'Cuse Conversation, current scholar Sofia Rossi '22 shares how the scholarship has made an impact on her life, helped her find her community at Syracuse and cultivated her leadership skills. Rachel Vassel '91 and Maria Lopez '05, G'12 with the Office of Multicultural Advancement provide historical context on the scholarship, discuss why it is an important opportunity for Black and Latino/LatinX students to connect with notable alumni, and share how alumni can support this scholarship. Episode 51 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 35:37. Read More Kate Modolo '01, G'04: Putting her Newhouse PR Education to Work Kate Modolo ’01, G’04, the director of corporate communications for Delta Air Lines, credits her public relations classes at Newhouse with nurturing the kind of critical thinking that’s required to be successful in the ever-evolving practice of public relations. Especially during a global health crisis like COVID-19. Read More Episode 50: Hattie Taylor '17: Olympic Rowing Hopeful and Youth Mentor Hattie Taylor '17 felt lost living in Melbourne, Australia on her gap year between high school and college when she was approached by a women's rowing coach from Syracuse University. Intrigued by the recruiting pitch, Taylor, a native of the United Kingdom, earned a political science degree as a four-year member of the women's rowing team. An All-American, Taylor credits rowing with bringing purpose and direction to her life. She uses those lessons of resiliency and overcoming adversity when mentoring young adults in the United Kingdom. Taylor reminisces about Syracuse, why she relishes the school pride associated with being an alumna, the joy she felt qualifying for the 2020 Tokyo Summer Olympics, and how she's motivated to requalify after COVID-19 delayed the Games. Episode 50 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 30:03. Read More Thank You for Boosting the ’Cuse! On Oct. 1, the Syracuse University community rallied together to support student scholarships during Boost the ’Cuse, Syracuse University’s fourth annual giving day. During a 24-hour span, 3,514 donors gave $903,260 towards student scholarships and student initiatives. Thanks to the generosity of alumni, students, faculty, staff and friends of Syracuse who helped boost the student experience, the impact of a Syracuse degree and the futures of current students. Read More Boost the ’Cuse to Support Student Scholarships With a renewed focus on supporting student initiatives and student scholarships, Boost the ’Cuse, Syracuse University’s fourth-annual giving day, returns on Thursday, Oct. 1. Alumni, faculty, staff and friends of Syracuse are invited to help boost the student experience, the impact of a Syracuse degree and the futures of current students by supporting our giving day efforts. Read More Episode 49: Selena Saldana '05: VP of Publicity, Film Nation Before you see a movie, Selena Saldana’s '05 job is to market these films as vice president of publicity for Film Nation, has promoted films at the Oscars and nearly every major film festival from Sundance and Cannes to London and Toronto. Saldana shares her fascinating career journey, which has included handling publicity for Oprah Winfrey’s multimedia production company, Harpo Productions, and the Weinstein Company. She shares how COVID-19 has impacted her job, the best advice she ever received, why Syracuse was the only school for her, and how a semester in Australia forever changed her life. Episode 49 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 38:40. Read More Ronald Goldfarb ’54, L’56: Fulfilling an Obligation to Do More Nothing about Ronald Goldfarb’s ’54, L’56 distinguished career — years advocating for correctional reform as a public interest lawyer, authoring 13 books of non-fiction and fiction and representing clients as a literary agent —was part of a grand plan. From an underachieving student to a decorated and accomplished legal mind, Goldfarb adhered to one key principle he learned as a 19-year-old studying law at Syracuse University’s College of Law: “You are what you do." Read More Roula Khalaf ’87 Leading Financial Times of London’s Innovative Approach to COVID-19 Coverage After making history as the first female editor of The Financial Times, Roula Khalaf '87 significantly modified the publication's strategies for reporting on COVID-19. Informed by data and driven by a desire to educate the more than 16 million readers reached by the publication each month, Khalaf altered how The Financial Times would cover the pandemic to ensure readers were equipped with the latest news around the clock. Read More Episode 47: David Parks '83: Exec. Producer/Director, Sports & Daytime Emmys Orchestrating the Sports and Daytime Emmy Awards is difficult enough during a normal year. But during the COVID-19 pandemic, David Parks '83, the Executive Producer and Director of the Sports and Daytime Emmys, responded to the challenge by planning and executing large-scale, live awards shows to honor television's best. Parks discusses how the virtual Emmys went off without a hitch, how Syracuse University cultivated his passion for the entertainment industry, provides advice for students who want to follow in his footsteps, relives his Syracuse men's soccer career, and more. Episode 47 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 44:28. Read More Filmmaker Carlton Daniel G'17 Comes Home with Homegoing Carlton Daniel Jr. G'17 credits his Syracuse University education and the diversity of his classmates with both advancing his technical skills and providing the global perspective to become a well-rounded filmmaker. His film Homegoing, shot in Syracuse last summer, will make its Salt City debut during a film exhibition this weekend at the Everson Museum Plaza. Read More Roberto Melo ’94: Helping Grow Small Businesses in Panama Roberto Melo ’94 considers himself a serial entrepreneur, someone who is always looking for ways to help small and midsize businesses grow and achieve their goals. Melo’s latest passion project in his home country of Panama combines his interest in helping companies reach their maximum potential with his passion for innovation and information technology. Read More Episode 46: Brian Konkol: Healing Power of Presence People have lost loved ones, their jobs, their sense of security, and even their sense of purpose during COVID-19. Brian Konkol, Dean of Hendricks Chapel, says there is another side that can be nearly as devastating: the damage done to our mental and spiritual well-being. Social distancing has changed how we interact with our friends and family members. We’re all learning to live through this unprecedented period of uncertainty, shock, sorrow and fear. Konkol discusses the healing “power of presence” and what it can teach us during times of crisis, why it's important to find community, and why this disease can’t cancel what matters most: relationships, conversations and our faith. Episode 46 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 31:48. Read More Episode 45: Charity Purchas '13, G'19: Helping Vulnerable Residents Charity Purchas '13, G'19 is passionate about two things: providing assistance to vulnerable residents, and Syracuse University. Under executive director Mary Lou Sales G'93 at Huntington Family Centers, Purchas helps provide access to food, water, clothing, personal hygiene items and diapers. Purchas shares her passion for service, her advice for people considering a career in social work, how Syracuse University prepared her for this line of work, and why she bleeds Orange. Episode 45 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 25:43. Read More Registration is open for virtual Orange Central 2020! For the first time, Orange Central is going virtual — Oct. 29-Nov. 1 — and registration is open for our annual celebration of all things Syracuse University. Alumni around the world can reconnect with classmates, explore the University’s newest places and programs and get to know today’s campus community through live programs and events. Read More Episode 44: Keri Potts '98, G'99: Leveling the Playing Field for Women For 17 years, Keri Potts '98, G'99 guided strategic communications efforts around ESPN's college sports businesses, created engaging promotional content for the network's NFL and NBA coverage, the 30 for 30 documentary series, the ESPY's awards show and more. But her true passion was advocating for women's empowerment issues, and this summer, Potts became vice president of external relations with the Institute for Women's Policy Research in Washington, DC. Potts earned both her bachelors and master’s degrees from Newhouse while excelling as a member of the volleyball team. She recounts her harrowing escape from a would-be-rapist in Italy and how that encounter fueled her desire to become a women's empowerment and victims rights' advocate. She also discusses her career, why she bleeds Orange and how Syracuse University feels like home. Episode 44 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 41:17. Read More Episode 43: Flose LaPierre '14: Community Organizer and Writer Flose LaPierre '14 is driven by a desire to make society better. After graduation, she helped Miami-Dade County adopt affordable housing policies, learning how community organizing can bring about change. As the world grapples with racial injustice and police brutality, LaPierre is rallying Los Angeles residents to speak out against injustices, launching a 21-day challenge to teach people to become active and involved while pushing to get more people registered to vote. Through her Write to Heal Workshops, LaPierre emphasizes the power of writing to heal from trauma. She discusses why she's passionate about empowering people to speak up, seek justice and make the world a better place. Episode 43 Audio and transcript. Total run time: 32:24. Read More Orange Roots Date Back Nearly 100 Years for This Legacy Family The Orange in the LeMessurier family tree spans generations, beginning with Daniel Beard ’30 through Jon LeMessurier G'14. All told, there have been 16 members of the LeMessurier family to attend Syracuse University. Read More Episode 41: Andrew Lunetta G'14: Homes for the Homeless Andrew Lunetta G'14 founded A Tiny Home for Good, a not-for-profit organization that designs and builds houses for homeless people in and around Syracuse. Since 2016, they have built 21 homes from the ground-up for homeless tenants across Syracuse, with half of the homes going to veterans. Lunetta discusses why he's passionate about addressing the problem of homelessness, how receiving the gift of shelter has helped these people turn around their lives, and how his time at Maxwell fulfilled his vision for how his company could impact these vulnerable residents. Episode 41 Audio and transcript. Total run time: 37:45. Read More Dan D’Uva ’06: NHL Announcer Enjoys Living in the Moment Whether before a packed National Hockey League arena or a sparsely-attended minor league hockey game, Dan D’Uva ’06 approaches every broadcast with the same purpose: to provide engaging and insightful commentary that puts the listener rink side. As the NHL returns, D'Uva remains humbled and grateful for the chance to call games for the Vegas Golden Knights. Read More Episode 40: Alex Kline '16: NBA Scout Alex Kline '16 has always had an eye for talent on the basketball court. When he was 16, Kline started his own recruiting website, The Recruit Scoop, earning a reputation as a scout with reliable and useful intelligence. While earning his undergraduate degree in broadcast and digital journalism from Newhouse, Kline landed a job with the NBA’s New Orleans Pelicans, first as a basketball operations assistant and later as an intel scout. Now, Kline's a scout with the New York Knicks. With the NBA season set to resume, Kline discusses his meteoric rise as a scout, his front office aspirations, his time at Syracuse, and how his efforts to honor his late mother have netted more than $200,000 for cancer research. Episode 40 Audio and transcript. Total run time: 40:42. Read More Aralynn McMane G’75: Helping Teens Tell Their Impactful Stories During COVID-19 To combat the message that teenagers are part of the problem, Aralynn McMane G'75 created a platform for teen journalists to tell the stories of how young people were making a difference in the fight against the coronavirus, establishing the World Teenage Reporting Project. Read More Episode 39: Allie Curtis '14: Elevating Women Into Leading Roles 2015 Miss Rhode Island Allie Curtis '14 is more than just a former Miss America contestant. A second lieutenant in the Rhode Island National Guard, Curtis graduated from the U.S. Army’s Field Artillery Basic Leadership Course, becoming the FIRST woman field artillery officer in Rhode Island. A public affairs officer, Curtis will help integrate more women into combat arms. Curtis discusses her passion for elevating women into leadership roles in underrepresented fields, how she used the beauty pageant circuit to promote her "Leading Ladies" leadership platform, and how Syracuse drove her to level the playing field for women in politics. Episode 39 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 37:37. Read More Episode 38: Jayson Stark '73: Hall of Fame Baseball Writer If you’re a fan of baseball, you’re familiar with Jayson Stark ’73. He’s the senior baseball writer for the Athletic, an MLB Network studio analyst and a Baseball Hall of Famer - the 2019 J.G. Taylor Spink Award recipient. Stark talks about his lifelong connection to Syracuse University, shares stories from his career and previews the 2020 MLB season, which is certain to be the most unusual of our lifetime. Episode 38 Audio and Transcript (coming soon). Total run time: 39:06. Read More Alumni Broadcasters Discuss Major League Baseball’s Return Major League Baseball is the first of the four major North American team sports to return to the playing field during COVID-19. Kevin Brown '11 and Robert Ford '01 discuss covering baseball during a pandemic, the game's new rules and the importance of the season occurring without any hitches, while Jason Benetti '05 shares why he has the best sports broadcasting job. Read More Domenic Barranca G’06: Slowing Down the Fast-Paced World of Mobile Video Content “We like being stimulated, but our brains need to chill.” Domenic Barranca G’06 is working to pump the brakes on the fast-paced world of mobile video content. Read More SUAA Board of Directors Welcomes Five New Directors The Syracuse University Alumni Association is pleased to announce the addition of five new directors. On July 1, 2020, Christine Abbott G’86, Jessica Kershaw ’07, Carey W. Ng G’02, L’02, Benjamin Vasquez ’18 and Katie Walpole ’12 became directors on the SUAA Board. Read More Episode 36: Doug Robinson '85: Media Executive and Producer Doug Robinson '85 always wanted to work in entertainment, so he worked his way up from the Creative Artists Agency mailroom to become an agent. Later as partner and co-founder of the talent division at Endeavor Talent Agency, he represented Adam Sandler, Chris Farley, Will Smith, Jennifer Garner, Wesley Snipes, Ashton Kutcher and more. Robinson later served as executive producer for television shows "Rules of Engagement," "The Goldbergs," "Schooled," and his latest project, "For Life." Robinson shares how he went from the mailroom to a career as a decorated Hollywood agent and producer, how Syracuse University taught him how to create his own personal narrative, and why he helped start the Syracuse University Los Angeles semester program. Episode 36 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 36:22. Read More New Student Send-Offs Going Virtual As the Class of 2024 gets ready to begin its Syracuse University journey, the Syracuse University Alumni Association is excited to welcome this diverse group of talented students to the Orange family during our virtual series of 2020 New Student Send-Offs. Read More Trio of Educators Honored with Excellence in Education Awards Dianna Devito '19, LaTisha Habersham '11 and Halle Saghian '18 turned their love of education into successful careers at Success Academy, a public charter school network in New York City. Devito, Habersham and Saghian were recently honored for their commitment to education with Excellence in Education Awards. Read More Episode 35: Sarah Kamya '17: Amplifying Black Voices Through Little Free Diverse Library Project Growing up, Sarah Kamya '17 loved to read books, but she struggled finding characters she could identify with as a Black child. So Kamya created the Little Free Diverse Library Project, which aims to amplify Black voices while supporting Black authors and Black-owned bookstores. To date, Kamya has raised more than $10,000 and distributed more than 900 books in 28 states. Kamya discusses why this is a passion project, how these books are leading to conversations that could spark change, and how Syracuse prepared her for her career as a school counselor. Episode 35 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 35:43. Read More Inspired by her Late Mother, Gracyn Doctor G’20 Kick-Starts Career Five years ago, Gracyn Doctor's G'20 mother, DePayne Middleton-Doctor, was among the victims of a deadly shooting at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church. This spring, Doctor emerged from the darkest period of her life with a master’s degree, a new career path and the knowledge that her mother will forever be a source of inspiration, guidance and support. Read More Helping Children Find Good in Unsettling Times: Elissa Candiotti '18 Shares the Power of Optimism Elissa Candiotti ’18 has always found comfort in optimism and she is driven by an unflinching desire to identify and embrace the silver lining. She's turned that drive into the theme of her first book, The Way It Used To Be, a short story designed to help children process their feelings about social distancing, quarantine and isolation during the COVID-19 pandemic. Read More Episode 34: Shayna Postman '95: Moving a Synagogue Online During COVID-19, houses of worship have transitioned their services online. Shayna Postman '95 is the cantor (prayer leader) at the Town & Village Synagogue in New York City, and she helped bring the synagogue's services online. Postman leads daily services on Zoom for the congregation, teaches religious education classes for children and adults, and even orchestrated virtual Zoom bar and bat mitzvah’s. A graduate of the School of Music and member of the University Singers, Postman discusses the importance of staying grateful, optimistic and positive, how her community has come together during the pandemic, the lessons she learned at Syracuse University, and much more! Episode 34 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 32:05. Read More Episode 33: Sam Blum '16: Shifting from Sports Sam Blum '16 reports on Southern Methodist University athletics and the Texas Rangers for the Dallas Morning News, but recently, his duties changed to include covering the impact of COVID-19 and the Black Lives Matter protests in and around Dallas. Blum has faced tear gas and had guns drawn on him while covering the protests. Blum describes the chaos that was his first few days on his new beat, the lessons he's learned covering the protests, how the Daily Orange prepared him and what the return of sports might look like. Episode 33 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 37:02. Read More Semester in Florence Proves Life-Changing for Norma Jean Bishop ’70 Norma Jean Bishop ’70 developed a taste for travel at an early age, but her defining travel experience occurred when she was at Syracuse University, when she spent a semester abroad with Syracuse’s Florence, Italy program. Today, Bishop is editor of Grapevine, a monthly magazine that tells the stories of the residents of Tuscany. Read More Episode 32: Kieran Pickering '07: Delivering Healthy Beverages and Snacks to NYC Hospitals As Kieran Pickering '07 watched the COVID-19 news coverage depicting overwhelmed New York City-area hospitals, he had an idea: to fuel these front line health care workers with healthy snacks and beverages. Teaming up with Founders Give, Pickering used his company, Mitchell’s New York Logistics, to deliver more than two million products to 51 hospitals since the initiative launched two months ago. Pickering discusses why he chose hospital workers and first responders, how this cause has taken off, and why it was important to give back to his hometown during the pandemic. Episode 32 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 30:19. Read More Syracuse University Announces Alumni College As a way to engage the Orange Community during the COVID-19 pandemic, University College (UC), in partnership with the Office of Alumni Engagement, has announced the launch of Alumni College. Alumni, parents and friends of Syracuse University can take a variety of noncredit courses online that are taught by current Syracuse University faculty and instructors. Read More Episode 31: How Upstatement is Helping Contain the Spread of COVID-19 Tito Bottitta '03, Jared Novack '06 and Mike Swartz '06 are using their company, Upstatement, to design initiatives to contain the spread of COVID-19. COVID Protocols created guidelines for treating patients. COVID Safe Paths is a contact tracing app that tells you if you've been exposed to the disease while mapping out infection locations for public health officials. Project Zero identifies what businesses are doing to keep customers safe during the pandemic. They discuss the impact of these projects, share how their time at Syracuse University and The Daily Orange led to the formation of Upstatement, and more! Episode 31 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 39:21. Read More Bob Watson ’79 and Reggie Acloque ’99 Helping Governments Prepare for Emergencies Bob Watson '79 is the president and Reggie Acloque ’99 is the senior vice president of software engineering for Juvare, which handles emergency preparedness for state, local, and federal governments around the world. Their software helps governments and hospitals track the availability of ventilators, hospital beds and personal protective equipment, and they have also developed a contact tracing app. Read More Episode 30: Joy Cho '01: Home Design Expert and Pinterest's Most-Followed User Joy Cho '01 founded the Oh Joy! blog in 2005 to market her work as a graphic and product designer. Cho combined her social media savvy with captivating content to launch her own lifestyle brand, Oh Joy!, and she has become a trailblazer in the world of personal style. One of the first Pinterest users, Cho is Pinterest's most popular creative influencer more than 13 million followers. Cho shares her personal style preferences, discusses her love for bringing color into people’s day-to-day lives, dishes out advice to spruce up your home décor, and more! Episode 30 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 39:21. Read More Brianna Howard ’20 and Nikita Chatterjee ’20: Providing Clean Drinking Water and Face Masks Brianna Howard '20 and Nikita Chatterjee '20 founded their global health company, PAANI Solutions, to help reduce waterborne illnesses in one of the world's most densely-packed cities, Dharavi, India. They're also working to produce face masks for these residents during the COVID-19 pandemic. Read More Larry Galper '04: Delivering Pizzas to Feed Those in Need Combining his love of food and feeding people with his entertainment career, Larry Galper '04 is now cooking and delivering free pizzas to health care workers, first responders, firefighters and grocery store employees in New Orleans. Thanks to the generosity of online donors, he has been able to provide approximately 600 pizzas. Read More Episode 29: Actress, comedian and "A.P. Bio" star Lyric Lewis Lyric Lewis is an accomplished actress who plays history teacher Stef Duncan on NBC’s hit show "A.P. Bio." Lewis, who earned a drama degree from the College of Visual and Performing Arts, has also starred on "MadTV" and Comedy Central’s "Drunk History." As Hollywood continue to deal with COVID-19, Lewis shares how this pandemic has impacted the entertainment business, what Hollywood will look like once the industry is allowed to resume filming, how she transitioned from a classically-trained theater major to comedian and improv expert, and how "Jurassic Park" made Lewis get into acting. Episode 29 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 37:16. Read More Alex Hermann ’05: Lobbying to Provide New Jersey Residents with COVID-19 Resources As the director of federal affairs for New Jersey Governor Phil Murphy, Alex Hermann '05 lobbies for more personal protective equipment for the state's health care workers, additional COVID-19 tests for residents who display coronavirus symptoms, and federal funding for every person who calls the state of New Jersey home. Her job centers around ensuring New Jersey residents are equipped with the proper resources to fight off COVID-19. Read More Episode 28: Brittany Berry '18 and Logan Bonney G'17: Delivering Meals for a Cause Brittany Berry '18 and Logan Bonney G'17 own Anything But Beer, a brewery and taproom in Syracuse. Specializing in gluten free and grain-free foods and beverages, Anything But Beer was open for one month before COVID-19 forced the dining room to close. Berry and Bonney shifted their focus to helping the area’s health care workers, and thanks to online donations, Anything But Beer has provided hundreds of free meals to medical workers. Berry and Bonney discuss how giving back to the health care community has led to a renewed sense of purpose, and how Syracuse played a role in launching their business. Episode 28 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 39:42. Read More Episode 27: Becoming Resilient and Restoring Security During COVID-19 Bryan Semaan is an assistant professor in the School of Information Studies (iSchool) whose research explores how we develop resiliency in the face of a life-altering disruption such as COVID-19. He shares how social media can both connect us and lead to a sense of isolation and loneliness, and why, even when we're isolated in our homes, it's important to cultivate a sense of community. He offers insights into how we can restore security in our lives through developing a daily routine, creating connections with others, and engaging in activities for the greater good. Episode 27 Audio and Transcript . Total run time: 41:59. Read More Episode 26: Responding to COVID-19: Nurse Katie McMurray '13 As the world continues to deal with COVID-19, nurses like Katie McMurray '13 are doing their part to treat coronavirus patients. McMurray is a progressive care nurse at Danbury Hospital in Danbury, Conn., which has seen its share of coronavirus patients, including treating the state’s first COVID-19 case. McMurray discusses how the hospital responds when someone is suspected of being COVID-positive, how she copes with the anxiety of being a nurse during this pandemic, and how Syracuse University Ambulance taught her to respond to emergency situations. Episode 26 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 30:27. Read More Doctor Chuck Eckerline Jr. ’72 Serving on COVID-19 Frontlines Chuck Eckerline Jr. '72 has seen it all during 42 years as an emergency medicine practitioner. But he’s never seen a public health crisis generate this much public fear, anxiety and panic as COVID-19. While Eckerline and his staff at the University of Kentucky Medical Center aren't in a hotspot, they are preparing for the worst-case scenarios to keep their patients safe. Read More Isaac Budmen '12, Stephanie Keefe '12, Syracuse Community Using 3D-Printers to Help vs. COVID-19 Isaac Budmen '12 and Stephanie Keefe '12 are using their 3D printers at Budmen Industries to print face shields for health care workers. They're part of a collaborative response from Syracuse University schools and colleges to protect health care workers responding to community needs during the coronavirus. Read More Liz Petrone '02 Blogs from the Heart By day, Liz Petrone ’02 is a programmer analyst supporting financial systems for a Syracuse corporation. But when night falls and her four children are asleep, she logs on to her computer with a very nontechnical destination: her nationally-recognized blog, where she shares her personal stories Read More Episode 25: Tokyo 2020 Summer Olympics Spokesperson Masa Takaya G'07 The 2020 Summer Olympics in Tokyo are postponed until 2021 because of COVID-19, the novel coronavirus. Masa Takaya G'07 is the communications director and official spokesperson for the Tokyo Organizing Committee. He discusses the decision to postpone the Summer Olympics, how these games will convey a message to the world and the Japanese people about the importance of resiliency, recovery and hope for a country that was devastated by a catastrophic earthquake and tsunami nine years ago, and how Syracuse University shaped his career. Episode 25 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 32:20. Read More Orange Central 2020: Save the Date, Hotel Blocks Orange Central, Syracuse University's annual Homecoming and Reunion celebration, is Oct. 29-Nov. 1. Now is the perfect time to secure your hotel room through our specially-priced Orange Central block of rooms at several local hotels. Read More Play Monopoly—with a Syracuse Twist! Play with Otto as your token, own Syracuse University landmarks like the Hall of Languages and help the Food Bank of Central New York with the City of Syracuse Monopoly game. Read More Megan Rand ’15 and Matt Samost ’13 Honored as Sports Business Innovators Thanks to their commitment to innovation and ability to inspire their peers, Megan Rand '15 and Matt Samost '13 earned spots on Sports Business Journal’s inaugural 30 Under 30 New Voices list. Read More Hillary Cutter '00 Helping Level the Playing Field for Women in Media Hillary Cutter '00 has dedicated much of her career to providing women in the fields of advertising, entertainment, film and digital media with increased access to jobs and mentoring opportunities. Read More The Slice for January 24, 2020 This week in The Slice: 🍊 Campus prepares for the 35th annual MLK Celebration 🍊 2020 Orange football schedule is out 🍊 Grand Opening set for the NVRC 🍊 An alumna receives the nation's most prestigious honor for doctoral dissertations 🍊 How a grad has made a career out of pizza Read More Sebastian Martorana '03 Carves Fulfilling Career out of Stone Thanks to a life-altering semester abroad experience in Florence, Italy, Sebastian Martorana '03 discovered a love for sculpting masterpieces out of stone. His works are featured in galleries and museums around the country, and he is currently working on the new Dwight D. Eisenhower Memorial in Washington, DC. Read More Thank You for Making Boost the 'Cuse a SUccess! The Syracuse University community came together to make Boost the 'Cuse: 44 Hours for Syracuse University an outstanding success, with 6,210 generous donors giving $2,571,362 to the part of Syracuse that meant the most to them. THANK YOU! Read More Alison '01 and Dwayne Murray '97 Share a Love of Country and Syracuse University Alison (Jernigan) Murray '01 and Dwayne Murray '97 met while they were both stationed in the Army in South Korea. The couple bonded over their love of Syracuse University and their desire to give back to their community. As we celebrate Veterans Day, read about how the Murray's are still serving their country while bleeding Orange. Read More Our GO (Generation Orange) Pro Series Addresses Holistic Wellness! Recognizing the importance of developing wellness in all aspects of life — from personal finances and physical fitness to emotional and spiritual wellness, the latest GO (Generation Orange) Pro event series will provide expert advice on topics pertaining to the eight spokes of the wellness wheel. Read More Syracuse University: Celebrating Impact with Service Syracuse University is encouraging members of the Orange family to make an impact in their communities by participating in 150 Days of Service leading up to National Orange Day, March 24, 2020. Read More Alumni Take Their Remembrance Experience Beyond Graduation “Out of something so tragic, long-lasting and strong connections have been created and I think that’s very important as we grow and spread across the world that our positivity and connections continue.” -Erin McLaughlin '07 Six former Remembrance Scholars continue to honor those lost in the 1988 bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 and reflect on how the scholarship program has shaped their lives and careers. Read More Alumni Association Announces Basketball Tailgate Schedule Expectations are high entering the season for the Syracuse University men’s and women’s basketball teams. With so much excitement building around the Orange, we're thrilled to announce our series of men’s and women’s basketball tailgates for the 2019-20 season. Read More Alumni Celebrate Hispanic and Latino Pride As Syracuse University celebrates LatinX and Hispanic Heritage Month, read about the stories of three outstanding alumni who are doing their part to move the cultural needle forward for Americans of LatinX and Hispanic descent in our Heritage Profile Series. Read More Record-Breaking Orange Central Evokes Fond Orange Memories More than 3,000 alumni and guests came home to Syracuse University to celebrate 150 years of history during Orange Central 2019, Sept. 12-15. Alumni connected with old classmates and made new friends while honoring Syracuse's outstanding alumni across generations. The weekend was truly a celebration of what it means to be Orange. Read More Remembering 2015 Arents Award winner Erica Branch-Ridley '87 Syracuse University was saddened to learn of the sudden passing of Erica Branch-Ridley ’87, a 2015 Arents Award winner for Excellence in Media and Education. Our deepest condolences go to Branch-Ridley’s family and friends. This story highlighting Branch-Ridley's pioneering career was first published in February as part of our Heritage Profile Series. Read More Ruby Chan ’95 Uses Food to Connect With Family and Heritage Relying on a family recipe for Asian Pesto that was passed down by her father, Ruby Chan '95 opened Fresh Zen Foods in 2016 as a way to both honor her Chinese heritage and help families enjoy healthy and nutritious meals together. Read More Meet Jim Kidder L’01, President of the Syracuse University Alumni Association Jim Kidder L'01 assumed the role of President of the Syracuse University Alumni Association Board of Directors on July 1, 2019. Get to know Kidder, who is "humbled and honored" to lead nearly 250,000 alumni and friends around the globe. Read More Ready for a Record-Breaking Orange Central Are you ready for a record-breaking Orange Central? Thousands of alumni and guests are expected to come home to campus September 12-15 to for reunion, homecoming and to celebrate what it means to be Orange. Oh... and there's a pretty big football game in the Dome, too! Read More Alumni Association Announces Football Tailgate Schedule The Syracuse University football team is ranked in the preseason Top 25 for the first time in more than two decades. With so much excitement building around the Orange, we're thrilled to announce our 2019 football tailgate series! Read More Syracuse University’s Forever Orange Student Alumni Council Honored During the recent CASE (Council for Advancement and Support of Education) conference, Syracuse University's Forever Orange Student Alumni Council won CASE’s Affiliated Student Advancement Programs (ASAP) 2019 National Network Award for Outstanding Emerging Organization. Read More Latest Virtual Workshops Help Advance Your Career! The Syracuse University Alumni Association continues to expand its toolbox of resources to help alumni advance their careers through an online series of virtual workshops, career counseling sessions, networking events and #HireOrange opportunities. Read More Honorees Announced for 2nd-Annual Syracuse University Alumni Awards Celebration The second-annual Syracuse University Alumni Awards Celebration, honoring the 2019 winners of the George Arents Award, the Melvin A. Eggers Senior Alumni Award, the Military/Veteran Award, and the Generation Orange Award, will occur Friday, Sept. 13 during Orange Central. Read More Peter Henriques '80 Credits Syracuse University for his Successful Career Peter Henriques forged a career in both business and as an explorer during a career that took him throughout Latin America, Australia, New Zealand, United Kingdom, Vietnam, and China. He credits his Syracuse University faculty members with his successful career. Read More Parent Volunteers in Beijing and Shanghai Discuss Ways to Stay Connected to Syracuse University Syracuse University parent volunteers in Beijing and Shanghai gathered on June 22 to formally meet, hear from local alumni and discuss ways to better engage with their fellow Syracuse University parents. Read More SUAA Board of Directors Welcomes Four New Directors The Syracuse University Alumni Association Board of Directors is pleased to announce the addition of four new directors. Jermie Cozart ’97, Elisabeth Dwyer ’06, Peter Gianesini ’94, and Eve Marsan ’96 became directors on the SUAA Board on July 1, 2019. Read More Office of Alumni Engagement Launches 'Cuse Conversations Podcast! With the popularity of podcasts soaring, Syracuse University’s Office of Alumni Engagement is pleased to introduce the ’Cuse Conversations Podcast as a way to share the stories of successful Syracuse University alumni who are leaders in their field, making a difference in their community and proud to be Orange. Read More ACC Network is Launching Aug. 22 With the new ACC Network launching on Aug. 22, fans of Syracuse University athletics should check to see if their TV provider is among the carriers signed on to carry Orange athletics. Read More SUAA’s New Student Send-Offs Help Welcome Newest Members of Orange Family To help new students and their parents become better acclimated with Syracuse University, the Syracuse University Alumni Association is once again offering a series of New Student Send-Off events this summer to welcome the newest members of the Orange family. Read More Pat Tursi ’84, G’87 Aims to Combat National Health Care Crisis Looking to combat a growing national health care crisis, Pat Tursi '84, G'87 hopes to open the country's first young adult center for medically complex and technologically dependent patients ages 21-35. Read More Katie Yohe '06 Making Theater More Accessible Katie Yohe '06 has dedicated her career to providing aspiring actors born with developmental disabilities the chance to sing, dance and perform before live audiences as part of her theater company, Artists Breaking Limits and Expectations (A.B.L.E.). Read More From Notre-Dame Cathedral to Archbold Gym: Janet Wensley Kimberling ’48 has Painted it All Throughout her decorated 82-year career as an painter and artist, Janet Wensley Kimberling '48 has always relied on advice she learned at Syracuse University to guide her brush strokes. Read More Alumni Panel in Singapore Focused on Changing Work Dynamics Syracuse University alumni in Singapore recently benefited from a panel discussion that focused on the ever-changing work landscape. Read More Paul S. Rhee L'96 Enjoys Strong Syracuse Connections in Seoul Paul Rhee L'96 credits lessons learned and relationships made at Syracuse University's College of Law with preparing him for a successful career in the field of law. Read More Commencement Speaker Mary C. Daly G'94 Bloomed at Syracuse University Daly, the president and CEO of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, hopes her Commencement speech will serve as a guide for Syracuse University's class of 2019 as they begin the journey to find their "North Star." Read More Pixar President Jim Morris ’77, G’78 Passionate About Making Movie Magic As president of Pixar Animation Studios, Jim Morris '77, G'78 reflects on his journey from documentary filmmaker to Academy Award-winning producer of Wall-E, and how the lessons learned at Syracuse University shaped his career. Read More Amnat Chittaphong ’99, G’02 Dedicates Career to Effecting Change Out of one of the darkest, most painful moments of his life, Amnat Chittaphong ’99, G’02 turned the hatred and anger he felt into a career serving under-represented students. Read More Virtual Workshops, Networking Events Help Advance Your Career! The Syracuse University Alumni Association continues to expand its toolbox of resources to help alumni advance their careers through an online series of virtual workshops, career counseling sessions, networking events and #HireOrange opportunities. Read More From Stage 4 Cancer to Boston Marathon: Ryan Gainor ’06 Embraces Life’s Next Challenge Five years ago, Ryan Gainor '06 would get winded walking towards the end of his street. His body was ravaged from nine weeks of chemotherapy to battle Stage 4 tongue cancer. On Monday, Gainor ran the Boston Marathon to celebrate being five years cancer-free. Read More Bert Aufsesser’s ’00 Passion for Fashion and Syracuse University Leads to Dream Job Bert Aufsesser '00 is passionate about Syracuse University and fashion. Now, he is realizing his dream, opening a clothing and Syracuse University-themed apparel store in downtown Syracuse called Scholars & Champs. Read More NCAA Tournament Tailgate Tonight The Syracuse University women play tonight in the Dome with a trip to the Sweet Sixteen on the line! Before you cheer on the Orange, we invite alumni and fans to join us for a free pregame tailgate inside the Newhouse School of Public Communications. Read More Christie Martin G'99, L'99 Uses Degree to Protect Senior Citizens Christie Martin G'99, L'99 has dedicated her legal career to senior citizens in Oregon and Washington, offering valuable services to a vulnerable segment of the population who are often preyed upon and taken advantage of towards the end of their lives. Read More Forever Orange Week Celebrated Syracuse University’s Founding Syracuse University's Forever Orange Week March festivities celebrated the lifetime bond that forms the moment a student arrives on the SU campus by highlighting how students are leaders who foster Orange pride on campus and give back to their community. Read More 2019 Orange Circle Award Winners Announced Syracuse University’s Forever Orange Week culminates with the Orange Circle Awards and this year's winners are alumnus Jeffrey Rubin '95, G'98 and the student groups Enactus, Christian Outreach, Student Association, and Straighten Your Crown. Read More Forever Florence: Celebrating 60 Years of Syracuse Abroad in Italy Syracuse Abroad invites alumni to experience an amazing weekend of community, culture, and history as Syracuse Abroad celebrates 60 years of tradition and innovation at its Italian Center in Florence. Read More Heritage Profile Series: Alumni Share Secrets to Career Success In honor of Black History Month, the Syracuse University Alumni Association is recognizing three talented alumni — London Ladd '06, Erica Branch-Ridley '87, and Yolanda Blaize '96 — for their outstanding careers and contributions to their communities. Read More Syracuse University hosts first career fair in China Syracuse University recently participated in its first career fair in China. Syracuse University partnered with University at Buffalo and Michigan State University to provide networking, internships, and full-time job opportunities for students and alumni who are Chinese nationals. Read More Runyi Li ’22, first recipient of Syracuse University Greater China Alumni Endowed Scholarship When Runyi Li, an 18-year-old freshman from Beijing, first saw Syracuse University’s Orange, she knew it was the right place for her. Li is the first recipient of the Syracuse University Greater China Alumni Endowed Scholarship Read More Decades Later, a Double Dose of Orange Love Patricia (Caplen) Greenky '52 and her daughter Jocelyn Greenky '85 credit Syracuse University with helping them develop into the people they've become, and they revel every day in their Orange love stories that took decades to unfold. Read More Syracuse University Alumni Share #OrangeLove Stories In honor of Valentine’s Day, we’re sharing stories of #OrangeLove. Read on, and meet four couples who found true love thanks to Syracuse University, then submit your own #OrangeLove story. Read More Our GO (Generation Orange) Pro Series Tackles Travel Hacks! Our latest GO (Generation Orange) Pro series, "Travel Hacks," will feature expert advice to prepare you for your next travel adventure. The series is coming to Central New York, New York City, Boston, Providence, R.I., and Washington, DC. Read More From Fan to Beat Reporter: Sal Capaccio '95 Made His Own Breaks Sal Capaccio '95 grew up a huge Buffalo Bills and Buffalo Sabres fan, impersonating his favorite broadcasters. Thanks to hard work and a penchant for making his own breaks, Capaccio now covers the Bills and is a radio and television show host. Read More Orange Central 2019 Registration is Open! Coming off a record-setting Orange Central Weekend in 2018, the Syracuse University Alumni Association is pleased to announce that Orange Central 2019 is Sept. 12-15! Registration is open, so be sure to sign up today and come home to 'Cuse for the best weekend of the year! Read More Three passionate alumni play key roles in success of WWE A trio of talented Syracuse University alumni — Chris Chambers '80, Jordan Mendal '88, and Adam Pennucci '94 — have helped transform World Wrestling Entertainment into one of the world's leading entertainment companies. Read More Passion and Purpose: Why Gene Decker '80 Runs Dr. Eugene Decker ’80, the leader of "Team Decker," ran the Walt Disney World Half Marathon on Saturday, January 12. During the race, he combined his passions in life, running with purpose in an effort to benefit those who inspire him. Read More Monil Sundesha ’05, G’08: Finding Education and Opportunity at SU Monil Sundesha ’05, G’08 remembers arriving in Syracuse from Mumbai, India, 17 years ago with the trepidation of being an international student. But it didn't take long for Sundesha to find his "home away from home" in the Slutzker Center for International Services, which supported his journey of education and opportunity at Syracuse University. Read More Brian Benedik '93 Helps Lead Streaming Revolution Brian Benedik ’93 is at the center of the streaming revolution. As the vice president and global head of advertising for Spotify, Benedik and his colleagues provide people around the globe with instant access to their favorite music and podcasts anytime, anywhere. Read More How Derek Wallace '00 Became the "Big Cheese" Derek Wallace '00 was terrified by the thought of being out of work, but a corporate environment he considered "kryptonite to creativity" was sucking the life out of him. So after 17 years, Wallace leaned on the people he knew and what he learned at Syracuse University, took a leap of faith, and left his stable and successful job Read More Office of Alumni Engagement Expanding Career Services Offerings Recognizing the importance of offering lifelong learning opportunities to its alumni, Syracuse University's Office of Alumni Engagement is expanding its toolbox of resources to help alumni navigate their way through those inevitable career crossroads. Read More Syracuse Football is Going Bowling in Orlando! ORLANDO - The nationally-ranked Syracuse University football team is heading to the Camping World Bowl Dec. 28 in Orlando. Check out information on travel and ticket options, as well as details about our official alumni and fan pre-game tailgate. Read More Alumni Clubs Plan Festive Holiday Gatherings Join one of our Syracuse University Alumni Association-sponsored holiday parties and ring in the holidays with alumni while enjoying great food and drinks! Read More SUAA Announces Men's and Women's Basketball Tailgate Series The Syracuse University Alumni Association (SUAA) is pleased to once again host a series of men’s and women’s basketball pre-game tailgates during the 2018-19 season. Enjoy great food, drinks, and school spirit giveaways before heading to the Carrier Dome. Read More Tory Gentes ’10 Travels the World Studying People As an ethnographer, Tory Gentes ’10 spends her days crisscrossing the globe, talking to strangers and learning more about their behaviors, their tendencies, and their preferences. Her career blends her passions: branding, business, people, psychology, and travel. Read More Preston Plumb '49 is a World War II veteran and passionate Syracuse University supporter Preston Plumb '49 served his country in the Army Air Corps, then was one of the first to take advantage of the G.I. Bill, enrolling at Syracuse University in the spring of 1946. Read More 'Cuse in the City Help Syracuse University to turn New York City Orange, November 14—17! Three basketball games, one football game, a special musical performance, and plenty of alumni gatherings provide several opportunities for alumni, friends, and fans to show off their SU pride. Syracuse University is preparing to turn New York City Orange, November 14—17! Join fellow SU alumni, friends, and fans to cheer on the Orange in basketball and football—in person or at exclusive game watch events. Plus, don’t miss a special performance by Otto Tunes at Radio City Music Hall! Syracuse University is preparing to turn New York City Orange, November 14—17! Join fellow SU alumni, friends, and fans to cheer on the Orange in basketball and football—in person or at exclusive game watch events. Plus, don’t miss a special performance by Otto Tunes at Radio City Music Hall! Read More For Alton Chow G’97, Life Is About Taking Risks, Seeking Experiences Alton Chow G’97 has enjoyed a career remarkable both for its success and its widely diverse disciplines—architecture, engineering, professional music, fashion, and design. Read More Dreams Come True for Chen-Wen Tarn Ph.D '91…and His Son Chen-Wen Tarn Ph.D '91 is a professor of electronic and computer engineering at National Taiwan University of Science and Technology. His lifelong dream was to study in the United States, a goal he accomplished at Syracuse University. Read More Thousands of Alumni Return Home for Orange Central A record-setting Orange Central weekend brought thousands of proud alumni back home to Syracuse University for SU’s annual reunion and homecoming celebration, Oct. 18-21. It was a weekend of reminiscing and reconnecting with classmates and professors, sharing nostalgic moments from yesteryear while making new friends. Read More Record Crowd Expected for Orange Central The Syracuse University campus is gearing up for a record-setting Orange Central weekend, Oct. 18-21. For the second straight year, more people than ever (2,300) have signed up for SU’s annual homecoming and reunion weekend. Read More Two Dedicated Alumni Receive Generation Orange Award at Orange Central Evin Floyd Robinson ’12, G’14 and Jessica Santana ’11, G’13 help prepare the next generation of technology leaders in New York City, and during Orange Central, they were honored by Syracuse University with the Generation Orange Award. Read More Three Passionate Alumni Receive Eggers Award at Orange Central During Orange Central, three outstanding alumni who embody the spirit of Syracuse University were honored with the Melvin A. Eggers Senior Alumni Award. The 2018 class of honorees are: Larry Bashe ’66, G’68, Helen Lefkowitz ’60, and Fred Silverman ’58. Read More Heritage Profile: Alumni Celebrate Hispanic and Latino Pride As Syracuse University celebrates LatinX and Hispanic Heritage Month, read about the stories of four outstanding alumni in our Heritage Profile Series. Read More Five Visionary Alumni Receive Arents Award at Orange Central The George Arents Award is Syracuse University’s highest alumni honor, and this year during Orange Central, the University recognized Kevin Bell ’74, H’16; Dr. Sharon Brangman ’77; Emme ’85; Joseph Strasser ’53, G’58; and Abdallah Yabroudi ’78, G’79 as this year's honorees. Read More Syracuse University Alumni Awards Celebration Debuts at Orange Central Television has the Emmys, music has the Grammys, film has the Oscars, and theatre has the Tonys … now Syracuse University has a spectacular awards show to call its own when the Syracuse University Alumni Association rolls out the Orange Carpet at Orange Central! Read More Our GO (Generation Orange) Pro Series Returns! This fall, Syracuse University's Office of Alumni Engagement, in partnership with the Generation Orange Leadership Council, is proud to announce the return of our GO (Generation Orange) Pro events specifically for young alumni. Read More Dick Dodd '52 has Dedicated His Life to Syracuse University Dick Dodd '52, the founder and president of the Syracuse University Alumni Club of Palm Beach, has dedicated his adult life to spreading his love of the Orange to alumni around the country. Read More Wei Gao G'05 Hired to Support International Student Success Adjusting to a new culture, a new language, and a new country presents an interesting series of challenges for international students when they arrive at Syracuse University. Luckily, Wei Gao G’05 was hired as assistant director of first-year and transfer programs to support incoming and freshmen international students. Read More Holly Schwartz '95 Helps Students Adjust to Life in Hong Kong Holly Schwartz NEW/VPA ’95 enjoyed her experiences studying abroad in London so much, she decided to assist current Syracuse University students studying abroad in Hong Kong to enrich their experiences in a foreign country. Read More Orange Central Milestone Reunions Expanded for 2018 Special milestone reunions are planned for the Class of 1958, 1968, 1993, and 2008 at Orange Central. SU is introducing our first-ever Senior Citrus Reunion for alumni who already celebrated their 60th Reunion, and 44th Reunion for the Class of 1974, an homage to a number that holds significance to our alumni. Read More Alumni Association Announces Football Tailgate Schedule The Syracuse University Alumni Association is pleased to offer tailgates before several home and away football games in 2018. Tailgates are still planned for North Carolina (Oct. 20), Louisville (Nov. 9), and Notre Dame (Nov. 17). Read More SUAA Board of Directors Welcomes Four New Directors The Syracuse University Alumni Association Board of Directors is pleased to announce the addition of four new directors. Gene Biros ’92, Linda Tatar Landau ’76, Patricia Leon-Guerrero ’04, and Terry Marshall ’09, G’11 became directors on the SUAA Board on July 1, 2018. Read More 44: History & Tradition at SU The number 44 represents history and tradition at Syracuse University, rising to prominence on the backs of three of the finest college running backs to ever play the game. This fall, Orange Central introduces a new way to celebrate #44—as SU's Class of 1974 gathers to celebrate the first 44th Milestone Reunion. Read More Orange and Blue BBQ Celebrating 10 Years of Bringing Together Alumni in DC The annual DC Orange and Blue barbecue brings together hundreds of African American and Latino Syracuse University alumni living in and around Washington, DC for an afternoon of networking and reminiscing. This year marks the event's 10th anniversary. Read More Mike Gursha '10 Co-founded Rookie Road to Help Everyone Better Understand Sports Rookie Road, a startup company formed by Mike Gursha ’10 and his brother, Doug, allows anyone from former athletes to novices to learn the ins and outs of sports through comprehensive tutorials on baseball, basketball, football, hockey, kickball, and soccer. Read More Chancellor Syverud Visits Students and Alumni in China Syracuse University Chancellor Kent Syverud embarked on a three-city tour of China in May. Syverud and other University leaders met with students, alumni, and families in Beijing, Hong Kong and Shanghai. Read More Inaugural Syracuse University Alumni Awards Celebration set for Orange Central The Syracuse University Alumni Association is proud to announce the inaugural Syracuse University Alumni Awards Celebration, honoring the 2018 winners of the George Arents Award, the Melvin A. Eggers Senior Alumni Award, and the Generation Orange Award. These alumni will be honored Friday, Oct. 19 during Orange Central. Read More Scott Kronick '85 Created Successful Career Overseas in Public Relations Scott Kronick '85 is chief executive of Ogilvy, Public Relations & Influence, the largest international public relations agency in China. He credits the valuable lessons learned during his time at Syracuse University's S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications for his career successes. Read More Anish Shroff '04 has Developed Into the Face of ESPN's College Lacrosse Coverage A decade ago, Anish Shroff '04 nearly left broadcasting after a career setback. Anish Shroff '04 has become the face of ESPN's college lacrosse coverage and will lead the network's coverage of the 2018 World Lacrosse Championships. Read More SUAA’s New Student Send-Offs Help Welcome Newest Members of Orange Family To help new students and their parents become better acclimated with Syracuse University, the Syracuse University Alumni Association is once again offering a series of New Student Send-Off events this summer to welcome the newest members of the Orange family. Read More From Aspiring Filmmaker to Taquito Expert: The Professional Evolution of Brad Holtzman '08 Brad Holtzman came to Syracuse University to study filmmaking. But his aspirations evolved and sent him on an exciting journey that includes culinary school, restaurant work, and a "dream job" working with the New York Yankees. Read More Amanda Goldberg ’08 Helps Clients Liven up Their Offices with Sustainable Designs Amanda Goldberg ’08, the CEO and founder of Planted Design, employs a forward-thinking, sustainable approach to interior design that has earned her national recognition. She has taken the prototypical office design and turned it on its head with her revolutionary, environmentally-friendly creations. Read More From First-Generation Student to DC Alumni Club President: Patricia Leon-Guerrero ’04 Bleeds Orange Patricia Leon-Guerrero '04, a first-generation college student, helps minority students have the opportunity to receive college scholarships to pursue their dreams. She also engages with more than 8,000 SU alumni in DC/Maryland/Virginia. Read More Sterling Boin ’14 Takes Love of SU to New Heights Sterling Boin ’14, president of the Syracuse University Alumni Club of Colorado, took school spirit to new heights by climbing the famous El Capitan (elevation: 7,569 feet) and Lost Arrow Spire (6,930 feet) peaks in Yosemite National Park. Read More The Davis Six: Orange is in the Family DNA During Syracuse University's 164th Commencement Ceremony on May 13, Malcolm-Ali Davis '18 secured the Davis family's Orange legacy, becoming the sixth member of his immediate family to earn a degree from SU. Read More Chancellor Syverud, Syracuse University Leadership to Visit Alumni in China Chancellor Kent Syverud headlines a team of University leadership traveling to China to participate in a series of programs for University alumni, students and families during the month of May. “Syracuse Around the World” will be held in Hong Kong, Beijing, and Shanghai. Read More SU Education Helped David Finkelstein ’82 Launch Successful Career on Wall Street David Finkelstein '82 relied on his Syracuse University education to launch a successful career as an investment banker on Wall Street. Wanting to give back to his alma mater, Finkelstein also founded the SU Alumni Club of Westchester/Fairfield Counties, or WestFair Orange. Read More Wendy Cen G'02 Credits Whitman School For Career Successes Wendy Cen G’02, the head of internal auditing at Ant Financial in Shanghai., credits her MBA from the Whitman School for helping launch her career. Read More Heritage Profile Series: Alumni Share How SU Instilled a Sense of Cultural Pride During Asian-American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month, Syracuse University alumni Victoria Chan-Frazier '09, Ben Fang '15, and Anny (Hong) Fan '01 discussed the role SU played in developing their strong sense of pride in their heritage. Read More Phil Nardone ’82 Helping Prepare Future Generations of Public Relations Professionals Phil Nardone ’82 founded PAN Communications, an award-winning integrated marketing and public relations agency, in 1995. Nardone takes pride in helping future generations of SU graduates, and makes a habit of hiring Syracuse alumni to work for him at PAN Communications. Read More Jeff Kurkjian ’15: Blazing an Orange Trail from Otto and Otto Tunes to Radio Show Host Jeff Kurkjian ’15 has enjoyed tremendous success as a radio co-host, first in Cleveland and now on 102.7 the Coyote in Las Vegas, a top-30 radio station. Wherever he goes, Kurkjian brings his love of Syracuse University with him. Read More SU is in the Sweet Sixteen! After two wins in Detroit, the Syracuse University men’s basketball team is marching on to the Sweet 16 of the NCAA tournament! Alumni clubs across the country are in the process of planning game watches to cheer on the No. 11 seed Orange take on the No. 2 Duke at 9:37 p.m. EDT Friday in Omaha, Neb. Read More Caytha Jentis ’84 turns to Orange network for TV shows and movies Caytha (Soling) Jentis ’84 has earned accolades as the creator/writer/producer of “The Other F Word,” currently airing on Amazon Video. Most of Jentis’ works feature an ensemble of Syracuse University alumni. Read More Inaugural Forever Orange Week Showcased the Syracuse Bond Syracuse University kicked off its inaugural Forever Orange Week with a celebration of the university’s 148th birthday on March 24, National Orange Day. Activities were held throughout the week on campus, in the community, and across the country. Read More 2018 Orange Circle Award Winners announced Syracuse University’s Forever Orange Week culminates with the Orange Circle Awards and this year's winners are alumnus Rob Long ’12, G’14 and the student groups Nanhi Kali, Uplifting Athletes and The Shaped Clay Society. Read More ACC Week features action-packed schedule of events The Syracuse University men’s basketball team heads to Brooklyn for the Atlantic Coast Conference (ACC) Tournament, and the Syracuse University Alumni Association is hosting a variety of exciting programming off the court as we turn New York City Orange! Read More Steven Gorenbergh '74: From career to family, “It’s because of SU” Every blessing in Steven Gorenbergh's ’74 life, from his successful career in information technology and enterprise architecture, to the family he has raised with wife, Holly, he credits to his time at Syracuse University. Read More Heritage Profile Series: Alumni Share Secrets to Career Success In honor of Black History Month, the Syracuse University Alumni Association is recognizing three talented alumni — Miko Horn '95, Charles Rahmat Woods '72, and Evelyn Hoskins Carter '90 for their outstanding careers and contributions to their communities. Read More Spotlighting the Syracuse University Mentor Mentee Alliance The Syracuse University Mentor Mentee Alliance enters its 25th year of pairing high school students with NYC-area mentors, thanks primarily to a dedicated network of Syracuse University alumni. Read More Aaron Sorkin '83 and Michael H. Weber '00 Earn Oscar Nominations Aaron Sorkin '83, H'12 and Michael H. Weber '00 were honored by The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences with Oscar nominations for their work in the Best Adapted Screenplay category. Read More Save the Date: Orange Central 2018! Coming off a highly successful Orange Central Weekend in 2017, the Syracuse University Alumni Association is pleased to announce that the 2018 Orange Central Weekend is Oct. 18-21. Read More Linda Tatar Landau '76: Orange Pride, Arizona-Style Linda Tatar Landau’76 has embraced her role as a Syracuse University ambassador and currently serves as president of the Syracuse University Alumni Club of Arizona. Read More Atlanta-Area Generation Orange Alumni Credit SU for Success Samantha ’09 and Patrick Bresnahan ’09, G’14 and Faith Abubey '08 are among the many passionate and dedicated Generation Orange alumni (graduates of the last 10 years) living in Atlanta who credit their career successes to their time spent at Syracuse University. Read More Alumni Club Gives $100,000 to Syracuse University Thanks to a generous gift from Olive Hall '43, G'48, Ph.D., the Syracuse University Alumni Club of Southern California has created an endowed scholarship to honor Hall's life and legacy. Read More GO Pro Wine Tasting Series Launching Generation Orange alumni — graduates of the past 10 years — can enjoy a sequel to Wine Appreciation with our upcoming GO (Generation Orange) Pro events. This year, the series is visiting Boston (Feb. 6), DC (Feb. 8), New York City (Feb. 15), and Los Angeles (Feb. 22). The first topic of this new event series will be wine tasting. Read More Syracuse Discovers Events Shine Spotlight on SU Innovation The Syracuse University Alumni Association is pleased to announce several upcoming Syracuse Discovers events that will provide alumni across the country with an inside look at the outstanding research being conducted on campus. Read More Student Group Spreads Meaning of "Forever Orange" The Forever Orange Student Alumni Council hopes to educate current students on the different ways they can show their Orange pride by getting involved and giving back to Syracuse University. Read More Watch Syracuse University Sparkle for the Holidays Enjoy our holiday greeting, then share how Orange adds a sparkle to your world, using #holidayorange. Read More Heritage Profile: Alumni Note Progress in Native American Recognition Ann Drumheller ’89 and Duane Blue Spruce ’84 share their stories of Native Heritage pride as Syracuse University alumni. Read More Trio of Alumni Veterans Discuss Service and Their Love for SU In honor of Veterans Day, a trio of Syracuse University alumni veterans discuss their service to their country, and why Syracuse is such a supportive place for veterans and their families. Read More An Orange Love Story and a Life Saved Meghan Meehan ’03 and Evan Fischbein ’03 met at Syracuse in 2001. Married ten years later, they define what it means to love each other “in sickness and in health.” Here’s their Orange Love story. Read More SUAA Unveils Orange Advantage Series Cities for 2017-18 After successful fall events in Seattle and San Francisco, the Syracuse University Alumni Association will continue the Orange Advantage professional development series with stops in several cities during 2018. Read More Passionate Alumni from Class of 1992 Throw Highly Successful 25th Reunion Celebration Members of Syracuse University's Class of 1992 showed incredible dedication and school spirit in the months leading up to Orange Central, SU’s annual Homecoming and Reunion celebration. More than 170 alumni from the Class of 1992 attended their 25th reunion celebration. Read More Alumna Profile: Amie Freling '89 Shares How SU Influenced Her Art, Design Career Amie Freling '89 is a well-known artist and designer in her hometown, Rochester, N.Y. As the founder of Meme Hill Studio (http://memehill.com), she provides services across the country ranging from interior design and furniture painting to color consultations, murals, and faux finishes. Read More SUAA Announces Men's and Women's Basketball Tailgate Series The Syracuse University Alumni Association is pleased to announce its series of men's and women's basketball tailgates for the 2017-18 season. Read More Mission Accomplished! Syracuse University Soars in First-Ever Giving Day Boost the ’Cuse, Syracuse’s 24 hours of giving, launched with an initial goal of 1,870 donors, and the historic day ended with nearly double that. 3,568 donors raised $1,769,780 for Syracuse University—unlocking all of the additional funds made possible by a generous challenge gift from Life Trustee Daniel A. D’Aniello ’68. Read More Syracuse Life Trustee Launches University’s First Giving Day With $500,000 Gift The generosity of Daniel A. D’Aniello ’68, a University Life Trustee, and his wife, Gayle, is the catalyst behind the launch of Boost the Cuse, Syracuse University’s first ever Giving Day on Oct. 17. The D’Aniello family has pledged $500,000 to match new or additional gifts. Read More Four Accomplished Alumni to Receive Arents Awards During Orange Central This fall during Orange Central, the Syracuse University Alumni Association will recognize four exceptional alumni for excellence and innovation in their fields during the Arents Awards Celebration. The Arents Award is Syracuse University’s highest alumni honor. Read More Heritage Profile: Alumni Celebrate Hispanic and Latino Pride As we celebrate National Hispanic Heritage Month, we’re proud to profile three outstanding alumni in our new Heritage Profile Series. Read More Alumni Clubs Hosting Game Watches for Clemson Clash The Syracuse University Alumni Association is pleased to offer an opportunity for alumni to cheer on the Syracuse University football team during its Oct. 13 game against the defending national champions from Clemson University. Read More SUAA Board of Directors Welcomes Four New Directors The Syracuse University Alumni Association Board of Directors is pleased to announce the addition of four new directors. Effective July 1, 2017, Jennifer Dandrea ’05, Karen (Au) Frank ’03, Melissa Richards-Person ’89, and Jason Yaley ’05, G’06 are directors on the SUAA Board. Read More Alumni highlight: Jason Ho '06 For New York City-born Jason Ho ’06, it was important to choose a school that could provide an authentic American college experience. He found it in Syracuse University. Read More Syracuse University Pride Runs Deep in Legacy Families Attending SU is like a rite of passage for these ’Cuse legacy families. Their passion for and love of SU dates back generations and has been passed down like a family heirloom. Read More Tracy Barash ’89 Excited to Serve as SUAA President Meet Tracy Barash ’89, who recently stepped into her role as president of the Syracuse University Alumni Association. She calls it “a great honor,” and she can’t wait to connect with SU alums. Read More Alumni Share Their #HireOrange Success Stories Alumni are always willing to help a fellow SU alumnus, and SU’s vast alumni network can lead to career advancement and exciting job opportunities. Read More Syracuse University Alumni Association 200 Walnut Place Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.3258 Email: sualumni@syr.edu Alumni Links Upcoming Events Career Services Alumni Clubs Make a Gift About SUAA SU Links SU Home SU Admissions SU News Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Social Media Directory © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.