Connect About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Update My Info Find Classmates Help Syracuse University Alumni Association Menu Sign In site search site search Update My Info Find Classmates Help Connect with ’Cuse About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance Your Career #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend an Event Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact and FAQs FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Connect with ’Cuse Advance Your Career Attend an Event Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Contact and FAQs About SUAA SUAA Board Benefits of Membership Alumni Awards Arents Award Chancellor’s Citation Eggers Senior Alumni Award Generation Orange Award Military/Veteran Award Orange Circle Award Outstanding Alumni Award Outstanding Young Alumni Award Alumni of Color Alumni News The Slice ’Cuse Conversations Podcasts News Archive Class Notes Connect Virtually Zoom Instructions and Tips Current Students Forever Orange Student Alumni Council Generation Orange Generation Orange Leadership Council Welcome to the City Guides Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Home Connect Alumni News ’Cuse Conversations Podcasts ’Cuse Conversations Podcasts The ’Cuse Conversations Podcast, hosted by John Boccacino ’03 and Chris Velardi ’95 from the Office of Alumni Engagement communications team, allows listeners to hear directly from the talented and outstanding Syracuse University alumni who are making a difference in their communities, as well as current students and faculty members. Subscribe to the ’Cuse Conversations Podcast on iTunes, Google Play, Spotify, Stitcher, RadioPublic, and everywhere else you find your podcasts. Once you’ve subscribed, encourage your Orange friends and family to do the same. Be sure to rate and review our podcast, and you can also leave us a comment with suggestions for future podcast guests! Podcast Home Episode 103: Lacrosse standout Katie (Rowan) Thomson '09, G'10 Katie (Rowan) Thomson '09, G’10 helped the Orange women’s lacrosse program develop into a perennial power during her four years on campus. An electrifying playmaker, Thomson graduated as Syracuse’s all-time leader in points (396) and assists (164). A three-time All-American, Thomson’s teams won the program’s first-ever NCAA tournament game in 2007 and later reached its first Final Four in 2008. Thomson became the first female lacrosse player and second female student-athlete to have her jersey retired when her No. 21 was raised to the Dome rafters on Feb. 20. Thomson shares how she was blown away by the honor of having her jersey retired, her favorite memories from her time with the Orange, and how she’s applying the lessons she learned at Syracuse to the next wave of talented Division I standouts as the head women’s lacrosse coach at the University at Albany. Episode 103 Audio and transcript (coming soon). Total run time: 25:10. Episode 102: Grammy Award winner Joanie Leeds '00 It’s a musical Cuse Conversation with Joanie Leeds '00, 2021 Grammy Award winner for best children’s music album. She teamed up with a female producer and several talented female musicians to create "All the Ladies, " an album designed to entertain, inspire, educate and empower. Joanie shares the story of her journey and the chances, odd jobs and interesting gigs she took along the way to becoming a successful artist who creates music loved by children and their parents. Learn about Joanie's spring/summer concert dates on her website and find her music on YouTube, Spotify and more. Episode 102 Audio and transcript (coming soon). Total run time: 34:40 Episode 101: Author, speaker and life coach David Essel '79 As a kid growing up in Utica, David Essel wanted to be an NBA star. While he walked on to the Syracuse University men's basketball team, his time at the University ultimately led him on a very different professional journey. He's built a successful career writing about and supporting people through addiction recovery, relationship difficulties, grief counseling and professional challenges.Visit his website to learn more about Essel's work. He is a big believer in the power of positivity, which has been both difficult to come by and more important than ever during the last two years of pandemic living. Essel talks about his education and experience at Syracuse University and his drive to help others in this 'Cuse Conversation. Episode 101 Audio and Transcript (coming soon) Total run time: 21:42. Episode 100: NFL Network Host Andrew Siciliano '96 Andrew Siciliano '96 doesn't know how he got so lucky. Every Sunday is surreal as he brings highlights from around the NFL to millions of fans around the world as host of DIRECTV's RedZone Channel. As Super Bowl 56 approaches, Siciliano will be in Los Angeles as part of NFL Network’s coverage of the big game. On this 'Cuse Conversation, Siciliano discusses the Super Bowl and the role he will play for NFL Network. He shares the biggest ways Syracuse University and WAER impacted his broadcasting style, reveals the big break that launched his career, and gives advice to sportscasters looking to follow in his footsteps. Episode 100 Audio and Transcript (coming soon). Total run time: Episode 99: Fueling Team USA's Olympians with Dietitian Maggie McCrudden '14 The Winter Olympics are underway in Beijing, and Team USA’s top athletes have their sights set on winning gold on the world stage. But before these athletes compete, many of them work on developing healthy nutrition habits with Maggie McCrudden '14, the food and nutrition registered dietitian for the U.S. Olympic and Paralympic Committee who leads Team USA’s nutrition program. McCrudden, a former rower at Syracuse University, discusses how she developed a lifelong appreciation for food and its impact on our bodies, and how her approach to nutrition incorporates data and science with meeting people where they are. She shares how being a former Division I student-athlete helps her gain the trust of these Olympians and why her four years at Syracuse University were truly transformative. Episode 99 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 31:53. Episode 98: Jared Kraham '13: Binghamton's History-Making Mayor When Jared Kraham '13 was sworn in as the mayor of Binghamton on Jan. 1, he made history as the youngest mayor in the city’s 220-year history. On this Cuse Conversation, Kraham shares how his time at Maxwell and Newhouse influenced him to become a politician, and why Syracuse University inspired him to join the next generation of policymakers and make a difference in his hometown. Kraham discusses the challenges of leading during COVID-19, how he convinced voters to entrust the future of their city to a 30-year-old, why his whole life was building up to serve as Binghamton's mayor, and why he was determined to help save Binghamton's minor league baseball team. Episode 98 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 32:31. Episode 97: Rob McClanaghan '01 Opens Up On the surface, Rob McClanaghan '01 seemed to be "living his best life." As a skills trainer for some of the NBA's biggest superstars, he was traveling the world in private jets, sitting courtside at big games and had just published a book about his work with the league's elite. But McClanaghan says that lifestyle was a "façade" that was hiding his struggles with anxiety and depression, something he kept quiet until sharing his story - including his 2019 suicide attempt - in a powerful essay in The Player's Tribune in December 2021. In this 'Cuse Conversation podcast, McClanaghan talks about the importance of opening up and the impact his story has already had on so many people. He also explains how his hard work and resilience earned him a spot on the Syracuse University basketball team, shares some stories about his training career and, most important, emphasizes the importance of opening up and addressing mental health issues. Episode 97 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 34:41 YES! Recounting the career of Hall of Fame Sportscaster Marv Albert '63 When he was in the third grade, Marv Albert '63 wanted to become a sportscaster. He studied journalism at Syracuse University's S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications, and soon, Albert was calling Syracuse Chiefs games alongside Orange legend Carl Eilenberg H'53. Albert's big break came when Marty Glickman '39 hired Albert to be his researcher, spotter, statistician and backup announcer. After a 55-year career that included calling 13 NBA finals, eight Super Bowls and eight Stanley Cup finals, Albert retired after the 2021 NBA Eastern Conference Finals. The Hall of Famer discusses his career, how he came up with his signature "YES!" call, how he found his voice at Syracuse University and on WAER, and why calling the 1992 Dream Team’s gold medal-winning performance stands out among his favorite sportscasting moments. Episode 96 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 35:37. Episode 95: Felisha Legette-Jack '89: Using Basketball to Transform Lives Felicia Legette-Jack ’89 was a standout for the Syracuse University women's basketball team who recently became the University's first female student-athlete to have her jersey number retired high atop the Dome. Syracuse transformed Legette-Jack's life, and now, Legette-Jack is helping to change the lives of her student-athletes as the head women's basketball coach at the University at Buffalo. Hear how Legette-Jack received a life-altering experience on campus, why she wanted to establish a dominant women's basketball program, how an injury opened her eyes to becoming a coach, and why she preferred playing in the intimate Manley Field House atmosphere. Episode 95 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 33:48. Episode 94: Pixar Animation Studios President Jim Morris '77, G'78 As a child, Jim Morris ’77, G’78 dreamed of creating visually appealing films that connect with audiences; as the president of Pixar Animation Studios, he is living out that dream. Forty-four years after his first animated film, Morris produced the Academy Award-winning hit "WALL-E," bringing his love of movies full circle. Morris, one of the 2021 Arents Award winners, reflects back on his distinguished career while discussing his favorite Pixar projects. He reveals how he abandoned his career as a local news cameraman to pursue his dreams, shares how Pixar navigated the challenges of COVID 19 and gets emotional talking about how Pixar's films change lives, especially for children with autism. Episode 94 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 39:28. Subscribe Now Archived Podcasts Syracuse University Alumni Association 200 Walnut Place Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.3258 Email: sualumni@syr.edu Alumni Links Upcoming Events Career Services Alumni Clubs Make a Gift About SUAA SU Links SU Home SU Admissions SU News Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Social Media Directory © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.