Connect About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Update My Info Find Classmates Help Syracuse University Alumni Association Menu Sign In site search site search Update My Info Find Classmates Help Connect with ’Cuse About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance Your Career #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend an Event Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact and FAQs FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Connect with ’Cuse Advance Your Career Attend an Event Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Contact and FAQs About SUAA SUAA Board Benefits of Membership Alumni Awards Arents Award Chancellor’s Citation Eggers Senior Alumni Award Generation Orange Award Military/Veteran Award Orange Circle Award Outstanding Alumni Award Outstanding Young Alumni Award Alumni of Color Alumni News The Slice ’Cuse Conversations Podcasts News Archive Class Notes Connect Virtually Zoom Instructions and Tips Current Students Forever Orange Student Alumni Council Generation Orange Generation Orange Leadership Council Welcome to the City Guides Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Home Connect Connect Virtually Zoom Instructions and Tips Zoom Instructions and Tips We are so glad you plan to join us for a virtual program! Though you are not required to have a Zoom account to participate in Syracuse University virtual programs, opening a free account with these programs may enhance your experience. You will need a computer, tablet or phone. Please note there are differences for Zoom meeting and webinar programs. Thank you for staying connected! Before Your Program Complete your program registration. This will sign you up to receive the email with the direct link and any instructions the week of the program. Go to the Zoom Test Site to ensure your device camera and sound work with Zoom. Be sure you are using Zoom version 5.0/the latest version of the software to avoid any technical difficulties/troubles. The Zoom application must be allowed access to the camera and microphone within the system settings –check this on your individual devices. If you'd like, download and use a Zoom virtual background from Syracuse University or Syracuse Athletics. During Your Program As you join the program, mute your microphone to help avoid feedback and disturbances. Simply click the microphone icon in the bottom corner of your screen so that it appears crossed out and red. For Zoom Webinar you will have no video or mic and be in a “listen only” mode. Click the three dots in the upper right corner of your video screen, and select rename to change your screen name displayed to other participants. We recommend changing it to your first name, last name, and Syracuse University class year. For the best viewing experience, it is important to follow any suggestions provided by the Host. Be mindful of your camera and microphone use. You could interrupt the program by accidentally unmuting or appearing on screen. If a presenter is sharing their screen, set your screen to speaker view and not gallery view. Click on the view option in the upper right-hand corner of the viewing screen. We encourage you to utilize the Zoom chat to converse with guests, react to speakers, and ask questions! For Zoom Webinar you can raise your hand and ask questions via Q&A or chat to host/co-host or panelists. Good shortcuts to know for Zoom meetings: If you are joining by phone, *6 will toggle mute on and off for you. Press space bar to unmute yourself briefly. You can adjust several settings if you are experiencing problems with mic and video. Click on the carrot next to the video bottom left of your screen. This will bring up a settings menu. Check out all of our virtual program offerings at Connect Virtually. Thanks, and Go Orange! Syracuse University Alumni Association 200 Walnut Place Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.3258 Email: sualumni@syr.edu Alumni Links Upcoming Events Career Services Alumni Clubs Make a Gift About SUAA SU Links SU Home SU Admissions SU News Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Social Media Directory © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.