Connect About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Update My Info Find Classmates Help Syracuse University Alumni Association Menu Sign In site search site search Update My Info Find Classmates Help Connect with ’Cuse About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance Your Career #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend an Event Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact and FAQs FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Connect with ’Cuse Advance Your Career Attend an Event Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Contact and FAQs A Reunion to Remember « Back by Chris Velardi '95 There were no fiery campaign speeches or combative debates; no one put up any lawn signs or purchased media ads, nonetheless Ron Harrington '60 has been re-elected⁠—or more accurately, reappointed⁠—to serve as class president for Syracuse University's Class of 1960. It's a position he has held, uninterrupted, for 63 years. "That's got to be some kind of record," jokes Harrington, a retired attorney from Ventura, California (at podium in photo, left). For the last two years, Harrington's "presidential agenda" has been focused on a singular and significant issue⁠—getting his classmates back to campus to celebrate their 60th Reunion⁠... in person. Thanks to a combination that included a good deal of persistence and a valuable partnership, that reunion happened May 20-22, 2022. The persistence came from Harrington and a handful of his friends who never stopped working to make the gathering happen; the partnership was forged with the University's Office of Alumni Engagement, which handled much of the planning and took care of many of the logistics. During a weekend which featured bright sunshine and unseasonably warm temperatures, about 40 enthusiastic octogenarians returned to Syracuse to reconnect with one another; share stories, memories and meals; and see a campus that, though familiar, has grown significantly since they were students. "So much has changed—the Schine Student Center, the Newhouse complex, the National Veterans Resource Center—but I appreciate that the Quad is still the Quad," says Warren La Heist '60, who made the trip from Chesapeake Beach, Maryland. This gathering was originally scheduled to be part of Orange Central 2020, but the COVID-19 pandemic forced Syracuse University's annual homecoming and reunion weekend online that fall. Some members of the class participated in the 2020 "Zoom-union" and a few returned to campus in the fall of 2021 to join a combined 60th Reunion with the Class of 1961, but Harrington and his friends longed for something more. "We started thinking, let's try to get a May reunion for our class," said Harrington, who has been part of weekly Zoom catch-ups with classmates Mark Rothman '60, L'63, Jack Heister '60 and Bill McGowan '60 (McGowan, Harrington, Heister and Rothman pose with a painting by Heister that the group presented to Harrington in photo, right). "It's nice being able to get together on Zoom, but being together in person is great," says Rothman, a retired attorney in Aspen, Colorado. "The weather was nice, the campus wasn't jammed. At our age, it's much nicer to be together in the good weather." "The longer away I get from my graduation, the stronger I feel my connection to Syracuse University and my classmates," says McGowan, who made the relatively short trip from Penn Yan. Lifelong friendships are only part of this group's lasting legacy. The Class of 1960 established an endowed scholarship in order to provide educational opportunities for generations of Syracuse University students. Rothman, who made a significant pledge towards the scholarship during Saturday evening's dinner, says his support of the scholarship is deeply personal. "I went to Syracuse on a state scholarship; I came from a very modest background," says Rothman, a Syracuse native who was a member of Nottingham High School's first graduating class. "I want to make sure that more young people can go to college and have the opportunity that I had because I don't think I would have been able to do what I did if I didn't have the opportunity to go to college." "I feel good that some future students will say, 'I made it here because of the Class of 1960'," says Rothman. "They didn't know anybody in this room, but our class helped them." The scholarship and the opportunities it continues to provide is a strong source of pride for this group of classmates, who've built lifelong connections on a foundation of four years on the Syracuse University campus. "Love. We all love Syracuse. We wouldn't be here if we didn't," says Harrington. Syracuse University Alumni Association 200 Walnut Place Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.3258 Email: sualumni@syr.edu Alumni Links Upcoming Events Career Services Alumni Clubs Make a Gift About SUAA SU Links SU Home SU Admissions SU News Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Social Media Directory © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.