Connect About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Update My Info Find Classmates Help Syracuse University Alumni Association Menu Sign In site search site search Update My Info Find Classmates Help Connect with ’Cuse About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance Your Career #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend an Event Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact and FAQs FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Connect with ’Cuse Advance Your Career Attend an Event Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Contact and FAQs About SUAA SUAA Board Benefits of Membership Alumni Awards Arents Award Chancellor’s Citation Eggers Senior Alumni Award Generation Orange Award Military/Veteran Award Orange Circle Award Outstanding Alumni Award Outstanding Young Alumni Award Alumni of Color Alumni News The Slice ’Cuse Conversations Podcasts News Archive Class Notes Connect Virtually Zoom Instructions and Tips Current Students Forever Orange Student Alumni Council Generation Orange Generation Orange Leadership Council Welcome to the City Guides Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Home Connect Generation Orange Generation Orange Leadership Council Generation Orange Leadership Council The Generation Orange Leadership Council (GOLC) is a group of motivated young alumni looking for ways to better engage with and serve Syracuse University’s graduates of the past decade. The council strives to nurture relationships and encourage lifelong engagement among Syracuse University’s young alumni through programming and communications that are uniquely tailored to their own needs and perspectives. The council is comprised of 34 members ranging from the classes of 2010 through 2020. They focus on events, career services and lifelong learning, communications and marketing, fundraising and regional programming. The following young alumni are currently serving on the Generation Orange Leadership Council. Whether you want to have a discussion about career development or just grab a cup of coffee, feel free to reach out to anyone on the Council. Aziz Al-Sulaiti '19 (He/Him/His) Government/Consultancy, Doha, Qatar After graduating from Economics, Policy Studies, and Political Philosophy at Maxwell, Aziz Al-Sulaiti went back home to Qatar, to kick off his professional career in government consultancy. When chance arises, he likes to golf (something learned back at Syracuse) or immersing himself in Qatar’s cultural museums and art exhibitions. Aziz pursued his goal of starting up a consultancy firm that specializes in facilitating public-private partnership projects with a fellow Syracuse friend. Despite the challenges from the 2020 pandemic, Aziz credits the Orange community to remind him to cherish the good and the bad, to learn from past experiences and move forward in a principled and positive manner. On campus, he was involved with the Delta Upsilon Fraternity, Student Association Judicial Review Board, Economics Student Association, University Senator, Building Organizations Leadership Development Program Coordinator, University 100 , Class Act Ambassador, and Public Policy and Data Management Consultant for the Institute for Veterans and Military Families. Reach out to Aziz on LinkedIn or via email. Neema Amadala G'17 (she/her/hers) Advertising/Marketing/Communications, Toronto, Canada As an international student at Syracuse University, Neema was involved with the Center for International Services (formerly known as the Slutzker Center) helping fellow international students feel welcome on campus along with creating PR for the Division of Enrollment and the Student Experience. After graduation, Neema moved down to New York City to work in advertising. She has since returned to Canada where she now works in marketing. She continues to volunteer with Syracuse University from afar, sharing her experience as an international student with prospective and incoming international students. Once COVID allows, she is looking forward to building and strengthening the ‘Cuse community through in-person events in Toronto. She hopes to build the Forever Orange spirit with fellow international students regardless of where they currently call home. If you've got ideas on this or just want to chat about your experience at Syracuse University, connect with Neema on LinkedIn! Stephanie Ann '15 (She/Her/Hers) Sports Television Producer & Director, Chicago/Amherst, Mass. Boston Steph fell in love with Syracuse from the very first moment she stepped on campus as a visitor in October 2010. A double major in Newhouse’s Broadcast & Digital Journalism and Falk’s Sport Management programs, she added to that instant “at-home” feeling by joining CitrusTV, Orange Television Network, Women in Sports & Events (WISE), the Quidditch team, and the Disney College Program. Steph’s advice to recent graduates or newcomers in any city is to find the closest Syracuse Alumni Club! Without the Baltimore group, she wouldn’t have found new friends in her former city, become the Board Chair of the Baltimore Alumni Club, or started her freelance career in sports television. Now Steph is back in the classroom, going for both an MBA and an MS in Sport Management at the University of Massachusetts Amherst. She's taken her Orange Spirit with her and, boy, do her classmates know it. Steph values the relationships she has with fellow Syracuse graduates and wants to help the next generation; she’s always available on Twitter & LinkedIn and over email to chat. Kevin Belbey '13, G‘16, L'16 (He/Him/His) Sports Media Agent at Creative Artists Agency Kevin’s favorite memory during his time on campus is Syracuse's run to the 2013 Final Four. In college, Kevin was involved with the men's basketball team, WJPZ, and CitrusTV. Now the director of sports broadcasting at The Montag Group in New York City, Kevin spends his free time cheering on the Orange in basketball and continuing to volunteer and attend events at Lubin House. He also founded and is the General Manager of the SU alumni basketball team “Boeheim’s Army” that competes in the $2 million winner-take-all “The Basketball Tournament.” His advice to current students: find a company to work for that values your unique skill set and background. After applying online to more than 150 companies, Kevin realized that he, “would find a career by using [his] Syracuse contacts and going out and meeting people in person.” Andrew Brown ‘16 (He/Him/His) Real Estate Development, Boston, MA Andrew is the Co-Executive Director of the Generation Orange Leadership Council and is bringing Orange with him all throughout the Northeast when tasting local eateries, hiking with his dog and exploring the area from Lake Winnipesaukee, NH and Stow, VT. After graduating in Civil Engineering, he was nervous entering a full-time job in an industry he spent only months in before. He participates in the Boston Alumni Club and helps the local admissions team's efforts by interviewing high school students interested in joining SU. Remember, there are over a quarter-million alumni in all 50 states and 171 countries and territories. While at Syracuse, Andrew participated in Syracuse University Ambulance (SUA), a group of around 70 students who provided life-saving medical care to the campus community of over 26,000 people 24/7/365, participated as a member of the National Society of Black Engineers and the American Society of Civil Engineers. He credits those organizations for supporting his growth academically and connected the students with local professionals that ensured everyone could put their best foot forward when entering the job market. Email Andrew to learn more. Justin Cole '11 (He/Him/His) Presidential Innovation Fellow, General Services Administration, Washington, DC On campus, Justin was involved with Habitat for Humanity, Alpha Phi Omega, First Year Players, Relay for Life, and Running Club. Now as a managing consultant at IBM in Washington, D.C., Justin pursues hobbies he had cultivated back on campus. He bikes, is an amateur woodworker, and is learning how to play the banjo. His favorite memory at Syracuse is ringing the Crouse bells. Justin says he was, “blessed to receive enough scholarship support to enable a low-to-moderate income first-generation college graduate from northern New York to attend a school that seemed so unattainable growing up.” Justin continues to help coordinate the Generation Orange Professional (GO Pro) series events in the DC area and serves on the Board of Community Tax Aid, a DC-based non-profit that provides free tax preparation for low-income individuals. Contact Justin by email. Abigail Covington '19, G'20 Strategy and Operations Consultant, Gagen MacDonald, Washington, DC From her time as a Writing Studies Rhetoric & Composition major to her completion of a Master’s in Media Management at Newhouse, Abigail has made an impact across the Syracuse University community. She was a Remembrance Scholar, a member of the Black Leadership Network, a leader in the Straighten Your Crown program and more. With a strong connection to the OTHC scholarship, Abigail is eager to be a resource for students in ways that she had experienced during her time at Syracuse University. She is currently working on a merger and acquisition integration for a global pharmaceutical company. In her free time, you can find her at concerts or travelling with friends. You can contact Abigail via email. Anthony Dabbundo ’21 Staff Writer, New York, NY Anthony graduated in 2021 from Maxwell School of Citizenship and Newhouse School of Communications with degrees in Broadcast and Digital Journalism and Policy Studies. During his time at Syracuse, Anthony was a Senior Staff Writer for the Daily Orange, Lead Writer for The Illuminating Project’s website, and a Production Assistant and On-Air Anchor on CitrusTV, among many other roles. Currently, Anthony is a Staff Writer at The Action Network. Michael "Mike" DiNardo '20 (He/Him/His) Deployment Planner for Danone North America, White Plains, NY Mike’s favorite Syracuse moment is when he was paired with his OrangeSeeds mentor, it was the day he realized how many amazing people are at Syracuse and how it is a place to grow and develop yourself. While the Class of 2020 did not receive the normal senior year fanfare, Mike DiNardo went back to his childhood home and started a new job, grateful to be working and jumping into a career to get his feet wet. As a dual major in Supply Chain Management and Psychology, Mike took advantage of all opportunities, Mike was a Remembrance Scholar, Co-Director of OrangeSeeds, President of Phi Sigma Pi, Whitman Peer Mentor, Honors Peer Mentor, and part of OttoTHON. Mike enjoys playing and watching sports, running, cooking, and catching up with friends. You can email Mike or reach out via LinkedIn. Katie Hoole '13 (She/Her/Hers) Full-Time Student in Goizueta's MBA Program, Atlanta, GA Katie loves engaging with the Orange community - hearing from students and alumni about what they love about being Orange. She takes full-advantage of all the offerings SU has to offer students from career support to events. Outside of being a spirited alumna, Katie has worked in public education for the last 8 years. She spends her free time reading, cooking and practicing yoga. While at Syracuse, she was an Orientation Leader, a member of University 100 and a member of the Student Philanthropy Council (now known as FOSAC). Contact Katie by email or via LinkedIn. Sahil Jain '13 (He/Him/His) Foreign Service Officer, Washington, D.C. Foreign Service Officer, Washington, D.C. A graduate of the International Relations program, Sahil is currently a Foreign Service Officer. In his senior year, he participated in the SU in DC program, with an internship at the Department of State, which he knew helped him decide what he wanted to do and where I wanted to live with an easy transition. He knows how important mentorship and networking is, especially with SU’s renowned professors, and looks forward to supporting young alumni and the university community in ways that he experienced in his undergrad and postgrad experience. In his free time, you can find Sahil reading, playing basketball, or traveling, while also reminiscing on his study abroad experience in both India and the U.K. Connect with Sahil on LinkedIn. Charles "Chuck" Lerner '14 (He/Him/His) Engagement at Tao Group Hospitality, New York City With interests in sports management, Chuck Lerner was a manager of the Syracuse men’s basketball team and was fortunate enough to experience the best weekend ever, the 2013 Final Four. Chuck recommends that everyone recognizes mistakes will happen but that long term success comes from turning the mistakes into solutions. Early in his professional career, a supervisor informed him that he was part of the problem if he did not come to the table with a solution. To current, former and future students, he recommends to “NEVER say no to an opportunity and always SHOW UP!” Along with the Syracuse Men's Basketball Manager, he was part of the Phi Kappa Alpha Leadership Fraternity and the Dulye Leadership Experience. Contact Chuck via email. Lizette Lewis '13, G'14 (She/Her/Hers) Urban Planning Professional, Syracuse, NY During her freshman year at Syracuse University, Lizette met her best friend and current partner who helped her navigate through the college experience. Lizette enjoyed being a part of the University Judicial Board, a CRS Peer advisor, MVP Peer facilitator for the Advocacy Center, participating in VPA and SU Caribbean Association modeling shows, and being featured in the Syracuse Feminist Magazine, which explored gender roles on campus. She is a past fellow of the Kauffman Entrepreneurship Engagement Fellowship program with the Whitman School of Management. She is currently a Planner with Bergmann, an Engineering, Architecture and Planning firm. She is a recent graduate of the Nourishing Tomorrow's Leader's Program, a program designed to prepare motivated leaders in the community to learn the fundamentals of being on a non-profit board while promoting diversity and inclusivity. In the Syracuse area, Lizette loves walking the Onondaga Creekwalk, participating in Reading Discussion Book Clubs, kickboxing, swimming and practicing yoga and meditation. She volunteers at the Downtown Living Tour and Earth Day Clean Up hosted by the Downtown Committee of Syracuse, CNY Fair Housing, and is an Upstate American Planning Association Board Member for the Central NY Division Chapter. She is currently a member of Leadership Greater Syracuse Class of 2020, and is a FullCIRCLE mentor with the Office of Multicultural Affairs FullCircle Mentoring Program. She loves to cook and model in her free time. You can contact Lizette on LinkedIn. Maliz Mahop '15 (She/Her/Hers) Lagos, Nigeria Maliz continues the Orange spirit by mentoring current students and graciously serving as an alumni ambassador for events. Her advice to current students: while you are at Syracuse, plan for your post-college life but do not forget to enjoy those moments and “Live your BEST SU Life!” Maliz recently moved to the Lagos, Nigeria area from Dallas, TX. She works at Del York International Group, Africa’s foremost strategic communication and media company as a Global Communication and Partnerships Manager. She enjoys going to church, mentoring youth, watching movies/favorite shows, shopping, and attending conferences. While on campus, Maliz was a proud member of Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc., Iota Upsilon Chapter, OMA mentoring groups, Student Leadership Institute, resident adviser for the Fashion Learning Community, Our Time Has Come Scholar, and Syracuse Study Abroad student. Contact Maliz via LinkedIn or by emailing her. Gianna M. Mangicaro ’18 (She/Her/Hers) Assistant Director Enrollment and Student Services, Syracuse, NY Born and raised in Syracuse, Gianna always had a strong connection with Syracuse University. Once she arrived for her first day of undergrad, she loved the Orange spirit at the university so much that she never left. Gianna graduated summa cum laude from the Whitman School of Management with a bachelor’s degree in management in 2018. While completing her degree, she began working at Syracuse University’s Office of Pre-College Programs. There, Gianna works to provide an unforgettable, transformational, Orange experience to high school students from around the world, where they are able to explore SyracuseUniversity in 100+ courses before even stepping onto the campus for undergrad. In addition to her role, Gianna is currently pursuing a master’s degree in business administration from the Whitman School of Management at Syracuse University. Feel free to connect with Gianna via LinkedIn. Jasmine Mangum '16 (She/Her/Hers) Financial Services, NY As president of the Generation Orange Leadership Council, Jasmine is active in the Orange community. A sitting steering committee member of the OTHC TAG-BCCE Living Legacy Endowed Fund for the Black Celestial Choral Ensemble (BCCE), a group in which Jasmine was involved as an undergraduate, the program raises money to grant scholarships to current students. A mentor in the Syracuse University Mentor Mentee Alliance program, Jasmine is hands on with a current high school student as she shepherds them to one day bleed orange! As a member of the National Campaign Council (NCC), Jasmine is tasked with the responsibility of serving as a visible leader for the University on behalf of the Generation Leadership Council. While a member on campus, Jasmine was VP of Student Engagement for the South Campus Organization for Programming Excellence (SCOPE) and a Resident Advisor in the Office of Residence Life (ORL) now renamed the Office of Student Living. Jasmine currently works in North American Financial Lines for Chubb Insurance. A New York City native, she enjoys trying some of the best pizza, planning international travel adventures and visiting historic sites. Contact Jasmine via email. Jennie May '17 (She/Her/Hers) Supply Chain Management, Pratt & Whitney, Connecticut As Vice President of the Generation Orange Leadership Council, Jennie hopes to encourage and empower new events in this new era of higher education and alumni engagement. From August 2021 through June 2022 she is studying in Cambridge, Massachusetts, pursuing her Masters in Supply Chain Management at MIT. Jennie continues her Syracuse University involvement with Connecticut’s two alumni groups (the Westchester/Fairfield and the Western Mass/CT clubs) in virtual, Zoom events (previously, student send-offs and game watches). She enjoys taking advantage of New England’s sights and attractions. Back on campus, Jennie participated in University 100 tour guides, OrangeSeeds, Swim Club, Enactus, Alpha Gamma Delta, Delta Sigma Pi, Student Philanthropy Council (now FOSAC), PRSSA and Syracuse Study Abroad. Contact Jennie via LinkedIn. Dante Moss '18 Financial Services, Tampa, FL While at Syracuse, Dante was involved in the community program 'Cuse Spot, Phi Delta Theta Fraternity, and SAT Tutoring. Now, enjoying the warmer weather in Florida, Dante spends time reading, salsa dancing, and boxing. He had a memorable first semester of college that was spent in Florence, Italy through the Discovery Program. “Analysis paralysis” is something Dante takes to heart now, he stresses to recent graduates the importance of not hesitating and overthinking. Act on good advice quickly and do not wait until you know everything, he advises. Contact Dante on LinkedIn. Nicole Osborne '14, G'20 (She/Her/Hers) Education Policy, Syracuse, NY Nicole’s personal motto for alumni engagement is: Be the Orange you want to see in the world. She enjoys working with students and Generation Orange alumni to individually define what it means to truly means to bleed Orange. As a student, Nicole was a resident advisor, peer mentor advisor in the Office of Multicultural Affairs, and teacher’s assistant in the Policy Studies Program. Nicole enjoys attending church, reading, and trying the various international cuisines CNY has to offer. Reach out to Nicole via LinkedIn. Nick Palmateer '15 Biomedical Research, Baltimore, MD A biomedical major in the College of Arts & Sciences, Nick jumped right into a full-time PhD program after graduating in 2015. Although the transition came with plenty of challenges, the time spent at Syracuse prepared him for the next step in his education. Nick spent time on campus with the Relay for Life Planning Committee, the College of Arts & Sciences Dean’s Team, the Office of Student Living’s Resident Advisors, and the record-setting crowds at Syracuse basketball games. Even today, you can find Nick in the stands at local professional and collegiate athletic competitions, especially if the Orange visit the Mid-Atlantic. Nick encourages recent graduates to explore all possible career paths that pique your interest and to take advantage of connecting with the Orange Network at-large. You can start by reaching out to Nick on LinkedIn. Amanda Quick '14 (She/Her/Hers) Consulting, New York City Amanda’s Syracuse University experiences are marked by two things: being an Orange fan and traveling internationally. Her favorite international experiences include interning at the London Olympics in 2012 with other SU students through NBC Sports and studying abroad in Hong Kong during the Spring of 2013. Amanda is still involved with the University through New Student Send-offs and various events at Lubin House in New York City. She says living in NYC allows her to consistently connect with hundreds of alumni: “Whenever I'm wearing an SU sweatshirt in the city and talk about 'Cuse, I run into someone who loves the Orange as much as I do. I'm constantly reminded that once you are a part of the SU family, you have a huge support system wherever you live.” Reach out to Amanda via email. Hannah Rebar ’18 Medical Device Industry, Boston, MA Hannah Rebar graduated from the College of Engineering and Computer Science with a bachelor’s degree in bioengineering and throughout her undergraduate journey, immersed herself in a multitude of opportunities on campus. These included Engineering World Health, Phi Sigma Pi, Tau Beta Pi, and the Biomaterials Research Lab. Her favorite experience, she says, was being a Remembrance Scholar, representing Anne Lindsey Otenasek during Remembrance Week. After graduation, she made the move from NY to MA, and found a robust network of Syracuse alumni in the area. Her advice to recent graduates is to stay connected to your Syracuse network by keeping in touch with students and faculty. While in Boston, MA, Hannah has not only expanded her Orange Nework through the Boston Alumni Club events, but has been involved with the Boston section of the Society of Women Engineers (SWE) and STEM outreach programs through her work. In her free time, Hannah enjoys hiking, walking, biking and exploring new restaurants and events in Boston. Connect with Hannah on LinkedIn. Isabel Reedy '20 Medical School Student, Milwaukee, Wisconsin Isabel credits Syracuse for inspiring her future in the medical field and for her current position as a clinical research assistant, which she started as a Health and Exercise Science major. During her unforgettable four years as an undergraduate, Isabel studied abroad twice, spending time in Dublin, Ireland and Nepal, where she hiked to the Mt. Everest Base Camp. She capped her on-campus experience by being honored as a School of Education Student Marshal. Isabel is a member of the Chicago Alumni Club and loves to celebrate her hometown by running along the lakefront and cheering on Chicago’s sports teams. Currently, Isabel resides in Milwaukee, Wisconsin where she is pursuing medical school at the Medical College of Wisconsin. You can reach out to Isabel via email. Andrew Regalado '20 (He/Him/His) U.S. Congress | Grassroots Director - Washington, D.C. A native of Southern California, Andrew is eager to gain a stronger perspective through his career, traveling, and learning about others' backgrounds and upbringings. While abroad, Andrew served as a junior diplomat and economic intern in Madrid, Spain for the U.S. Department of State and as a Ronald Reagan Scholar, he remains committed to a career in policy. To current Syracuse students, Andrew recommends to be fearless and empowered -- it is alright not having all the answers, but you find them by seeking more. On campus, Andrew was active in the Forever Orange Student Alumni Council, Delta Upsilon Fraternity, OttoTHON Dance Marathon, Student Association, Student of Color Advisory Task Force, OrangeSeeds, Lawrinson Residence Hall Association, and Student Affairs Advisory Board. In Washington, D.C., Andrew enjoys running the National Mall & Potomac River, finding new places to eat, and reconnecting with Orange friends at Happy Hour. You may connect with Andrew via LinkedIn. Amy Ribar '17 MBA student, Ann Arbor, MI Following graduation in 2017 from Whitman in Entrepreneurship and Emerging Enterprises & Marketing Management, Amy worked for fellow Syracuse alumnus in New York City before moving back to the San Francisco Bay Area. While the first role post graduation did not work out, it provided Amy a foundation for her future career in technology. Since then, she has worked in operations for delivery startups, most recently at Instacart. Now back in academia, Amy enjoys exploring the food scene, spending time outdoors walking her dog, cycling, and making ice cream. While at Syracuse, Amy was involved with University 100, Enactus, Syracuse Orange Bhangra, and the Fencing Club. You can reach out to her on LinkedIn. Ivan Robles '15 (He/Him/His) Senior Strategy Consultant | Technology, Media, & Telecom, Kaiser Associates, Los Angeles Ivan graduated in 2015 from the Maxwell School of Citizenship & Public Affairs and Whitman School of Management. He is currently a Senior Strategy Consultant at Kaiser Associates, a DC-based strategy consulting firm, in the Technology, Media, & Telecom practice, where he specializes in growth strategy. Ivan is a Los Angeles native and recently moved back after spending some time in Washington, D.C. As an undergrad, Ivan was involved in OrangeSeeds, U100, the Student Philanthropy Council (now FOSAC), and the Student Association. He continues to be engaged with SU through his involvement in the Generation Orange Leadership Council and his local SU Alumni Club (SoCal Orange). Contact Ivan via email. Aysha Seedat '16 (She/Her/Hers) Credit Analyst, Fitch Ratings, New York City Aysha Seedat graduated from Syracuse University in 2016 with a B.A. in Policy Studies and a minor in Political Science. Aysha is currently with Fitch Ratings, as a credit analyst, rating debt issuances in the infrastructure, energy, and sports space in North America. Aysha serves on the Maxwell School Advisory Board as well as the Generation Orange Leadership Council and currently resides in New York City. While at Syracuse, Aysha was elected Student Association President and was a member of a number of organizations on campus including OrangeSeeds and the Office of Multicultural Affairs’s WellsLink. During her time as President, Aysha worked on a number of initiatives, including the Vice Chancellor and Provost Search Committee and the lobbying of ride-sharing legalization in New York State. Contact Aysha via email. Laura Singer '16 (She/Her/Hers) Law student, Washington, D.C. An active undergraduate, Laura truly bled orange as a member of Delta Phi Epsilon Sorority, Syracuse Orange Bhangra, Orange Pulse Dance Troupe, the Dean's Team Peer Advisors, Syracuse Literacy Corps, and Phi Alpha Delta Pre-Law Fraternity. After graduating with a degree in Political Science from the Maxwell School of Citizenship, Laura moved to Washington D.C. for Teach for America and is now a third-year law student at the Georgetown University Law Center. Adjusting to a new city and profession is often challenging but Laura credits the support and connections she made through Syracuse University and the DC Alumni Chapter with helping her not only adjust but excel. Whether connecting with students interested in teaching or attending law school, Laura firmly believes that Bleeding Orange continues long after graduation. In her spare time, Laura enjoys taekwondo, travel, running half marathons, and mentoring with the Nationals’ Youth Baseball Academy. You can reach Laura via email. Parrish Smith '14 (He/Him/His) Asset Management, New York City, NY Parrish graduated from The Whitman School of Management at Syracuse University with a degree in Accounting. He is currently a Portfolio Specialist with a multi-strategy portfolio management team at Neuberger Berman. In addition to his involvement with the Generation Orange Leadership Council he sits on the Junior Board for the Mount Sinai Adolescent Health Center. Parrish regularly attends Big Apple Orange and Lubin House events, and enjoys the beach, running, and spends a lot of his free time traveling. While on campus, Parrish participated in Greek Life, was an Orientation Leader, and fondly remembers his time studying abroad in Madrid. Reach out to Parrish on LinkedIn. Kamille Stewart '14 (She/Her/Hers) Assistant District Attorney, New York City, NY From volunteering at the Chadwick Residence with Syracuse ENACTUS to training incoming camp counselors for Camp Kesem at Syracuse University, Kamille ascribes her passion for public service to her rich undergraduate experience. Currently, Kamille serves as an Assistant District Attorney with the Manhattan DA’s Office. Kamille’s favorite Syracuse memory is competing in and winning the 2013 Mr. and Ms. Caribfest pageant which is an annual competition hosted by the Caribbean Students Association. Kamille stays active with the Orange community as an OTHC Scholar mentor and loves connecting with future lawyers. In her spare time, Kamille enjoys adding stamps to her passport, learning new music with her bass guitar, and trying new recipes. You can connect with Kamille via email or on Linkedin. Ronald Taylor '15, G'16 (He/Him/His) Associate Director, Office for Identity, Culture and Institutional Equity at Horace Mann School, Bronx, NY Orange Central and Coming Back Together are two of Ronald’s favorite Syracuse University events. As a student who was extremely involved on campus with organizations such as Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity Inc., Creations Dance Company, The University Conduct Board, The Multicultural Empowerment Network, NAACP, The Chancellor's Workgroups on Diversity & Inclusion, and WellsLink Second Year Mentoring Program, Ronald values the experiences he had at SU as they prepared him to consistently incorporate and share the values that he learned in college of inclusion, equity and diversity in both his professional and personal endeavors. Additionally, Ronald is still excited to make an impact on the SU community by serving on the GOLC board: “The community and the opportunity to serve on a board has opened my eyes to what it means to make change happen. It starts with representation.” Ronald also recently graduated with his Ed.M. From Columbia University in Spring 2021. Contact Ronald via email. DeArbea Walker '18 (She/Her/Hers) Journalist, Houston, TX/New York City DeArbea started her professional career as a journalist on a personal recommendation from the late Newhouse Dean Lorraine Branham to The Philadelphia Inquirer. From that moment, she’s looked to pay it forward. At Syracuse, DeArbea worked at WAER in the sports talk department, started the sports publication Student Section Sports, wrote a business column for The Daily Orange, and mentored local elementary- and middle-school girls through Straighten Your Crown. She thanks Syracuse for teaching her important lessons about herself and her own self-worth and wants others to appreciate those moments too. DeArbea urges recent grads to “make the right decision for yourself. The right place and job fit will arrive with flashing red lights. You won’t miss it.” Connect with DeArbea over email or on LinkedIn. Joash Ward ’15 Consulting, New York, NY Majoring in History and Political Science, Joash graduated in 2015 from The College of Arts and Sciences and the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs. During his undergraduate years, he was President of the National Society of Collegiate Scholars, and took the role as a TA for Latin and Salsa Dance. His favorite memory was studying abroad at SU London as a European History Major. Immediately after graduation, Joash served White House Intern in the Office of Presidential Correspondence and then, Joash ran for mayor of his hometown, Poughkeepsie, NY. His campaign truly “bled Orange!” The entire campaign team was composed of Syracuse University alumni - his campaign manager graduated about 45 years prior, the chair was a friend who he neighbored in Skyhall, and his sister went to Syracuse, too. Joash thanks Syracuse University for his Orange Family - from his best friends to business partners - and advises recent grads to take the risk; you have the entire Syracuse network to help you land the plane. Connect with Joash on LinkedIn. Jack Woltman '20 (He/Him/His) Business Development Manager at National Journal, Washington, DC An Upstate New York native, Jack has always bled Orange, but never knew how much his undergrad experience would impact him. As an International Relations major in the Maxwell School/College of Arts and Sciences, he quickly became involved with University 100, Student Association, Model United Nations and Greek Life. He also serves as the Orange Engagement Chair for the Washington, DC alumni club, where he focuses his work on alumni who graduated in the past 10 years. He enjoys running and skiing whenever he can get the chance to, and you can reach out to him via LinkedIn or email anytime. Leo Wong '14 (He/Him/His) Advertising/Non-profit/Real Estate, Las Vegas, NV Leo joined the GOLC at its inception, and has had the privilege to previously serve as Vice President and NYC Regional Chair. Graduating from Newhouse in 2014, his professional experience lies primarily in the advertising industry, having worked at Digitas in San Francisco and Droga5 in New York (an opportunity which came to fruition through a Newhouse/SU Alum!) on clients ranging from Taco Bell to Google Pixel, and at McCann Worldgroup in New York focusing on diversity and engagement. Leo currently resides Las Vegas to be closer to family while working in real estate, teaching as an Adjunct Professor at the University of Oklahoma, conducting career preparedness workshops for college students through a program called "Are You Ready?," is in the process of opening an assisted living facility, and serving as the A100 Program Director for Gold House, a non-profit organization which focuses on elevating and advocating for the Asian American and Pacific Islanders (AAPI) community in creative industries. Leo loves connecting with other alumni, so feel free to reach out to him via email or on LinkedIn. Syracuse University Alumni Association 200 Walnut Place Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.3258 Email: sualumni@syr.edu Alumni Links Upcoming Events Career Services Alumni Clubs Make a Gift About SUAA SU Links SU Home SU Admissions SU News Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Social Media Directory © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.