Connect About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Update My Info Find Classmates Help Syracuse University Alumni Association Menu Sign In site search site search Update My Info Find Classmates Help Connect with ’Cuse About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance Your Career #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend an Event Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact and FAQs FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Connect with ’Cuse Advance Your Career Attend an Event Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Contact and FAQs Home Join a Club Alumni Club of Washington, D.C. « Back This club is for alumni, parents, students and friends of Syracuse University to connect with each other and stay connected to our University. We often hold game watches, attend local sporting events, participate in professional development and networking opportunities, host a new student send-off and participate in community service projects. If you have ideas/suggestions for an activity/event, please email the club. We hope to see you soon. GO ORANGE! Club Leaders Andrew Regalado ’20 Stephanie Haver ’15 Receive Club Emails If you’d like to receive information about club events, share your current email and mailing address with us. Update My Info Stay Connected Stay up to date on the latest club news and events! dc.syr.edu Scholarship The Syracuse University Alumni Club of Washington, DC provides financial help to current undergraduates interning in the DC area through its annual summer scholarship. Applicants must be undergraduate students enrolled full-time at Syracuse University, demonstrate a financial need, and demonstrate participation in or employment with an organization that will contribute to the recipient’s educational or career goal. Events Upcoming events appear below as soon as they are confirmed. Jun 16 DC Sports Night 2022 Mayflower Hotel - 1127 Connecticut Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036 6:30 PM to 9:00 PM WASHINGTON, D.C. - Join us for a celebration of SU athletics as Sports Night returns to DC! Hear from Director of Athletics John Wildhack and some of your favorite coaches. Jun 23 #SUGrad22: Welcome to DC Mission Navy Yard, Cactus Room - 1221 Van Street SE, Washington, DC 20560 6:00 PM to 12:00 PM WASHINGTON, D.C. - Join us for these opportunities to give the Class of 2022 a warm welcome to DC. We hope to see you at one or both events. Syracuse University Alumni Association 200 Walnut Place Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.3258 Email: sualumni@syr.edu Alumni Links Upcoming Events Career Services Alumni Clubs Make a Gift About SUAA SU Links SU Home SU Admissions SU News Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Social Media Directory © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.