Connect About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Update My Info Find Classmates Help Syracuse University Alumni Association Menu Sign In site search site search Update My Info Find Classmates Help Connect with ’Cuse About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance Your Career #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend an Event Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact and FAQs FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Connect with ’Cuse Advance Your Career Attend an Event Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Contact and FAQs Alumni News Events Career Services Privacy Policy Profile Help Syracuse University Alumni Awards Nomination Form Syracuse University Alumni Awards Nomination Form Current: Nominator's Information » Nominee's Information » Finish The following awards are presented at the Syracuse University Alumni Awards Celebration on the Friday evening of Orange Central homecoming and reunion weekend: George Arents Award Syracuse University’s highest alumni honor, the Arents Award recognizes alumni who have excelled in their fields. Melvin A. Eggers Senior Alumni Award The Melvin A. Eggers Senior Alumni Award is presented to those alumni who have graduated more than 50 years ago and have demonstrated loyalty and service to Syracuse University. Military/Veteran Award Established in 2019, the Military-Veteran Alumni Award is presented annually to Syracuse University U.S. military service members or veteran alumni who have distinguished themselves through exceptional meritorious service and achievement while serving in the United States military and/or in their post-service careers in the private, business, government, or philanthropic sectors. Generation Orange Award Introduced in 2013, the Generation Orange Award recognizes graduates of the last 10 years for their continued commitment to Syracuse University. Before beginning the nomination form, please be prepared to answer the following questions as the form can time out. What is the nominee’s full name, class year, school/college, and city, state (or country) of residence? Why does the nominee deserve the award? What are the nominee’s notable professional accomplishments? How has the nominee served Syracuse University? You will also have the opportunity to attach a short recommendation letter as well as provide any relevant links (i.e., LinkedIn, company bio, etc.). The deadline to submit award nominations for 2022 is Tuesday, Feb. 15. Questions? Please contact the Office of Alumni Engagement (sualumni@syr.edu). Step 1: Nominator's Information My first name is: "My first name is" is required. My last name is: "My last name is" is required. My email address is: Email "E-mail" is required. Confirm "E-mail" confirmed text is required. Emails do not match! "E-mail"needs to contain a valid entry. Your password must have each of the above components and be at least 8 characters. Does Not Pass Low Moderate Secure Very Secure Re-type your password. Re-type your email. Please verify your input by typing it again. Passwords do not match! Emails do not match! Inputs do not match! Passwords match! Emails match! Inputs match! My phone number is: "My phone number is" is required. Nominator's Relationship to Nominee (Please check all that apply): Nominator's Relationship to Nominee (Please check all that apply): SU Classmate Family Member Friend Professional Affiliate or Colleague I do not know the nominee personally "Nominator's Relationship to Nominee (Please check all that apply)" is required. Please select the Alumni Award for this nomination. You may only select one. Please select the Alumni Award for this nomination. You may only select one. George Arents Award Melvin A. Eggers Senior Alumni Award Military/Veteran Award Generation Orange Award "Please select the Alumni Award for this nomination. You may only select one." is required. Please Wait... Syracuse University Alumni Association 200 Walnut Place Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.3258 Email: sualumni@syr.edu Alumni Links Upcoming Events Career Services Alumni Clubs Make a Gift About SUAA SU Links SU Home SU Admissions SU News Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Social Media Directory © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.