Connect About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Update My Info Find Classmates Help Syracuse University Alumni Association Menu Sign In site search site search Update My Info Find Classmates Help Connect with ’Cuse About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance Your Career #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend an Event Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact and FAQs FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Connect with ’Cuse Advance Your Career Attend an Event Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Contact and FAQs #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Alumni Career Coach Form Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Home Advance Career Coaching Partnership Program Syracuse University Career Coaching Partnership Program Fellow alumni you can connect with for advice If you are navigating a career transition, looking for new career opportunities, seeking growth in your current role or organization, or hoping to hone your leadership skills, you may consider engaging with a career or leadership coach. We offer a list of vetted coaches as a resource below. As a Syracuse graduate, you can meet with a career development specialist anytime, from anywhere. To schedule an appointment, email the Alumni Career and Professional Development team. Appointments fill up quickly and are often booked out two weeks or more. Luckily, we have a great list of alumni career coaches who can offer more frequent and specialized services. If you are a Syracuse alum that is an experienced and professionally trained career coach who is interested in working with fellow Syracuse alumni, please complete this form. Filter by: All Help with career transition Help with job search strategies Help with leadership coaching Help with lifelong learning strategies Help with networking, personal branding Help with resume, cover letter, interviewing Adelle Dantzler '93 Business: Dantzler Career Solutions Location: Washington, DC adelle@fedjobseeker.com | Free Appointments LinkedIn Adelle J. Dantzler, M.S.Ed., Certified Federal Job Search Trainer/Certified Federal Career Coach (CFJST/CFCC), has received positive results writing successful customized résumés, federal applications, and KSAs for her many clients seeking federal and private industry jobs. Her expertise is in personal consultation and collaboration with customers to identify the knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to address their career goals. She keeps her knowledge and skills up-to-date as a member of The National Résumé Writers’ Association (NRWA), Career Directors International (CDI) and the Association for Talent Development (ATD). I can help with: Federal job search, government resumes, interview coaching, high potential and leadership assessments and curriculum development, career assessments Russ Terry G'00 Business:Russ Terry Life Coach Location: Jersey City, NJ russ@russterrylifecoach.com | 646.460.0475 Free Appointments | LinkedIn Russ Terry is a Coach, Motivational Speaker and Diversity Consultant who has coached 450+ people from companies such as Microsoft, Google, J.P. Morgan, and PwC, and spoken at countless organizations, including the FBI, FedEx, United Airlines, NASA, and L’Oréal. He’s also the author of a book series on Gratitude and Founder/CEO of Life Coach Radio Networks, a podcast platform on which 135 coaches from around the world have hosted shows. I can help with: Career Coaching, Executive Coaching, Confidence, Self-Care, Time Management Josh Kline '06 Business: The Catalyst Cradle Location: Verona, NJ josh@thecatalystcradle.com | 410.971.2816 Free Appointments | LinkedIn Josh is a leadership and business coach who works with individuals and corporate teams in not just what they do and how they operate, but reinventing who they are and how they show up and creating connected collaborative culture. Josh has worked with: Blackrock, Celgene, Diageo, McCann, Medidata, NY Life, Otsuka, Phillip Morris and more. He has coached individuals and teams on: • Alignment and Enrollment with the Values, Mission and Vision of the Company/Team • Collaborating and Connecting more Effectively • Well Being and Balance • Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion • Finding Team and Individual Identity • Adjusting to Change • Giving and Receiving Feedback • Results Based Planning and Execution of Goals I'm trained in virtual coaching working with remote teams and love working with both gen x and millennial men and women and especially parents and dads! I basically love working with me :) I can help with: leadership coaching, self-care, confidence, time management Brian Gorman '71 Business: TransformingLives.Coach Location: Hoboken, NJ Brian@TransformingLives.Coach | 917.653.5198 LinkedIn Coming of age during the civil rights movement, then attending college as anti-Vietnam war protests grew from whispers to claim a national voice, it is not surprising that change took root in Brian early and never let go. For decades, he has been engaged with change at the individual, organizational, and social levels. Today, Brian works as a certified professional coach. He is an International Coach Federation (ICF) certified professional coach, a member of ICF-New York City, and a Board member of the Gay Coaches Alliance. Brian addresses the leader’s role in change in his articles for Forbes Coaches Council. In December 2020 he presented at TEDx Hartford on his journey through change which began as a freshman at Syracuse University, continued through his own coming out, taking in and adopting a homeless gay teen, and much more. TransformingLives.Coach, is a Certified LGBT Business Enterprise. My expertise includes both transformational coaching (e.g., moving to a career of passion and purpose) and growth coaching (e.g., moving into leadership from a management position). I can help with: Job search strategies, Leadership coaching, Career transition Stacey Staaterman '89 Business: Stacey Staaterman Coaching Location: West Orange, NJ Stacey@StaceyStaaterman.com | 917.903.8727 LinkedIn Stacey Staaterman is a PCC-level Certified Professional Coach with expertise in advertising, media, and lifestyle industries. Stacey works with companies, teams, and leaders to remove performance blocks, drive employee engagement and elevate leadership/executive skills. She also helps individuals clarify their values, improve executive skills and align personal priorities with professional pursuits. She has coached executives and high-potentials at organizations including Google, Amazon, Viacom, Mercer Healthcare, American Express, JP Morgan, Chanel, and more. Prior to becoming a professional coach, Stacey held leadership positions in the advertising and media industry for more than 20 years. Stacey received her B.S. in Advertising from Syracuse University (Newhouse), and she completed a digital mini-MBA program from Rutgers University. Stacey's favorite leadership quote: "The future does not fit into the containers of the past." (Rishad Tobaccowala) I can help with: Job search strategies, Leadership coaching, Career transition, Networking - personal branding, Lifelong learning strategies Barbara Leggett '85 Business: The Happiness Center of WNY Location: Buffalo, NY bpleggett1@gmail.com | 716.200.8162 LinkedIn Barbara Park Leggett believes that happiness isn't happenstance - and that we all can be happier, more productive, more motivated and more successful. She brings together multiple coaching skills to help people reach their full potential both professionally and personally. With 25+ years as a nonprofit executive - including leading Explore & More Children's Museum from a grassroots organization to the centerpiece attraction of the Buffalo, NY waterfront revitalization - Barbara understands the pressures of leadership and managing change. In our pursuit of success, daily pressures and ceaseless demands often leave us overwhelmed and unfulfilled. At the Happiness Center of WNY, we believe that the true goal isn’t to merely balance work and life – it’s to thrive in both. Our coaching and consulting services provide a guided, holistic, and research-backed approach to self-improvement. By setting and working toward specific, actionable goals, you can shape a life centered around purpose, focus, and fulfillment. Specialties: Leadership, nonprofits, small businesses, Positive Intelligence coaching, happiness coaching I can help with: Leadership coaching, Career transition, Networking - personal branding, Lifelong learning strategies Anne Stankevich '09 Business: Coach Anne Catherine coachannecatherine@gmail.com | LinkedIn Coach Anne has 4+ years of coaching experience and is currently working towards both her Associate Certified Coach [ACC] and Certified Professional Co-Active Coach [CPCC] certifications, expected completion in 2021. Annie is known for her high energy, positive outlook, and direct communication style. Outside of coaching, Anne is a tenured sales leader who has worked for LinkedIn for over 7 years. She has held multiple sales and leadership roles throughout her 12+ year career, and currently works as an Enterprise Sales Leader. Anne is an expert in all aspects of the career journey, from professional branding, job searching, and interview prep, to leadership and performance development. She led LinkedIn NYC’s Social Impact group for many years, and is passionate about working with non-profits, and under-served communities. I specialize in both Leadership and Career Coaching, but would love to work with anyone who is ready to grow into their full potential. I specifically love working with women millennials/gen z who are new or aspiring leaders. I can help with: Resumes - cover letters - interviewing, Job search strategies, Leadership coaching, Career transition, Networking - personal branding Ryan Dickerson '11 Business: Your Career Guide Location: Durham, NC ryan@yourcareer.guide | 301.401.5026 LinkedIn Ryan specializes in helping people get unstuck in their careers, prepare for their job searches, and refine their interview skills to succeed throughout the modern hiring process. I would love to help you on your journey. In order to effectively assist you, I will need to learn more about your needs, the challenges you are facing, and what you hope to accomplish in our work together. Once we are on the same page, I will provide you with a proposal detailing the services I provide and the associated costs. When evaluating other proposals, keep in mind that I have a decade of recruiting, executive search, and talent acquisition experience and truly understand the hiring process. I can give you insight into how to successfully navigate recruiter and hiring manager screening calls, clearly lay out what is expected from a great candidate at each stage of the process, and guide you through one of the most competitive hiring markets in modern history. Most importantly, I can help you make the most of the offers you receive without leaving anything on the table. It’s your career, make the most of it. Specialties: I primarily support executives and professionals interested in making a change, who have been working for several years. At Korn Ferry and my other recruiting roles, I tended to focus on technology executives or management executive within technology companies. I can help with: Resumes - cover letters - interviewing, Job search strategies, Leadership coaching, Career transition Kari Ginsberg '02 Business: Uproar Coaching Location: Alexandria, VA kari@uproarcoaching.com | 202.743.3193 LinkedIn DMV-native Kari Ginsburg is passionate about supporting people through personal and professional change. Kari is a certified Professional & Personal Coach through the Academy of Creative Coaching, and the owner of Uproar Coaching, LLC. She is an Associate Certified Coach in good standing with the International Coaching Federation. Additionally, she is one of the first 500 recipients of the globally-recognized Certified Change Management Professional accreditation, and she is a founding member of the Association of Change Management Professionals. In her free time, Kari enjoys anything true crime, snuggling with her rescue dogs, and she is losing the battle against the weeds in her garden. Specialties: Uproar Coaching specializes in supporting women and femme entrepreneurs (but really, aren't we all the CEO of our own brands) who want to spread out, get loud, and lead a boss life. We offer custom one-on-one coaching packages, and dynamic group and virtual programming. I can help with: Leadership coaching, Career transition, Networking - personal branding Mollie McGlocklin '08 Business: Sleep Is A Skill Location: Austin, TX mollie@sleepisaskill.com | 917.613.6841 LinkedIn Mollie McGlocklin is the creator of Sleep Is A Skill and the host of The Sleep Is A Skill Podcast. Sleep Is A Skill is a company that optimizes people’s sleep through a unique blend of technology, accountability, and behavioral change. After navigating insomnia while traveling internationally, she created what she couldn’t find - a place to go to learn the skillset of sleep. With a background in behavioral change from The Nonverbal Group, she became fascinated with chronobiology and its practical application to sleep and our overall experience of life. Specialties: Chronobiology, Sleep Tech, Sleep Deprivation, Jet Lag, Circadian Rhythm, Rhythms, Light Exposure, Sleep Skillset, HRV, Habit Change, Behavioral Change, Accountability I can help with: Lifelong learning strategies Timi Komonibo '15 Business: Timi Komo Coaching Location: Greater Houston pivotstrategists@gmail.com | 832.318.0062 Timi Komonibo is a Human Resources professional and a certified Life and Leadership coach. She is a proud graduate of the Newhouse School and the Maxwell School. Throughout her life and career, she has pivoted several times and has learned to embrace the journey. Her work ranges from personal growth with individuals to professional development consulting with organizations. It is all centered on the truth that knowing yourself better leads to a stronger impact on the world. Through her life consultancy practice, The Pivot Strategists, she empowers her clients to engage with their gifts and talents to solve the problems in the world around them. When she is not coaching people into becoming their best selves, she is creating valuable content through her YouTube channel and her writing. Timi Komonibo is a two-time author of the books “The Pivot Journal” and “Winning the Style Lottery;” as well as a TEDx Syracuse University speaker. Through my practice, I empower my clients to find clarity in their life vision and re-align them with pathways that will ignite their gifts and talents. I specialize in pivots—life and career changes at any stage. I work with clients at all levels from soon-to-be college graduates to retirees. I enjoy guiding clients to the paths that best suit their vision for their life. SERVICES I OFFER: – Life Coaching & Organizational Consulting – Strengths Assessments & Debriefs - Professional Development planning - Group Coaching – Learning & Development Workshops I use a strengths-based approach when working with clients. To begin their growth journey, new clients will take a strength assessment and receive a debrief with me. I am trained in using the Harrison Assessment to guide and coach clients, using their results to inform our work together. I can help with: Leadership coaching, Career transition, Lifelong learning strategies Neil Wilson '77 Business: Career Guy Neil Location: Newburyport, MA neil@careerguyneil.com I 978.764.6996 LinkedIn Neil offers career services designed around your needs and timetable. Whether it’s a quick resume, just in time to apply for a job, or a complete package of sessions to help decide what you want to do and how to get there from here, he’s ready for you. His experience includes time spent in college/university Cooperative Education and Career Services roles as well as corporate outplacement counseling and training during downsizings. He also ran one of the top networking groups for professionals in career transition in his area, WIND Seacoast in Portsmouth, NH for six years. This all means that he’s ready for you and your challenges. Neil is available to meet locally in the Greater Newburyport, Massachusetts area or anywhere via phone or zoom. Neil will also work as a freelance recruiter and has done so, by request. Plus, he offers a free introductory call. So please call or send a message and he will respond. In conclusion, Neil is ready to help you plan for the career of a lifetime. Are you? Jennifer Christina Vasquez ‘09 Business: W2Liv Location: Brooklyn NY W2liv.jenn@gmail.com Free Appointment Link LinkedIn Jenn is an Academic, Career + Life Coach using mindfulness practices and 10+ years of marketing, management, and mentoring experience to guide you in working to live for the life you dream of, while being your authentic self at work. For years Jenn struggled with understanding the kind of life she wanted. On paper her resume and accomplishments looked great. She was quickly climbing the ladder with yearly promotions, even winning a few industry awards. Jenn was functioning, however felt like all that she was doing was working and missing out on some great life experiences. Then at one of the lowest moments in her life, her dad told her, “no vivimos para trabajar, trabajamos para vivir” – “we don’t live to work, we work to live”. From that moment on, she started working on herself and living her own roadmap. Doing it on your own can be challenging. Having someone who will solely focus on supporting you in clarifying your goals, identifying any obstacles holding you back, and then coming up with strategies for overcoming them is helpful. This is what I do. I help those who feel drained and burned out figure out what they really love to do, so they can create a life worth working and living for. Specialties: I can help you work through navigating burnout, taking a personal sabbatical, life purpose and fulfillment, creating a life vision, career transition, change, or redirection, cultural identity and belonging, communication and relationships, getting unstuck, time management and prioritizing, making a big decision (life or career), creating healthy habits and boundaries, and building a strategic and creative resume. I can help with: · Resumes - cover letters - interviewing · Job search strategies · Career transition · Networking - personal branding · Lifelong learning strategies Please note: This offering is a special benefit to Syracuse University alumni and the coaches are in no way affiliated with the Syracuse University or the Alumni Association. The coaches listed above are operating as independent contractors and are not being compensated or retained by Syracuse University. Fees and billing arrangements are handled between coach and client. All coach partners are professional career coaches; however, Syracuse University and the Alumni Association make no representation as to the nature of the services they will provide to you and are not liable for any business or services provided by partner career coaches. Syracuse University Alumni Association 200 Walnut Place Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.3258 Email: sualumni@syr.edu Alumni Links Upcoming Events Career Services Alumni Clubs Make a Gift About SUAA SU Links SU Home SU Admissions SU News Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Social Media Directory © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.