Menu Close 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards Header Content Join us as we celebrate the 2022 Mirror Award winners! Newhouse dean Mark J. Lodato will preside. The ceremony will include the presentation of six juried journalism awards. Finalists were announced in April. In addition, the Newhouse School will present the Lorraine Branham IDEA Award to The 19th News, and the Fred Dressler Leadership Award to Dean Baquet of The New York Times. Wednesday, June 8, 2022 5:30 p.m. Cocktail Reception 6:45 p.m. Awards Program French Institute Alliance Française (FIAF) Florence Gould Hall Theater 55 East 59th Street New York, NY 10022 Ticket price: $100 per person For sixteen years, the Mirror Awards program has enjoyed broad support from the media community. We’ve relied on our supporters and sponsors to help make the Mirror Awards the most important awards for recognizing excellence in media industry reporting. COVID-19 Attendance Policy: Proof of COVID-19 vaccination at least 14 days prior to the event is required upon entry. Valid forms of proof include the NYC COVID SAFE app, Excelsior Pass, CDC Vaccination Card (or an image of it) or NYC Vaccination Record. Sponsorship Packages and Tickets The event offers these opportunities: $25,000 Headline Sponsor - Includes ten tickets for event, company credit, logo and prominent two-page message in program. $10,000 Gold Sponsor - Includes ten tickets for event, company credit and single-page message in program. $5,000 Orange Sponsor - Includes ten tickets for event and company credit. $1,000 Ad Only - Includes single page message in program. *Net proceeds from the 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards fund Newhouse School scholarships, which provide our increasingly diverse student population access to a quality education. Contributions, less the $65 reception cost per ticket, may be tax deductible according to the law. Please contact your tax advisor for more information. Contact Carol Satchwell at cmsatchw@syr.edu for more information about sponsorships. Accessibility Accommodations We are committed to providing access to all our events. Please identify specific disability or accessibility accommodation needs on the event registration. Advance notice is necessary to arrange for some accessibility needs. Refund and Cancellation Policy Refund and cancellation policy for Syracuse University Events Questions? Amanda Griffin Director of Special Events algri100@syr.edu SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY 640 Skytop Road, 2nd Floor Syracuse, NY 13244-5160 Phone: +1.315.443.1848 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy Mobile Menu Close