Connect About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Update My Info Find Classmates Help Syracuse University Alumni Association Menu Sign In site search site search Update My Info Find Classmates Help Connect with ’Cuse About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance Your Career #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend an Event Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact and FAQs FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Connect with ’Cuse Advance Your Career Attend an Event Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Contact and FAQs Update My Info ’Cuse Community Profile Help Updating Profile and Display Options To update your profile in the Alumni Directory, log in with your ’Cuse Community username and password. If this is your first visit, please sign up before continuing. If you are unable to log in, you can still send us an update using the Alumni Update form. Once logged in, proceed to update your contact and profile information. To see the information that is visible in the Directory, select the Visible to Community tab on your Personal Page. Click the dark grey bar to expand a section. To make changes to your Profile, select the Manage Account tab next to Visible to Community. Then click Edit next to the section whose information you want to change. For example, to change your email address, click Edit next to the Account Information header. When you are finished, you must click the Save button to record your changes. If you do not want to make any changes, click the Cancel link to return to the Manage Account screen. To hide information on your profile or reveal information that is not currently showing, click the Edit link next to the section you want to modify. Then click the Show or Hide button next to the item you want to reveal or suppress. You must scroll to the bottom of the screen and select the Save button to record your changes, or click Cancel to return to the Manage Account screen. Click the Visible to Community tab again to see your profile as other Alumni users would when searching the Directory. Syracuse University Alumni Association 200 Walnut Place Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.3258 Email: sualumni@syr.edu Alumni Links Upcoming Events Career Services Alumni Clubs Make a Gift About SUAA SU Links SU Home SU Admissions SU News Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Social Media Directory © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.