Connect About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Update My Info Find Classmates Help Syracuse University Alumni Association Menu Sign In site search site search Update My Info Find Classmates Help Connect with ’Cuse About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance Your Career #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend an Event Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact and FAQs FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Connect with ’Cuse Advance Your Career Attend an Event Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Contact and FAQs About SUAA SUAA Board Benefits of Membership Alumni Awards Arents Award Chancellor’s Citation Eggers Senior Alumni Award Generation Orange Award Military/Veteran Award Orange Circle Award Outstanding Alumni Award Outstanding Young Alumni Award Alumni of Color Alumni News The Slice ’Cuse Conversations Podcasts News Archive Class Notes Connect Virtually Zoom Instructions and Tips Current Students Forever Orange Student Alumni Council Generation Orange Generation Orange Leadership Council Welcome to the City Guides Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Home Connect Alumni News Alumni News The Slice for May 20, 2022 🍊This week in The Slice🍊 ➤ Commencement 2022 Recap ➤ Dome Sweet Dome ➤ Make York Mark ➤ #HireOrange job opportunities ➤ Class Notes Read More Writing a Legacy English professor and New York Times bestselling author George Saunders G’88 is inspiring the next generation of writers—and readers. Read More A Reunion to Remember The third time was the charm for the Class of 1960's 60th Reunion. COVID-19 forced their first attempt to become a "Zoom-union," then a handful of classmates returned to Syracuse for a combined celebration with the Class of 1961 in the fall of 2021, but an enthusiastic group came home to campus May 20-22 for a reunion to remember. Read More An Open Letter to Graduates of the Class of 2022 We asked the Orange alumni family to provide some well wishes and advice for Syracuse University's graduating class of 2022 ahead of Commencement. They delivered wise and powerful words of guidance and motivation, empowerment and inspiration. We've aggregated the alumni offerings in this open letter to graduates. Read More Introducing the SU Sports Network: Harnessing the power of Orange! The SU Sports Network, which will officially launch in May, aims to harness the power of the Orange network by bringing together alumni working in all aspects of the sports industry and keeping them engaged with Syracuse University by strengthening their bond with faculty and current students. Read More Four Alumni to Receive Honorary Degrees Syracuse University will award honorary degrees to four impressive alumni during Commencement on Sunday, May 15. Nina V. Fedoroff ’66, Thomas Magnanti ’67, Howard “Howie” Phanstiel ’70, G’71 and Gloria Somolekae G’94 will be recognized during Commencement exercises for their distinguished accomplishments in their professional careers and in service to others. Read More From Crouse to Carnegie Hall, Meet Sara Villagio ’04 As part of Carnegie Hall’s senior management team, Sara Villagio '00 oversees marketing, driving ticket sales, digital content and engagement, educational outreach, volunteers, even the gift shop. Having a hand in every aspect of the organization’s operations is part of what she enjoys most about her job. It’s also what she recommends to students aspiring to work in the music industry – try a little bit of everything and build relationships with everyone you meet. Read More A birthday, a basketball game, a Forever Orange bond More than a dozen alumni from the 1980s returned to campus Feb. 25-27, 2022 for the Syracuse vs. Duke game (and a special birthday celebration). It was a reunion many years in the making—and one made even more special because many members of the group now have children attending Syracuse. Read More Episode 102: Grammy Award winner Joanie Leeds '00 It’s a musical Cuse Conversation with Joanie Leeds '00, 2021 Grammy Award winner for best children’s music album. She teamed up with a female producer and several talented female musicians to create "All the Ladies, " an album designed to entertain, inspire, educate and empower. Joanie shares the story of her journey and the chances, odd jobs and interesting gigs she took along the way to becoming a successful artist who creates music loved by children and their parents. Learn about Joanie's spring/summer concert dates on her website and find her music on YouTube, Spotify and more. Episode 102 Audio and transcript (coming soon). Total run time: 34:40 Read More Felisha Legette-Jack '89 Comes Home Felisha Legette-Jack, a 1989 graduate of Syracuse University and Orange All-American, is coming home. The Syracuse native and 20-year collegiate head coach will take the reins of the Orange basketball program immediately. Read More Episode 101: Author, speaker and life coach David Essel '79 As a kid growing up in Utica, David Essel wanted to be an NBA star. While he walked on to the Syracuse University men's basketball team, his time at the University ultimately led him on a very different professional journey. He's built a successful career writing about and supporting people through addiction recovery, relationship difficulties, grief counseling and professional challenges.Visit his website to learn more about Essel's work. He is a big believer in the power of positivity, which has been both difficult to come by and more important than ever during the last two years of pandemic living. Essel talks about his education and experience at Syracuse University and his drive to help others in this 'Cuse Conversation. Episode 101 Audio and Transcript (coming soon) Total run time: 21:42. Read More Episode 100: NFL Network Host Andrew Siciliano '96 Andrew Siciliano '96 doesn't know how he got so lucky. Every Sunday is surreal as he brings highlights from around the NFL to millions of fans around the world as host of DIRECTV's RedZone Channel. As Super Bowl 56 approaches, Siciliano will be in Los Angeles as part of NFL Network’s coverage of the big game. On this 'Cuse Conversation, Siciliano discusses the Super Bowl and the role he will play for NFL Network. He shares the biggest ways Syracuse University and WAER impacted his broadcasting style, reveals the big break that launched his career, and gives advice to sportscasters looking to follow in his footsteps. Episode 100 Audio and Transcript (coming soon). Total run time: Read More #OrangeLove on campus and beyond Valentine's Day is a time to celebrate love. Around here, it's the perfect opportunity to highlight #OrangeLove - couples who met as students and are living happily (Orange) ever after. About 30 alumni couples gathered virtually Thursday evening for a vow renewal and commitment ceremony hosted by the Office of Alumni Engagement and Hendricks Chapel and led by Dean Brian Konkol. Read on to see how some of those couples share their #OrangeLove, both personally and professionally as Syracuse University employees! Read More Episode 99: Fueling Team USA's Olympians with Dietitian Maggie McCrudden '14 The Winter Olympics are underway in Beijing, and Team USA’s top athletes have their sights set on winning gold on the world stage. But before these athletes compete, many of them work on developing healthy nutrition habits with Maggie McCrudden '14, the food and nutrition registered dietitian for the U.S. Olympic and Paralympic Committee who leads Team USA’s nutrition program. McCrudden, a former rower at Syracuse University, discusses how she developed a lifelong appreciation for food and its impact on our bodies, and how her approach to nutrition incorporates data and science with meeting people where they are. She shares how being a former Division I student-athlete helps her gain the trust of these Olympians and why her four years at Syracuse University were truly transformative. Episode 99 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 31:53. Read More Episode 98: Jared Kraham '13: Binghamton's History-Making Mayor When Jared Kraham '13 was sworn in as the mayor of Binghamton on Jan. 1, he made history as the youngest mayor in the city’s 220-year history. On this Cuse Conversation, Kraham shares how his time at Maxwell and Newhouse influenced him to become a politician, and why Syracuse University inspired him to join the next generation of policymakers and make a difference in his hometown. Kraham discusses the challenges of leading during COVID-19, how he convinced voters to entrust the future of their city to a 30-year-old, why his whole life was building up to serve as Binghamton's mayor, and why he was determined to help save Binghamton's minor league baseball team. Episode 98 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 32:31. Read More Episode 97: Rob McClanaghan '01 Opens Up On the surface, Rob McClanaghan '01 seemed to be "living his best life." As a skills trainer for some of the NBA's biggest superstars, he was traveling the world in private jets, sitting courtside at big games and had just published a book about his work with the league's elite. But McClanaghan says that lifestyle was a "façade" that was hiding his struggles with anxiety and depression, something he kept quiet until sharing his story - including his 2019 suicide attempt - in a powerful essay in The Player's Tribune in December 2021. In this 'Cuse Conversation podcast, McClanaghan talks about the importance of opening up and the impact his story has already had on so many people. He also explains how his hard work and resilience earned him a spot on the Syracuse University basketball team, shares some stories about his training career and, most important, emphasizes the importance of opening up and addressing mental health issues. Episode 97 Audio and Transcript. Total run time: 34:41 Read More More News In this Section Orange Voices SU Magazine The Slice ’Cuse Conversations Podcasts News Archive Syracuse University Alumni Association 200 Walnut Place Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.3258 Email: sualumni@syr.edu Alumni Links Upcoming Events Career Services Alumni Clubs Make a Gift About SUAA SU Links SU Home SU Admissions SU News Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Social Media Directory © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.