Connect About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Update My Info Find Classmates Help Syracuse University Alumni Association Menu Sign In site search site search Update My Info Find Classmates Help Connect with ’Cuse About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance Your Career #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend an Event Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact and FAQs FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Connect with ’Cuse Advance Your Career Attend an Event Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Contact and FAQs #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Alumni Career Coach Form Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Home Advance Advance Your Career Personal Guidance in Your Career Lifelong career support is one of the major benefits of being a Syracuse University graduate. Whether you’re seeking career assistance, looking to connect with current students or fellow alumni, or want to #HireOrange and give back to others, a variety of resources is available to you. Mission Collaborative Career Fellowship Syracuse University Alumni Association is working with the career design experts at Mission Collaborative to bring you the confidence you need to create a fulfilling career. Whether you’re early, mid, or late-career, this 30-day online Fellowship provides the structure and accountability you need to make the breakthrough progress you’ve been struggling to achieve on your own, while fitting into your busy schedule. Are you disengaged at work? Are you curious about what else is out there? Do you feel like you can do more? The Alumni Career Design Fellowship will help you create a more fulfilling career! This collaborative program will give you the clarity, plan and accountability you need to figure out what’s next on your professional journey. Sign up now to get the early enrollment discount! The next fellowship begins April 23. Career Counseling Meet with a career development specialist virtually or by phone for help strategizing your job search, polishing your resumé, brushing up on your interview skills and more. To schedule an appointment, email the Alumni Career and Professional Development team. #HireOrange Post a job. Search for a job. The #HireOrange job board offers the Orange network access to special job opportunities only available to the SU community, giving you a competitive advantage in your job search. Interested in sharing internship opportunities with current Syracuse University students? Post the position to Handshake, the web-based recruiting system used by Career Services that targets current students. Career Events Near You While the pandemic makes it impossible for us to offer in-person events at the moment, we are excited about the "SUccess in Any City" series for 2020-21. Sign up for these virtual programs, coaching appointments and other workshops to help you gain new skills. Alumni Webinar Series This free webinar series shares information you need to make both personal and professional improvements in your life and career. Watch our archive of webinars on Syracuse University’s YouTube channel. Stay Connected Keep your ’Cuse Community profile up-to-date so you can receive announcements and event details from the Orange Network! You can also search for classmates, post #HireOrange opportunities, and share your exciting news through Class Notes. Social Media Updates Follow @SUAlums on Twitter and Instagram and the Syracuse University Alumni page on Facebook for helpful information from SU’s campus and beyond, and join the ’CuseConnect LinkedIn Group to interact with current students and fellow alumni. Support Current Students Interested in helping current students advance their career? The Central Career Services team offers a variety of programs and events that will allow you to share your career story, offer advice, share jobs or internships, and more. Contact Adam Capozzi, assistant director of the alumni career network in Career Services, at afcapozz@syr.edu to get involved. Syracuse University Alumni Association 200 Walnut Place Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.3258 Email: sualumni@syr.edu Alumni Links Upcoming Events Career Services Alumni Clubs Make a Gift About SUAA SU Links SU Home SU Admissions SU News Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Social Media Directory © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.