Connect About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Update My Info Find Classmates Help Syracuse University Alumni Association Menu Sign In site search site search Update My Info Find Classmates Help Connect with ’Cuse About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance Your Career #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend an Event Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact and FAQs FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Connect with ’Cuse Advance Your Career Attend an Event Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Contact and FAQs FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Home Contact Meet the Team Meet the Team The staff of the Office of Alumni Engagement is here to support our alumni wherever they may be. Feel free to contact us with your ideas and suggestions! Sue Ballard Vice President for Alumni Engagement Email Sue Phone: 315.443.3258 Sue oversees the Office of Alumni Engagement and leads the staff in creating a forward-thinking, premier alumni program with the overarching goal of improving engagement, stewardship and support of Syracuse University’s 250,000 alumni around the world. In her role, Sue works closely with the Syracuse University Alumni Association Board. She also creates and implements strategies that show SU alumni that the value of a Syracuse University degree is everlasting. David Bartell Executive Director of Outreach Programs Email Dave David oversees all outreach areas and provides strategies to streamline regional alumni engagement, alumni clubs, international outreach and student-centric programming. In his role, he works to develop new volunteer leaders and stewards existing alumni relationships. David is also responsible for creating strategic business partnerships for the Syracuse University Alumni Association. Cory Miller Executive Director, Events and Affinity Programs Email Cory Phone: 315.443.3277 Cory provides strategic direction, design, execution, and evaluation for alumni engagement events and programs. In her role, she has oversight of Orange Central, select national athletic events, alumni affinity group reunions and programming, prestigious alumni award ceremonies, and more. Kim Infanti ’06, G’16 Executive Director, Digital Engagement and Communications Email Kim Kim oversees all areas of communications for the Office of Alumni Engagement and the Syracuse University Alumni Association. She works with campus partners and alumni volunteers to share alumni events and news via email and social media channels. Kim develops new ways of using technology to promote the Orange Network and keep alumni connected. Chris Velardi ’95 Director, Digital Engagement and Communications Email Chris Chris assists with all Syracuse University Alumni Association communications efforts, with a special emphasis on school, college and unit partnership programs. He develops videos, crafts event remarks, writes website content and co-manages several social media channels alongside the executive director and communications specialist. Megan DiDomenico G'19 Director, Alumni Outreach Programs and Special Projects Email Megan Megan plays a critical role in the management, strategic planning and implementation of multiple, high profile complex initiatives and events, including those related to fundraising and engagement. Kate Ludwig Associate Director, Affinity Programs and Reunions Email Kate Phone: 315.443.3249 Kate is responsible for engaging current alumni affinity groups and developing new ones. She also works with our reunion classes, oversees many logistics of Orange Central and plans regional alumni programs. Grace Terry Assistant Director of Young Alumni & Student Engagement Email Grace Grace leads the office’s efforts to engage Generation Orange alumni (graduates of the past 10 years) and manages our current student initiatives, including the Forever Orange Student Alumni Council. Pauline Saraceni Assistant Director for Alumni Clubs Email Pauline Phone: 315.443.3685 Pauline is directly responsible for our alumni clubs. Along with the other assistant director for alumni clubs, she supports the club presidents as they continue to keep our alumni connected to each other, as well as to Syracuse University. Lorin Williams Assistant Director for Alumni Clubs Email Lorin Lorin is directly responsible for our alumni clubs. Along with the other assistant director for alumni clubs, she supports the club presidents as they continue to keep our alumni connected to each other, as well as to Syracuse University. Monique Frost Administrative Specialist Email Monique Phone: 315.443.3408 Monique is the administrative assistant to the vice president of alumni engagement. Additionally, she works on special events and projects and is the liaison to the National Alumni Board of Directors. She also manages the budget and oversees temporary and student employees. Regional Alumni Offices Joan Adler G’76 Assistant Vice President, Regional Programs—Los Angeles Email Joan Phone: 818.561.7371 Since opening the Los Angeles office for Syracuse University in April 2005, Joan has been instrumental in growing the office to include an admissions director and the “SULA Semester” program. She has engaged thousands of SU alumni throughout LA and along the West Coast, creating alumni events in the fields of entertainment, academics, athletics and more. Roshni D. Lal Assistant Director, Alumni Career Services, West Coast Email Roshni Phone: 818.446.2155 Roshni is responsible for assisting with all initiatives for career-related programming and services that engage Syracuse University alumni on the West Coast and beyond. These initiatives include career guidance and counseling, connections to jobs, networking opportunities, corporate connection initiatives, and professional development programming. Kimberly Walsh Administrative Specialist, Los Angeles Email Kim Phone: 818.561.7374 Kimberly supports the work of the Syracuse University Los Angeles (SULA) team and collaborates with the Assistant Vice President of Regional Programs to engage alumni across the Western region of the United States. Prior to her role with SULA, she worked for the University's Government Relations and Community Engagement team. Kimberly was raised in Syracuse and received a B.A. in Public Relations and Strategic Communication from American University. Mary Anagnost ’86 Executive Director, Regional Operations—Washington, DC Email Mary Phone: 202.797.4678 Mary is the executive director of regional alumni engagement for the DC area. She is responsible for designing and executing events for alumni, donors, and friends in DC, Maryland, and Virginia, and creating community partnership programs. Meredith Jones Coordinator, Alumni Programs Email Meredith Phone: 202.797.4678 Meredith works closely with students, alumni, and parents in the DC metropolitan area and is responsible for implementing new alumni programs, including the launch of #OttoInDC and Alumni University. Meredith is also responsible for the SU in DC communication strategy, coordinating DC-based events, and acting as the liaison to local alumni clubs. Pam Mulligan, Esq. ’89 Executive Director, Alumni Engagement—Metro NYC Email Pam Phone: 212.710.5582 Pam leads the New York City-based alumni engagement team and provides the strategic direction for alumni engagement programming, communications, and partnerships in the New York metro area, SU’s largest alumni base in the world. Pam collaborates with the event, advancement, and academic unit teams in creating and implementing effective ways to engage and establish lifelong relationships with SU’s alumni, donors, parents, friends, current students and prospective students. Lauren Scott Alumni Engagement Coordinator, NYC Email Lauren Lauren supports Syracuse University alumni engagement programs throughout the tri-state area from New York City's Lubin House. She graduated from Bucknell University in 2017, where she worked in the University's Alumni Office as a student. Lauren remains a volunteer for the Bucknell Alumni/Parents Club of NYC and serves as a resource for current students. Syracuse University Alumni Association 200 Walnut Place Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.3258 Email: sualumni@syr.edu Alumni Links Upcoming Events Career Services Alumni Clubs Make a Gift About SUAA SU Links SU Home SU Admissions SU News Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Social Media Directory © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.