Connect About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Update My Info Find Classmates Help Syracuse University Alumni Association Menu Sign In site search site search Update My Info Find Classmates Help Connect with ’Cuse About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance Your Career #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend an Event Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact and FAQs FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Connect with ’Cuse Advance Your Career Attend an Event Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Contact and FAQs About SUAA SUAA Board Benefits of Membership Alumni Awards Arents Award Chancellor’s Citation Eggers Senior Alumni Award Generation Orange Award Military/Veteran Award Orange Circle Award Outstanding Alumni Award Outstanding Young Alumni Award Alumni of Color Alumni News The Slice ’Cuse Conversations Podcasts News Archive Class Notes Connect Virtually Zoom Instructions and Tips Current Students Forever Orange Student Alumni Council Generation Orange Generation Orange Leadership Council Welcome to the City Guides Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Home Connect About SUAA Benefits of Membership Benefits of Membership As a member of the Syracuse University Alumni Association you can take advantage of a long list of member services, like these… ’Cuse Community No matter where you go in life, you can stay connected through the ’Cuse Community. Update your contact information, find contact information for other alumni, search for alumni in your geographical area, and submit your news for class notes online and for Syracuse University Magazine. Lifelong Career Support The Office of Alumni Engagement and the Syracuse University Alumni Association (SUAA) are pleased to offer access to programs and services that help alumni navigate the many career starts, stops, and transitions that can occur during your lifetime. For more information about services and how to get involved, visit our resources page. In addition, Career Services is always seeking out new grads and experienced alumni to participate in career-related programs and events with current students and fellow alumni. For more information about the services for alumni and getting involved, visit Career Services. BrandYourself Founded at Syracuse University in 2009, BrandYourself.com is an online reputation management services company that provides Do-It-Yourself tools and in-house services to help people monitor, improve, build, and protect their online presence. As a Syracuse University graduate, you have free access to BrandYourself’s premium DIY tool that walks you through the process of suppressing unwanted Google results, deleting damaging social media posts, and building and promoting positive items across the web that help your career—such as a personal website or social media profile. To access your free premium account, simply sign up with your “syr.edu” email address. It’s that easy! Insurance Programs Syracuse University partners with Mercer Consumer, a service of Mercer Health & Benefits Administration LLC, to offer Syracuse University alumni accessibility on auto, homeowner/renters, life, health, long-term care, and disability insurance (subject to state laws). Learn more about life, health, long-term care, and disability insurance. Liberty Mutual if offering Syracuse University alumni great savings on quality auto and home insurance.* Call 800.699.4283 or visit Liberty Mutual to get a free quote. Syracuse University Alumni ID Use your SU Alumni ID card on campus for: Access to Syracuse University’s Bird Library Discounted rates for recreation services Discounted skate rental and use fees for you and your family at Tennity Ice Pavilion Stop by the Alumni Engagement office 200 Walnut Place during normal business hours to pick up your alumni ID card. Not in Syracuse? Contact Alumni Engagement at 800.SUALUMS (800.782.5867) or sualumni@syr.edu to request your card. Alumni Tours: Travel with SU The Syracuse University Alumni Association offers a variety of exceptional tours each year. As you look over our list of tours, we hope you’ll consider traveling with your fellow alumni! Transcripts and Diplomas Transcripts of courses taken and degrees received at Syracuse University are maintained in the Registrar’s Office. Find out how to obtain your official transcript via the Registrar’s web pages. If you haven’t received your diploma or need to replace a diploma, the Registrar’s office provides information on obtaining diplomas. For further assistance or information please call the Registrar’s office at 315.443.2422. * Discounts and savings are available where state laws and regulations allow and may vary state to state. To the extent permitted by law, applicants are individually underwritten; not all applicants qualify.) Syracuse University Alumni Association 200 Walnut Place Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.3258 Email: sualumni@syr.edu Alumni Links Upcoming Events Career Services Alumni Clubs Make a Gift About SUAA SU Links SU Home SU Admissions SU News Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Social Media Directory © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.