Connect About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Update My Info Find Classmates Help Syracuse University Alumni Association Menu Sign In site search site search Update My Info Find Classmates Help Connect with ’Cuse About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance Your Career #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend an Event Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact and FAQs FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Orange pride on campus—and around the world! We hope you'll join us in-person or virtually as we continue to plan exciting programs for Syracuse University alumni. Check out our upcoming events! Read More Upcoming Events More From career webinars to exclusive in-person events, we’re keeping you connected to Syracuse University! Join us soon—and look for new opportunities posted often. Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Explore the 'Cuse Community Login | Share My News Make A Gift Alumni News More The Slice for May 20, 2022 🍊This week in The Slice🍊 ➤ Commencement 2022 Recap ➤ Dome Sweet Dome ➤ Make York Mark ➤ #HireOrange job opportunities ➤ Class Notes Read More Writing a Legacy English professor and New York Times bestselling author George Saunders G’88 is inspiring the next generation of writers—and readers. Read More A Reunion to Remember The third time was the charm for the Class of 1960's 60th Reunion. COVID-19 forced their first attempt to become a "Zoom-union," then a handful of classmates returned to Syracuse for a combined celebration with the Class of 1961 in the fall of 2021, but an enthusiastic group came home to campus May 20-22 for a reunion to remember. Read More An Open Letter to Graduates of the Class of 2022 We asked the Orange alumni family to provide some well wishes and advice for Syracuse University's graduating class of 2022 ahead of Commencement. They delivered wise and powerful words of guidance and motivation, empowerment and inspiration. We've aggregated the alumni offerings in this open letter to graduates. Read More How do you connect? Your Syracuse experience doesn’t end with graduation. Discover some of the many ways you can stay connected to your fellow alums, today’s students, and the university that has played such a big part in your life! Syracuse University Alumni Association 200 Walnut Place Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.3258 Email: sualumni@syr.edu Alumni Links Upcoming Events Career Services Alumni Clubs Make a Gift About SUAA SU Links SU Home SU Admissions SU News Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Social Media Directory © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.