Connect About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Update My Info Find Classmates Help Syracuse University Alumni Association Menu Sign In site search site search Update My Info Find Classmates Help Connect with ’Cuse About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance Your Career #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend an Event Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact and FAQs FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Connect with ’Cuse Advance Your Career Attend an Event Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Contact and FAQs ’Cuse Community Help Help Form ’Cuse Community Help First Time Login How do I set up my account? For first time users, click on First Time Login. After choosing your name, you will need to provide your Alumni ID to verify your identity. If you do not have your Alumni ID, call us at 315.443.3258 or 800.782.5867, or e-mail us at cusecommunity@syr.edu and we can assist you. When I try to set up my account for the first time, my name is grayed out and doesn’t allow me to click on it. How do I get this fixed? A grayed out name means you already have an active account. You will need to reset your password using the email address you used to set up the account. General Login How do I log in? For users that already have an account, you can click on the orange SIGN IN button at the top right of each page. Then, log in from our Login Page. I think I might have been a member in the former online alumni community. Do I still have a profile on 'Cuse Community? Yes! You will need to log in with the email you used when you set up your original account. How do I reset my password? Submit your email address you signed up with on the Reset Password Page and follow the instructions in the email sent to you to complete your reset. I don’t remember my email address or no longer have access to the account I used to set up my 'Cuse Community profile. What should I do? Call us at 315.443.3258 or 800.782.5867 or e-mail us at cusecommunity@syr.edu and we can assist you. What if I don't remember my username? Your username is generally the same as the email address you used to originally set up your account. If you don't remember or it doesn't appear to be working, call us at 315.443.3258 or 800.782.5867 or e-mail us at cusecommunity@syr.edu and we can assist you. Does my username change when I update my email address? No, your username will stay the same from when your account is originally set up, unless you contact us for assistance and we change it for you. We only change usernames per your request. Your username can be different from the email address you use to reset the account if you provide us with an updated primary email address. Updating Your Profile How do I update my profile and display options? Check out our 'Cuse Community Profile Help Page for information on how to update your profile and display options. Data Privacy Is all the information I have in my profile publicly available? Not unless you want it to be public! By default, only your first name, last name, home city and state are visible to other 'Cuse Community members. Check our 'Cuse Community Profile Help Page for details on updating your public profile. What if I do not want to be listed in the Cuse Community directory? Send an email to cusecommunity@syr.edu and we will update your profile accordingly. Additional Help What if I need additional help or have a question that isn’t answered above? Feel free to call us at 315.443.3258 or 800.782.5867, e-mail us at cusecommunity@syr.edu or fill out our Help Form with your question or request. Syracuse University Alumni Association 200 Walnut Place Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.3258 Email: sualumni@syr.edu Alumni Links Upcoming Events Career Services Alumni Clubs Make a Gift About SUAA SU Links SU Home SU Admissions SU News Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Social Media Directory © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.