Connect About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Update My Info Find Classmates Help Syracuse University Alumni Association Menu Sign In site search site search Update My Info Find Classmates Help Connect with ’Cuse About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance Your Career #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend an Event Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact and FAQs FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Connect with ’Cuse Advance Your Career Attend an Event Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Contact and FAQs Alumni News Events Career Services Privacy Policy Profile Help Privacy Policy Syracuse University Privacy Policy Privacy Policy Syracuse University licenses this website from iModules Software. iModules Software has created this privacy policy statement in order to demonstrate its firm commitment to privacy and to describe the information-gathering and dissemination practices for the web site. This web site may disclose personal information when required by law or in the good-faith belief that such action is necessary in order to conform to the edicts of the law or comply with a legal process involving the web site. Cookies This web site uses cookies to recognize you and allow you to automatically log in without re-entering your user name and password each time you visit our site. The cookies are encrypted and do not save any personally identifiable information (see the Personally Identifiable Information section below) about you, such as your user name, password or email address. If cookies are disabled in your browser, you can still use the site but you will be required to enter your password each time you visit. Personally Identifiable Information This site's registration form requires you to provide your full name, address, email address, password, gender, city, state, country and zip code. You may also choose to provide optional details, such as maiden name, nick name, birthday, occupation, company, spouse's name, photos, or personal comments. You may update any of this information at any time by accessing your profile by clicking the "edit account information" link, or equivalent, in the navigation menu. You may opt out of receiving email communications from this community (see the "Email Subscription/Opt-Out" section below). Personal Profile Information and Profile Page Your Personal Profile features information you may wish to share with other site members on your Profile Page. Only people who are members of this site can view other members' Profile Page. The only information that is automatically displayed on your Profile Page is your First Name, Last Name and selected additional information. Additional information fields from your Personal Profile information, including comments, and other personal information you choose to share, along with any photos, will appear only if you have opted to provide those items and have also selected to have those fields in your Profile Page View. Credit Card Transactions Some features of this site enable credit card transactions. These features are completely voluntary to members. They include the purchasing of event registrations, merchandise purchases, online donations, membership purchases or the payment of other types of fees through the site. The operators of this site would like to assure you that measures have been taken to make such transactions secure for its members. This site uses industry standard Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) servers on our transaction pages. It encrypts all of your personal information including name, address, and credit card number to prevent unauthorized access as the information travels over the Internet. Fraudulent Behavior This is a community site that is based primarily on member input. This site cannot guarantee the accuracy of information presented. However, anyone demonstrated to have engaged in fraudulent behavior may be subject to (but not limited to) loss of privileges as a member as well as face prosecution to the fullest extent of the law. Safe Harbor iModules Software complies with the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor Framework as set forth by the U.S. Department of Commerce regarding the collection, use, and retention of personal information from European Union member countries. iModules Software has certified that it adheres to the Safe Harbor Privacy Principles of notice, choice, onward transfer, security, data integrity, access, and enforcement. To learn more about the Safe Harbor program, and to view iModules' certification, please visit http://www.export.gov/safeharbor/ Email Subscription Opt-Out The site provides you with the opportunity to choose to receive email communications about this site and the groups you are registered with, as well as emails from other members. In all email communications that you receive from this community, except for confirmation emails for event registrations, purchases, donations or other payments, you will be provided and unsubscribe option where you can opt out of the particular type of email communication. You can also modify the emails that you receive at any time by going to your account profile and changing your opt-in status there. Photo, Blog and other Personal Content Policy This site retains the right to remove or reject any content that it deems obscene or objectionable, or has been reported as such by other members. In addition, the client licensors of the web site can at any time deem content to be objectionable and can remove it from the site. This site does not endorse any content that is posted on the site. Members will not post copyrighted content without permission from the owner. Members understand content whether it be text, graphic or audio visual, is the sole responsibility of the person from which such content originated. This site is no way responsible for accuracy, integrity or quality of such content. Public Forums This site makes chat rooms and message boards available for every community group featured on the site. Your first and last name will be displayed during chat sessions or when you post something in the message boards. Any additional information you choose to submit in these areas is considered public. To protect yourself from unwanted spam or other unsolicited or unwanted communication, you are advised against providing personally identifiable information, including email addresses, postal addresses and phone numbers. This site does not monitor the chat rooms unless we receive a request to do so by a member via Customer Support. Links to Other Sites This site contains links to other sites. This site is not responsible for the privacy practices or the content of such Web sites. Updates to This Privacy Policy This site has the right to make changes or additions to this policy at any time. If those changes involve using your personally identifiable information in a manner different from that stated at the time you joined, the site will notify you by email. Changes that do not affect use of personally identifiable information will be posted to the site. If you have questions regarding this policy, please check this policy periodically or contact Customer Support. Contacting the Web Site If you have any questions about this privacy statement, the practices of this site or your dealings with this web site, please contact Customer Support Syracuse University Alumni Association 200 Walnut Place Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.3258 Email: sualumni@syr.edu Alumni Links Upcoming Events Career Services Alumni Clubs Make a Gift About SUAA SU Links SU Home SU Admissions SU News Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Social Media Directory © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.