Connect About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Update My Info Find Classmates Help Syracuse University Alumni Association Menu Sign In site search site search Update My Info Find Classmates Help Connect with ’Cuse About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance Your Career #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend an Event Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact and FAQs FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Connect with ’Cuse Advance Your Career Attend an Event Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Contact and FAQs About SUAA SUAA Board Benefits of Membership Alumni Awards Arents Award Chancellor’s Citation Eggers Senior Alumni Award Generation Orange Award Military/Veteran Award Orange Circle Award Outstanding Alumni Award Outstanding Young Alumni Award Alumni of Color Alumni News The Slice ’Cuse Conversations Podcasts News Archive Class Notes Connect Virtually Zoom Instructions and Tips Current Students Forever Orange Student Alumni Council Generation Orange Generation Orange Leadership Council Welcome to the City Guides Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Home Connect Alumni Awards Orange Circle Award Past Orange Circle Recipients Past Orange Circle Recipients The Orange Circle Award was introduced in 2009 to recognize altruistic members of the Syracuse University community who have done extraordinary things in the service of others. Since then, it has honored a number of individuals and groups that are making a difference on campus and in their communities. 2021 Lisa Y. Gordon G’90 Gordon is president and chief executive officer of Atlanta Habitat for Humanity, a top 10 Habitat for Humanity International affiliate in the country. She is a recognized leader in transformational real estate development, creating high-quality public and private legacy projects. In her role at Atlanta Habitat, Lisa focuses on quality affordable housing, creating community spaces and neighborhood revitalization. Recognized as both a strategic leader and a consensus-builder, Gordon was elected as a Fellow of the National Academy of Public Administrators in November of 2016. Marcelle Haddix Haddix chairs the School of Education’s Reading and Language Arts department, and is the inaugural co-director of the Lender CenterMarcelle Haddix headshot for Social Justice. Her scholarly pursuits focus on the experiences of students of color in literacy and English teaching and teacher education, as well as the importance of centering Blackness in educational practices and spaces. Black Reign Step Team While the Black Reign Step Team is a performance-based organization, their mission extends far beyond their moves: they believe in showcasing the art of step through fellowship, discipline, unity and precision. Black Reign has deep connections to the Syracuse community and gives back through service projects both on and off campus. Team members often volunteer at Southside Academy Charter School, helping members of the school’s girls’ step team improve their performances. To celebrate their 15th anniversary, Black Reign is hosting a banquet later this semester, with proceeds benefitting Southside’s step team. Food Busters Food Busters strives to improve literacy skills and public health awareness of fellow students in the Syracuse community. The organization was created in 2014 by ShawFood Busters group photo Center nutrition volunteer coordinators Jennifer La ’14 and Katelyn Castro ’15 and Engagement Fellow Victoria Seager G’15. It sends Syracuse University volunteers from the Shaw Center into local schools to teach students to implement lesson plans designed around content they are learning in their school or college. A Hand for Wuhan With efforts led by concerned international Syracuse University students, the Center for International Services launched “A Hand for Wuhan,” a fundraising project to provide vital medical supplies to aid the city of Wuhan in China’s Hubei province, at the epicenter of the coronavirus. Ruohan Xu and Ze Zeng created the project to purchase medical supplies — including masks, goggles and coveralls —for hospitals dealing with affected patients. 2020 Syracuse University did not award Orange Circle Awards in 2020 because of the COVID-19 pandemic. 2019 Jeffrey Rubin '95, G'98 As CEO of SIDEARM Sports, Jeffrey uses his success to give back to both Syracuse University and the local community. In addition, as a Professor of Practice at the School of Information Studies, Rubin teaches students the importance of integrating technology into any career discipline. He is involved with numerous local charities including David's Refuge, which provides support for caregivers of children with disabilities and terminal illnesses. Syracuse University Enactus Syracuse University Enactus is a group of passionate students who work diligently to support those in the Syracuse community and beyond. Through entrepreneurial action, this group helps individuals discover meaningful lives and work toward a more sustainable Earth. They have an impressive history of dedication to the community, and continue to initiate change through various initiatives. Christian Outreach and Student Association (partnership with Hendricks Chapel) In order to provide an effective response to best support those impacted by recent disasters in North America and the Caribbean, Hendricks Chapel helped coordinate a variety of campus-wide efforts. Through a partnership between Christian Outreach and Send Relief, there were two relief trips planned during the spring 2019 semester where students worked alongside local pastors and community organizers to provide recovery and relief for the people of Puerto Rico. Straighten Your Crown Straighten Your Crown (SYC) is a mentoring program centered on teaching elementary and middle school girls to embrace their inner and outer beauty. Student leaders at Syracuse University visit middle schools in the Syracuse City School District to teach students invaluable life lessons in leadership, strength, and healthy living by using their experience in etiquette and female empowerment. The student leaders will also use their experience at the University to inspire the girls to strive for higher education and achieve great success in their selected career paths. 2018 Rob Long ’12, G’14 Long, a former punter on the Syracuse football team, serves as the director of strategic development for Uplifting Athletes, a national nonprofit that uses college football as a platform to inspire hope in the rare disease community. At Uplifting Athletes, Long works on a team to raise money and awareness for rare disease research and patient-focused programs. Diagnosed with a rare and aggressive form of brain cancer during his senior year at SU, Long was the inspiration behind former Orange players starting a chapter of Uplifting Athletes at Syracuse. Nanhi Kali A project of the Mahindra Foundation of India, Nanhi Kali supports education for underprivileged girls. A group of passionate students runs the Nanhi Kali Syracuse University chapter, recognizing that the education of women and girls is beneficial to all societies worldwide. Nanhi Kali raises funds to sponsor uniforms, school supplies and tuition costs for girls in India who are unable to attend elementary or middle school on their own. During the past two years, the SU student group has sponsored education for 51 girls each year, a number that has steadily grown since the group initially formed and sponsored its first three “Nanhi Kalis” in early 2010. Syracuse Chapter of Uplifting Athletes Founded in 2007, Uplifting Athletes is a nonprofit organization working to inspire the rare disease community with hope through the power of sport and teamwork. This past summer, the SU chapter of Uplifting Athletes hosted its fifth annual “Lift for Life” event with friends, families and fans. The student-athletes showcased their competitive nature in an effort to raise research funds and awareness for those affected by rare diseases. The Orange raised more than $11,000 to benefit the rare disease community. The Shaped Clay Society The Shaped Clay Society is a student-run organization affiliated with the ceramics department in the School of Art in the College of Visual and Performing Arts. Its mission is to develop projects that help students become professional artists. One of the Shaped Clay Society’s main projects, the Empty Bowls fundraiser, benefits food pantries in Onondaga County and creates awareness about hunger in the community. The event has raised more than $250,000 since its inception, and all proceeds go to the Interreligious Food Consortium in Syracuse. 2017 Ariel Ash-Shakoor G’17 A Ph.D. candidate in bioengineering in the College of Engineering and Computer Science whose passion for engineering and tutoring inspired her to create a science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) program at the Syracuse Northeast Community Center. Camp Kesem Founded in 2012, this organization is operated by Syracuse University student volunteers who support children through and beyond their parents’ cancer. Camp Kesem serves more than 40 campers ages 6 to 16 annually. Carrie Lazarus ’80 An award-winning journalist and graduate of Syracuse University’s S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications, Lazarus anchored the number one-rated newscast on WSYR-TV for more than 30 years. Her newest passion, the Carrie Lazarus Fund for Extraordinary Talent, is a foundation that enables young musicians, singers, dancers, and other artists to pursue their passions and realize their potential. 2016 OttoTHON A student-run philanthropic organization that strives to raise awareness and funds for Upstate Golisano Children’s Hospital with an annual dance marathon. Funds raised help pay for expenses not covered by insurance, provide support services, and help the hospital stay up to date. Tumay Tunur, Ph.D. A professor and accomplished dancer who uses her skills to teach both the young and the elderly, with a special focus on people with Parkinson’s disease. She combines her research interests with her dance expertise by leading the Moving Through Possibilities program, which aims to engage the community in movement and promote healthy aging. Matthew Zeller G’06 A former Army officer whose life was saved by his Afghan translator and, in response, created No One Left Behind, a nonprofit that assists translators as they pursue visas and long-term U.S. residency, and thus escape from the types of retribution that might be likely in their homelands. 2015 Patricia H Mautino ’64, G’66 Throughout her life, Patricia Mautino has worked tirelessly for Syracuse University, for her community, and for libraries. She has served in a number of leadership roles with the Syracuse University Alumni Association and as co-chair of the iSchool Board of Advisors Development Committee, and now serves as a member of the Syracuse University board of trustees. Extremely involved in education, service, and philanthropy in the community, she has also served libraries in a wide range of elected and appointed offices, as well as through continuous advocacy and volunteerism. Ruth Schlesinger Sherman ’73 Sherman is chair of The Friends of The Leadership and Public Service High School in New York City, which is affiliated with Syracuse University and offers programs of academic excellence to students from underserved populations, including the value of community and public service. The Friends’ work also includes the Syracuse University Mentor/Mentee Alliance, offering 10th- through 12th-grade students a relationship that aims to improve both academic and social skills. Style Lottery Team Style Lottery was founded in 2013 by Timi Komonibo G’15, a graduate student at Syracuse University’s S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications and Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs, with her team, Nieves Alvarez G’14 and Alexis Morris G’15. Style Lottery is a sustainable-fashion- and fashion-as-philanthropy-focused nonprofit that is allowing the three members to combine their love for fashion with a desire to empower young women from marginalized communities. 2014 Thomas Blumer G’82 Over his 21 years on the advisory board at SU’s College of Engineering and Computer Science, Blumer held leadership positions and was a trusted advisor to the college’s deans, faculty, and students. In addition, he and his wife, Barbara, are donors who have made provisions for SU with a significant gift from their estates. Christopher Meek ’92 Christopher Meek is tirelessly dedicated to helping American troops and veterans take their next steps forward. SoldierSocks, the nonprofit he co-founded in 2009, focuses on identifying and filling gaps in the traditional systems supporting members of our military. Mary Gilmore Smith ’29 G’38 When Mary Gilmore Smith passed away in January 2014 at the age of 106, Syracuse University lost one of the oldest, most dedicated members of its extended family. From her days as an English student during the 1920s to decades of counseling and service to others, she was a tireless advocate for women in higher education. 2013 Richard Dulude ’54 Retired senior executive for Corning Inc. and a longtime SU volunteer and advisor. In addition, he established the Richard Dulude Endowed Scholarship for undergraduate engineering students. Louise Phanstiel Supporter of a number of Syracuse University initiatives, including the Phanstiel Scholars program, the Carmelo K. Anthony Basketball Center, the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs, and the Community Folk Art Center. Melvin T. Stith G’73, G’78 and Patricia L. Stith G’77 Melvin Stith, former dean of the Martin J. Whitman School of Management, and Patricia Stith, the University’s assistant provost for equity and inclusion, are well known for their service and dedication to local, regional, and national organizations, including the Ph.D. Project, Vera House, and the United Way. 2012 All Star C.A.S.T. A program for Syracuse University drama students and people from the community who have special needs, all of whom share a love of acting and the desire to create theater Eric ’66, G’68 and Judith Mower ’66, G’73, G’80, G’84 Alumni whose belief in philanthropy extends not only to their businesses, their community and their alma mater, but to the next generation Angela Robinson ’78 Award-winning veteran broadcast journalist who volunteers her time to SU, both on campus and in her hometown of Atlanta, and has established a scholarship for minority students 2011 Beyond Compliance Coordinating Committee An organization of SU students committed to creating a more supportive, inclusive campus. SU/ESF Chapter of Habitat for Humanity One of the country’s top three campus chapters and the group behind five homes built in Syracuse. Peter G. King ’77 Managing partner of King + King Architects and an innovator in green building design and construction. Marc Klein ’03 The fraternity brother who established the James Lyons ’03 Sons and Daughters Memorial Scholarship Fund. 2010 Fisher House Foundation Donor of “Fisher Houses” to major military medical centers across the country, ensuring that wounded warriors have loved ones nearby during their times of greatest need. Marshall M. Gelfand ’50 Tireless leader in the Alumni Club of Southern California, advocate on the SU Board of Trustees, and generous donor who laid the groundwork for SU in LA. Entrepreneurship Bootcamp for Veterans with Disabilities Successful program that helps veterans rebuild their economic potential by giving them the skills needed to launch small businesses. Students in Free Enterprise Whitman School-based group that worked with the women weavers of Chumanzana, Guatemala, to create a successful thread supply store, helping to create sustainable incomes. Winnick Hillel Center for Jewish Life at Syracuse University, Gift of Life Campaign Program that registers potenital bone marrow donors and raises awareness for the need to maintain and grow bone marrow donor lists. 2009 John A. ’63 and Elaine C. Couri The driving force behind a number of community initiatives through the Couri Foundation Inc., including a summer camp for underprivileged children and senior centers. Wesley C. Dias ’74 A mentor who not only helps high school students choose, apply to, and transition to college, but stays connected to ensure the students make the most of their college years. Coordinators of the 2009 Senior Class Gift Class Council President Samina S. Noorani ’09 and Emma S.Dovi ’09, who worked together with the members of the Class Council to re-establish the tradition of senior class giving at SU. Jules R. Setnor, M.D. ’32, G’35 Together with his late wife, Rose ’33, the generous supporter of Syracuse University’s Setnor Schoolof Music and the Rose and Jules R. Setnor, M.D., and Stanford S. Setnor, M.D., Academic Building at SUNY Upstate Medical University. Syracuse University Sport Management Club One of SU’s largest student-run organizations and a major force in raising more than $75,000 for local charities through an annual sports memorabilia auction. Marilyn Costello Tickner ’03 A Syracuse University staff member who is a committed volunteer for such student events as Syracuse Welcome, Family Weekend, Orange Central, and Senior Celebration. Syracuse University Alumni Association 200 Walnut Place Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.3258 Email: sualumni@syr.edu Alumni Links Upcoming Events Career Services Alumni Clubs Make a Gift About SUAA SU Links SU Home SU Admissions SU News Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Social Media Directory © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.