Connect About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Update My Info Find Classmates Help Syracuse University Alumni Association Menu Sign In site search site search Update My Info Find Classmates Help Connect with ’Cuse About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance Your Career #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend an Event Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact and FAQs FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Connect with ’Cuse Advance Your Career Attend an Event Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Contact and FAQs About SUAA SUAA Board Benefits of Membership Alumni Awards Arents Award Chancellor’s Citation Eggers Senior Alumni Award Generation Orange Award Military/Veteran Award Orange Circle Award Outstanding Alumni Award Outstanding Young Alumni Award Alumni of Color Alumni News The Slice ’Cuse Conversations Podcasts News Archive Class Notes Connect Virtually Zoom Instructions and Tips Current Students Forever Orange Student Alumni Council Generation Orange Generation Orange Leadership Council Welcome to the City Guides Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Home Connect Current Students Forever Orange Student Alumni Council Forever Orange Student Alumni Council What is the Forever Orange Student Alumni Council? The Forever Orange Student Alumni Council celebrates the Orange spirit that is unique to Syracuse University students and alumni. The Council educates on the importance of philanthropy and stewardship, fosters student-alumni connections and encourages service to the University and the surrounding community. The Forever Orange Student Alumni Council empowers all members of the Orange family to recognize and embody what it means to “Be Orange.” What are the council's goals? Encourage students to show their Orange pride by getting involved and giving back to Syracuse University. Build class unity via special events and communications. Create awareness of the council and the Syracuse University Alumni Association through social media and campus events. Partner with established student organizations and departments to engage a wider audience. Email Grace Terry in the Office of Alumni Engagement, to learn more. Members of the 2021-22 council David Barbier Jr. '23 David Barbier Jr is a sophomore Posse Scholar from Miami, FL pursuing degree in TV, Radio & Film with a dual in International Relations. He is currently a resident advisor in Lawrinson Hall for the Multicultural Learning Community, a member of the Men of Color Initiative, and creator/host of the Syracuse Original Series “Shades of Cuse”. David interviewed Wilmer Valderamma this semester for the Syracuse University Lecture Series. David joined FOSACl in 2020. Brian Bauer '22 Brian Bauer is a Senior from Ocean Township, New Jersey. Brian is pursuing a major in International Relations with two minors in Chinese Language and Chinese Studies. On campus, aside from being on the council, Brian is a Cadet in the Army ROTC program, a member of the American Red Cross Club, brother of the Delta Upsilon Fraternity, and a Global Ambassador for Syracuse Abroad after studying abroad in Hong Kong Fall 2019. Brian joined FOSAC in the Spring of 2020 and serves as the Co-President. David Bruen '23 David Bruen is a junior Phanstiel Scholar from Rockland County, New York pursuing degree in Political Science with a dual in Policy Studies. He is currently President of the Student Association for SU and SUNY-ESF which is the governing body and advocacy group for all students. David is also involved in local politics as the Treasurer for the Rockland County Young Democrats and Clarkstown Democratic Committee. David joined FOSAC in 2021. Sachi Cecchetto '22 Sachi Cecchetto is a senior majoring in Environmental and Interior Design with a minor in Architecture from Boston, Massachusetts. On campus, Sachi divides her time between being a Peer Advisor, VPA Ambassador, Member of American Society of Interior Designers, Designer for the First Year Players Acting Troupe, a Sister of Alpha Gamma Delta, a founding member of Alpha Rho Chi professional fraternity, and previously serving as a Resident Advisor to first year students. Sachi joined FOSAC in 2020 and is beyond grateful for the opportunity to meet fellow individuals who also bleed orange. Amit Chandramouly '23 Amit Chandramouly junior from Cupertino, California pursuing degrees in Policy Studies and Environment, Sustainability, and Policy. He is a former Resident Advisor and is currently a Peer Facilitator for First Year Seminar 101. He joined FOSAC in 2021. Lindsey Coby '23 Lindsey Coby is a junior from West Caldwell, New Jersey studying Political Science with a minor in Sociology on the Pre-law track. Lindsey is currently the Belonging, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Chairwoman of Gamma Phi Beta Alpha Chapter, the Parliamentarian of Phi Sigma Pi Beta Epsilon National Honor Fraternity, a member of Wells-Link multicultural organization, Lindsey also over the summer was working as a Political Affairs Intern for The Borgen Project working towards ending world hunger and poverty. Lindsey joined FOSAC in 2021. Ashley Collado '22 Ashley Collado is a senior Policy Studies major in the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs from Long Island, New York. On campus, she is involved in the Syracuse University Marching Band as a section leader, Sour Sitrus Society Pep Band, a sister of Tau Beta Sigma National Honorary Band Sorority and become a Global Ambassador for Syracuse Abroad after studying abroad her first semester freshman year as a student in Syracuse’s Discovery Program. Ashley joined the Forever Student Alumni Council in 2020 and is thrilled to have the opportunity to share why she Bleeds Orange every day alongside her FOSAC family. Bennett Cooper '22 Bennett Cooper is a senior from San Diego, California studying political science in Maxwell. On campus, Bennett is involved in OrangeSeeds and Phi Alpha Delta professional law fraternity. He's currently an intern for the EPA's Office of Public Affairs. Salvatore DeDona '22 Salvatore (Sal) DeDona is a senior from Westchester, New York majoring in Computer Science in the School of Engineering and Computer Science. On campus, he is involved with the Information Security Club and sits on the executive board for the Delta Upsilon Fraternity as Secretary. He spent his summer interning for IBM and is passionate to continue fostering his computer science skills both on- and off- campus. Sal is also proud to continue the DeDona legacy at Syracuse as the second in his family to attend. Sal joined FOSAC Council in 2020. Morgan Ellis '23 Originally from Seneca Falls, New York, Morgan Ellis is a junior pursuing a degree in Health and Exercise Science with a minor in biology on a pre-med track. She is involved with the New RSO Review Board and is on the dancer recruitment committee for OttoTHON. Morgan joined FOSAC in spring 2020 as a freshman. André Emden Jr. '23 André Emden Jr is a junior from Piscataway, New Jersey studying Mechanical Engineering. He is a member of the National Society of Black Engineers Syracuse Chapter and the Men of Color Initiative. André joined FOSAC in 2021. Jules Fickenscher '22 Julia (Jules) Fickenscher is a Senior from Ventura, California. She is pursuing a degree in Nutrition with a minor in Sustainable Food Enterprises. She serves as the Social Media Director for the Nutrition Education and Promotion Association (NEPA); Staff Writer for Baked Magazine; Peer Advisor and Student Ambassador for the David B. Falk College of Sports & Human Dynamics; and is a member of Gamma Phi Beta. Jules joined FOSAC in 2021. Evan Greenberg '23 Evan Greenberg is a junior Maxwell Leadership Scholar from Mamaroneck, New York. He is majoring in Political Science, Policy Studies, and Citizenship & Civic Engagement, and minoring in Business. On-campus, he is a resident advisor in Brewster Hall, Vice President of College Democrats, and Director of Internal Operations for the Student Association. Evan joined FOSAC in 2021. Will Herndon '23 Will Herndon is a senior from Charlotte, North Carolina majoring in Architecture at the School of Architecture along with two minors in Real Estate and Business. He is also brother in Delta Upsilon and Alpha Rho Chi, along with being his class representative for the American Institute for Architecture Students (AIAS). Will joined FOSAC in 2019. Izzy Hong '22 Isabelle (Izzy) Hong is a senior from Metuchen, New Jersey, pursuing a degree in Advertising with a minor in Religion. She is in First Year Players, Delta Kappa Alpha and the Advertising Social Media Manager at the Daily Orange. Isabelle joined FOSAC in 2020. Anna Jenkins '23 Anna Jenkins is a junior from Fayetteville, New York majoring in Information Management & Technology in the School of Information Studies and enrolled in the Renée Crown University Honors Program. She is secretary of Information Security club and a member of the women’s club soccer team. Anna joined FOSAC in 2020. Riley Moore '23 Riley Moore is a junior from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. She is pursuing degrees in Communications and Rhetorical Studies, Political Science, and Creative Writing. She is a member of the Syracuse University Marching Band and the Sour Sitrus Society Pep Band, the Writing and Rhetoric Student Organization, as well as a sister of Tau Beta Sigma National Honorary Band Sorority. Riley joined the FOSAC council in the Spring of 2021, and is so excited to share her love and appreciation for the school that has helped her find an incredible Orange family. Mackenzie Proud '20, G'22 Mackenzie Proud is a Master of Public Administration student in the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs. She received a Bachelor of Science in Nutrition Science from Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamic in May 2020. She has squeezed the most out of her time at SU with a variety of involvements and positions including serving as member of the University's Diversity Equity Inclusion and Accessibility Strategic Planning Taskforce, Program Senator for the Graduate Student Organization, Outreach Coordinator at Camp Kesem, University 100 tour guide and Syracuse University Ambulance EMT. Mackenzie joined FOSAC in 2021. Madison Prowak '23 Originally from Syracuse, New York, Madison Prowak is pursing a degree in Biology with a minor in Nutrition Science. On campus, she is involved with the Rebecca Lee Pre-Health Society, Deans Team, and currently serves as the Director of Lifetime Membership within Delta Delta Delta. She is a Biology 121 tutor through the PLTL tutor program, and is also a remote tutor for the City of Syracuse elementary school students. Madison is a daughter of proud parents, both of alumni of Syracuse University as she is truly passionate about what it means to be Forever Orange. Amanda Quon '22 Amanda Quon is a senior majoring in Communications Design and minoring in Marketing from Robbinsville, New Jersey. On campus, she is involved with OttoTHON Dance Marathon, Phi Sigma Pi National Honor Fraternity, VPA Ambassadors, VPA Peer Advisors, peer facilitators for SEM100, OrangeSeeds First-Year Leadership Empowerment Program. Amanda joined FOSAC in 2019 and is on the public relations committee. Andrea Sanchez '22 Bio coming soon. Fantasia Sherman '22 Fantasia Sherman is a senior from Douglassville, Pennsylvania. She is dual majoring in Policy Studies and Citizenship and Civic Engagement in the Maxwell School, and is a member of the Renée Crown University Honors Program. She works for the Maxwell Dean’s Office as their Alumni Relations Intern, is the Executive Board President of ‘Cuse Spot, and is a member of the Wellslink Leadership Program. Fantasia joined FOSAC in 2021. Thomas Simmons '23 Thomas Simmons is a junior from Louisville, Kentucky majoring in Television, Radio & Film and Information Management & Technology. Outside of FOSAC, he is a director for University Union, the Speaker of the Assembly for the Student Association, a tour guide for University 100, and a brother of Phi Sigma Pi National Honor Fraternity as well as Phi Kappa Theta. Thomas believes anyone can shine at Syracuse and works to prove this through his time on campus, having joined FOSAC in Spring 2021. Lindsey Singer '23 Lindsey Singer is a junior from Stowe, Vermont pursuing a degree in Political Science and History in in the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs. On campus, she is involved in Delta Phi Epsilon Sorority, PAD pre-law fraternity and the Women's Network. Lindsey joined the Forever Student Alumni Council in Spring 2021 and is thrilled to have the opportunity to share why she loves Syracuse along others who share her passion for it. Go Orange! Cassidy Thompson '23 Bio coming soon. Daniel Wood ’22 Daniel Wood is a senior from Charleston, South Carolina pursuing a dual degree in Broadcast & Digital Journalism in the S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications and International Relations in the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs. He is currently Co-President of FOSAC; a tour guide for University 100; Dancer Engagement Chair for OttoTHON; a member of the Syracuse University Student Advisory Committee; an Orientation Leader; and is a brother of Phi Sigma Pi National Honor Fraternity. Daniel truly has a passion for what it means to be Orange and joined FOSAC in 2019. David Williams '22 David Williams is a senior originally from Bucks County, PA. He is pursuing a degree in Policy Studies at the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs, with minors in Psychology and Information Management & Technology. David serves as First Vice-President of the NAACP at SU and is an Orientation Leader. Off campus, he mentors city youth through the JUMP mentorship program. David joined FOSAC in 2020. Syracuse University Alumni Association 200 Walnut Place Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.3258 Email: sualumni@syr.edu Alumni Links Upcoming Events Career Services Alumni Clubs Make a Gift About SUAA SU Links SU Home SU Admissions SU News Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Social Media Directory © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.