Connect About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Update My Info Find Classmates Help Syracuse University Alumni Association Menu Sign In site search site search Update My Info Find Classmates Help Connect with ’Cuse About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance Your Career #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend an Event Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact and FAQs FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Connect with ’Cuse Advance Your Career Attend an Event Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Contact and FAQs About SUAA SUAA Board Benefits of Membership Alumni Awards Arents Award Chancellor’s Citation Eggers Senior Alumni Award Generation Orange Award Military/Veteran Award Orange Circle Award Outstanding Alumni Award Outstanding Young Alumni Award Alumni of Color Alumni News The Slice ’Cuse Conversations Podcasts News Archive Class Notes Connect Virtually Zoom Instructions and Tips Current Students Forever Orange Student Alumni Council Generation Orange Generation Orange Leadership Council Welcome to the City Guides Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Home Connect Alumni Awards Orange Circle Award Orange Circle Award Introduced in 2009, the Orange Circle Award recognizes altruistic members of the Syracuse University community who have done extraordinary things in the service of others. View a list of past Orange Circle Award recipients. Nomination Criteria Submit a nomination! The Orange Circle Award honors individuals who go above and beyond in their daily lives and who possess a deep responsibility for extraordinary philanthropic acts. These are not limited to financial support, but also include volunteerism-those acts that better society through contributions of time and talent. All Syracuse University alumni, faculty, staff, administration, students, and student organizations are eligible to nominate individuals or groups they feel are worthy recipients of the Orange Circle Award. Orange Circle nominees must exemplify the following qualities and characteristics: They must be affiliated in some way with Syracuse University, but not necessarily be students or alumni. Members of the SU faculty and staff are also eligible; however, students and alumni will comprise at least two-thirds of Orange Circle winners. They must exhibit the best qualities of Orange spirit-the willingness to work hard, a concern for others, and a desire to change the lives of others for the better. They must have an outstanding record of service and philanthropy to their cause. This service may or may not be in the form of financial support; contributions of time and/or talent are also valuable forms of philanthropy. They must, through their actions, display a commitment to incite change in the world around them. They must have a history of dedication and service to Syracuse University. In addition, all nominees should have: An official nomination from a member of the SU community (NO self-nominations will be accepted). Submit a nomination! Syracuse University Alumni Association 200 Walnut Place Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.3258 Email: sualumni@syr.edu Alumni Links Upcoming Events Career Services Alumni Clubs Make a Gift About SUAA SU Links SU Home SU Admissions SU News Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Social Media Directory © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.