Connect About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Update My Info Find Classmates Help Syracuse University Alumni Association Menu Sign In site search site search Update My Info Find Classmates Help Connect with ’Cuse About SUAA Alumni Awards Alumni of Color Alumni News Class Notes Connect Virtually Current Students Generation Orange Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Advance Your Career #HireOrange Career Coaching Partnership Program Orange Network Career Resource Library Partnerships and Discounts Attend an Event Northeastern Events Midwestern Events Southern Events Western Events International and Special Interest Events Career and Professional Development Events Virtual Events Game Watch Locations Forever Orange Week National Orange Day Coming Back Together 2022 Newhouse School Mirror Awards #SUGrad22 SUccess Week Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Volunteer Cheer on the Orange Shop Syracuse Gear Make A Gift Contact and FAQs FAQs Meet the Team Stay Connected Connect with ’Cuse Advance Your Career Attend an Event Experience Orange Central Join a Club Support Syracuse Contact and FAQs About SUAA SUAA Board Benefits of Membership Alumni Awards Arents Award Chancellor’s Citation Eggers Senior Alumni Award Generation Orange Award Military/Veteran Award Orange Circle Award Outstanding Alumni Award Outstanding Young Alumni Award Alumni of Color Alumni News The Slice ’Cuse Conversations Podcasts News Archive Class Notes Connect Virtually Zoom Instructions and Tips Current Students Forever Orange Student Alumni Council Generation Orange Generation Orange Leadership Council Welcome to the City Guides Notable Alumni Regions Special Interest Groups Travel with SU Home Connect Special Interest Groups Special Interest Groups What is a special interest group? These groups offer a way for you to connect with fellow Syracuse University alumni based on special interests or activities that continue to be meaningful to you. As a special interest group member, you’ll receive: A welcome email Invitation to join a Facebook Group (if applicable) Invitations to special events and reunions related to your special interests What special interest groups already exist? Athletic Bands Whether they're exciting SU football or basketball fans with rousing renditions of the University fight song or playing recent hits, Syracuse University athletic bands are an integral part of the SU fan experience. Return during Orange Central to participate in alumni athletic bands activities. Hendricks Chapel Choir Founded in 1929, the Hendricks Chapel Choir is one of SU's great musical traditions. Hendricks Chapel Choir is an auditioned mixed ensemble representing many of the colleges and majors available at Syracuse University and the SUNY College of Environmental Science and Forestry. Honors Program It takes exceptional students to be successful in the Honors Program, and they go on to do extraordinary things. Network and get to know the generations of alumni who have been a part of the prestigious Renée Crown Honors Program. Legacy Program Do you have Orange in your family tree? Join our Legacy Program. Show that your Orange pride spans generations, and connect with other families who share the legacy tradition. Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, Asexual (LGBTQ+) Advocates and Supporters We welcome all who support the LGBTQ+ community to join our Affinity Group. Whether you joined a LGBTQ+ organization or discussion group, enrolled in the LGBT Learning Community or an LGBT Studies course, worked as student staff at the LGBT Resource Center or participated in LGBTQ events, this group is for you! Advocates and supporters include alumni, parents, family, and friends who wish to foster a sense of personal pride, professional resources, and community for current and former members of the SU LGBTQ+ and ally communities. Members receive e-newsletter updates and are invited to volunteer to lead and participate in regional events and reunions. Ottos Only a select few are chosen to become Otto, our beloved mascot! Connect with fellow alumni who have also worn the suit. Share memories and get to know the growing group of alumni who have proudly been Otto. Remembrance Scholars The Remembrance Scholar Program awards 35 scholarships each year in honor of the 35 Syracuse students who died in the Pan Am 103 tragedy in December 1988. The experience of being a Remembrance Scholar is unique and emotional, and it’s an experience only a fellow scholar can understand. Connect with these other outstanding alumni to share the memories and the sentiments. Syracuse University Abroad (SU Abroad) Consistently ranked among the highest-quality international study programs in the country, SU Abroad provides student with unique experiences they carry with them for life. So many of our alumni were shaped by their study abroad experience―network with others who share that unique bond. Syracuse University Ambulance (SUA) Syracuse University Ambulance is a SU Health Services-based, student-operated organization that responds to more than 1,500 medical emergencies each year, providing intermediate life support, transport, and rapid cardiac defibrillation, as well as non-emergency transportation. SUA has been serving the Syracuse University community since 1973. Syracuse University Men's Hockey (SUMH) Syracuse University Men's Hockey, a nationally ranked ACHA club team in continuous existence since 1960, competes with clubs and universities across the U.S. The SUMH Association supports the team through sponsoring of charitable events and honoring its former players. Syracuse University Rugby Football With a men’s team founded in 1969, men’s and women’s Syracuse University rugby football teams have competed with clubs and universities across the eastern U.S. and have even competed internationally. The close-knit teams lead to strong alumni bonds. University 100 (U100) The U100 student ambassadors are the face of the University—giving tours and representing the university at official functions. Stay connected with those who know Syracuse University best! University Union Responsible for major performances, speakers, and conferences, members of University Union shaped the experiences of their fellow students. Reconnect with your classmates who went through the craziness of bringing big names to campus and laugh about the behind-the-scenes stories only UU members know. Veterans/Military Affiliated Syracuse University is proud of and committed to our alumni who have served this country. Take this opportunity to get to know fellow alumni who have served and share your experiences in both military and civilian life. WAER WAER is a commercial-free, listener-supported public media organization licensed to Syracuse University. Founded in 1947, WAER serves the greater Syracuse area with NPR and local news, eclectic music, and Syracuse University sports. Connect with Mary Evans, who is in charge of alumni programming. How do I get involved? Complete the online form to provide us with your most up to date information and to share any groups you’re interested in. Is your group not here? We create special interest groups based on alumni input. Have a suggestion for a group the Office of Alumni Engagement should start or partner with? Let us know. We value your ideas! Who can I contact with if I have questions or ideas? Contact Kate Ludwig, assistant director of affinity programs, in the Office of Alumni Engagement at kludwig@syr.edu or 315.443.3249. Syracuse University Alumni Association 200 Walnut Place Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.3258 Email: sualumni@syr.edu Alumni Links Upcoming Events Career Services Alumni Clubs Make a Gift About SUAA SU Links SU Home SU Admissions SU News Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Social Media Directory © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.