Skip to main content Search Cornell Toggle navigation ABOUT THE CVG Mission Leadership Diversity & Inclusion Highlighted Publications Member Directory Membership Information Email List & Slack Contact Us ACTIVITIES The Verge CVG Journal Club Mentoring Program CVG Stories Symposium Zoom-with-an-Expert Co-Sponsored Events Twitter Team FUNDING OPPORTUNITIES Scholars Program Seed Funding Travel Awards RESOURCES Diversity and Inclusion The CVG leadership strives to promote diversity and to create a culture of inclusion and belonging. We are deeply concerned about on-going issues of injustice and inequity, and distressed by the rise in hate crimes in our country. We encourage everyone to learn more about our values and our commitment to taking concrete actions. We also warmly welcome any suggestions or feedback. Each of your voices matter to us and we are eager to hear from you. The Mission of the CVG The University-wide Center for Vertebrate Genomics has several goals related to the enhancement of research and education in vertebrate genetics and functional genomics at Cornell. These include: Conducting activities to foster academic and research interactions among faculty with interests in genetics and genome-scale biology across campus. Enhancing the undergraduate, graduate, and post-doctoral research environment in genomics with trainee-focused initiatives (including some that are led or hosted by the trainees themselves). Assisting in the recruitment of outstanding, diverse scientists with expertise in genetics and genomics. Promoting cutting-edge, collaborative, and inter-disciplinary research that leverages genome-scale biology. To accomplish these goals, the Center administers a variety of programs, such as scholarships for trainees; seed funding for faculty research projects; travel to meetings and conferences; the monthly Vertebrate Genomics (a.k.a. "Verge") seminars; the monthly trainee genomics journal club; the "CVG stories" journey to science events; the annual symposium; and more. For a full list, please see Activities and Funding Opportunities on the top menu bar. The Center was launched in the Fall of 2004 by John Schimenti, and Praveen Sethupathy became the Director in 2019. We currently have 100 faculty and associate members. View our membership information to learn about the conditions of membership, the benefits, and how to apply. The CVG is made possible by the generous support of the Office of the Vice President for Research and Innovation (OVPRI). Credit: Background vector graphic used in the STEM Womnx image created by pinnacleanimates - www.freepik.com ABOUT THE CVG Mission Leadership Diversity & Inclusion Highlighted Publications Member Directory Membership Information Email List & Slack Contact Us Sanger DNA sequence trace courtesy of Dr. John Schimenti, Cornell University. Center for Vertebrate Genomics T7006 Veterinary Research Tower College of Veterinary Medicine Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853-6401. Phone: (607) 253-3785 For questions or comments about this website, please e-mail cw25@cornell.edu Copyright 2020