Skip to main content Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Animal Owners Veterinarians Directory Toggle Navigation Menu Think and Do The Extraordinary GIVE to the College About CVM Community & Culture Dean’s Office College Leadership Departments Virtual Tour Fast Facts Awards and Honors Mission Directions Education DVM Program Graduate Program Residencies Internships Contact Academic Affairs Accreditation Student Life House System Student News Diversity White Coat Ceremony Research Researchers Areas of Emphasis Departments Centers Clinical Trials Diagnostic and Research Labs Industry Partners CVM Postdocs Contact Office of Research Global Health Outreach Continuing Education DVM Student Visitor Program CVM Visitor Program News Hospital Think and Do The Extraordinary The Campaign for NC State CVM About CVM Education Student Life Research Global Health Outreach News Hospital Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Animal Owners Veterinarians Directory Full Site Navigation About CVM Community & Culture Dean’s Office College Leadership Departments Virtual Tour Fast Facts Awards and Honors Mission Directions Education DVM Program Graduate Program Residencies Internships Contact Academic Affairs Accreditation Student Life House System Student News Diversity White Coat Ceremony Research Researchers Areas of Emphasis Departments Centers Clinical Trials Diagnostic and Research Labs Industry Partners CVM Postdocs Contact Office of Research Outreach Continuing Education DVM Student Visitor Program CVM Visitor Program Directory Alphabetical Listing Department Listing By People Faculty Leadership Researchers Staff By Unit Administration Clinical Sciences Hospital Molecular Biomedical Sciences Population Health and Pathobiology By Research Area of Emphasis Biological Barriers Computational Biology and Bioinformatics Gastroenterology Genetics Global Health Immunology Infectious Diseases Neurobiology Pharmacology Regenerative Medicine Spontaneous Animal Disease Models Veterinary Cancer Care By Focus Area Avian and Exotics Clinician Scientist Epidemiology Equine Practice Food Animal Graduate - Cell Biology Graduate - Infectious Diseases Graduate - Pathology Graduate - Pharmacology Graduate - Population Medicine Graduate - Public Health Graduate – Immunology Laboratory Animal Mixed Animal Practice Pathology Small Animal Practice Zoological Medicine Class of 2022 Congratulations! Top ranked in the nation, the College of Veterinary Medicine is a driving force in veterinary research and training. Apply Take a virtual tour Give to CVM COVID-19 UPDATES Important Information for Veterinary Hospital Clients and Animal Owners CVM RESOURCES News Veterinary Hospital People Clinical Sciences Maps & Directions Biomedical Sciences Giving Population Health Vet Library CVM Internal Hospital 919.513.6500 | Emergency 919.513.6911 Shaping the Future of Veterinary Medicine Diversity Matters NC State values diversity.Not only do we all benefit from multiple viewpoints, experiences and perspectives, diversity is critical to our academic mission. Groundbreaking Research Comprised of over 100 faculty representing more than 25 disciplines. Leading Education A stimulating, technology-rich environment where students train with the best. TogetherWe Are One CVM Mutual respect and valuing the quality of our relationships unleashes the power of collaboration. Learn more here CVM Latest NewsMore Stories NC State Veterinary Medicine News and Updates, May 2022 In the Spotlight CVM Class of 2022 Celebrates Hard-Earned Oath & Hooding Moment When members of the Class of 2022 showed up for the first day of classes, little did they know that a global pandemic would turn their path to a degree in veterinary medicine upside down. Having endured COVID testing, distance learning, social… NC State Veterinary Medicine Research Roundup, May 2022￼ It was another eventful month for published research from the NC State College of Veterinary Medicine. Topics ranged from dog bowl hygiene to cat jaw surgeries to the best way to diagnose tendon tears in horses. A School of Fishes At a research center in the port town of Morehead City, 18 veterinary medicine students get hands-on experience operating on fish. Outstanding Mobile Vet Service Earns Cannedy Coat of Excellence Director of Diversity and Multicultural Affairs honored with a Coat of Excellence by Susan Ward for his work as a large animal veterinarian. 250 acreCentennial Biomedical Campus Providing opportunities for industry and government researchers, entrepreneurs, clinical trial companies, as well as collaborations with other universities to work side by side with faculty and students at the College of Veterinary Medicine. Learn more here Upcoming EventsFull Calendar There are no upcoming events at this time. CVM Social Connections Facebook Twitter Linked In Instagram Flickr You Tube College of veterinary medicine departments Clinical Sciences Trains student interested in becoming veterinary practitioners. Molecular Biomedical Sciences Trains doctors of veterinary medicine and graduate students interested in research-based careers. Population Health and Pathobiology Trains doctors of veterinary medicine who will specialize in understanding and reducing disease in animal populations. 1060 William Moore Drive Raleigh, NC 27607 919.513.6461 About the Site Accessibility Copyright Diversity Site Map MyPack Portal Directory Libraries Jobs Policies Privacy Contact Map facebook youtube twitter instragram flickr linkedIn pinterest © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.