Skip to Main Content About Why Tulsa In The News Value of a Tulsa Degree Academics Curriculum Faculty Student Resources Experience Student Experience The Online Experience Admissions Admissions Info Scholarships & Financial Aid Veterans FAQ Events Upcoming Events Past Events Blog Request InfoApply Now Online M.S. in Cyber Security Learn the skills & knowledge to take the next big step Take control of your Cyber Security career Request Information First Name Please enter your first name. Last Name Please enter your last name. Email Address Please enter a valid email address. Phone Number Please enter a valid phone number (numbers only). Postal Code Please enter a valid postal code. Learn More Please wait By providing my information and clicking the “Learn More” button, I consent to being contacted via telephone (including a cell phone, if provided), email, and text message about the Cyber Security program. An industry in high demand solidifies your future Organizations across a broad range of industries in both the private and public sectors recognize the importance of Cyber Security and how it seriously impacts their mission. The University of Tulsa Master of Science (M.S.) in Cyber Security program is designed for working professionals seeking to gain the skills and expertise necessary to advance and thrive in this growing field. Designed with the working professional in mind, this program provides students with a comprehensive understanding of the foundational concepts of cyber security. Students interact with classmates and live professors active in the field of cyber security. 1 of 14 1 of the first 14 institutions designated as a Center of Academic Excellence in Information Assurance & Cyber Defense Education IA & Cyber Ops Recognized by the federal government as a CAE in IA Research & Cyber Operations 20 Years Since 2000, The University of Tulsa has been at the forefront of Cyber Security research & education Highway to Success Graduates have gone on to leading roles in the private & public sectors, as well as academia Ranked No. 23 Nationally The University of Tulsa is now ranked No. 23 nationally by U.S. News & World Report for cyber security academics M.S. in Cyber Security As an online M.S. in Cyber Security graduate, you will master the theory, concepts and techniques of information assurance and network defense in real-world environments. The technical and professional skills developed earning your M.S. in Cyber Security are highly sought after by federal government agencies, national laboratories, law enforcement and intelligence communities, and the private sector. To meet the demands of full-time professionals, you can complete your degree in cybersecurity in as little as 20 months, or as many as four years. You may complete the program at whatever pace is more comfortable for you. The industry estimates that over one million cyber security jobs worldwide remain unfilled with more than 200,000 of those in the United States.* *(ISC)² Cyber Security Workforce Study, 2018 Program Benefits Gain the skills & expertise necessary to thrive in this growing field Built for the working professional in mind 100% online Engaged and experienced faculty active in Cyber Security research Graduates are positioned to succeed as technical and managerial leaders Complete your degree in as little as 20 months Scholarships Available Important Deadlines Fall 2022 Priority Complete Deadline June 30, 2022 Final Submit Deadline July 21, 2022 Final Complete Deadline August 4, 2022 Classes Begin August 22, 2022 If you have any questions or concerns regarding our application deadlines, please reach out to our Enrollment Team: (918) 856-3999 or onlinemscs@tulsa.edu Who Is This Program For? The University of Tulsa’s online M.S. in Cyber Security is designed for working professionals who are looking to take the next step in their career. This program serves students with backgrounds in computer science who are interested in expanding their skills and knowledge to succeed as technical and managerial leaders in cyber security. We’re not gonna tell you how to do something … You’re gonna figure out why you need to set it up that way. And based on when you understand why, then you can figure out how to do it and apply that knowledge regardless of where you’re at. NATHAN SINGLETON Cyber Security Mgr., Helmerich & Payne, Inc.; TU Alumnus Career Opportunities with an M.S. in Cyber Security Graduates from The University of Tulsa’s M.S. in Cyber Security program have gone on to successful positions within highly reputable organizations, such as: Amazon CymSTAR Google GPSG Hilti Instagram Pacific Northwest National Laboratory An online M.S. in Cyber Security degree can provide opportunities to both enhance your career and increase your salary. EXPLORE POTENTIAL CYBER JOBS Job Salary 50k Information Security Manager $118k Information Security Engineer $100k Security Engineer, Information Systems $99k Information Security Officer $98k Security Engineer $95k Cyber Security Engineer $93k Penetration Tester $92k Security Consultant $90k Network security Engineer $89k Software Engineer $85k Cyber Security Analyst $78k Information Security Analyst $74k Security Analyst $72k *Average salary estimates according to Payscale.com Spring 2020. Online M.S. in Cyber Security Upcoming Events Check back soon for more upcoming events. Designed to accommodate the needs and schedules of working professionals, the online M.S. in Cyber Security program offers classes 100% online Explore Online Courses Created in 2017, The University of Tulsa’s online M.S. in Cyber Security program is made possible by dedicated faculty active in Cyber Security research Explore Online Faculty Ready to take control of your cyber security career? For more information about The University of Tulsa’s online M.S. in Cyber Security program, please complete the form below. First Name Please enter your first name. Last Name Please enter your last name. Email Address Please enter a valid email address. Phone Number Please enter a valid phone number (numbers only). Postal Code Please enter a valid postal code. Learn More Please wait By providing my information and clicking the “Learn More” button, I consent to being contacted via telephone (including a cell phone, if provided), email, and text message about the Cyber Security program. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 539-202-2224 SITE POLICES Privacy Policy Legal The University of Tulsa admits students of any race, color, national and ethnic origin to all the rights, privileges, programs, and activities generally accorded or made available to students at the school. It does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national and ethnic origin in administration of its educational policies, admissions policies, scholarship and loan programs, and athletic and other school-administered programs. © 2020 The University of Tulsa Request Information Sign up to receive updates about this program. First Name Please enter your first name. Last Name Please enter your last name. Email Address Please enter a valid email address. Phone Number Please enter a valid phone number (numbers only). Postal Code Please enter a valid postal code. Learn More Please wait By providing my information and clicking the “Learn More” button, I consent to being contacted via telephone (including a cell phone, if provided), email, and text message about the Cyber Security program.