Skip to content Georgia Institute of Technology Institute for Information Security & Privacy | Georgia Tech Menu Close Home About About the IISP Quick Facts Awards & Distinctions Research About Our Research Research Labs Available Tools Faculty Seed Funding Education Overview School of Cybersecurity and Privacy Professional Education People Faculty Directory Executive Director Wenke Lee Deputy Director J. Sukarno Mertoguno Ph.D. Fellows Staff Events Annual Summit Cybersecurity Lecture Series Demo Day News Center Latest News Source Port Newsletter Threats Reports News Releases News Archive Partner For Faculty Contact Us Georgia Tech Home Campus Map Directory Offices Twitter Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home We Are Moving! The Institute for Information Security & Privacy has joined the School of Cybersecurity and Privacy! In order to ensure we continue as a coordinating body for cybersecurity research, we are migrating our content to the School of Cybersecurity and Privacy website. We hope to see you there! This website will come down after the start of the new year. Cyber-Physical Systems Increasingly, physical systems are monitored, protected and controlled by cyber systems. Consider electric power generation, gas/petroleum production, air and land transportation, or medical systems. Control and protection decisions are now decided in the cyberspace and executed via a cyber/physical interface where intruders can steal sensitive information, cause disruptions, and outright irreparable harm. Security concerns need to be brought to the forefront of the design of cyber-physical systems. The detection of attacks now requires that domain-specific models and simulators -- which can provide physical-system awareness -- be included early in the design process. Georgia Tech has established significant research in cyber-physical security with emphasis on healthcare and energy systems. Georgia Tech researchers also focus on maximizing cybersecurity and operational security by integrating "cyber management" into the total protection and control of large complex systems, such as those used for a power grid. These research activities pave the way to make the operation of physical systems far more reliable compared to design approaches of the past. Defense against cyberattacks is still too poorly understood. The Institute for Information Security & Privacy exists to help industry and government simultaneously maximize the operational security and cybersecurity of essential infrastructure that powers homes and businesses, delivers gas and petroleum, allows fluid communication of funds and information, and -- in short -- powers the U.S. economy. What inputs and outputs should be part of the most fortified embedded and physical systems? Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Cybersecurity Research Areas Attribution Consumer-facing Privacy Cyber Physical Systems Privacy Policy Risk Trust Other Research Areas at Georgia Tech Cybersecurity Labs & Centers Astrolavos Lab CDAIT CIPHER Lab Communications Assurance & Performance Lab Converged Systems Security Lab CyFi Lab Financial Services Innovation Lab Georgia Tech Cyber Security Information & Communications Laboratory Intel ISTC-ARSA Center Polo Club of Data Science Systems Software & Security Laboratory Cybersecurity Education M.S. Cybersecurity M.S. Computer Science Online M.S. C.S. Ph.D. Computer Science Ph.D. Electrical & Computer Engineering Ph.D. Fellowship CyberCorps Scholarship for Service Professional Education Institute for Information Security & Privacy Klaus Advanced Computing Building 266 Ferst Drive, Atlanta, GA 30332 (404) 385-3800 Contact Us Use of Corporate Logos Site Feedback Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © Georgia Institute of Technology