Skip to content Georgia Institute of Technology Institute for Information Security & Privacy | Georgia Tech Menu Close Home About About the IISP Quick Facts Awards & Distinctions Research About Our Research Research Labs Available Tools Faculty Seed Funding Education Overview School of Cybersecurity and Privacy Professional Education People Faculty Directory Executive Director Wenke Lee Deputy Director J. Sukarno Mertoguno Ph.D. Fellows Staff Events Annual Summit Cybersecurity Lecture Series Demo Day News Center Latest News Source Port Newsletter Threats Reports News Releases News Archive Partner For Faculty Contact Us Georgia Tech Home Campus Map Directory Offices Twitter Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home We Are Moving! The Institute for Information Security & Privacy has joined the School of Cybersecurity and Privacy! In order to ensure we continue as a coordinating body for cybersecurity research, we are migrating our content to the School of Cybersecurity and Privacy website. We hope to see you there! This website will come down after the start of the new year. Trust In the coming decades, we will live in a world surrounded by tens of billions of devices that inter-operate and collaborate to deliver personalized or autonomic services. Our growing reliance on machine-to-machine (M2M) systems to make decisions on our behalf has profound implications for the quality and integrity of the data that guides our actions. Trust is the belief in the competence of a machine or sensor to act dependably, securely and reliably within a specified context. In M2M systems, trust is commonly accomplished using cryptography, digital signatures, and electronic certificates. This approach establishes and evaluates a trust chain between devices, but it does not tell us enough about the quality of information being exchanged among machines. Trust is a broader notion than information security; it includes subjective criteria and experience. An essential part of managing trust and security in the age of an Internet of Things (IoT) is identity management for the machine (i.e., non-human) participants. The IoT introduces new challenges in identity management in "things" that have different lifetimes (ranging from years or decades down to days or minutes); in "things" that may be composed of other things, creating a system of systems; and in "things" are mobile, meaning they can take on the address once associated with another device and they can have more than one IP address. Since it is essential that we trust that we are talking to the right "thing" and that we can believe the data it communicates to us, providing trust as a service to devices in a system is an important emerging need. Research at the Institute for Information Security & Privacy looks at the idea of "trust as a service" in dynamic sensor networks. This includes traditional trust management techniques, such as reputation algorithms combined with identity access management approaches. How should people, machines, and networks establish trust in reliable ways? How does the trust relationship change over time? Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Cybersecurity Research Areas Attribution Consumer-facing Privacy Cyber Physical Systems Privacy Policy Risk Trust Other Research Areas at Georgia Tech Cybersecurity Labs & Centers Astrolavos Lab CDAIT CIPHER Lab Communications Assurance & Performance Lab Converged Systems Security Lab CyFi Lab Financial Services Innovation Lab Georgia Tech Cyber Security Information & Communications Laboratory Intel ISTC-ARSA Center Polo Club of Data Science Systems Software & Security Laboratory Cybersecurity Education M.S. Cybersecurity M.S. Computer Science Online M.S. C.S. Ph.D. Computer Science Ph.D. Electrical & Computer Engineering Ph.D. Fellowship CyberCorps Scholarship for Service Professional Education Institute for Information Security & Privacy Klaus Advanced Computing Building 266 Ferst Drive, Atlanta, GA 30332 (404) 385-3800 Contact Us Use of Corporate Logos Site Feedback Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © Georgia Institute of Technology