Skip to the main content Menu Harvard Berkman Klein Center Logo Harvard Berkman Klein Center Logo Main navigation Events Community Publications Projects & Tools Programs Education Topics People Secondary navigation About Us News Get Involved Search o-icon__search Featured links navigation Opportunity: Program Coordinator, Rebooting Social Media Opportunity: Center Coordinator Opportunity: Program Manager, Rebooting Social Media Homepage event Living by Protocol presented by metaLAB (at) Harvard & FU Berlin news Lumen Database Leads Research Sprint Exploring Best Practices For Transparency around Online Content Takedowns Global cohort of scholars, professionals, and civil society representatives consider norms and regulations for removal of online content Governance of Technology & the Internet news Announcing the Institute for Rebooting Social Media's 2022-23 Visiting Scholars Scholars will be in residence developing research into social media and the prospects for interventions to improve it. The Latest News Hiring: Program Coordinator, Rebooting Social Media The Berkman Klein Center for Internet & Society at Harvard University seeks a Program Coordinator for educational… May 12, 2022 Event The Tech That Comes Next: How Changemakers, Philanthropists, and Technologists Can Build an Equitable World Afua Bruce discusses her and Amy Sample Ward's "The Tech That Comes Next" with Sue Hendrickson and Amritha Jayanti. May 18, 2022 Event The Tower and the Park: Structural Misalignments of Social Media Joanne Cheung will discuss “Real Estate Politik: Democracy and the Financialization of Social Networks"... May 17, 2022 News Hiring: Center Coordinator The Center Coordinator will advance the Center’s core functions by supporting a wide range of administrative and… Apr 22, 2022 Community The latest news and commentary from our community. See all Community Posts Wired If Tech Fails to Design for the Most Vulnerable, It Fails Us All Afsaneh Rigot connects Telegram in Russia, Elon Musk’s Twitter plans, and threats to abortion access and safety... Afsaneh Rigot May 15, 2022 Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs Design From the Margins This report outlines how Design From the Margins can be used to build technologies for decentered cases from the… Afsaneh Rigot May 13, 2022 Time The Bitcoin Mining Showdown In New York’s Wine Country Elizabeth Renieris shares about cryptocurrency's climate impact. Elizabeth Renieris Apr 7, 2022 Lawfare Telegram’s Embrace of Contradiction Will Marks and David Nemer assess Telegram's content moderation. Will Marks Apr 6, 2022 Journal of Cyber Policy Digital identity for development should keep pace with national cybersecurity capacity: Nigeria in focus Babatunde Okunoye explains why Nigeria's digital identity project has exceeded the country's cybersecurity infrastructu… Babatunde Okunoye Apr 1, 2022 The Atlantic Why COVID Vaccine Cards Are So Easily Forged Cybersecurity expert Bruce Schneier explains that paper vaccine cards strike a good balance between ease and security. Bruce Schneier Mar 8, 2022 SSRC Breached! Why Data Security Law Fails and How to Improve It Daniel Solove and Woodrow Hartzog have devised a series of recommendations to better Internet governance in "Breached!… Daniel Solove Mar 3, 2022 Prospect Magazine How Wikipedia gets to define what’s true online Ethan Zuckerman traces Wikipedia's transformation from controversial to trusted source. Ethan Zuckerman Mar 3, 2022 Featured events See all Events May 18, 2022 The Tech That Comes Next: How Changemakers, Philanthropists, and Technologists Can Build an Equitable World Afua Bruce discusses her and Amy Sample Ward's "The Tech That Comes Next" with Sue Hendrickson and Amritha Jayanti. May 17, 2022 Living by Protocol Living by Protocol queries the reflections of artists on, with, and by social media. The nine grid structured monitors… May 17, 2022 The Tower and the Park: Structural Misalignments of Social Media Joanne Cheung will discuss “Real Estate Politik: Democracy and the Financialization of Social Networks"... Apr 21, 2022 Private Consciences and Public Companies: Whether and How to Work within Big Tech How should students think about working for Big Tech companies? What are the ethical considerations that students… Featured Programs See all Programs Cyberlaw Clinic Harvard Law School's Cyberlaw Clinic provides high-quality, pro-bono legal services to clients on issues relating to… BKC Policy Practice: Artificial Intelligence The BKC Policy Practice on Artificial Intelligence (BKC PP: AI) is a public interest-oriented program that helps… The Institute for Rebooting Social Media The Institute for Rebooting Social Media is a three-year "pop-up" initiative that will address the biggest questions in… Fellowship Program The Berkman Klein Center for Internet & Society welcomes an interdisciplinary and diverse community of academics and… Featured Projects See all Projects & Tools Research Sprint on Takedowns and Transparency with Lumen Sprint participants worked with members of the Lumen Database team and Berkman Klein Center staff, as well as outside… Youth and Media Youth and Media (YaM) encompasses an array of research, advocacy, and development initiatives around youth (age 12-18)… Lumen Lumen collects and studies online content removal requests, providing transparency and supporting research and analysis… metaLAB (at) Harvard Explores the digital arts and humanities through research, teaching, publications, and exhibitions Featured Topics See all Topics Ethics and Governance of AI The rapidly growing capabilities and increasing presence of AI-based systems in our lives raise pressing questions about the impact, governance, ethics, and accountability of these technologi… Internet Health Censorship, filtering, throttling, dead links, blockages. The health of the Internet can be measured by the ease with which its users can access and share information. We develop tools and research to… Governance of Technology & the Internet Networked technologies are complex, multi-layered, interdependent, and subject to multiple competing interests. Through original research and by creating connections between stakeholders, we work to… Privacy & Security Privacy violations are a serious threat to the health of the Internet and the effective use of technology. We study how people understand their privacy as users of technology, examine and document the… Stay in touch Subscribe to our email list for the latest news, information, and commentary from the Berkman Klein Center and our community. Subscribe The Berkman Klein Center for Internet & Society at Harvard University 1557 Massachusetts Avenue, 5th Floor, Cambridge, MA 02138 Phone: (617) 495-7547 Fax: (617) 495-7641 Footer Privacy Policy Accessibility Unless otherwise noted this site and its contents are licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 Unported license. icon-mail icon--twitter icon--facebook icon--youtube icon-medium icon-soundcloud