Skip to Main Content About Why Tulsa In The News Value of a Tulsa Degree Academics Curriculum Faculty Student Resources Experience Student Experience The Online Experience Admissions Admissions Info Scholarships & Financial Aid Veterans FAQ Events Upcoming Events Past Events Blog Request InfoApply Now In The News Request Information First Name Please enter your first name. Last Name Please enter your last name. Email Address Please enter a valid email address. Phone Number Please enter a valid phone number (numbers only). Postal Code Please enter a valid postal code. Learn More Please wait By providing my information and clicking the “Learn More” button, I consent to being contacted via telephone (including a cell phone, if provided), email, and text message about the Cyber Security program. Learn more about the groundbreaking work and crucial contributions TU graduates (including alumni of the M.S. in Cyber Security program) are making in their respective fields. Cybersecurity team headed to global finals University of Tulsa December 14, 2021 Learn More TU in Top 25 nationally for cyber security academics University of Tulsa October 21, 2021 Learn More TU Cybersecurity Expert Addresses Tulsa Ransomware Attack NEWS ON 6 May, 2021 Learn More Pentagon Expands Hacker Program to All Publicly Accessible Information Systems ClearanceJobs May, 2021 Learn More Cybersecurity in the Time of Covid-19 Team8 February, 2021 Learn More Crypto Pump And Dumps Aim Small Amid Speculative Trading Frenzy Bloomberg February, 2021 Learn More University of Tulsa helping lead project to build up nation’s cybersecurity workforce Tim Stanley January, 2021 Learn More City Of Tulsa, OU Confirm They Are Customers Of Company Hit By Cyberattack News on 6 December, 2020 Learn More Literati Award Winners 2020 Information and Computer Security November, 2020 Learn More Time Theft at Work Is Bad, Except When It’s Not Megan Baskin November, 2020 Learn More Data protection officer responsibilities and role importance Tech Target - Search Data Management November, 2020 Learn More Could the U.S. Presidential election be hacked? Security October, 2020 Learn More Tyler Moore discusses “Responsible Vulnerability Disclosure in Cryptocurrencies” Communications of the ACM - Review Article October, 2020 Learn More Alabama State Agency’s Meeting Zoom-Bombed With Porn, Hitler References Newsweek September 11, 2020 Learn More High-grade grifter. Twitter’s disinformation potential. Hacking vaccine research and doxing trade talks. What Iran’s hackers are up to. And CISA says, for heaven’s sake, patch already. The Cyber Wire Daily Podcast July 20, 2020 Learn More Could Iran Wage a Cyber War? The National Interest June 20, 2020 Learn More Memorize these scripts so you can call out microaggressions at work and support your colleagues Business Insider June 17, 2020 Learn More Some workers can still collect unemployment benefits if they’re called back to work — here’s how Business Insider India June 17, 2020 Learn More Twitter getting better at detecting fraudulent accounts SC Media June 3, 2020 Learn More 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 539-202-2224 SITE POLICES Privacy Policy Legal The University of Tulsa admits students of any race, color, national and ethnic origin to all the rights, privileges, programs, and activities generally accorded or made available to students at the school. It does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national and ethnic origin in administration of its educational policies, admissions policies, scholarship and loan programs, and athletic and other school-administered programs. © 2020 The University of Tulsa Request Information Sign up to receive updates about this program. First Name Please enter your first name. Last Name Please enter your last name. Email Address Please enter a valid email address. Phone Number Please enter a valid phone number (numbers only). Postal Code Please enter a valid postal code. Learn More Please wait By providing my information and clicking the “Learn More” button, I consent to being contacted via telephone (including a cell phone, if provided), email, and text message about the Cyber Security program.