Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Skip to primary sidebar Home Overview News Tutorials Test Cases Project Team Testbed Publications Videos Contact Us Cyber Physical Resilient Energy Systems Home Overview News Tutorials Test Cases Project Team Testbed Publications Videos Contact Us MenuSecondary Menu Next Generation Energy Management Deep Cyber Physical Situational Awareness for Energy Systems: A Secure Foundation for Next-Generation Energy Management Image : Getty Images Power systems are cyber-physical systems that need to be resilient to a diverse range of threats. The goal of this U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) Cyber Security for Energy Delivery Systems (CEDS) funded project for Cyber Physical Resilient Energy Systems (CYPRES) is to develop a secure cyber-physical modeling foundation that will be the core of next-generation energy management systems. The CYPRES project’s objectives are to design and build a next generation energy management system that is truly cyber-physical, a secure end-to-end system for managing the energy system, communications, security, and modeling and analytics. Our mission is to enhance the reliability and resilience of our nation’s critical energy infrastructure. Resilient Energy Systems Testbed The Control Room Lab (CRL) located at the Center for Infrastructure Renewal (CIR) on the RELLIS campus is the home of Dr. Davis’s Resilient Energy Systems Lab (RESLab), the testbed of cyber-physical power system hardware and software that is being used for the simulation and data needs of this project. The hardware and software testbed setup in CRL resembles a common commercial control system infrastructure found in the utility industry today. The initial configuration includes EMS and Synchrophasor production systems as well as various commercial solutions acquired through partnership with major vendors. Read more about our testbed here Events Energy & Power Research Day and Round Table November 8, 2019 (9 am – 3 pm) Room 1107, CIR Register CyPRES is funded by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) under award DE-OE0000895. The Federal Project Officer for this project is Robert Hayes. © 2016–2022 Cyber Physical Resilient Energy Systems Log in State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Open Records Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline Statewide Search Site Links & Policies Accommodations Environmental Health, Safety & Security Employment