Skip to main content UC Berkeley | Administration Toggle navigation Disability Access & Compliance Search Terms Submit Search Home Services Information about the accommodations & services provided by Disability Access & Compliance including requesting communications accommodations such as CART/ASL services, Mobility access information, reporting an access barrier, and requesting use of to accessible transportation on campus. Overview Mobility Accommodations Communications Accommodations ADA Self-Evaluation Support Discrimination on the Basis of Disability Campus & Building Accessibility Emergency Preparedness Consultations Navigating Cal Resources to support the mobility of UC Berkeley community members with disabilities as they engage with the university's programs, services, and activities. Wayfinding tools and information on the physical accessibility of university paths and buildings. Overview Maps Parking Policies Transportation Buildings Events Resources for guests and visitors with disabilities coming to events on campus. Guidelines and resources for the campus community on how to plan accessible events, as well as support responding to requests for accommodations. Overview Coming to Events Planning Accessible Events Resources Links to resources from UC Berkeley and the local community that offer a range of services, information, and support disability-specific needs for the campus community. Resources are organized by their relevance to the groups that comprise the campus community, e.g. students, staff, faculty, guests and visitors. Overview Policies and Procedures Faculty Staff Students Visitors Community Animals as Accommodations Committees Links to the descriptionsfor committees administered by DAC in support of our mission to create an accessible university. Committee descriptions, minutes, membership, and FAQs Overview CACDAP CCRAB DALT Web Accessibility UC Berkeley is committed to providing an online environment that is accessible to all. Policy descriptions, guidance for website owners, and how to report an inaccessible website. Overview Report a Website Accessibility Barrier Website Access Requirements Website Owner Responsibilities You are here Home UC Berkeley Web Accessibility UC Berkeley Web Accessibility UC Berkeley is committed to providing an online environment that is accessible to all regardless of their relative level of ability Reporting Accessibility Issues If you cannot access content or use features on any UC Berkeley website due to a disability, please contact us for assistance. Online Accessibility Policy Berkeley’s goal is to make all our websites and online communications accessible to everyone, including individuals with disabilities. For more details, please refer to our Information Technology Accessibility Policy Captioning of Video If you find a video on one of our websites or third-party platforms and it does not have captioning, and you need captioning due to disability, please contact us so we can facilitate captioning for you. UC Berkeley Web Access Program The Berkeley WebAccess Program provides guidance to the Berkeley community as they use the web and other online platforms to communicate and interact with their audiences. The Web Access website provides descriptions of our services, guidelines and web developer resources. Web Accessibility Report a Website Accessibility Barrier Website Access Requirements Website Owner Responsibilities Home Disabled Students' Program Disability Access & Compliance Administration 615 University Hall, Berkeley CA access@berkeley.edu (510) 643-6456 Powered by Open Berkeley Accessibility Statement Nondiscrimination Policy Statement Privacy Statement Copyright © 2022 UC Regents; all rights reserved Back to Top