Skip to main content Florida State University | College of Fine Arts PROGRAMS Department of Art Department of Art Education Department of Art History Department of Interior Architecture and Design School of Dance School of Theatre Museum of Fine Arts Facility for Arts Research FSU/Asolo Conservatory for Actor Training Maggie Allesee National Center for Choreography CONTACT EVENTS NEWS TICKETS APPLY GIVE This is your Donation message. Log In Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Toggle navigation About History Mission & Core Values Facilities & Performance Spaces Contact Future Students Auditions & Admissions Tuition/Fees Transfer Students Health & Housing International Students Academic Common Market Information Programs Academic Programs Study Abroad / Domestic Youth Programs MANCC People Advising Faculty Adjunct Faculty Staff Visiting Artists/Scholars Retired Faculty Employment In Memory Resources Scholarship Opportunities Student Handbooks Bylaws News News Events Dance Yearbook Performance Information Alumni Gathering Student Works Tallahassee Life Visitor Information About Tallahassee The Arts at Florida State University Giving Giving to Dance Friends of Dance Full House Project Sponsorships About History Mission & Core Values Facilities & Performance Spaces Contact Future Students Auditions & Admissions Tuition/Fees Transfer Students Health & Housing International Students Academic Common Market Information Programs Academic Programs Study Abroad / Domestic Youth Programs MANCC People Advising Faculty Adjunct Faculty Staff Visiting Artists/Scholars Retired Faculty Employment In Memory Resources Scholarship Opportunities Student Handbooks Bylaws News News Events Dance Yearbook Performance Information Alumni Gathering Student Works Tallahassee Life Visitor Information About Tallahassee The Arts at Florida State University Giving Giving to Dance Friends of Dance Full House Project Sponsorships X × School of Dance News May 26, 2022 FSU dance professor continues to be recognized as trail … Florida State University’s Jawole Willa Jo Zollar was honored this week for her lasting contributions to dance through an award that recognizes trailblazers and visionaries in the performing arts. READ MORE » May 20, 2022 Associate Professor Donna Uchizono Premieres WINGS OF I … Recognized for her striking, rigorous choreography that merges formal ideas of abstraction with a profound attention to unseen emotional undercurrents, Donna Uchizono brings her new evening-length work, Wings of Iron, to BAC this spring. READ MORE » April 8, 2022 Days of Dance Concert series Returns to the Stage As the year’s performance season comes to a close, the School of Dance prepares to showcase the talent of its faculty and students in its annual Days of Dance concert READ MORE » March 28, 2022 FSU School of Dance bar room sessions: house of angels … bar room sessions: house of angels | belly of the wail Jeremy Guyton and Rafael Tillery present bar room sessions: house of angels | belly of the wail in READ MORE » February 24, 2022 FSU School of Dance and Civil Rights Institute Partner … Public performing intellectual, Dr. Karen Wilson-Ama’Echefu, led a ten-day creative residency on the subject of “Repair, Reparation, and Healing” at Florida State University in February 2022 as part of their READ MORE » December 2, 2021 2021 School of Dance Magazine The Florida State University School of Dance has released its 2021 Issue! The School of Dance Magazine offers a collection of the many events and accomplishments of the department. READ MORE » More News » What moves you? We provide an environment conducive to the highest caliber of dance training, art making and scholarship. About Us » Programs & Degrees » Faculty » Apply Today » 10 Ranked in the top 10 of all dance schools nationally. 10+ Over 10 nationally significant artists hosted through MANCC's artist-in-residence program. 15+ Over 15 fully produced performances a year. $50K Over $50,000 of annual internal scholarships awarded to dance majors. About Us Programs/Degrees » Faculty » Apply Auditions & Admissions » Events & News » Faculty & Staff » Study Abroad & Domestic » Youth Programs » MANCC » Come See What We're All About Prospective Students International Students Transfer Students Schedule a Tour What's Happening on Campus FSU dance professor continues to be recognized as trail … May 26, 2022 Associate Professor Donna Uchizono Premieres WINGS OF I … May 20, 2022 Days of Dance Concert series Returns to the Stage April 8, 2022 FSU School of Dance bar room sessions: house of angels … March 28, 2022 FSU School of Dance and Civil Rights Institute Partner … February 24, 2022 More News » FSU dance professor continues to be recognized as trail … May 26, 2022 Florida State University’s Jawole Willa Jo Zollar was honored this week for her lasting contributions to dance through an award that recognizes trailblazers and visionaries in the performing arts. Read More More Events » Toggle navigation About History Mission & Core Values Facilities & Performance Spaces Contact Future Students Auditions & Admissions Tuition/Fees Transfer Students Health & Housing International Students Academic Common Market Information Programs Academic Programs Study Abroad / Domestic Youth Programs MANCC People Advising Faculty Adjunct Faculty Staff Visiting Artists/Scholars Retired Faculty Employment In Memory Resources Scholarship Opportunities Student Handbooks Bylaws News News Events Dance Yearbook Performance Information Alumni Gathering Student Works Tallahassee Life Visitor Information About Tallahassee The Arts at Florida State University Giving Giving to Dance Friends of Dance Full House Project Sponsorships Dance Social Media Report web issues English Arabic Chinese (Simplified) Dutch English French German Italian Portuguese Russian Spanish © 2022 Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright FSU Directory Assistance: 850-644-2525 FSU Social Media: This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT CLOSE CLOSE X X