Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Department of Theatre & Dance University Dance Company myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link About UDC Contact News Land Acknowlegement Performances Select to follow link 2021-2022 Season Past Seasons Select to follow link 2020-2021 Season 2019-2020 Season 2018-2019 Season Patrons Select to follow link Tickets Venues Parking Accessibility Season Passes Ushers People Select to follow link UDC Officers Administration Technical Staff Resources Select to follow link Auditions Audition FAQ Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Department of Theatre & Dance University Dance Company Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search University Dance Company The University Dance Company is a pre-professional performance ensemble, administered by the Department of Theatre & Dance. Every semester, faculty and visiting guest artists choreograph works that explore multiple styles of dance, the joy of movement, and performance as research. Links Performances Check out our upcoming concerts! Current Season Patrons Information about getting tickets and attending our concerts. Patron Information Auditions UDC auditions are open to all students of every major. Learn more about how to dance with us! Auditions Follow KU Dance on social media FacebookInstagramTwitterYouTube Latest News Mon, 03/21/22 University Dance Company Spring Concert March 25-27 Wed, 11/10/21 University Dance Company Fall Concert Nov. 19-21 The University of Kansas Department of Theatre & Dance presents the University Dance Company’s repertory concert featuring original works by KU faculty members Ashley Brittingham, Tristian Griffin, and Maya Tillman-Rayton, as well as guest alumna Ashley Ebner. See all news Upcoming Events See all events Don't miss the latest from KU Dance! Join Our Email List Robinson Center 1301 Sunnyside Ave. Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 27, 41, 42 kudance@ku.edu 785-864-3982 facebook instagram twitter youtube Study Dance at KU University Theatre Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.