arrow/white arrow/white 2 Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Dartmouth Together Home Menu Main Back to previous section Back to previous section Admissions Open submenu Image (Photo by Robert Gill) Be Extraordinary Here Apply Now Outcomes Financial Aid The Student Experience Degree Finder Academics Open submenu Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Geisel School of Medicine Research, Scholarship & Creativity Degree Finder Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Majors and Minors Courses and Calendars Thayer School of Engineering Centers & Institutes Library Tuck School of Business Campus Life Open submenu Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Cheer Your Favorite Team Schedule Events Residential Life Diversity & Inclusion Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation About Open submenu Image Get the Latest News Sign Me Up Life in the Upper Valley Visit Leadership Directory Dartmouth Winter Carnival Follow Us on Social Media Campus Map News Giving Resources For You Students Faculty Staff Alumni News Media Families Friends & Neighbors Search Helpful Links Banner via DartHub Office of the Registrar For You: Students See all resources for undergraduates and graduate and professional school students. Undergraduate Resources Canvas DartHub Email DartCard Computer Store Student Affairs Office of Student Life Banner Information, Technology, & Computing Image Campus Life In a peaceful New England setting routinely ranked as one of the nation’s most beautiful campuses, we live where we learn. Map Events Athletics Dining Services Safety and Security Hinman Mail DALI Lab Image Academics With liberal arts at the core, our faculty put ideas into action with enterprising students who, as lifelong learners, make lasting impacts on an ever-changing world. Registrar Degree Finder Dartmouth Library Academic Calendar Study Abroad Courses and Calendars Image Financial Aid We strive to make the full experience of a Dartmouth education affordable for you and your family, for all four years. Apply for Aid Billing & Paying Tuition Student Employment Office Graduate & Professional Resources Housing Research Financial Aid Image Tuck School of Business Tuck develops wise, decisive leaders who better the world through business. TuckConnect Finance Your Degree Events Academic Calendar Image Thayer School of Engineering Thayer prepares the next generation of leaders to solve problems through engineering thinking, research, and innovation with human-centered impact. ThayerExpress Financial Aid Events Academic Calendar Image Geisel School of Medicine Geisel addresses the world’s health problems through research and discovery, the evaluation and improvement of systems of healthcare, and the education of the best future physicians and scientists. Financial Aid Events Calendar Registrar Image Guarini School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Guarini fosters postgraduate academic programs of the highest quality, catalyzes intellectual discovery, and prepares a diverse community of scholars for global leadership. Financial Aid Events Registrar Resources for All Students Image Baker-Berry Library The extensive print and digital collections of Dartmouth’s libraries serve as vital extensions of the campus’s teaching and research facilities. Biomedical Libraries Evans Map Room Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Rauner Special Collections Library Sherman Art Library Image Health and Wellness The Dartmouth Health Service believes that good health is a vital part of every student’s college experience. Mental Health Recreation Student Wellness Center Gym Reservations Dartmouth Together COVID-19 Image Events Find out what’s happening at Dartmouth. Dartmouth Engage News Stay connected. Dartmouth News is your source for news, stories, and ideas from Dartmouth College. Subscribe to Dartmouth News Directory Search for current students, faculty, staff, departments, and organizations. Institutional Diversity & Equity Sexual Respect & Title IX Office of Pluralism and Leadership INFORMATION, TECHNOLOGY, & COMPUTING Safety and Security Transportation Dartmouth provides a number of transportation options for students. Student Parking Campus Shuttle Bike Share Zip Cars Connect With Us Wherever you are in the world, wherever we are in the world, you can keep up with what’s going on @dartmouthcollege Instagram. Contact Careers Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Health & Wellness Directory Sexual Respect & Title IX Accessibility Dartmouth Together: COVID-19 Campus Map Giving We inspire students to practice good global citizenship while strengthening their own communities. You can invest in our future leaders. Act Now Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Site or Accessibility feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube