Skip to main content Academic and Student Affairs Menu Close About Meet the Vice Chancellor and Dean Division Leadership Departments Faculty and Staff Resources Giving Contact Information Academics Academic Success Center Student Success GPS University College Advising and Academic Help Honors and Scholars Career and Leadership Develop Your Career Serve and Lead Your Community ROTC Student Life Get Involved Live on Campus Explore Arts and Culture Stay Informed Howling Success Inclusion and Well-Being Counseling Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Health and Exercise Studies Student Health Wellness and Recreation Support and Advocacy Prepare for College Find Help on Campus New Student Resources Pack Essentials Military and Veteran Services Disability Resource Office Faculty and Staff Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now About About Meet the Vice Chancellor and Dean Division Leadership Departments Faculty and Staff Resources Giving Contact Information Academics Academics Academic Success Center Student Success GPS University College Advising and Academic Help Honors and Scholars Career and Leadership Career and Leadership Develop Your Career Serve and Lead Your Community ROTC Student Life Student Life Get Involved Live on Campus Explore Arts and Culture Stay Informed Howling Success Inclusion and Well-Being Inclusion and Well-Being Counseling Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Health and Exercise Studies Student Health Wellness and Recreation Support and Advocacy Support and Advocacy Prepare for College Find Help on Campus New Student Resources Pack Essentials Military and Veteran Services Disability Resource Office Faculty and Staff Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Diversity, Equity and Inclusion The Division of Academic and Student Affairs is dedicated to strengthening the campus' commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion. The Division of Academic and Student Affairs’ commitment to embracing the whole student is represented through the functions of our over 50 departments and units. Our staff and faculty are committed to educating our students as well as ourselves. Every year, division staff complete professional development and cultural competency training as it relates to race and inclusion from organizations like the National Coalition Building Institute, GLBT Advocate Program, Equal Opportunity Institute, and Basic Diversity training facilitated by Al Vivian, son of the late civil rights leader, C.T. Vivian. Build Your Community One pillar of our strategic plan is building your community. We promote this idea by encouraging students to engage in a diversity of thought and interactions with people and groups of different backgrounds. Opportunities abound for students to participate in programs to broaden their minds and experiences. Living and Learning Villages When you belong to a village, you live and learn in an inclusive, one-of-a-kind community—and make lifelong friends in the process. Read more Arts NC State From dance and music to theatrical performances, to art installations at the Gregg Museum, Arts NC State programming is rich in history and diversity and is open to all NC State students. Read more Alternative Service Breaks Engage in direct service opportunities and participate in cultural, educational, recreational, and reflective activities to enhance your service experience. Read more Student Organizations With over 600 student orgs at NC State, there’s a group for almost any interest. Read more Leadership Development Program Find your inner leader during this 10-workshop series designed to promote self-exploration and positive change on campus and our communities. Read more Jeffrey Wright Military and Veterans Services Whether you’re discharged, retired, active duty, or family members, Jeffrey Wright Military and Veterans Services provides the support you need to be successful at NC State. Read more Collaboration and Support We work diligently with partners across campus to ensure that students of all races, genders, backgrounds, and other experiences feel welcome, valued, and included in all aspects of life at NC State. The university offers a broad range of scholarships through programs like TRIO as well as pre-college advising from the College Advising Corps to help students believe in and achieve their dream of earning a college degree. On-campus, students have countless opportunities to learn about and interact with people of different backgrounds, beliefs, and experiences through programs and initiatives from the Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity and the Office for International Services. Students also can participate in Student Leadership and Engagement programs that allow them to serve both their local community and those in other countries. In addition, the Counseling Center facilitates programming and conversations between students of different backgrounds at its community centers around campus. Counseling Center drop-in services Access to Resources Arts NC State The arts are for everyone, and at NC State we host a variety of performances, exhibitions, and other forms of art by renowned, diverse artists from around the world. The academic curriculum also allows students to learn about a plethora of different cultures through classroom activities and discussions. Career Development Center NC State prepares all of its students for successful careers, but one of the university’s most popular fields is engineering. The Career Development Center regularly hosts Career Identity Workshops and special events for women and minorities in STEM. Disability Resources Offices At NC State, people of all abilities are afforded equal opportunity for higher education. The Disability Resources Office assists eligible students with disabilities by determining access needs and coordinating academic adjustments in accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act. Juntos Juntos works to unite community partners to provide Latinx 8-12th grade students and their parents with knowledge, skills, and resources to gain access to college. Student Leadership and Engagement Student Leadership and Engagement complements the classroom academic experience through high-impact programs and services that empower and equip students with skills, knowledge, and tools to be leaders who forge paths for positive change. The program provides opportunities for critical reflection and exploration of personal values, and students learn how to successfully lead teams with an inclusive lens, facilitate change, and maximize success in a multicultural environment. Prevention Services Prevention Services provides case management, education, and outreach emphasizing inclusive, developmental, and non-judgmental perspectives for student prevention efforts. Through the lenses of behavioral health, wellness, and sustainability, Prevention Services professionals cross-collaborate with the campus community to enhance individual and collective well-being, as well as assists students in gaining the necessary resources to remain successful academically and emotionally at NC State. Student Legal Services Student Legal Services focuses on helping students resolve their legal problems with as little disruption as possible to their educational endeavors. The office promotes preventive law, equipping students to make informed choices. TRIO Collegiate Programs In addition to helping ensure college accessibility for all through scholarships, TRIO offers funding for current students to participate in a wide range of study abroad and research opportunities. Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity Read more NC State Diversity Read more Office for International Services Read more Division of Academic and Student Affairs Home Park Shops, 3rd Floor 101 Current Drive Campus Box 7301 Raleigh, NC 27695-7301 academic-student-affairs@ncsu.edu 919.515.2446 Our Location About Academics Career and Leadership Student Life Inclusion and Well-Being Support and Advocacy Faculty and Staff Resources News Compliments and Complaints Website Feedback Organizational Chart Career Opportunities DASA Intranet Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.