Skip to main content Academic and Student Affairs Menu Close About Meet the Vice Chancellor and Dean Division Leadership Departments Faculty and Staff Resources Giving Contact Information Academics Academic Success Center Student Success GPS University College Advising and Academic Help Honors and Scholars Career and Leadership Develop Your Career Serve and Lead Your Community ROTC Student Life Get Involved Live on Campus Explore Arts and Culture Stay Informed Howling Success Inclusion and Well-Being Counseling Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Health and Exercise Studies Student Health Wellness and Recreation Support and Advocacy Prepare for College Find Help on Campus New Student Resources Pack Essentials Military and Veteran Services Disability Resource Office Faculty and Staff Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now About About Meet the Vice Chancellor and Dean Division Leadership Departments Faculty and Staff Resources Giving Contact Information Academics Academics Academic Success Center Student Success GPS University College Advising and Academic Help Honors and Scholars Career and Leadership Career and Leadership Develop Your Career Serve and Lead Your Community ROTC Student Life Student Life Get Involved Live on Campus Explore Arts and Culture Stay Informed Howling Success Inclusion and Well-Being Inclusion and Well-Being Counseling Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Health and Exercise Studies Student Health Wellness and Recreation Support and Advocacy Support and Advocacy Prepare for College Find Help on Campus New Student Resources Pack Essentials Military and Veteran Services Disability Resource Office Faculty and Staff Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Student Life Unforgettable moments, unbreakable bonds and unending traditions begin here. See how we connect students with the wider Wolfpack. Make Yourself at Home When you’re part of our Pack, you’ll always have a place to call home. Our division strives to create a safe environment for students to live, learn and thrive. Across campus, you’ll find housing options ranging from residence halls to village communities to apartment complexes. Added bonus? Our residents get around-the-clock support from dedicated staff and live in close proximity to campus resources, so many see improved grades and retention. Here, you’ll reap the benefits of living alongside people with different backgrounds and worldviews. And by investing time and talent into your community, you’ll build the soft skills employers are looking for and productive citizens need. Live On Campus University Housing We offer housing options to fit the needs of every NC State student. Find your home Living and Learning Villages We unite students with peers who share their passions — from STEM to entrepreneurship. Browse our villages Fraternity and Sorority Life We have more than 50 Greek organizations that prepare you to learn, lead and serve. Go inside Greek life Never a Dull Moment On this campus, we’re always thinking and doing big things. Stay in the loop and see what’s next. Follow us on Instagram If you haven't been to a LIVE@ Lake Raleigh concer Absolutely beautiful day on campus 😎 How's the Many #NCState22 grads are ready to embark on their Find Your People NC State is filled with bright minds and diverse perspectives. But among thousands of students, it can feel hard to find where you belong. That’s why we help make a big campus feel smaller — and connect you with other people who love what you love. No matter what you’re interested in, you’ll discover like-minded peers here. Get involved in a student organization. (They run the gamut from academics to service opportunities to club sports and beyond.) Build your leadership skills through Student Government and Greek communities. Or help bring some of the Wolfpack’s most iconic events to life with the University Activities Board. Your future friends are waiting. 630+ Student Organizations If you’re into it, there’s a student group for it — from biochemistry to beekeeping. Get involved Spark Your Creativity Arts and Culture We offer nearly 500 arts opportunities each year including courses, performances and exhibitions. Jump in At this university, we believe the arts are for everyone. And we’ve cultivated a space for our students and the wider community to tap into their creative sides. Arts NC State is our collective of six visual and performing arts programs: the Dance Program, the Crafts Center, the Gregg Museum of Art & Design, the Department of Music, NC State LIVE and University Theater. Our year-round programs and activities are open to everyone, and students of all majors can benefit from getting involved. From singers and sculptors to woodworkers and makers, you’ll find a supportive community of fellow creators — and discover how art can enrich your NC State experience. Thrive On Campus Learn to Lead We’re educating the next generation of leaders. Gain the tools you need to be successful. Stay Well Your physical and mental health are important. Find recreation facilities, counseling services and more. Division of Academic and Student Affairs Home Park Shops, 3rd Floor 101 Current Drive Campus Box 7301 Raleigh, NC 27695-7301 academic-student-affairs@ncsu.edu 919.515.2446 Our Location About Academics Career and Leadership Student Life Inclusion and Well-Being Support and Advocacy Faculty and Staff Resources News Compliments and Complaints Website Feedback Organizational Chart Career Opportunities DASA Intranet Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.