Skip to main content Academic and Student Affairs Menu Close About Meet the Vice Chancellor and Dean Division Leadership Departments Faculty and Staff Resources Giving Contact Information Academics Academic Success Center Student Success GPS University College Advising and Academic Help Honors and Scholars Career and Leadership Develop Your Career Serve and Lead Your Community ROTC Student Life Get Involved Live on Campus Explore Arts and Culture Stay Informed Howling Success Inclusion and Well-Being Counseling Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Health and Exercise Studies Student Health Wellness and Recreation Support and Advocacy Prepare for College Find Help on Campus New Student Resources Pack Essentials Military and Veteran Services Disability Resource Office Faculty and Staff Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now About About Meet the Vice Chancellor and Dean Division Leadership Departments Faculty and Staff Resources Giving Contact Information Academics Academics Academic Success Center Student Success GPS University College Advising and Academic Help Honors and Scholars Career and Leadership Career and Leadership Develop Your Career Serve and Lead Your Community ROTC Student Life Student Life Get Involved Live on Campus Explore Arts and Culture Stay Informed Howling Success Inclusion and Well-Being Inclusion and Well-Being Counseling Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Health and Exercise Studies Student Health Wellness and Recreation Support and Advocacy Support and Advocacy Prepare for College Find Help on Campus New Student Resources Pack Essentials Military and Veteran Services Disability Resource Office Faculty and Staff Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Inclusion and Well-Being Your physical, mental and emotional health matter. That's why we’re committed to creating an environment where all members of the Pack can be well and thrive. A Pack For All Everyone who joins our Wolfpack deserves to feel welcome here. Find on-campus resources that support the health and safety of our students. Protect the Pack The Division of Academic and Student Affairs leads and supports universitywide efforts to promote diversity, inclusion and equity at NC State. It’s built into the strategic plan that drives our work — and it’s woven into programming and initiatives across our our 50-plus departments. We empower students, faculty and staff to develop their cultural competence and advocate for a respectful, inclusive campus community. We bring together individuals from different backgrounds to challenge each other and grow. And we produce global citizens ready to thrive in a diverse world. Diversity News More News WISE Village Raises Voices, Representation The Women in Science and Engineering (WISE) village works to bridge the gender gap in STEM programs at NC State. It Takes a Village: Black Male Initiative Based in the Avent Ferry Complex, the Black Male Initiative provides a unique experience for Black male students to bond and learn together. Get to Know the Disability Resource Office The Disability Resource Office assists more than 2,000 NC State students with a wide range of disabilities, the majority of which are not visible. Focusing on Holistic Health Here, we believe in a holistic approach to wellness. Units across our division work hand in hand to create a path to well-being that incorporates physical, mental and emotional health — and builds lifelong good habits. Get active with state-of-the-art facilities, fitness courses, personal training sessions and club sports. Collaborate with health coaches to build better eating and sleeping patterns, develop time-management skills and uncover techniques for alleviating stress. And connect with certified professionals right on campus to take care of your body and your mind. 37,000 Counseling Appointments took place last year, reaching more than 3,900 students. Campus Resources Student Health Services Get accessible, affordable care. Our full-service, nationally recognized health center handles everything from physical therapy to filling prescriptions. Make an appointment Health and Exercise Studies Engaging nearly every NC State undergrad, the HES Department offers dozens of courses ranging from African dance to archery, plus five academic minors. Get moving Counseling Center Our fully accredited counseling center supports students in navigating personal, academic and vocational challenges. Reach out Prevention Services If you’re in crisis, we can help. Prevention Services provides education and outreach, drop-in spaces, resources on recovery and mental health, and more. See what’s offered More Than A Gym Our 82,000-square-foot Wellness and Recreation Center is NC State’s centralized hub for holistic health. You’ll find training areas, a climbing center, workshop spaces and teaching kitchens, mental health services and more — all under one roof. Explore Wellness and Recreation Creating Opportunity Support and Advocacy You belong on our campus, and we want you to excel here. Find resources designed to promote your success. Learn more Giving Top-of-the-line facilities. Innovative programming. Extraordinary opportunities. It all starts with you. Help NC State be great Division of Academic and Student Affairs Home Park Shops, 3rd Floor 101 Current Drive Campus Box 7301 Raleigh, NC 27695-7301 academic-student-affairs@ncsu.edu 919.515.2446 Our Location About Academics Career and Leadership Student Life Inclusion and Well-Being Support and Advocacy Faculty and Staff Resources News Compliments and Complaints Website Feedback Organizational Chart Career Opportunities DASA Intranet Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.