Skip to main content Academic and Student Affairs Menu Close About Meet the Vice Chancellor and Dean Division Leadership Departments Faculty and Staff Resources Giving Contact Information Academics Academic Success Center Student Success GPS University College Advising and Academic Help Honors and Scholars Career and Leadership Develop Your Career Serve and Lead Your Community ROTC Student Life Get Involved Live on Campus Explore Arts and Culture Stay Informed Howling Success Inclusion and Well-Being Counseling Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Health and Exercise Studies Student Health Wellness and Recreation Support and Advocacy Prepare for College Find Help on Campus New Student Resources Pack Essentials Military and Veteran Services Disability Resource Office Faculty and Staff Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now About About Meet the Vice Chancellor and Dean Division Leadership Departments Faculty and Staff Resources Giving Contact Information Academics Academics Academic Success Center Student Success GPS University College Advising and Academic Help Honors and Scholars Career and Leadership Career and Leadership Develop Your Career Serve and Lead Your Community ROTC Student Life Student Life Get Involved Live on Campus Explore Arts and Culture Stay Informed Howling Success Inclusion and Well-Being Inclusion and Well-Being Counseling Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Health and Exercise Studies Student Health Wellness and Recreation Support and Advocacy Support and Advocacy Prepare for College Find Help on Campus New Student Resources Pack Essentials Military and Veteran Services Disability Resource Office Faculty and Staff Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Find Help on Campus Academic Absence Verification Academic Semester Withdrawal Bias Impact Response Counseling Center Disability Resource Office Feed the Pack Food Pantry Financial Wellness Military and Veteran Services NC State CARES Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity Office of International Services Pack Essentials Prevention Services Student Health Services Student Legal Services Student Ombuds Term Withdrawal Appeal Wolfpack Pick Up Find Help on Campus Menu Academic Absence Verification Academic Semester Withdrawal Bias Impact Response Counseling Center Disability Resource Office Feed the Pack Food Pantry Financial Wellness Military and Veteran Services NC State CARES Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity Office of International Services Pack Essentials Prevention Services Student Health Services Student Legal Services Student Ombuds Term Withdrawal Appeal Wolfpack Pick Up Find Help on Campus Everyone needs a helping hand at times, and at NC State we have the resources and services to assist you in navigating life’s expected—and unexpected—challenges. Academic Support Academic Absence Verification At some point during your college career, you will likely face anticipated or unanticipated absences from class. In almost all cases, you can simply explain the situation to your professor, and they will decide how you can make up missed assignments or tests. However, there can be extenuating circumstances that require the involvement of an absence verification officer, who can verify your reasons for missing classes and facilitate a plan between you and your professor for how to catch up. Academic Advising Programs and Services The Academic Advising Programs and Services site provides students with the tools, resources and knowledge base needed to navigate the myriad of opportunities available at NC State. Academic Semester Withdrawal The process to prepare your withdrawal request will differ depending on the time at which you plan to withdraw from classes. See the Student Services Center website for more information about the withdrawal process and timeline. Academic Success Center The Academic Success Center has several free, virtual tutoring and academic mentoring services to support online learning. If you’re on campus, there is also a large study space in Hill Library that is open for you to use. Term Withdrawal Appeal Students who have been denied their request for a Term Withdrawal have the right to appeal the decision with the Withdrawal Review Committee. Find out more about the withdrawal appeal process here. Community Support Bias Impact Response Team The Bias Impact Response Team (BIRT) at NC State provides support to people affected by bias-related incidents that impact individuals, groups, and overall campus community climate. BIRT is coordinated by the Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity and is composed of professionals from across campus who work to support anyone impacted by bias. Disability Resource Office The Disability Resource Office works to ensure that students with disabilities are provided an inclusive experience and equal opportunity to participate in courses and programs by determining eligibility for accommodations and serving as a resource to faculty in helping them understand their obligation in providing equal access. Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity The Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity (OIED) provides a variety of services to ensure that NC State offers an inclusive, welcoming environment for everyone. OIED conducts trainings for students, faculty, and staff and oversees the Bias Impact Response Team and Campus Community Centers, which foster community, celebrate identity and culture, and support, empower and advocate for positive change for those who are underrepresented and/or marginalized. Health and Wellness Counseling Center Accredited by the International Association of Counseling Services, NC State’s Counseling Center provides direct services to students and offers outreach and prevention programs, training new professionals in student mental health, and much more. NC State CARES Student Behavioral Case Management at NC State (also known as NC State CARES) was established in 2014 to provide support for students in crisis or who have been identified as exhibiting concerning or worrisome behaviors. The program works closely with campus resources to provide early intervention for students who may be struggling personally or whose behavior has led others to be concerned for their well-being. Case managers meet with students and provide access to resources while following up with them and monitoring their progress. Prevention Services NC State Prevention Services provides mental health education, outreach, and resources related to addressing issues including alcohol and other drugs, suicide prevention, and more. In addition, NC State CARES is also housed in this department. Student Health Services Student Health Services provides comprehensive and specialized care to NC State students. In addition to primary care, Student Health offers dental, physical therapy, gynecological services, and a pharmacy on site. Wellness and Recreation NC State Wellness and Recreation empowers the Wolfpack community to thrive. The Wellness and Recreation Center is open and WellRec at Home continues so you can get a good workout in the comfort of your home. Financial Hardship or Insecurity Feed the Pack Food Pantry Feed the Pack is a food pantry open to all members of the campus community (students, staff, and faculty). To use the pantry, come by during the hours of operation. You will be asked to swipe your campus ID and then can shop for the items you need. Pack Essentials NC State and campus partners have developed many programs to support students in need of food, housing, financial, and educational security. The Pack Essentials program brings them all into one centralized space with a common application to apply for resources. Student Emergency Fund The Student Emergency Fund was established to help ensure that NC State students have access to the support and resources they need to successfully recover from unexpected financial crises, including impacts of COVID-19. Other Campus Resources Financial Wellness Find tools to help navigate financial concerns unique to college life and equip yourself with the knowledge and skills necessary to maintain lifelong financial wellness. Explore topics such as budgeting, paying for school, credit and debt, navigating student loans, and more to help practice financial health during your time at NC State and beyond. Military and Veteran Services NC State is consistently ranked as one of the most military-friendly schools and is among the best institutions in the nation for supporting veterans. The university proudly serves over 2,300 military-affiliated students through Military and Veteran Services and offers a variety of programs to help them transition from military to campus life, persist to graduation, and ultimately join the civilian workforce. Office of International Services The Office of International Services (OIS) exists to serve NC State’s international students and helps students who grew up in the United States to expand their horizons and learn about other cultures. The OIS also offers lots of opportunities for students to get involved on campus, practice their language skills, and connect with other students from around the globe. Student Legal Services Student Legal provides education, advice, and representation within the scope of the prepaid student legal services plan and focuses on helping students resolve their legal problems with as little disruption as possible to their educational endeavors. Student Ombuds Services Student Ombuds Services listens, advises, and assists students who are experiencing challenging life circumstances that impact their college, learning, or living experience. Wolfpack Pick Up The Wolfpack Pick Up service provides rides on Main Campus to students with permanent or temporary mobility disabilities. Student employees provide these rides on golf carts to classes, dining halls, student centers, and more. Can’t Find What You Need? See our directory for a list of all departments and units in the Division of Academic and Student Affairs. Go the the directory Faculty and Staff Resources The Division of Academic and Student Affairs serves the entire university. See our resources for faculty and staff. Find resources Division of Academic and Student Affairs Home Park Shops, 3rd Floor 101 Current Drive Campus Box 7301 Raleigh, NC 27695-7301 academic-student-affairs@ncsu.edu 919.515.2446 Our Location About Academics Career and Leadership Student Life Inclusion and Well-Being Support and Advocacy Faculty and Staff Resources News Compliments and Complaints Website Feedback Organizational Chart Career Opportunities DASA Intranet Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.