Skip to main content Academic and Student Affairs Menu Close About Meet the Vice Chancellor and Dean Division Leadership Departments Faculty and Staff Resources Giving Contact Information Academics Academic Success Center Student Success GPS University College Advising and Academic Help Honors and Scholars Career and Leadership Develop Your Career Serve and Lead Your Community ROTC Student Life Get Involved Live on Campus Explore Arts and Culture Stay Informed Howling Success Inclusion and Well-Being Counseling Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Health and Exercise Studies Student Health Wellness and Recreation Support and Advocacy Prepare for College Find Help on Campus New Student Resources Pack Essentials Military and Veteran Services Disability Resource Office Faculty and Staff Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now About About Meet the Vice Chancellor and Dean Division Leadership Departments Faculty and Staff Resources Giving Contact Information Academics Academics Academic Success Center Student Success GPS University College Advising and Academic Help Honors and Scholars Career and Leadership Career and Leadership Develop Your Career Serve and Lead Your Community ROTC Student Life Student Life Get Involved Live on Campus Explore Arts and Culture Stay Informed Howling Success Inclusion and Well-Being Inclusion and Well-Being Counseling Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Health and Exercise Studies Student Health Wellness and Recreation Support and Advocacy Support and Advocacy Prepare for College Find Help on Campus New Student Resources Pack Essentials Military and Veteran Services Disability Resource Office Faculty and Staff Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Support and Advocacy We empower bright minds to flourish, from dream to degree, with help from dedicated advocates and support services. Helping Every Student Shine Once you step foot on our campus, you’ll never walk alone. As a land-grant university, we strive to make higher education accessible for everyone and create opportunity for all current — and potential — members of our diverse student body. Whether you have an immediate need or you’re in search of long-term support, our division is here to lend a helping hand with resources and programs that promote student success. See What’s Available Prepare for College Our college-preparatory programs engage students beginning as early as sixth grade to pave an accessible path to higher education. Get a head start Start Off Strong Whether you’re a first-year, transfer or international student, we’ll help you take your first steps with the Pack. Run with us Find Help on Campus Here, we meet challenges of all sizes with bold solutions. No matter what you’re facing, you’ll have devoted staff and services to help. Explore our resource list Pack Essentials Struggling with housing or food insecurity, financial issues, or other educational obstacles? Get connected with campuswide programs. Learn more Feed the Pack Our on-campus food pantry is a community-based initiative open to any student, faculty or staff member experiencing food insecurity. Drop by Student Emergency Fund A minor emergency or unexpected expense shouldn’t derail your education. We provide flexible assistance to help you get back on track. Apply for emergency funds A Sounding Board for the Student Body Our student ombuds offers safe, confidential guidance and advocacy to help students resolve problems related to their learning, working or living experience at NC State.Meet the ombuds Higher Education Is for Everyone We’re Here to Help More than 50 units across our division are standing by to support your success. Browse the full list All students — regardless of their background, identity or resources — should have access to a high-quality education. That’s why our division offers programs that empower low-income, rural and first-generation students to get here, grow here and graduate ready for anything. We guide middle and high schoolers statewide through the college application process, academic and career planning, SAT and ACT prep, and more. And we aid current college students in building financial and economic literacy, securing research and internship opportunities, and preparing for graduate school. Pathways TRIO Programs Our four TRIO programs work with students from traditionally underserved communities to overcome social and cultural barriers to their education. Juntos The Juntos program provides Latinx students in middle and high schools statewide with connections and resources to navigate the road to higher education. College Advising Corps We pair recent NC State grads with low-income, first-generation and underrepresented students throughout rural N.C. to scout out the right college for them. Support the Wolfpack’s Next Generation No student’s academic journey should be halted by an unmet basic need or an unforeseen challenge. Your support provides critical assistance to ensure every member of our Pack stays on track.Light their path More Resources Student Conduct Student Legal Services Faculty and Staff Resources Disability Resource Office Military and Veteran Services Wolfpack Pick Up Division of Academic and Student Affairs Home Park Shops, 3rd Floor 101 Current Drive Campus Box 7301 Raleigh, NC 27695-7301 academic-student-affairs@ncsu.edu 919.515.2446 Our Location About Academics Career and Leadership Student Life Inclusion and Well-Being Support and Advocacy Faculty and Staff Resources News Compliments and Complaints Website Feedback Organizational Chart Career Opportunities DASA Intranet Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.