Skip to main content Academic and Student Affairs Menu Close About Meet the Vice Chancellor and Dean Division Leadership Departments Faculty and Staff Resources Giving Contact Information Academics Academic Success Center Student Success GPS University College Advising and Academic Help Honors and Scholars Career and Leadership Develop Your Career Serve and Lead Your Community ROTC Student Life Get Involved Live on Campus Explore Arts and Culture Stay Informed Howling Success Inclusion and Well-Being Counseling Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Health and Exercise Studies Student Health Wellness and Recreation Support and Advocacy Prepare for College Find Help on Campus New Student Resources Pack Essentials Military and Veteran Services Disability Resource Office Faculty and Staff Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now About About Meet the Vice Chancellor and Dean Division Leadership Departments Faculty and Staff Resources Giving Contact Information Academics Academics Academic Success Center Student Success GPS University College Advising and Academic Help Honors and Scholars Career and Leadership Career and Leadership Develop Your Career Serve and Lead Your Community ROTC Student Life Student Life Get Involved Live on Campus Explore Arts and Culture Stay Informed Howling Success Inclusion and Well-Being Inclusion and Well-Being Counseling Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Health and Exercise Studies Student Health Wellness and Recreation Support and Advocacy Support and Advocacy Prepare for College Find Help on Campus New Student Resources Pack Essentials Military and Veteran Services Disability Resource Office Faculty and Staff Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Academics From picking a major to pursuing a research passion project, we’re here to support your academic journey each step of the way. Major Opportunity Awaits You’re going to think and do great things here. We want to help. In the Division of Academic and Student Affairs, we provide the resources and programs, including those in our University College, that you need to forge your academic path — and see it through to the end. Work with our dedicated academic advisors to discover your interests and translate them into a degree. Access support services to keep you on track. And delve into educational opportunities that ignite new intellectual passions. Plan Your Pathway Explore Your Options Still choosing a major? Our University College Exploratory Studies program guides first-year students to find the right fit. Browse Majors and Minors From accounting to zoology, we’ve got you covered. Scout out more than 100 majors and 120 minors. Get Academic Help Connect with an advisor, set up a tutoring session or find other academic support programs. Keen, Curious Minds Welcome Late nights in the lab. Books you can’t put down. Hunches you chase. Mentors you meet. It all starts here. Our division offers high-impact experiences that go beyond your required coursework — and create lifelong learners. Whether you’re taking part in community-based learning, tackling real-world problems through undergraduate research or preparing for your future career in an internship, you’ll uncover added context and depth that enriches your time here. Students who participate in our programs see higher GPAs and better retention. And they leave our campus more thoughtful, well-rounded and equipped to improve their communities. Research and Fellowships We empower students to conduct research, secure funding and earn awards. Find out how Honors and Scholars We engage talented undergraduates and help them reach their potential. Go inside the programs 131 Student Research Projects were funded by our Office of Undergraduate Research in the 2018-2019 academic year. Start yours A Different Kind of College Our division is home to University College: an incubator for interdisciplinary programs that engage every undergraduate student. Within the college, you’ll find two academic departments, a robust arts collective and various academic units and programs. We offer 14 minors ranging from arts entrepreneurship to military studies. Or you can dip your toes in with a course no matter what field you’re pursuing. Academic Offerings Department of Music Department of Health and Exercise Studies Minors and Certificates Faculty and Staff Resources We lead and support faculty and staff campuswide in promoting the academic success of the entire Wolfpack. See how we can help Dig Deeper Career and Leadership Plan for your life after college — and develop the skills you need to lead and serve your community. Get real-world ready Support and Advocacy Discover services across our unit that address your professional, financial, physical and emotional well-being. We’re in your corner Division of Academic and Student Affairs Home Park Shops, 3rd Floor 101 Current Drive Campus Box 7301 Raleigh, NC 27695-7301 academic-student-affairs@ncsu.edu 919.515.2446 Our Location About Academics Career and Leadership Student Life Inclusion and Well-Being Support and Advocacy Faculty and Staff Resources News Compliments and Complaints Website Feedback Organizational Chart Career Opportunities DASA Intranet Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.