Skip to main content Academic and Student Affairs Menu Close About Meet the Vice Chancellor and Dean Division Leadership Departments Faculty and Staff Resources Giving Contact Information Academics Academic Success Center Student Success GPS University College Advising and Academic Help Honors and Scholars Career and Leadership Develop Your Career Serve and Lead Your Community ROTC Student Life Get Involved Live on Campus Explore Arts and Culture Stay Informed Howling Success Inclusion and Well-Being Counseling Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Health and Exercise Studies Student Health Wellness and Recreation Support and Advocacy Prepare for College Find Help on Campus New Student Resources Pack Essentials Military and Veteran Services Disability Resource Office Faculty and Staff Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now About About Meet the Vice Chancellor and Dean Division Leadership Departments Faculty and Staff Resources Giving Contact Information Academics Academics Academic Success Center Student Success GPS University College Advising and Academic Help Honors and Scholars Career and Leadership Career and Leadership Develop Your Career Serve and Lead Your Community ROTC Student Life Student Life Get Involved Live on Campus Explore Arts and Culture Stay Informed Howling Success Inclusion and Well-Being Inclusion and Well-Being Counseling Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Health and Exercise Studies Student Health Wellness and Recreation Support and Advocacy Support and Advocacy Prepare for College Find Help on Campus New Student Resources Pack Essentials Military and Veteran Services Disability Resource Office Faculty and Staff Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Career and Leadership No matter what’s next, we've got your back. Our division prepares students to succeed in the real world and lead their communities. Be Career Ready At NC State, students start gearing up for the future from day one. Our Career Development Center connects you with skilled staff to help scout out the career path that’s right for you. You’ll work alongside career counselors as early as your freshman year to uncover hidden strengths and interests, hone your résumé and plot out a personalized roadmap for achieving your goals. We’ll also guide you in gaining skills and experience to stand out among a competitive workforce. We support students in finding and landing everything from internships to co-ops to entry-level positions. And we bring world-leading employers to campus by the hundreds each year through career fairs and recruitment events. Get Set For Success Discover resources, programs, workshops and more — all designed to help you pinpoint and pursue your career goals. Dive in Find Career Opportunities Starting your job search? Our online portal lists internships, full-time openings, upcoming recruitment events and more. Log into ePack 75% Graduate With Jobs A majority of our graduating seniors leave campus with full-time employment already lined up. Begin your career journey Lead the Pack Leaders are homegrown on this campus. And our division equips them with the tools they need to be a force for good in the world. We offer leadership development programs that engage students in critical self-reflection and build their confidence as leaders. With help from hands-on workshops and initiatives, you’ll leave here empowered to create positive, inclusive change. At NC State, I learned how to bring people together, communicate effectively, take initiative and lead a team. Asolaide Akinkuotu B.A. in international studies, 2019 We also believe leadership and service go hand in hand. Across campus, you’ll find endless opportunities to follow your calling — and support your community. Feed the pack in our on-campus food pantry. Rack up funds (and calories) to fight cancer through the Krispy Kreme Challenge. Or set off to make a difference worldwide with an Alternative Service Break trip. Engage Your Community Our high-impact programs and services help you to lead with integrity — and grow into a productive citizen. Get started Find Service Opportunities Ready to make a difference? Connect with local organizations and nonprofits through our online portal. See how you can help Training Tomorrow’s Military Leaders We proudly offer three Reserve Officer Training Corps programs — Air Force ROTC, Army ROTC and Naval ROTC — that ready students to assume leadership roles in the military. Learn more Keep Exploring Grow Your Mind We help keen, curious students thrive — both inside and outside the classroom. Chart your academic course Guide the Pack We’re working to create a campus where everyone’s welcome. And we need your support. Cultivate an inclusive NC State Give Back Aid us in creating extraordinary opportunities for the Wolfpack’s next generation. Make a gift today Division of Academic and Student Affairs Home Park Shops, 3rd Floor 101 Current Drive Campus Box 7301 Raleigh, NC 27695-7301 academic-student-affairs@ncsu.edu 919.515.2446 Our Location About Academics Career and Leadership Student Life Inclusion and Well-Being Support and Advocacy Faculty and Staff Resources News Compliments and Complaints Website Feedback Organizational Chart Career Opportunities DASA Intranet Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.