Skip to main content Academic and Student Affairs Menu Close About Meet the Vice Chancellor and Dean Division Leadership Departments Faculty and Staff Resources Giving Contact Information Academics Academic Success Center Student Success GPS University College Advising and Academic Help Honors and Scholars Career and Leadership Develop Your Career Serve and Lead Your Community ROTC Student Life Get Involved Live on Campus Explore Arts and Culture Stay Informed Howling Success Inclusion and Well-Being Counseling Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Health and Exercise Studies Student Health Wellness and Recreation Support and Advocacy Prepare for College Find Help on Campus New Student Resources Pack Essentials Military and Veteran Services Disability Resource Office Faculty and Staff Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now About About Meet the Vice Chancellor and Dean Division Leadership Departments Faculty and Staff Resources Giving Contact Information Academics Academics Academic Success Center Student Success GPS University College Advising and Academic Help Honors and Scholars Career and Leadership Career and Leadership Develop Your Career Serve and Lead Your Community ROTC Student Life Student Life Get Involved Live on Campus Explore Arts and Culture Stay Informed Howling Success Inclusion and Well-Being Inclusion and Well-Being Counseling Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Health and Exercise Studies Student Health Wellness and Recreation Support and Advocacy Support and Advocacy Prepare for College Find Help on Campus New Student Resources Pack Essentials Military and Veteran Services Disability Resource Office Faculty and Staff Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Get Started at State From signing up for New Student Orientation to selecting your classes and meal plan, we're here to help our newest members of the Pack prepare to join us this fall. See the checklist What’s Happening More News University Fellowships Office Announces Critical Language Scholarship Winners Three NC State students have been awarded scholarships that will allow them to immerse themselves in the culture and language of another country. The Gift of a Student’s Trust Monica Osburn is executive director of the Counseling Center, where thousands of students turn each year to find help with anxiety, depression and other problems. Rising Starr Starr Gibens is an expert at putting thought into action. The first-generation college graduate came to NC State with a list of what she wanted to accomplish, and she has done so much more as a leader, community member, scholarship recipient and advocate for her fellow students. The Division of Academic and Student Affairs has tremendously impacted my college experience in so many ways. They offer a plethora of opportunities and have taught me to be a leader in my program and community. Brock Derrow B.A. in psychology, 2023 Coronavirus response Protecting Our Pack We’re committed to keeping our community safe, healthy and successful as we return to in-person classes and activities. Check out the precautions we’ve taken and protocols put in place to keep students safe. ncstatedasa If you haven't been to a LIVE@ Lake Raleigh concer Absolutely beautiful day on campus 😎 How's the Many #NCState22 grads are ready to embark on their Extra, extra! Read all about it.🗞️ Meet NC St Load More Howling Success: Lauren Bradley As a Mental Health Ambassador for the Counseling Center and Prevention Services, Lauren connects her classmates with helpful resources and support groups on campus. Get to know Lauren How Can We Help? Your Education Find your academic path and follow it. Explore majors, high-impact learning opportunities and offerings from our University College. Put on your thinking cap Your Community Our campus is where you’ll make your home — and explore everything. Connect with your Pack through student clubs, arts programs and more. Find your place here Your Future Get real-world ready with career and leadership development programs that prepare students to lead — and serve — their communities. Start prepping for post-grad Your Well-Being Take care of your mental, physical and emotional health with campuswide wellness and inclusion programs that help every student thrive. Create a happy, healthy Pack Your Support We want you to excel here. Find advocates and services to assist you in getting here, growing here and graduating strong. Scout out resources Your Helping Hand Struggling with housing or food insecurity, financial issues, or other educational obstacles? We’re here for you. Discover Pack Essentials Upcoming Events All Events May 31 Tuesday10:00 AM Across the Threshold of India – Photographs by Martha Strawn May 31 Tuesday10:00 AM Frank Lee Craig – Near Distance May 31 Tuesday10:00 AM University Theatre Presents TheatreFEST 2022 Help Them Be Extraordinary When you support Academic and Student Affairs, you create transformative opportunities for our students to pursue lifelong passions, explore uncharted territories and develop their whole selves. Give the gift of an exceptional academic experience. Fund bright futures Division of Academic and Student Affairs Home Park Shops, 3rd Floor 101 Current Drive Campus Box 7301 Raleigh, NC 27695-7301 academic-student-affairs@ncsu.edu 919.515.2446 Our Location About Academics Career and Leadership Student Life Inclusion and Well-Being Support and Advocacy Faculty and Staff Resources News Compliments and Complaints Website Feedback Organizational Chart Career Opportunities DASA Intranet Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.