Toggle navigation Login Toggle navigation DASH Home JavaScript is disabled for your browser. Some features of this site may not work without it. Browse All of DASH Communities & Collections By Issue Date Author Title Keyword FAS Department Submitters Login Quick submit Waiver Generator About About DASH DASH Stories DASH FAQs Accessibility COVID-related Research Terms of Use Privacy Policy Statistics By Schools By Collections By Departments By Items By Country By Authors RSS Feeds RSS 1.0 RSS 2.0 Atom stop slideshow A Journalist's Story+ A Community College Instructor's Story+ A Doctoral Student's Story+ A Research Manager's Story+ DASH What is DASH? A central, open-access repository of research by members of the Harvard community. DASH enlarges the audience and impact of your work. Authors who deposit in DASH have access to on-demand metrics and receive monthly reports about their readership. Deposited works receive persistent URLs, are comprehensively indexed by search engines, including Google and Google Scholar, reach academic and non-academic readers who may not have access to the original publications, and are preserved by the Harvard Library. Making your work open access in DASH is as simple as completing our quick submit form. We also welcome bulk deposits and offer CV scraping services. Simply contact OSC if you are interested. OSC will do the legal legwork for all submissions. The OSC is pleased to offer a robust suite of services to support you and your scholarship. Visit our For Authors page to learn more. Trending Works Reproduction and Seed Development in the Water Lily Nymphaea Thermarum – a New Perspective on the Evolution of Flowering Plant Seeds ﻿ Povilus, Rebecca Ann (2017-08-31) Almost a century of research connects the origin of double fertilization, a major evolutionary innovation of flowering plants (angiosperms), to conflicting parental interests over offspring provisioning during seed ... Bertrand Russell and China During and After His Visit in 1920 ﻿ Paisley, John (2020-07-19) Bertrand Russell visited China in late 1920 to teach philosophy at Peking University. He expected his sabbatical to relieve his stressful experience of the First World War. Instead, he entered China in the midst of what ... Mexico's financial crisis of 1994-1995 ﻿ Musacchio, Aldo (2012-07-13) This paper explains the causes leading to the Mexican crisis of 1994-1995 (known as "The Tequila Crisis"), and its short- and long-term consequences. It argues that excessive enthusiasm on the part of foreign investors, ... Babies, Blemishes and FDA: A History of Accutane Regulation in the United States ﻿ Green, Julia (2002) This paper takes a journalistic approach, tracing the chronology of Accutane in the U.S. in order to fill in the gaps of the story that has inspired so much controversy. Accutane has repeatedly pushed the frontier of FDA ... Teacher and Teaching Effects on Students' Academic Performance, Attitudes, and Behaviors ﻿ Blazar, David (2016-05-09) Research confirms that teachers have substantial impacts on their students’ academic and life-long success. However, little is known about specific dimensions of teaching practice that explain these relationships or whether ... Free Online Scholarship (FOS) Newsletter, November 2, 2001 ﻿ Suber, Peter (2001) Whose guns are stolen? The epidemiology of Gun theft victims ﻿ Hemenway, David; Azrael, Deborah; Miller, Matthew (Springer International Publishing, 2017) Background: Gun theft is an important source of guns used by criminals. Yet no empirical work has focused on the characteristics of gun owners that distinguish those who have had their guns stolen from those who have not. ... Biking is Labor: App-Based Food Delivery Cyclists and Infrastructure as Justice in New York City ﻿ Geschwindt, Mary (2022-05-18) In New York City, app-based food delivery cyclists face exploitative labor conditions as independent contractors for the gig economy and dangerous streets as vulnerable road users. By defining biking as labor and street ... The Benefit of Power Posing Before a High-Stakes Social Evaluation ﻿ Cuddy, Amy J. C.; Wilmuth, Caroline Ashley; Carney, Dana R. (2012-09-12) The current experiment tested whether changing one‘s nonverbal behavior prior to a high-stakes social evaluation could improve performance in the evaluated task. Participants adopted expansive, open (high-power) poses, or ... Associations of Cognitive Function Scores with Carbon Dioxide, Ventilation, and Volatile Organic Compound Exposures in Office Workers: A Controlled Exposure Study of Green and Conventional Office Environments ﻿ Allen, Joseph G.; MacNaughton, Piers; Satish, Usha; Santanam, Suresh; Vallarino, Jose; Spengler, John D. (National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, 2015) Background: The indoor built environment plays a critical role in our overall well-being because of both the amount of time we spend indoors (~90%) and the ability of buildings to positively or negatively influence our ... Recently Added In Black and White: Photographs of Black Theater by Alix Jeffry ﻿ Stinchcomb, Dale; Harvard Theatre Collection, / (Houghton Library, 2022) Alix Jeffry (1929–1993) documented the rise of the Off Broadway movement in the 1950’s and ‘60s. Her archive at Houghton Library represents the definitive visual record of a pivotal period in American theater, including ... The Frederick R. Koch Collection ﻿ Harvard Theatre Collection (Harvard Library, Houghton Library, 2005) Treading the Borders: Immigration and the American Stage ﻿ Wittmann, Matthew; Harvard Theatre Collection (Harvard Library, Houghton Library, 2018) View more Show Statistical Information Follow us on TwitterFollow us on FacebookFollow us on Google+ e: osc@harvard.edu t: +1 (617) 495 4089 f: +1 (617) 495 0370 © 2018 President and Fellows of Harvard College DASH ETDs@Harvard Copyright First Responders HOPE Contact Harvard Library Harvard University