Skip to main content Search terms Submit search UT System Dashboard Home Toggle navigation Main navigation Home About Data Index Definitions Research and Briefs COVID-19 Related seekUT @utsystem Smart Book Data Index The University of Texas System is committed to transparency and is driving success by making meaningful information readily available through the UT System Dashboard. Select a category below to explore related reports. CSV files are available for download on the last tab of each report. The UT Brownsville and UT Pan American campuses closed at the end of AY 2015 and are excluded from some analysis. UT Rio Grande Valley began enrolling students in Fall 2015. Icon Ribbon Student Access Student Success Faculty Productivity Finance and Productivity Healthcare Research and Technology Transfer News and Features All Reports The UT System SmartBook is produced by the Office of Institutional Research and Analysis. It provides a handy, by-the-numbers overview of the mission areas of UT System and all of its institutions. This resource includes valuable data for UT students, faculty, and employees, as well as research/technology transfer and budget/finance data. View Does a College Degree Help Students Surpass Their Parents’ Earnings? Parents want their children to excel and surpass them financially. This is viewed as a benchmark for success, and it is a central component of the American Dream. Historically, financial success has been attributed to education; however, in recent years, more people are skeptical about the value of a college degree. A 2017 Pew Research Center report found that only 55% of the U.S. public believe higher education has a positive effect on the country. In order to explore the relationships between higher education, income, and mobility from one generation to the next, the University of Texas System (UTS) analyzed data for students who graduated or left a UTS academic institution between 2005 and 2012. Read UT System Dual Credit Study UT System’s Dual Credit Study 2018 reports the outcomes for approximately 135,000 students who entered a UT academic institution between 2010 and 2015, tracking them for six years. The study conveys positive aspects, as well as unintended consequences, of dual credit. It also offers recommendations to improve the process to impact a student’s overall college experience and success more positively. Read Footer menu UT System Home Privacy Statement Copyright Accessibility Fraud Reporting Footer2 State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Where the Money Goes TRAIL Search © 2020 The University of Texas System. 210 W. 7th Street, Austin, Texas 78701