Faculty Students Alumni Events Data Science Day Industry Work with Us Apply Contact Us Giving /* Remove dividing line from header logo */ About About DSI About DSI Work with Us Data for Good Find Us Contact Us Identity Guidelines Education Education Education Education Programs Student Services Alumni Services Data Science Education Across Columbia DSI Student Council Research Research Funding Opportunities Postdoctoral Researchers Focus Areas Climate Health Care Social Justice Business and Finance Foundations of Data Science Working Groups Computational Social Science Materials Discovery Analytics Education Research Centers Computing Systems for Data-Driven Science Cybersecurity Data, Media and Society Financial and Business Analytics Foundations of Data Science Health Analytics Sense, Collect and Move Data Smart Cities Columbia-IBM Center on Blockchain and Data Transparency Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub Poster Sessions Outreach Outreach Outreach Industry Affiliates Program Events Data Science Day Campus Connections Campus Tour Entrepreneurship Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub Diversity Diversity Diversity Race + Data Science Resources Data Science Racial Equity Advisory Committee JPMorgan Fellowship Race + Data Science Lecture Series People People People Leadership Education Research Faculty Administration Diversity In Memoriam News and Insights News and Insights News and Insights News Archive Search for: About About DSI Data for Good Work with Us Become a DSI Member or Affiliate Faculty Recruitment Program Become an Industry Affiliate Hire a DSI Student Connect with Data Science Experts Careers at DSI Space Reservations Computing Resources Giving Identity Guidelines Find Us Contact Us Education Education Programs M.S. in Data Science Ph.D. Specialization in Data Science Certification of Professional Achievement in Data Sciences Executive Education DSI Scholars Fellowship Opportunities Student Services Alumni Services DSI Student Council Data Science Education Across Columbia Research Research Funding Opportunities Focus Areas Climate Health Care Social Justice Business and Finance Foundations of Data Science Research Centers Computing Systems for Data-Driven Science Cybersecurity Data, Media and Society Financial and Business Analytics Foundations of Data Science Health Analytics Sense, Collect and Move Data Smart Cities Columbia-IBM Center on Blockchain and Data Transparency Working Groups Computational Social Science Materials Discovery Analytics Education Postdoctoral Researchers Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub Poster Sessions Outreach Outreach Events Data Science Day Industry Affiliates Program Campus Connections Campus Tour Entrepreneurship Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub Diversity Diversity Race + Data Science Resources JPMorgan Fellowship Race + Data Science Lecture Series People People Leadership Leadership Team Executive Committee Data and Society Council Faculty Members Affiliates Research Postdoctoral Researchers Research Scientists and Scholars Education Adjuncts Ph.D. Specialization Committee Diversity Data Science Racial Equity Advisory Committee Administration Academic Programs, Student Services and Career Management Communications Development Finance and Research Operations Strategic Initiatives and Engagement Columbia-IBM Center for Blockchain and Data Transparency Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub In Memoriam News and Insights News News Archive DSI News Research News Insights Student Spotlight Alumni Download Postdoctoral Researchers Faculty Students Alumni Events Data Science Day Industry Work with Us Apply Contact Us Giving Close Menu Ph.D. Specialization in Data Science Education Programs Student Services Alumni Services DSI Student Council Data Science Education Across Columbia M.S. in Data Science Ph.D. Specialization in Data Science Certification of Professional Achievement in Data Sciences Executive Education DSI Scholars Fellowship Opportunities The Ph.D. specialization in data science is an option within the Applied Mathematics, Computer Science, Electrical Engineering, Industrial Engineering and Operations Research, and Statistics departments. Only students already enrolled in one of these doctoral programs at Columbia are eligible to participate in this specialization. Students should fulfill the requirements below in addition to those of their respective department's Ph.D. program. Students should discuss this specialization option with their Ph.D. advisor and their department's director for graduate studies. Applied Mathematics Doctoral Program Computer Science Doctoral Program Electrical Engineering Doctoral Program Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Doctoral Program Statistics Doctoral Program The specialization consists of either five (5) courses from the lists below, or four (4) courses plus one (1) additional course approved by the curriculum committee. All courses must be taken for a letter grade and students must pass with a B+ or above. At least three (3) of the courses should come from outside the student’s home department. At least one (1) course has to come from each of the three (3) thematic areas listed below. Contact Ming Yuan Data Science Institute Associate Director for Academic Affairs Faculty of Arts and Sciences Professor of Statistics Email: ming.yuan@columbia.edu Contact David Blei Faculty of Arts and Sciences Professor of Statistics The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science Professor of Computer Science Email: dmb2236@columbia.edu Specialization Requirements Computation COMS 4231 Analysis of Algorithms I COMS 6232 Analysis of Algorithms II COMS 4111 Introduction to Databases COMS 4113 Distributed Systems Fundamentals EECS 6720 Bayesian Models for Machine Learning COMS 4771 Machine Learning COMS 4772 Advanced Machine Learning Optimization IEOR E6613 Optimization I IEOR E6614 Optimization II IEOR E6711 Stochastic Modeling I EEOR E6616 Convex Optimization Statistics STAT 6301 Probability Theory I STAT 6201 Theoretical Statistics I STAT 6101 Applied Statistics I STAT 6104 Computational Statistics STAT 5224 Bayesian Statistics STCS 6701 Foundations of Graphical Models (joint with Computer Science) Information Request Form Ph.D. Specialization in Data Science Information Request Form Loading… Ph.D. Specialization Committee View All People David Blei Faculty of Arts and Sciences Professor of Statistics The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science Professor of Computer Science Richard A. Davis Faculty of Arts and Sciences Howard Levene Professor of Statistics Vineet Goyal The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science Associate Professor of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Garud N. Iyengar The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science Vice Dean of Research Tang Family Professor of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Gail Kaiser The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science Professor of Computer Science Rocco A. Servedio The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science Professor of Computer Science Clifford Stein Data Science Institute Interim Director The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science Wai T. Chang Professor of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research and Professor of Computer Science John Wright The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering Ming Yuan Data Science Institute Associate Director for Academic Affairs Faculty of Arts and Sciences Professor of Statistics View All People Newsletter Stay informed. Sign up for our newsletter. First Name Last Name Email Address Organization Sign up to receive news and information about upcoming events, research, and more. Submit Questions? Email: datascience@columbia.edu. /* Remove dividing line from footer logo */ Northwest Corner, 550 W 120th St #1401, New York, NY 10027 (212) 854-5660 About Home Data for Good Work with Us Donate Contact Us News People Education M.S. in Data Science Ph.D. Specialization in Data Science Certification of Professional Achievement in Data Sciences Executive Education DSI Scholars Student Services Alumni Services Columbia Data Science Society Data Science Education Across Columbia Research Centers Computing Systems for Data-Driven Science Cybersecurity Data, Media and Society Financial and Business Analytics Foundations of Data Science Health Analytics Sense, Collect and Move Data Smart Cities Columbia-IBM Center on Blockchain and Data Transparency Focus Areas Foundations of Data Science Health Care Climate Business and Finance Social Justice Working Groups Computational Social Science Materials Discovery Analytics Education Outreach Events Industry Affiliates Program Campus Connections Entrepreneurship Columbia University Terms Privacy © The Data Science Institute at Columbia University Created by Constructive