Faculty Students Alumni Events Data Science Day Industry Work with Us Apply Contact Us Giving /* Remove dividing line from header logo */ About About DSI About DSI Work with Us Data for Good Find Us Contact Us Identity Guidelines Education Education Education Education Programs Student Services Alumni Services Data Science Education Across Columbia DSI Student Council Research Research Funding Opportunities Postdoctoral Researchers Focus Areas Climate Health Care Social Justice Business and Finance Foundations of Data Science Working Groups Computational Social Science Materials Discovery Analytics Education Research Centers Computing Systems for Data-Driven Science Cybersecurity Data, Media and Society Financial and Business Analytics Foundations of Data Science Health Analytics Sense, Collect and Move Data Smart Cities Columbia-IBM Center on Blockchain and Data Transparency Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub Poster Sessions Outreach Outreach Outreach Industry Affiliates Program Events Data Science Day Campus Connections Campus Tour Entrepreneurship Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub Diversity Diversity Diversity Race + Data Science Resources Data Science Racial Equity Advisory Committee JPMorgan Fellowship Race + Data Science Lecture Series People People People Leadership Education Research Faculty Administration Diversity In Memoriam News and Insights News and Insights News and Insights News Archive Search for: About About DSI Data for Good Work with Us Become a DSI Member or Affiliate Faculty Recruitment Program Become an Industry Affiliate Hire a DSI Student Connect with Data Science Experts Careers at DSI Space Reservations Computing Resources Giving Identity Guidelines Find Us Contact Us Education Education Programs M.S. in Data Science Ph.D. Specialization in Data Science Certification of Professional Achievement in Data Sciences Executive Education DSI Scholars Fellowship Opportunities Student Services Alumni Services DSI Student Council Data Science Education Across Columbia Research Research Funding Opportunities Focus Areas Climate Health Care Social Justice Business and Finance Foundations of Data Science Research Centers Computing Systems for Data-Driven Science Cybersecurity Data, Media and Society Financial and Business Analytics Foundations of Data Science Health Analytics Sense, Collect and Move Data Smart Cities Columbia-IBM Center on Blockchain and Data Transparency Working Groups Computational Social Science Materials Discovery Analytics Education Postdoctoral Researchers Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub Poster Sessions Outreach Outreach Events Data Science Day Industry Affiliates Program Campus Connections Campus Tour Entrepreneurship Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub Diversity Diversity Race + Data Science Resources JPMorgan Fellowship Race + Data Science Lecture Series People People Leadership Leadership Team Executive Committee Data and Society Council Faculty Members Affiliates Research Postdoctoral Researchers Research Scientists and Scholars Education Adjuncts Ph.D. Specialization Committee Diversity Data Science Racial Equity Advisory Committee Administration Academic Programs, Student Services and Career Management Communications Development Finance and Research Operations Strategic Initiatives and Engagement Columbia-IBM Center for Blockchain and Data Transparency Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub In Memoriam News and Insights News News Archive DSI News Research News Insights Student Spotlight Alumni Download Postdoctoral Researchers Faculty Students Alumni Events Data Science Day Industry Work with Us Apply Contact Us Giving Close Menu Funding Opportunities Research Funding Opportunities Focus Areas Research Centers Working Groups Postdoctoral Researchers Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub Poster Sessions We support research collaborations between data scientists and domain experts. DSI Seed Funds Program Funding Opportunity for Faculty and Research Staff Every field has data. We use data to discover new knowledge, to interpret the world, to make decisions, and even to predict the future. The recent convergence of big data, cloud computing, and novel machine learning algorithms and statistical method is causing an explosive interest in data science and its applicability to all fields. This convergence has already enabled the automation of some tasks that improve human performance. The novel capabilities we derive from data science will drive our cars, treat disease, and keep us safe. At the same time, such capabilities risk leading to biased, inappropriate, or unintended action. The design of data science solutions requires both excellence in the fundamentals of the field and expertise to develop applications which meet human challenges without creating even greater risk. The Data Science Institute (DSI) at Columbia University is a world leader in the theory and practice of the emerging field of data science. We advance the state of the art in data science; transform all fields, professions, and sectors through the application of data science; and ensure the responsible use of data for the benefit of society. It is in this context that DSI promotes “Data for Good”: using data to address societal challenges and bringing humanistic perspectives as—not after—new science and technology is invented. Program Goals The DSI Seed Funds Program supports new collaborations that will lead to longer term and deeper relationships among faculty in different disciplines across campus. Aimed at advancing research that combines data science expertise with domain expertise, the program’s funded research should embody the spirit of the Institute’s mission. We are interested in the application of data science to all domains and bringing ideas from other domains to bear on data science. Aligned with these efforts, we are particularly interested in proposals that address one or more of DSI’s focus areas: Business and Finance, Climate, Foundations of Data Science, Health, and Social Justice. DSI is pleased to announce a call for proposals from Columbia University faculty and research staff for its Seed Funds Program. We seek proposals that represent new collaborations, which will ideally lead to future proposal submissions to government, industry, or foundations. As such, DSI Seed Funds may be viewed as planning grants for upcoming solicitations from DARPA, NIH, NSF, etc. We encourage proposals that address the technical challenges in the fair and ethical use of data. Statement on Racial Equity DSI is committed to racial equity and justice. Proposals should explicitly state that the project will uphold these values, e.g., stating that the methods used to collect and analyze project data, and the project outcomes reported are fair, just, and ethical. Funding This year, DSI will provide two levels of funding. We will accept proposals with budgets up to $25,000, as well as proposals with budgets up to $75,000, annually, for a maximum of two years. The $25,000 grants are intended for projects where significant salary support of Ph.D. students, postdoctoral researchers, or research scientists is not needed. As a condition of funding, awardees will be required to submit quarterly financial reviews and biannual progress reports. Eligibility for continued funding for a second year will also require a progress report. All reports must include progress on external funding proposal submission(s) and other related activities (presentations,publications, etc.). Budgets are encouraged to request support for DSI research scientists and for the university’s Bridge to the Ph.D. Program in STEM program. DSI research scientists and scholars represent a wide range of expertise, from the foundations of data science to domains where data science is heavily used. Collaborating with a DSI research scientist or scholar may accelerate your research project. The Bridge to the Ph.D. Program in STEM is a structured, post-baccalaureate opportunity aimed to diversify the STEM professoriate and workforce. By including one of their scholars as part of your DSI Seed Funds research proposal, you contribute towards increasing pathways for underrepresented students to advance in STEM disciplines. The Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement covers 70% of the scholar’s salary and fringe, with 30% (~$17K) expected from the sponsoring principal investigator (PI). Your DSI Seed Funds budget is eligible to cover the PI’s expected cost for sponsoring a scholar. Proposal Process The deadline for proposal submission is Monday, November 8, 2021 @ 3 p.m. ET. We will not accept incomplete or late submissions. Please submit the following materials via email in a single .doc or .pdf format to dsi-seed@columbia.edu: Application cover page Project proposal Racial equity statement Budget CVs for faculty / collaborators (two-page, NSF-style format) We anticipate notifying award recipients by December 21, 2021. September 2021 DSI Seed Funds Call for Proposals Columbia-IBM Center Seed Funds Program This partnership with the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences and supports new research and education projects campus-wide as part of the Columbia-IBM Center on Blockchain and Data Transparency. Apply for Columbia-IBM Center for Blockchain and Data Transparency Research seed funds here. DSI Postdoctoral Research Fellowships We are actively seeking candidates who are recent Ph.D. graduates and have explicit interests in advancing and/or applying data science to other domains. Learn more about our current postdoctoral fellows and apply here. Data Science and Health Initiative (DASHI) PI Eligibility Criteria: Any faculty member/research scientist across the campus at either Morningside or CUIMC. Postdocs can participate in a collaborative team. DASHI Budget: DASHI expects to fund at least 2 projects, up to $75k each. DASHI invites applications for pilot projects in the intersection of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Health Sciences. A Letter of Intent (LOI) by a single contact-PI without a complete project team is required. Please use this form to complete the LOI. The LOI needs to include: Tentative project title 150-word summary, that can be shared with the Columbia community. Description of complementary fields from which co-PI(s) are to be recruited to complement the project team. LOI Submission Deadline: Tuesday, November 23, 2021 Pre-Proposal Brainstorming Workshop: DASHI will encourage the formation of interdisciplinary project teams through a cross-campus brainstorming workshop on Friday, December 10, 2021 (9:00 AM – 12:00 PM ET – virtual). All who intend to submit an LOI should register for the workshop. Those who will not submit an LOI are also encouraged to register to meet others and potentially join an existing project team. Register for the workshop here. Accepted LOI summaries will be presented at the brainstorming workshop. This event will include a plenary presentations session, followed by breakout groups dedicated to refine the proposals and find others that may complement their team. The thus formed project team may then submit a full, 3-page application for seed funding of the pilot project. The final proposal should delineate a path towards external funding of the project beyond its pilot stage. DASHI Timeline: LOI Submission Deadline: Tuesday, November 23, 2021 Workshop acceptance notification: By Friday, December 3, 2021 Brainstorming workshop: Friday, December 10, 2021 Full pilot proposal deadline: Friday, January 7, 2022 Notification: Tuesday, January 18, 2022 Expected project start for selected proposals: Tuesday, February 1, 2022 Contact Clifford Stein Data Science Institute Interim Director The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science Wai T. Chang Professor of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research and Professor of Computer Science Email: cliff@ieor.columbia.edu Funded Research Projects Machine Learning to the Rescue: Eliminating the Damage Caused by TseTse Fly in Sub-Saharan Africa Project Szabolcs Marka, Physics; Zsuzsanna Marka, Physics; Zelda Moran, Public Health; John Wright, Electrical Engineering This team is pioneering a machine-learning based imaging and sorting solution that aims to drastically reduce Africa’s tsetse population. The solution, which allows for the sorting of male and female tsetse flies, to support the Sterile Insect Technique, which the IAEA has used to eradicate tsetse populations in Zanzibar and other countries. Tracking Air Pollutants and Reconstructing 3D Scalar Fields from 2D Satellite Images via Machine Learning Project Pierre Gentine, Earth and Environmental Engineering; Marco Giometto, Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics; Mostaf Momen, Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics; Carl Vondrick, Computer Science This team is developing machine-learning models and improved satellite-imaging techniques that will help environmental officials locate and characterize hazardous pollutants in the lower atmosphere, allowing them to design strategies to mitigate pollution. Nudging New York: Using Data Science to Increase Healthcare Access in Underserved Communities Project Marianthi-Anna Kioumourtzoglou, Environmental Health Sciences; John Paisley, Electrical Engineering; Kai Ruggeri, Health Policy and Management This research team intends to reduce missed appointments at community clinics by using big data and Bayesian machine learning techniques to understand why patients miss appointments and what can be done to help them keep them. AI-Assisted Identification of Child Abuse and Neglect in Hospital Settings with Implications for Bias Reduction and Future Interventions Project Aviv Landau, Data Science Institute; Desmond Patton, Social Work; Maxim Topaz, Nursing This team is developing an innovative artificial intelligence system to detect and assess risk for child abuse and neglect within hospital settings that would prioritize the prevention and reduction of bias against Black and Latinx communities. Data-Driven Modeling and Estimation of Li-Ion Battery Properties Project Matthias Preindl, Electrical Engineering; Alan West, Chemical Engineering This engineering team is developing a machine-learning model that can estimate a Li-Ion battery’s charge level with greater accuracy, aiming for an error rate of just one percent. Predicting Personalized Cancer Therapies Using Deep Probabilistic Modeling Project David Blei, Statistics; Anna Lasorella, Pediatrics; Raul Rabadan, Systems Biology; Wesley Tansey, Systems Biology This team aims to model, predict, and target therapeutic sensitivity and resistance of cancer. They will integrate Bayesian modeling with recently developed variational inference and deep learning methods and apply them to large scale genomic and drug sensitivity data across many cancer types. A Game-Theoretical Framework for Modeling Strategic Interactions Between Autonomous and Human-Driven Vehicles Project Xi Chen, Computer Science; Sharon Di, Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics; Qiang Du, Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics; Eric Talley, Law This team is developing a fundamental framework using the game theoretic approach to model the strategic interactions of conventional human-driven vehicles and autonomous and/or connected vehicles. Other than technical advances, this project will also address the Trolley Problem (i.e., ethical sense development) in AV algorithm design. Planetary Linguistics Project Michael Collins, Computer Science; David Kipping, Astronomy This team will build predictive models capable of intelligently optimizing telescope resources, and uncover the rules and regularities in planetary systems, specifically through the application of grammar induction methods used in computational linguistics. Enabling Small: Data Medical Research with Private Transferable Knowledge Project Roxana Geambasu, Computer Science; Daniel Hsu, Computer Science; Nicholas Tatonetti, Biomedical Informatics This team is building an infrastructure system for sharing privacy-preserving machine learning models of large-scale, dynamic, clinical datasets. The system will enable medical researchers in small clinics or pharmaceutical companies to incorporate multitask feature models learned from big clinical datasets to bootstrap their own machine learning models on top of their (potentially much smaller) clinical datasets. The multitask feature models protect the privacy of individual records in the large datasets through a rigorous method called differential privacy. p(true): Distilling Truth by Community Rating of Claims on the Web Project Trenton Jerde, Zuckerman Institute; Nikolaus Kriegeskorte, Zuckerman Institute; Nima Mesgarani, Electrical Engineering; Chris Wiggins, Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics This team will build a complementary mechanism for web-based sharing of reasoned judgments to perform probabilistic inference on contentious claims with machine learning algorithms and bring rationality to the social web. Detecting and Attributing Spatiotemporal Variations in Sources of Ground-Level Project Ruth DeFries, Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology; Arlene Fiore, Earth and Environmental Sciences; Jeff Goldsmith, Biostatistics; Marianthi-Anna Kioumourtzoglou, Environmental Health Sciences; Daniel Westervelt, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory; John Wright, Electrical Engineering This team will develop methods to extract patterns from multiple datasets and identify the dominant sources of air pollution across India and how they vary in space and time. Their work is a step towards the overarching goal of informing effective clean air solutions and reducing public health burdens associated with exposure to air pollution in India. Gender and Racial/Ethnic Inequality in High-Skilled Labor Market: Gaining New Insights from Online Resume and Reviews Database Project Kriste Krstovski, Data Science Institute; Yao Lu, Sociology This team combines new sources of labor market data with data science methods to identify factors and environments that shape gender and racial inequality in high-skilled labor market. The team will chart long-term career trajectories of a large number of high-skilled American workers and examine gender and racial variations; and construct measures of company environment, especially that pertains to gender and racial equity, and assess its consequences for the career path of different groups of skilled workers. Interpretable Microbiome Dynamics in Liver Transplant Recipients Project Itsik Pe’er, Computer Science; Anne-Catrin Uhlemann, Medicine This team is developing methods for temporal analysis of gut microbiome compositions to better define the risk of infections in liver transplant recipients. They will integrate existing coarse resolution data with newly collected deep metagenomics and metabolomics data. Modeling the Dynamics of Young Onset Colorectal Cancer using Big Population Data Project Piero Dalerba, Pathology and Cell Biology; Jianhua Hu, Biostatistics; Mary Beth Terry, Epidemiology; Wan Yang, Epidemiology This team will build a novel model-inference system to study the dynamics of colorectal cancer, test a range of risk mechanisms over the life course, and identify key risk factors underlying the recent increase in young onset colorectal cancer incidence in the United States to support more effective early prevention. Probabilistic Modeling of Intercellular Interactions that Drive Ferroptosis Project Elham Azizi, Biomedical Engineering; Jellert Gaublomme, Biological Sciences; Brent Stockwell, Biological Sciences This team will develop probabilistic models to elucidate the role of intercellular interactions in driving susceptibility of treatment-resistant mesenchymal tumor cells to a newly discovered ferroptotic vulnerability, which could offer a therapeutic avenue to prevent survival of these cancer cells that are prone to metastasis. Newsletter Stay informed. Sign up for our newsletter. First Name Last Name Email Address Organization Sign up to receive news and information about upcoming events, research, and more. Submit Questions? Email: datascience@columbia.edu. /* Remove dividing line from footer logo */ Northwest Corner, 550 W 120th St #1401, New York, NY 10027 (212) 854-5660 About Home Data for Good Work with Us Donate Contact Us News People Education M.S. in Data Science Ph.D. Specialization in Data Science Certification of Professional Achievement in Data Sciences Executive Education DSI Scholars Student Services Alumni Services Columbia Data Science Society Data Science Education Across Columbia Research Centers Computing Systems for Data-Driven Science Cybersecurity Data, Media and Society Financial and Business Analytics Foundations of Data Science Health Analytics Sense, Collect and Move Data Smart Cities Columbia-IBM Center on Blockchain and Data Transparency Focus Areas Foundations of Data Science Health Care Climate Business and Finance Social Justice Working Groups Computational Social Science Materials Discovery Analytics Education Outreach Events Industry Affiliates Program Campus Connections Entrepreneurship Columbia University Terms Privacy © The Data Science Institute at Columbia University Created by Constructive