Faculty Students Alumni Events Data Science Day Industry Work with Us Apply Contact Us Giving /* Remove dividing line from header logo */ About About DSI About DSI Work with Us Data for Good Find Us Contact Us Identity Guidelines Education Education Education Education Programs Student Services Alumni Services Data Science Education Across Columbia DSI Student Council Research Research Funding Opportunities Postdoctoral Researchers Focus Areas Climate Health Care Social Justice Business and Finance Foundations of Data Science Working Groups Computational Social Science Materials Discovery Analytics Education Research Centers Computing Systems for Data-Driven Science Cybersecurity Data, Media and Society Financial and Business Analytics Foundations of Data Science Health Analytics Sense, Collect and Move Data Smart Cities Columbia-IBM Center on Blockchain and Data Transparency Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub Poster Sessions Outreach Outreach Outreach Industry Affiliates Program Events Data Science Day Campus Connections Campus Tour Entrepreneurship Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub Diversity Diversity Diversity Race + Data Science Resources Data Science Racial Equity Advisory Committee JPMorgan Fellowship Race + Data Science Lecture Series People People People Leadership Education Research Faculty Administration Diversity In Memoriam News and Insights News and Insights News and Insights News Archive Search for: About About DSI Data for Good Work with Us Become a DSI Member or Affiliate Faculty Recruitment Program Become an Industry Affiliate Hire a DSI Student Connect with Data Science Experts Careers at DSI Space Reservations Computing Resources Giving Identity Guidelines Find Us Contact Us Education Education Programs M.S. in Data Science Ph.D. Specialization in Data Science Certification of Professional Achievement in Data Sciences Executive Education DSI Scholars Fellowship Opportunities Student Services Alumni Services DSI Student Council Data Science Education Across Columbia Research Research Funding Opportunities Focus Areas Climate Health Care Social Justice Business and Finance Foundations of Data Science Research Centers Computing Systems for Data-Driven Science Cybersecurity Data, Media and Society Financial and Business Analytics Foundations of Data Science Health Analytics Sense, Collect and Move Data Smart Cities Columbia-IBM Center on Blockchain and Data Transparency Working Groups Computational Social Science Materials Discovery Analytics Education Postdoctoral Researchers Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub Poster Sessions Outreach Outreach Events Data Science Day Industry Affiliates Program Campus Connections Campus Tour Entrepreneurship Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub Diversity Diversity Race + Data Science Resources JPMorgan Fellowship Race + Data Science Lecture Series People People Leadership Leadership Team Executive Committee Data and Society Council Faculty Members Affiliates Research Postdoctoral Researchers Research Scientists and Scholars Education Adjuncts Ph.D. Specialization Committee Diversity Data Science Racial Equity Advisory Committee Administration Academic Programs, Student Services and Career Management Communications Development Finance and Research Operations Strategic Initiatives and Engagement Columbia-IBM Center for Blockchain and Data Transparency Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub In Memoriam News and Insights News News Archive DSI News Research News Insights Student Spotlight Alumni Download Postdoctoral Researchers Faculty Students Alumni Events Data Science Day Industry Work with Us Apply Contact Us Giving Close Menu Careers at DSI About Data for Good Work with Us Identity Guidelines Find Us Contact Us Become a DSI Member or Affiliate Faculty Recruitment Program Become an Industry Affiliate Hire a DSI Student Connect with Data Science Experts Careers at DSI Space Reservations Computing Resources Giving DSI Careers Job Postings The Institute’s postdoctoral and research scientists help anchor Columbia’s presence as a leader in data science research and applications and serve as resident experts in fostering collaborations with the world-class faculty across all schools at the University. They will also guide, plan, and execute data science research, applications, and technological innovations to address societal challenges and related University-wide initiatives. Postdoctoral Research Scientists Postdoctoral Fellows Learn more about the DSI postdoctoral research fellow program. Apply Now Data Postdoctoral Research Scientist The Data Science Institute (DSI) at Columbia University invites applications for the position of a Data Post-Doctoral Scientist. The post-doc will work on new methods for scalable and privacy-respecting digital identity systems. These systems will provide digital identities suitable for low-infrastructure environments, used to facilitate access to resources such as medical care, education and food assistance. The candidate will evaluate existing digital identity proposals, identify gaps in capabilities, develop new components of identity systems, work with external stakeholders and experts in privacy and international development, and prototype digital identity components or systems. Apply Now The Columbia University Data Science Institute Data and Cancer Collaboratory Post-Doctoral Scientist The Data Science Institute (DSI) at Columbia University invites applications for the position of a Data and Cancer Post-Doctoral Scientist. The recipient of this two-year research position will be embedded in a Columbia University Irving Medical Center (CUIMC) cancer tumor board, an interdisciplinary board of clinicians reviewing plans of care for complex cancer tumor cases using state-of-the-art genomic, imaging analysis, and natural language processing where appropriate. Apply Now Postdoctoral Researcher (Project: Examining exposure to racial violence against Black people via media and other related exposures) We are recruiting a postdoctoral researcher to collaborate for 1-2 years (2nd year contingent on continued funding) on a project examining exposure to racial violence against Black people via media and other related exposures (e.g., Black Lives Matter). Ideal candidates may have doctoral training in a quantitative social and behavioral science (e.g., psychology, sociology, political science, economics, communications, media studies) and/or in statistics or data science and will have an interest in data and social justice. In addition to the relevant social competencies and intellectual background and experience, candidates should have relevant quantitative skills (e.g., Natural Language Processing, Sentiment Analysis; Stylometry; Topic Modeling; Time series modeling; Spine Functions, etc.). For more information please contact either of the project leads: Dr. Colin Wayne Leach Dr. Courtney Cogburn Apply Now Research Scientists and Scholars Research Scientist (Foundational) We seek research scientists who will conduct independent cutting-edge research in the foundations and/or application of data science or related fields, and/or be involved in interdisciplinary research through a collaboration between the Data Science Institute and the various schools at the University. Apply Now Research Scientist (Translational) We seek research scientists who will serve as Columbia’s resident experts to foster collaborations with faculty across all the schools at Columbia University. Apply Now Research Software Engineer The Data Science Institute is looking for a Staff Associate III (Research Software Engineer) eager to work in an academic environment towards this goal, at the cutting edge of probabilistic programming, causal inference, program synthesis and machine learning. Specifically, this role is to develop and engineer algorithms, languages and systems for causal probabilistic programming. Apply Now Herbert and Florence Irving Cancer Research Data Scientists The Data Science Institute seeks fellows who will support our shared mission of improving the understanding of cancer biology, origins, treatment, and prevention through data-driven approaches. We are particularly interested in candidates who will further advance core research in statistics, machine learning, AI and probabilistic modeling. Apply Now Administrative and Technical Staff Assistant Director of Web and Digital Design Reporting to the Executive Director of Strategic Communications, the Assistant Director of Web and Digital Design will be responsible for bringing to life Data Science Institute’s brand with speed and conviction, while maintaining high standards for original concept and detailed execution. S/he will oversee the design and management of digital content to DSI’s various web properties and social media. Apply Now Graduate Assistant for Data Science Institute Events Application Deadline: Monday, March 14, 2022 Open to: Columbia University graduate students. Please use your UNI when applying. We’re looking for a Columbia University graduate student assistant to support events and activities across The Data Science Institute! The Events GA would also support Data Science Day, DSI’s flagship annual event. Candidates should have a background in logistics and administration, and a willingness to learn about event strategy, communications, and marketing. This is an hourly paid position that would report to Alexis Avedisian (aa4598) DSI’s Assistant Director of Events and Special Programs. The position would be 5-10 hours per week depending on event volume, with special projects assigned. . Apply Now Program Manager - COVID Info The COVID Information Commons (CIC) Program Manager is a grant-funded position. The incumbent will be responsible for project and program management for successful development of the CIC extensions as funded through NSF Award #2139391 to include the addition of thousands of new NSF funded COVID awards, and COVID grants from other federal agencies such as NIH, as well as advanced search and discovery of resources around the world. In this role they will work closely with the Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub (NEBDHub)’s Executive Director (also the PI of the CIC), NEBDHub Operations & Communications Manager, CIC System Architect (SA), Software Developers, Metadata Curator, Columbia University Information Technology (CUIT), and Columbia University Libraries team members. Apply Now Executive in Residence The Data Science Institute at Columbia University is a world-leading institute in research and education in the theory and practice of the emerging field of data science. The Data Science Institute’s mission is to advance the state of the art in data science, while ensuring the responsible use of data for the benefit of society. As part of this mission, the Institute is partnering with the Partnership for Public Service, a nonpartisan, nonprofit organization that leads proactive efforts to make the federal government more effective, convening stakeholders from across the public and private sectors to solve critical management challenges and deliver results. To drive both innovative approaches and best practices for management of an ambitious data and insights strategy in the public sector, the Institute invites candidates for the Executive in Residence position. Apply Now The National Student Data Corps Program Coordinator Reporting to the Executive Director and Operations / Communications Manager, Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub (NEBD Hub), Data Science Institute (DSI), Columbia University, the grant-funded position of the National Student Data Corps Program Coordinator will be a key member of the Hub team. The Program Coordinator will support Hub operations for the National Student Data Corps program (NSDC), coordinating with other Hub team members on communications, event management, and project development. The NSDC is a community-developed initiative that teaches data science fundamentals to students from the Northeastern United States and around the world, with a special focus on underserved institutions and students. (https://nebigdatahub.org/nsdc) The successful candidate will be a trusted, collaborative colleague possessing excellent collaboration, communication and organizational skills to effectively interface with the Hub’s numerous stakeholders, and to grow the NSDC. Learn more and apply below: Apply Now Technical Project Manager The Data Science Institute at Columbia University is a world-leading institute in research and education in theory and practice of the emerging field of data science. The Data Science Institute’s mission involves advancing the state of the art in data science, while ensuring the responsible use of data for the benefit of society. To drive both innovative approaches and best practices for management of an ambitious Trustworthy AI research agenda, the Institute invites candidates for the Technical Project Manager position. The grant funded position reports to the Avanessians Director of the Data Science Institute. The Technical Project Manager will be responsible for the success of the Trustworthy AI research agenda which comprises a number of research grants stemming from industry, government and foundation. Learn more and apply below: Apply Now Explore More Data for Good We use the tagline “Data for Good” to capture succinctly the who, what, when, why, and how of data science at Columbia. Data for Good Our Focus Areas We have accelerated the pace of discovery by working on five of society’s most challenging problems. Learn More Meet Our People We train the next generation of data scientists, develop innovative technology, and collaborate to advance techniques. Learn More Newsletter Stay informed. Sign up for our newsletter. First Name Last Name Email Address Organization Sign up to receive news and information about upcoming events, research, and more. Submit Questions? Email: datascience@columbia.edu. /* Remove dividing line from footer logo */ Northwest Corner, 550 W 120th St #1401, New York, NY 10027 (212) 854-5660 About Home Data for Good Work with Us Donate Contact Us News People Education M.S. in Data Science Ph.D. Specialization in Data Science Certification of Professional Achievement in Data Sciences Executive Education DSI Scholars Student Services Alumni Services Columbia Data Science Society Data Science Education Across Columbia Research Centers Computing Systems for Data-Driven Science Cybersecurity Data, Media and Society Financial and Business Analytics Foundations of Data Science Health Analytics Sense, Collect and Move Data Smart Cities Columbia-IBM Center on Blockchain and Data Transparency Focus Areas Foundations of Data Science Health Care Climate Business and Finance Social Justice Working Groups Computational Social Science Materials Discovery Analytics Education Outreach Events Industry Affiliates Program Campus Connections Entrepreneurship Columbia University Terms Privacy © The Data Science Institute at Columbia University Created by Constructive