Faculty Students Alumni Events Data Science Day Industry Work with Us Apply Contact Us Giving /* Remove dividing line from header logo */ About About DSI About DSI Work with Us Data for Good Find Us Contact Us Identity Guidelines Education Education Education Education Programs Student Services Alumni Services Data Science Education Across Columbia DSI Student Council Research Research Funding Opportunities Postdoctoral Researchers Focus Areas Climate Health Care Social Justice Business and Finance Foundations of Data Science Working Groups Computational Social Science Materials Discovery Analytics Education Research Centers Computing Systems for Data-Driven Science Cybersecurity Data, Media and Society Financial and Business Analytics Foundations of Data Science Health Analytics Sense, Collect and Move Data Smart Cities Columbia-IBM Center on Blockchain and Data Transparency Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub Poster Sessions Outreach Outreach Outreach Industry Affiliates Program Events Data Science Day Campus Connections Campus Tour Entrepreneurship Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub Diversity Diversity Diversity Race + Data Science Resources Data Science Racial Equity Advisory Committee JPMorgan Fellowship Race + Data Science Lecture Series People People People Leadership Education Research Faculty Administration Diversity In Memoriam News and Insights News and Insights News and Insights News Archive Search for: About About DSI Data for Good Work with Us Become a DSI Member or Affiliate Faculty Recruitment Program Become an Industry Affiliate Hire a DSI Student Connect with Data Science Experts Careers at DSI Space Reservations Computing Resources Giving Identity Guidelines Find Us Contact Us Education Education Programs M.S. in Data Science Ph.D. Specialization in Data Science Certification of Professional Achievement in Data Sciences Executive Education DSI Scholars Fellowship Opportunities Student Services Alumni Services DSI Student Council Data Science Education Across Columbia Research Research Funding Opportunities Focus Areas Climate Health Care Social Justice Business and Finance Foundations of Data Science Research Centers Computing Systems for Data-Driven Science Cybersecurity Data, Media and Society Financial and Business Analytics Foundations of Data Science Health Analytics Sense, Collect and Move Data Smart Cities Columbia-IBM Center on Blockchain and Data Transparency Working Groups Computational Social Science Materials Discovery Analytics Education Postdoctoral Researchers Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub Poster Sessions Outreach Outreach Events Data Science Day Industry Affiliates Program Campus Connections Campus Tour Entrepreneurship Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub Diversity Diversity Race + Data Science Resources JPMorgan Fellowship Race + Data Science Lecture Series People People Leadership Leadership Team Executive Committee Data and Society Council Faculty Members Affiliates Research Postdoctoral Researchers Research Scientists and Scholars Education Adjuncts Ph.D. Specialization Committee Diversity Data Science Racial Equity Advisory Committee Administration Academic Programs, Student Services and Career Management Communications Development Finance and Research Operations Strategic Initiatives and Engagement Columbia-IBM Center for Blockchain and Data Transparency Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub In Memoriam News and Insights News News Archive DSI News Research News Insights Student Spotlight Alumni Download Postdoctoral Researchers Faculty Students Alumni Events Data Science Day Industry Work with Us Apply Contact Us Giving Close Menu M.S. in Data Science Education Programs Student Services Alumni Services DSI Student Council Data Science Education Across Columbia M.S. in Data Science Ph.D. Specialization in Data Science Certification of Professional Achievement in Data Sciences Executive Education DSI Scholars Fellowship Opportunities Overview The M.S. in Data Science allows students to apply data science techniques to their field of interest. Ours is one of the most highly-rated and sought-after advanced data science programs in the world. Program Highlights Columbia data science students have the opportunity to conduct original research, produce a capstone project, and interact with our industry partners and world-class faculty. Students may also choose an elective track focused on entrepreneurship or a subject area covered by one of our centers. This program is jointly offered in collaboration with the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences’ Department of Statistics, and The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science’s Department of Computer Science and Department of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research. Some students are primarily concerned about data ethics, others are excited about data science as a new evolution in knowledge, but all are interested in how data science is changing our everyday lives. – Tian Zheng, Professor and Department Chair of Statistics and DSI Member Where are Columbia data science graduates now?* ● Aetna/CVS ● Amazon ● Alibaba ● Audible ● Apple ● American Express ● ASR Group ● Baidu ● BNP Paribas ● Bloomberg LP. ● ByteDance ● Braze ● C3.ai ● Capital One ● Credit Suisse ● Chewy ● Columbia Business School ● Columbia University Medical Center ● Columbia INCITE ● Condé Nast ● Deloitte ● DiDi ● DoorDash ● Disney Streaming ● Dropbox ● ETSY ● Expedia ● Facebook ● Fulgent Genetics ● Google ● Grab ● Grainger ● Huawei ● HyperScience ● IBM Research ● IBM ● Intuit ● Instacart ● Johnson & Johnson ● JP Morgan ● KPMG ● Macy’s ● MeiTuan ● McKinsey ● Microsoft ● Morgan Stanley ● Mount Sinai ● Natera ● NBCUniversal ● Nielsen Global ● Oracle ● OK Cupid (IAC) ● Pepsico ● Peacock @ NBCUniversal ● Prudential ● Schlumberger ● Shopee ● State Auto Insurance ● Revelio Labs ● Symanto AI ● System2 LLc ● Startup ● Swiss Re ● TD Securities ● Tencent ● Tianyancha ● Uber ● Unilever ● Vanguard ● Waterdrop Inc. ● Walmart ● Wayfair *A partial list as of March 2021 Helpful Links M.S. in Data Science Admissions Course Inventory 2020 Data Science Institute Student Capstone Projects Apply to the M.S. in Data Science Program through Columbia's Fu School of Engineering APPLY NOW Contact Brianne Cortese Data Science Institute Assistant Director of Admissions and Academic Affairs Email: datascience-admissions@columbia.edu Events Jun08Wed Special Programs EduData Summit 1:00 AM Jun10Fri Special Programs Special Seminar: Dr. Eric Corbett 3:00 PM – 4:00 PM Curriculum Computer Science COMS W4121 Computer Systems for Data Science Spring Semester: 3 credits Prerequisites: Students are expected to have solid programming experience in Python or with an equivalent programming language. This class is intended to be accessible for students who do not necessarily have a background in databases, operating systems or distributed systems. The goal of this class is to provide data scientists and engineers that work with big data a better understanding of the foundations of how the systems they will be using are built. It will also give them a better understanding of the real-world performance, availability and scalability challenges when using and deploying these systems at scale. In the course we will cover foundational ideas in designing these systems, while focusing on specific popular systems that students are likely to encounter at work or when doing research. Spring Semester: 3 credits COMS W4721 Machine Learning for Data Science Spring Semester: 3 credits COMS 4721 is a graduate-level introduction to machine learning. The course covers basic statistical principles of supervised machine learning, as well as some common algorithmic paradigms. Additional topics, such as representation learning and online learning, may be covered if time permits. Prerequisites: Background in linear algebra and probability and statistics. CSOR W4246 Algorithms for Data Science Fall Semester: 3 credits Methods for organizing data, e.g. hashing, trees, queues, lists, priority queues. Streaming algorithms for computing statistics on the data. Sorting and searching. Basic graph models and algorithms for searching, shortest paths, and matching. Dynamic programming. Linear and convex programming. Floating point arithmetic, stability of numerical algorithms, Eigenvalues, singular values, PCA, gradient descent, stochastic gradient descent, and block coordinate descent. Conjugate gradient, Newton and quasi-Newton methods. Large scale applications from signal processing, collaborative filtering, recommendations systems, etc. Prerequisites: basic knowledge in programming (e.g., at the level of COMS W1007), a basic grounding in calculus and linear algebra. Engineering ENGI E4800 Data Science Capstone and Ethics Prerequisites: CSOR W4246 Algorithms for Data Science, STAT W4105 Probability, COMS W4121 Computer Systems for Data Science, or equivalent as approved by faculty advisor. Co-requisites: to be completed alongside or after: STAT W4702 Statistical Inference and Modeling, COMS W4721 Machine Learning for Data Science, STAT W4701 Exploratory Data Analysis and Visualization, or equivalent as approved by faculty advisor. This course provides a unique opportunity for students in the M.S. in Data Science program to apply their knowledge of the foundations, theory and methods of data science to address data science problems in industry, government and the non-profit sector. The course activities focus on a semester-length data science project sponsored by a faculty member or local organization. The project synthesizes the statistical, computational, engineering challenges and social issues involved in solving complex real-world problems. Fall and Spring Semesters: 3 credits Statistics STAT GR5701 Probability and Statistics for Data Science Fall Semester: 3 credits This course covers the following topics: Fundamentals of probability theory and statistical inference used in data science; Probabilistic models, random variables, useful distributions, expectations, law of large numbers, central limit theorem; Statistical inference; point and confidence interval estimation, hypothesis tests, linear regression. Prerequisite: Calculus. STAT GR5702 Exploratory Data Analysis and Visualization Fall Semester: 3 credits Prerequisite: Programming, fundamentals of data visualization, layered grammar of graphics, perception of discrete and continuous variables, introduction to Mondran, mosaic pots, parallel coordinate plots, introduction to ggobi, linked pots, brushing, dynamic graphics, model visualization, clustering and classification. STAT GR5703 Statistical Inference and Modeling Fall and Spring: 3 credits Course covers fundamentals of statistical inference and testing, and gives an introduction to statistical modeling. The first half of the course will be focused on inference and testing, covering topics such as maximum likelihood estimates, hypothesis testing, likelihood ratio test, Bayesian inference, etc. The second half of the course will provide introduction to statistical modeling via introductory lectures on linear regression models, generalized linear regression models, nonparametric regression, and statistical computing. Throughout the course, real-data examples will be used in lecture discussion and homework problems. Prerequisites: Working knowledge of calculus and linear algebra (vectors and matrices) and STAT GR5203 or equivalent. Electives About Electives In addition to the 21 credits of core classes, M.S. in Data Science students are required to complete a minimum of nine (9) credits of electives. In addition to the DSI elective courses, MS students are encouraged to explore courses offered across the university and take advantage of the expertise in a wide range of disciplines at Columbia. Prior to registration, students receive advisement to determine if a course of interest is relevant and meets the criteria of a 4000-level or higher, technical course completed for a letter grade. You are welcome to explore the Columbia Directory of Classes for possible courses. The following courses are examples of classes that MS students have used for elective credit. Elective courses and schedules are dependent on faculty availability and may vary each semester. Past course offerings are not guaranteed to be offered in the future. Please note that many departments, including DSI, give registration priority to their students. Space permitting, courses are then opened up to students outside the department. COMS W4995 Topics in Computer Science: Applied Machine Learning This class offers a hands-on approach to machine learning and data science. The class discusses the application of machine learning methods like SVMs, Random Forests, Gradient Boosting and neural networks on real world dataset, including data preparation, model selection and evaluation. This class complements COMS W4721 in that it relies entirely on available open source implementations in scikit-learn and tensor flow for all implementations. Apart from applying models, we will also discuss software development tools and practices relevant to productionizing machine learning models. COMS W4995 Topics in Computer Science: Applied Deep Learning This course provides a practical, hands-on introduction to Deep Learning. We aim to help students understand the fundamentals of neural networks (DNNs, CNNs, and RNNs), and prepare students to successfully apply them in practice. This course will be taught using open-source software, including TensorFlow 2.0. In addition to covering the fundamental methods, we will discuss the rapidly developing space of frameworks and applications, including deep learning on the web. This course includes an emphasis on fairness and testing, and teaches best practices with these in mind. COMS W4995 Topics in Computer Science: Causal Inference for Data Science Data scientists often have to answer questions that will lead to decisions about actions a company might take. Often, they will be able to run an experiment, and see the effect the decision might have by testing it first. Other times, they will only have observational data at their disposal. In both cases, they need to infer the causal effect of an action on some outcomes of interest. Causal inference is an essential skill for a data scientist. Without a proper understanding, potential biases as large as 1000% have been observed in practice! This course will cover the basics of the potential outcomes framework, the Pearlian framework, and a collection of methods for observational and experimental causal inference. We’ll use examples from industry applications throughout the course, especially focused on web applications. COMS W4995 Topics in Computer Science: Data Analytics Pipeline “Data analytics pipeline” focuses on the intersection between data science, data engineering, and agile product development. In this course you’ll learn some common data generating processes, how the data is transported to be stored, how analytics and compute capabilities are built on top of that storage, and how production machine learning and modeling platforms can be built in that context. There is a strong focus on good architecture design patterns, and practical implementation considerations that focus on delivering results over building perfect systems COMS W4995 Topics in Computer Science: Elements of Data Science This course is designed as an introduction to elements that constitutes the skill set of a data scientist. The course will focus on the utility of these elements in common tasks of a data scientist, rather than their theoretical formulation and properties. The course provides a foundation of basic theory and methodology with applied examples to analyze large engineering, business, and social data for data science problems. Hands-on experiments with R or Python will be emphasized. COMS E6998 Topics in Computer Science: Machine Learning with Probabilistic Programming The world is full of noise and uncertainty. To make sense of it, we collect data and ask questions. Is there a tumor in this x-ray scan? What affects the quality of my manufacturing plant? How old is this planet I see through the telescope? Does this drug actually work? To pose and answer such questions, data scientists must iterate through a cycle: probabilistically model a system, infer hidden patterns from data, and evaluate how well our model describes reality. By the end of this course, you will learn how to use probabilistic programming to effectively iterate through this cycle. Specifically, you will master modeling real-world phenomena using probability models, using advanced algorithms to infer hidden patterns from data, and evaluating the effectiveness of your analysis. You will learn to use (and perhaps even contribute to) Edward throughout this course. COMS E6998 Natural Language Processing: Computational Models of Social Meaning This applied Natural Language Processing course will focus on computational methods for extracting social and interactional meaning from large volumes of text and speech (both traditional media and social media). Topics will include: Sentiment Analysis: automatic detection of people’s sentiment towards a topic, event, product, or persons. Practical applications in various domains will be discussed (e.g., predicting stock market prices, or presidential elections) Emotion and Mood Analysis: automatic detection of people’s emotions (angry, sad, happy) by analyzing various media such as books, emails, lyrics, online discussion forums. Practical applications in various domains (such as predicting depression, categorization of songs) Belief Analysis and Hedging: automatic detection of people’s beliefs (committed belief and non-committed beliefs) from social media. Analysis of the use of hedging as a communicative device in various media: online discussions, scientific writing or legal discussions. Deception Detection (e.g., detecting fake reviews online, or deceptive speech in court proceedings) Argumentation Mining: automatic detection of arguments from text, such as online discussion or persuasive essays. Practical application for various domains (e.g., political, legal or education (e.g., improving students’ skills in writing persuasive essays) Social Power: automatic detection of power structure in organizations by analyzing people’s communications such as emails. Extracting Social Networks from text, such as networks of characters from novels, or networks from social media (e.g., people holding particular opinions, or network of friends). Personality and Interpersonal Stance EECS E6894 Topics in Information Processing: Deep Learning for Computer Vision, Speech, and Language Contact DSI at datascience@columbia.edu for more information about this course. IEOR E4571 Topics in Operations Research: Personalization Theory & Application Personalization is a key tool for enhancing customer experience across industries, thereby driving user loyalty and customer value. It is therefore no surprise that creating and enhancing personalization systems is also increasingly one of the core responsibilities of data science teams, and a key focus for many of the machine learning algorithms in the sector. This course will focus on common personalization algorithms and theory, including behavior-based and content-based recommendation, commonly encountered issues in scaling and cold-starts, and state of the art research. It will also look at how businesses use, and misuse, these techniques in real world applications. IEOR E4721 Topics in Quantitative Finance: Big Data in Finance The vast proliferation of data and increasing technological complexities continue to transform the way industries operate and compete. Over the last two years, 90 percent of the data in the world has been created as a result of the creation of 2.5 quintillion bytes of data on a daily basis. Commonly referred to as big data, this rapid growth and storage creates opportunities for collection, processing and analysis of structured and unstructured data. Financial services, in particular, have widely adopted big data analytics to inform better investment decisions with consistent returns. In conjunction with big data, algorithmic trading uses vast historical data with complex mathematical models to maximize portfolio returns. The continued adoption of big data will inevitably transform the landscape of financial services. However, along with its apparent benefits, significant challenges remain in regards to big data’s ability to capture the mounting volume of data. The increasing volume of market data poses a big challenge for financial institutions. Along with vast historical data, banking and capital markets need to actively manage ticker data. Likewise, investment banks and asset management firms use voluminous data to make sound investment decisions. Insurance and retirement firms can access past policy and claims information for active risk management. The course will be a mix of Theory and practice with real big data cases in finance. We will invite guest lecturers mostly for real Big Data Finance Applications. We will give MATLAB, R, or Python examples. STATS GR5293 Topics in Modern Statistics: Applied Machine Learning for Financial Modeling and Forecasting The course focuses on translating technical expertise into work-place solutions by teaching students to: (1) identify relevant shortfalls in traditional processes; (2) precisely match datasets and machine learning features to overcome these shortfalls; (3) narrowly define value to fit work place processes, analytical framework, and bottom line. Each class will be structured as an actual end-to-end work-place project and use concrete examples to teach students to design, build and deliver solutions that integrate these considerations. A combination of assignments, presentation, and research paper will be sued to evaluation students’ progress in bridging technical and applied solutions with evaluation criteria matching those of a work-place project. STATS GR5293 Topics in Modern Statistics: Applied Machine Learning for Image Analysis Images are everywhere. How to deal with image data, especially with big data, is an urgent problem for data analysts. Machine learning has proven to be a powerful technology to process and analyze such big data. The course will discuss how machine learning methods are use in the field of image analysis, including biometrics (iris and face recognition), natural images (object identification/recognition), brain images (encoding and decoding), and handwritten digit recognition. Students will learn how to sue traditional machine learning methods in image data processing and analysis, and develop techniques to improve these methods. The aim of this course is to prepare students with basis knowledge and skills to explore opportunities using machine learning in the field of image analysis. Cross-Registration Instructions for Non-Data Science Students Please note that Data Science students have priority registration, so enrollment will be dependent on the space available after our student registration. Non-Data Science students will be able to register/join a waitlist via SSOL starting January 11th for Spring 2022. Please be sure to obtain your program advisor approval before enrolling. The Spring 2022 Change of Program period is Tuesday, January 18 – Friday, January 28. I wanted to be at an institution that would truly challenge me and put me at the forefront of growing areas of research in data science. Columbia promised the most rigorous and innovative curriculum on the planet...I knew the educational experience here would be like no other. Kevin Womack Class of 2021 Keep Reading Explore More from Master of Science in Data Science Admissions Are you ready to apply to the M.S. in Data Science program? Check out our FAQ down below or click the Learn More button. Learn More Course Inventory The number of data science-related courses available to Columbia students is growing. Here's an updated list. Learn More Capstone Projects All of our students complete capstone projects with industry affiliates and thought leaders. Learn More Frequently Asked Questions Can't find your answer, Contact Us Admissions Application Financial Curriculum Q: Who should apply for the data science graduate programs? Anyone interested in advancing their career or changing career paths by developing data science skills is encouraged to apply. Q: What are the eligibility requirements for the Data Science Institute academic programs? Successful applicants for both the M.S. in Data Science and Certification of Professional Achievement in Data Sciences programs should have: an undergraduate degree a personal statement prior quantitative coursework (i.e., linear algebra, probability/statistics, etc.) prior introductory to computer programming coursework (i.e., Python, Java, C+, etc.) We often have prospective students ask about how they should meet the required quantitative or computer programming prerequisites if they have not previously completed formal credit-bearing coursework. Many applicants often ask about completing massive open online courses (MOOC) as a means of meeting the prerequisites. While these strategies are encouraged, keep in mind that the admissions process is competitive. Faculty reviewers will often place more weight on formal coursework or work experience over MOOCs. That said, MOOCs are routinely used to supplement learning and/or serve as a refresher course for many of our students. Q: Is an engineering undergraduate degree required? Applicants are not required to have a degree in engineering; preparation in the field of data science is acceptable. Q: How long will it take for a full-time student to complete the M.S. in Data Science program? Since the M.S. in Data Science is a 30-credit degree program, most full-time students complete the program in three semesters (12 credits in the fall, 12 credits in the spring, and 6 credits in the fall). Students must complete the program in five years. Please note that international students must be enrolled on a full-time basis, which is at least 12 credits per semester. Q: When does the fall semester start? The fall semester begins in early September. Please refer to the University’s academic calendar for exact dates: http://registrar.columbia.edu/event/academic-calendar Q: Is work experience required? While many of our students have work experience, it is not required. Q: What are the minimum GRE, GPA, and/or TOEFL scores required for admission? There are no minimum test score or GPA requirements to apply for admission consideration. Applicant scores and grades will be evaluated in the context of other applicants. Average Scores for the Fall 2019 cohort: Average Undergraduate GPA: 3.76 Average GRE: 168 (Q), 158 (V), 3.8 (W) Please note: For 2021, the GRE is optional Please note that the admissions committee reviews applications from a holistic perspective. Applicants may offset lower test scores with captivating personal statements, strong letters of recommendation, etc. For more information regarding the standardized test requirements, please visit the Graduate Engineering FAQ page. Q: Are international students eligible to apply to Data Science Institute academic programs? M.S. in Data Science: Yes, individuals that require an F-1 student visa may apply to this full-time degree program. Certification of Professional Achievement: The Certification is a part-time, non-degree program. Individuals requiring an F-1 student visa sponsorship are not eligible to apply to this on-campus program, but would be eligible to apply to the online program. For more information about the online Certification of Professional Achievement in Data Science program, please visit the CVN website. Q: Are students who have completed three-year degree programs eligible to apply? Yes, students who have graduated from a three-year, degree-granting program are eligible to apply to the M.S. in Data Science program. Q: May I apply to both the M.S. in Data Science and Certification of Professional Achievement programs? No, applicants may apply to only one program in Columbia Engineering at a time. If applicants apply to more than one program per term their applications may be invalidated. Q: Are current Columbia students able to apply? Columbia does not allow students to be enrolled in more than one program at a time. We welcome applications from current Columbia students exploring the possibility of a transfer to our program. Columbia students may cross-register for data science courses, space permitting and with faculty/advisor approval; note that such students will not be eligible to receive a certification from the data science program. Q: If I am denied admission, can I apply again? Yes, you may apply again by submitting a new application and supplemental material. Q: If I am denied admission, will I be told why? The review process is confidential and, therefore, we cannot offer additional information that is not in your letter. Q: How do I apply to the Data Science graduate programs? For the on-campus programs, applications must be submitted via our online application system. Q: Where can I get more information? Please refer to the following links for more information: Columbia Engineering Application Process FAQ Columbia Engineering Standardized Test Scores FAQ Columbia Engineering Transcripts FAQ Office of Graduate Student Affairs Q: How do I apply to the data science programs? All applicants applying for the on-campus program must submit application materials via the online application. For the online program, applications must be submitted through Columbia Video Network (CVN). Once you register with a valid email address, you may log on as often as you need to fill everything out. Submit your application when complete. Q: What is the application deadline? First Priority: January 15th 2021 Second Priority: February 15th 2021 Q: What are the application requirements for the data science programs? The following materials must accompany the online application for the M.S. in Data Science and Certification of Professional Achievement in Data Sciences: Official transcripts from every post-secondary institution attended Three (3) letters of recommendation Official Graduate Record Examination (GRE) General Test Scores* Personal Statement Curriculum Vitae / Résumé Non-refundable Application Fee International applicants may have to submit an English language test score for the M.S. application: TOEFL, IELTS or PTE test scores *Certification applicants are not required to submit test scores, but are encouraged to do so. Please note: For 2021, the GRE is optional Q: Is it possible to waive the GRE requirement? Please note: For 2021, the GRE is optional No, the GRE requirement cannot be waived. An applicant who has completed a graduate degree is still required to submit a valid test score. Q: What is Columbia Engineering's institution code for the GRE and TOEFL? Columbia Engineering’s code is 2111; a department code is not required. SEAS Graduate Admissions cannot access GRE and TOEFL scores sent to another institution code, even if sent to another school at Columbia. For IELTS scores, enter your TRF number on the application for admission. Columbia Engineering’s admissions office downloads IELTS scores that have been transmitted to their e-download account. Please contact your test center and request that your scores be sent to the IELTS e-download account. You may select Columbia Engineering by searching for Columbia University under “List of Organizations subscribing to the E-TRF Query” and selecting “The Fu Foundation School.” GSA will not accept paper IELTS test report forms. Please note: For 2021, the GRE is optional Q: I am having technical problems with the online application system. Who should I contact? For the on-campus program application, please email seasgradmit@columbia.edu. For the distance education (online) program application, please email admissions@cvn.columbia.edu. Other questions about the application process? Please visit the Graduate Engineering Admissions page. Q: What are the tuition costs? Updated information regarding the Columbia School of Engineering and Applied Science tuition may be found on the Student Financial Services website. Tuition: https://sfs.columbia.edu/tuition Cost of Attendance by Program (including fees): https://sfs.columbia.edu/sfp-grad-engin Q: Is financial aid available? M.S. in Data Science: U.S. citizens and permanent residents applying to the M.S. program may be eligible for financial aid from the U.S. Department of Education. Please complete the FASFA form to find out if you qualify. Certification of Professional Achievement: As a part-time, non-degree program, this program is currently not eligible for FAFSA funding. Please review the Student Financial Planning page for more details: https://sfs.columbia.edu/sfp-grad-engin Q: What are the financial options as a current student at the Data Science Institute? Please visit the Student Financial Planning Office website for information regarding funding options. We are unable to offer institutional aid to our students, but we do encourage all prospective students to seek funding from external sources, including scholarships offered by philanthropic or government organizations. Eligibility and application requirements will vary depending on the sponsor. Columbia University’s Find A Fellowship listing or the Columbia Engineering Fellowship List feature external scholarship opportunities. We also suggest that you consult with faculty, administrators, or mentors at your current or prior undergraduate school as they may also have knowledge of sources of funding. There are also a few interschool fellowships with very specific requirements available for varying amounts to students who qualify. To find out if you qualify for an interschool fellowship, please review the information on the Student Financial Services website for details. Q: Are Columbia University employees eligible for tuition benefits? Columbia employees should speak with Human Resources regarding potential benefits. Q: Are work study, teaching assistant, or research assistant opportunities available? Assistantships and work studies must be sought out by the student. You are welcome to look on Columbia’s Human Resources page for part-time, on-campus positions. Some are research-oriented; others are purely administrative. These are hourly positions and generally do not come with tuition benefits. The School of Engineering also posts research opportunities on the Student Research Program site. Most assistantships are typically posted closer to the beginning of each semester. Please note that most fully-funded positions are typically reserved for Ph.D. track students. Paid opportunities on-campus are typically hourly positions and do not come with tuition benefits. While these positions do not cover the cost of tuition, it can offset the cost of attendance. Additionally, DSI students have an opportunity for on-campus, part-time work through two DSI programs: DSI Campus Connections Program: We are able to connect our students with Columbia faculty and staff that need students with data science skills. Some of the positions are paid, while others may have the option to be used for credit. DSI Scholars Program: This program engages Columbia’s undergraduate and master’s degree students in data science research with Columbia faculty, provides student researchers with unique enrichment activities, and aims to foster a learning and collaborative community in data science at Columbia. The opportunity includes a stipend. Q: How long is the program? The M.S. in Data Science program requires 30 credits to be completed part-time (less than 12 credits per semester) or full-time (12 or more credits per semester). All degree requirements must be completed within five years of the beginning of graduate study. The Certification of Professional Achievement program requires 12 credits (4 courses) to be completed part-time. Most students complete the program in one year (two courses in the fall, two courses in the spring), but can take two years to complete the program. Q: Will courses be offered online? The M.S. in Data Science program is an on-campus program only. To accommodate working students, most of our core courses are offered in the evening. The Certification of Professional Achievement program in Data Sciences is offered both on-campus as well as online. Q: What programming languages are preferred? Data scientists need to be versatile and often code in multiple languages. Courses may require R, Python, shell scripts, C, and Java. If you are proficient in one language it will be easier to learn others. Students with a demonstrated quantitative background and no programming skills must gain proficiency in one language before registering for Algorithms for Data Science. Q: Can Data Science students pursue a dual degree? We do not offer a dual degree with the M.S. in Data Science at this time. Q: Will CPT or OPT be offered for the Master of Science program to international students? Our students follow Columbia’s Department of Computer Science’s curricular practical training (CPT) guidelines which allow one fieldwork credit per semester and a maximum of three credits. Please see http://www.cs.columbia.edu/education/ms/cpt for more information. The M.S. in Data Science is a government-designated STEM degree and so international students may be eligible for the 24-month F1 optional practical training (OPT) extension. More information on CPT and OPT is available through Columbia’s International Students and Scholars Office: http://www.columbia.edu/cu/isso/visa/F-1/F-1_PT_overview.html Q: May I transfer credits from my current school towards Data Science Institute academic programs? No, Columbia Engineering’s policy prohibits the transfer of courses completed outside of Columbia University to be counted towards the minimum degree requirements. Students that have completed courses that potentially overlap with core requirements may seek advisor approval for a waiver and substitute said credits with additional electives. Newsletter Stay informed. Sign up for our newsletter. First Name Last Name Email Address Organization Sign up to receive news and information about upcoming events, research, and more. Submit Questions? Email: datascience@columbia.edu. /* Remove dividing line from footer logo */ Northwest Corner, 550 W 120th St #1401, New York, NY 10027 (212) 854-5660 About Home Data for Good Work with Us Donate Contact Us News People Education M.S. in Data Science Ph.D. Specialization in Data Science Certification of Professional Achievement in Data Sciences Executive Education DSI Scholars Student Services Alumni Services Columbia Data Science Society Data Science Education Across Columbia Research Centers Computing Systems for Data-Driven Science Cybersecurity Data, Media and Society Financial and Business Analytics Foundations of Data Science Health Analytics Sense, Collect and Move Data Smart Cities Columbia-IBM Center on Blockchain and Data Transparency Focus Areas Foundations of Data Science Health Care Climate Business and Finance Social Justice Working Groups Computational Social Science Materials Discovery Analytics Education Outreach Events Industry Affiliates Program Campus Connections Entrepreneurship Columbia University Terms Privacy © The Data Science Institute at Columbia University Created by Constructive