Faculty Students Alumni Events Data Science Day Industry Work with Us Apply Contact Us Giving /* Remove dividing line from header logo */ About About DSI About DSI Work with Us Data for Good Find Us Contact Us Identity Guidelines Education Education Education Education Programs Student Services Alumni Services Data Science Education Across Columbia DSI Student Council Research Research Funding Opportunities Postdoctoral Researchers Focus Areas Climate Health Care Social Justice Business and Finance Foundations of Data Science Working Groups Computational Social Science Materials Discovery Analytics Education Research Centers Computing Systems for Data-Driven Science Cybersecurity Data, Media and Society Financial and Business Analytics Foundations of Data Science Health Analytics Sense, Collect and Move Data Smart Cities Columbia-IBM Center on Blockchain and Data Transparency Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub Poster Sessions Outreach Outreach Outreach Industry Affiliates Program Events Data Science Day Campus Connections Campus Tour Entrepreneurship Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub Diversity Diversity Diversity Race + Data Science Resources Data Science Racial Equity Advisory Committee JPMorgan Fellowship Race + Data Science Lecture Series People People People Leadership Education Research Faculty Administration Diversity In Memoriam News and Insights News and Insights News and Insights News Archive Search for: About About DSI Data for Good Work with Us Become a DSI Member or Affiliate Faculty Recruitment Program Become an Industry Affiliate Hire a DSI Student Connect with Data Science Experts Careers at DSI Space Reservations Computing Resources Giving Identity Guidelines Find Us Contact Us Education Education Programs M.S. in Data Science Ph.D. Specialization in Data Science Certification of Professional Achievement in Data Sciences Executive Education DSI Scholars Fellowship Opportunities Student Services Alumni Services DSI Student Council Data Science Education Across Columbia Research Research Funding Opportunities Focus Areas Climate Health Care Social Justice Business and Finance Foundations of Data Science Research Centers Computing Systems for Data-Driven Science Cybersecurity Data, Media and Society Financial and Business Analytics Foundations of Data Science Health Analytics Sense, Collect and Move Data Smart Cities Columbia-IBM Center on Blockchain and Data Transparency Working Groups Computational Social Science Materials Discovery Analytics Education Postdoctoral Researchers Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub Poster Sessions Outreach Outreach Events Data Science Day Industry Affiliates Program Campus Connections Campus Tour Entrepreneurship Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub Diversity Diversity Race + Data Science Resources JPMorgan Fellowship Race + Data Science Lecture Series People People Leadership Leadership Team Executive Committee Data and Society Council Faculty Members Affiliates Research Postdoctoral Researchers Research Scientists and Scholars Education Adjuncts Ph.D. Specialization Committee Diversity Data Science Racial Equity Advisory Committee Administration Academic Programs, Student Services and Career Management Communications Development Finance and Research Operations Strategic Initiatives and Engagement Columbia-IBM Center for Blockchain and Data Transparency Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub In Memoriam News and Insights News News Archive DSI News Research News Insights Student Spotlight Alumni Download Postdoctoral Researchers Faculty Students Alumni Events Data Science Day Industry Work with Us Apply Contact Us Giving Close Menu Diversity Diversity Race + Data Science Resources JPMorgan Fellowship Race + Data Science Lecture Series The Data Science Institute strives to be a force for change. We acknowledge that DSI should do more within our own unique community to address racial equity gaps and to increase diverse representation in data science research and education. We will engage in proactive measures to dismantle systemic racism, racial inequity in data science, racial inequity across the Columbia community, and racial inequity across academia more broadly. The initial DSI Racial Equity Action Plan includes the following: Create a faculty-led DSI Race and Equity Advisory Council by January 2021. Add a DSI Racial Equity Statement to the DSI website. Require proposals to the DSI Seed Grant program to state explicitly how projects will ensure that the data collected and analyzed are done in a fair, just, and ethical manner. Promote research that addresses issues on racial equity and fairness in data science, e.g., in training data, machine learning algorithms and models, and automated decision making. Instill a culture of shared responsibility among DSI staff, faculty, and researchers for upholding the DSI commitment to racial equity and justice. Actively seek racially diverse individuals to apply to DSI programs. Collaborate with university partners, including the School of Engineering and Applied Science and Arts and Sciences, on actions to support racial diversity, equity, and inclusion for the M.S. in data science program. Continue to support the DSI Task Force on Racial Equity through Fall 2020: (a) to establish partnerships with external organizations toward achieving shared goals on racial equity; (b) to address issues of climate and culture; and (c) to develop plans for a DSI Working Group on Race and Equity. This initial plan is just a small step toward making progress for the long term. We commit to executing this plan with the same rigor as our other research, education, and outreach efforts. Taking Action: A Message from DSI Director Jeannette M. Wing WATCH: Centering Race in Data Science @ Harvard Data Science Initiative Data Science Institute Racial Equity Action Plan Making a Commitment to Critical Discussions on Race and Data Science In Support of Our Asian and Asian American Community: A Message from DSI Director Jeannette M. Wing We are pleased to offer fellowships for M.S. in Data Science students from historically underserved or underprivileged populations through the JPMorgan Columbia University Data Science Institute Master’s Diversity Fellowship Award Program. Support is guaranteed for two semesters of full-time study, including full tuition, fees, and a stipend to cover living expenses in New York City. Fellows will also be invited to complete an internship with JPMorgan. Renewal for the third and final semester of the program is contingent on completing the internship. Prospective students must submit a 250 – 500 word reflection that provides insight into how their identity, life experiences, and perspective would advance diversity in the data science community as part of the admissions application. Please note: Applicants for these fellowships should be U.S. citizens or permanent residents. Contact Desmond Upton Patton Data Science Institute Associate Director of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion School of Social Work Professor of Social Work Email: dp2787@columbia.edu Events Jun08Wed Special Programs EduData Summit 1:00 AM Jun10Fri Special Programs Special Seminar: Dr. Eric Corbett 3:00 PM – 4:00 PM Research Highlights Racial Politics and Sentiment on Twitter: The Dynamics of Online Emotional Language Colin Wayne Leach, Psychology, Africana Studies Courtney Cogburn, Social Work Sining Chen, Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Kathleen McKeown, Computer Science Susan McGregor, Data Science Institute Social media is a powerful means of individual expression, and collective consolidation, of people’s sentiment about the most important issues in our society. This transdisciplinary project marries the latest advances in computational and statistical techniques of language use over time with social behavioral theories of emotion and stress to examine the temporal dynamics of tweets surrounding police killings of Black people and subsequent protests (e.g., Black Lives Matter). mHealth-Based Data Science Approach to Examine the Association of Minority Stressors with Sleep Health in Black and or Latinx Sexual and Gender Minority Adults Billy Caceres, Nursing Ipek Ensari, Data Science Institute Kasey Jackman, Nursing This pilot study will use data science techniques to leverage ecological momentary assessment and consumer sleep technology to phenotype sleep health profiles in Black and Latinx sexual and gender minority adults. The investigators will use 30 days of daily electronic diaries and actigraphy to examine the associations of daily exposure to minority stressors (such as experiences of discrimination and anticipated discrimination) with sleep health among Black and Latinx sexual and gender minority adults. Artificial Intelligence-Assisted Identification of Child Abuse and Neglect in Hospital Settings with Implications for Bias Reduction and Future Interventions Maxim Topaz, Nursing Aviv Landau, Data Science Institute Desmond Patton, Social Work Child abuse and neglect is a social problem that has reached epidemic proportions. The broad adoption of electronic health records in clinical settings offers a new avenue for addressing this epidemic. This team is developing an innovative artificial intelligence system to detect and assess risk for child abuse and neglect within hospital settings that prioritizes the prevention and reduction of bias against Black and Latinx communities. Gender and Racial/Ethnic Inequality in High-Skilled Labor Market: Gaining New Insights from Online Resume and Reviews Database Kriste Krstovski, Data Science Institute, Business Yao Lu, Sociology This research team combines new sources of labor market data, including online resumes and employee reviews, with data science methods to identify factors and environments that shape gender and racial inequality in the high-skilled labor market. The team is charting long-term career trajectories of a large number of high-skilled American workers, examined gender and racial variations, constructing measures of company environment that pertain to gender and racial equity, and assessing consequences for the career path of different groups of skilled workers. Reducing Racial and Gender Achievement Gaps in STEM: Use of Natural Language Processing to Understand Why Affirmation Interventions Improve Performance Smaranda Muresan, Data Science Institute Reducing the achievement gaps in STEM disciplines among subpopulations of students is important for the U.S. to meet its 21st century science and technology needs. This project focuses on environmental factors that devalue, marginalize, or discriminate against students based on a social identity like race, gender, disability status, or socioeconomic status. To date, the research synthesized and systematically analyzed data from interventions shown to help reduce the impact of social identity threats on student participation in STEM, and applied results of the synthesis and analyses to enhance existing interventions. Influence of Police Violence Against Unarmed Black Victims on Twitter Conversation Wayne Leach, Psychology, Barnard College Courtney Cogburn, Social Work This team applied topic modeling and sentiment analysis techniques to Twitter activity before and after events related to police use of force against unarmed Black victims. They focused on more than 8.5 million tweets from August 2014 to cover the event of a police officer (Darren Wilson) shooting a Black victim (Michael Brown) in Ferguson, MO. Their study demonstrated that there are lags between events and their emotional response on Twitter. Gentrification in New York City Hardeep Johar, Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Patrice Derrington, Architecture, Planning and Preservation This team was tasked with defining gentrification trends through publicly available datasets that uncover insights on the spread of gentrification across 55 Public Use Microdata Areas (PUMA) districts in New York City. The four most important factors were: real estate price, race of inhabitants, employment, and education. Center for Court Innovation Teen Technology Advisory Council Desmond Patton, Social Work This partnership with the NYC Center for Court Innovation organized a youth technology advisory council, TechAdvise, comprised of ten youths from underrepresented groups in tech. The project’s goal is not only to improve the technology we develop to address underserved populations, but also to inspire them and who they represent to learn computing and data science. Data Science Racial Equity Advisory Committee View All People Augustin Chaintreau The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science Associate Professor of Computer Science Brianne Cortese Data Science Institute Assistant Director of Admissions and Academic Affairs Abby Kamen School of Social Work M.S. in Social Work, Class of 2021 Colin Wayne Leach Barnard College Professor of Psychology Kathleen R. McKeown The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science Henry and Gertrude Rothschild Professor of Computer Science Data Science Institute Founding Director Dennis Mitchell Executive Vice President for University Life and Senior Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement College of Dental Medicine Professor of Dental Medicine (Community Health and Periodontics) Mutale Nkonde Graduate School of Arts and Sciences M.A. Candidate American Studies, Class of 2023; Center for the Study of Ethnicity and Race Desmond Upton Patton Data Science Institute Associate Director of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion School of Social Work Professor of Social Work Amber E.H. Tingle Data Science Institute Executive Director of Strategic Communications and Media Relations Kevin Womack Data Science Institute M.S. in Data Science, Class of 2021 Ming Yuan Data Science Institute Associate Director for Academic Affairs Faculty of Arts and Sciences Professor of Statistics View All People Newsletter Stay informed. Sign up for our newsletter. First Name Last Name Email Address Organization Sign up to receive news and information about upcoming events, research, and more. Submit Questions? Email: datascience@columbia.edu. /* Remove dividing line from footer logo */ Northwest Corner, 550 W 120th St #1401, New York, NY 10027 (212) 854-5660 About Home Data for Good Work with Us Donate Contact Us News People Education M.S. in Data Science Ph.D. Specialization in Data Science Certification of Professional Achievement in Data Sciences Executive Education DSI Scholars Student Services Alumni Services Columbia Data Science Society Data Science Education Across Columbia Research Centers Computing Systems for Data-Driven Science Cybersecurity Data, Media and Society Financial and Business Analytics Foundations of Data Science Health Analytics Sense, Collect and Move Data Smart Cities Columbia-IBM Center on Blockchain and Data Transparency Focus Areas Foundations of Data Science Health Care Climate Business and Finance Social Justice Working Groups Computational Social Science Materials Discovery Analytics Education Outreach Events Industry Affiliates Program Campus Connections Entrepreneurship Columbia University Terms Privacy © The Data Science Institute at Columbia University Created by Constructive