Faculty Students Alumni Events Data Science Day Industry Work with Us Apply Contact Us Giving /* Remove dividing line from header logo */ About About DSI About DSI Work with Us Data for Good Find Us Contact Us Identity Guidelines Education Education Education Education Programs Student Services Alumni Services Data Science Education Across Columbia DSI Student Council Research Research Funding Opportunities Postdoctoral Researchers Focus Areas Climate Health Care Social Justice Business and Finance Foundations of Data Science Working Groups Computational Social Science Materials Discovery Analytics Education Research Centers Computing Systems for Data-Driven Science Cybersecurity Data, Media and Society Financial and Business Analytics Foundations of Data Science Health Analytics Sense, Collect and Move Data Smart Cities Columbia-IBM Center on Blockchain and Data Transparency Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub Poster Sessions Outreach Outreach Outreach Industry Affiliates Program Events Data Science Day Campus Connections Campus Tour Entrepreneurship Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub Diversity Diversity Diversity Race + Data Science Resources Data Science Racial Equity Advisory Committee JPMorgan Fellowship Race + Data Science Lecture Series People People People Leadership Education Research Faculty Administration Diversity In Memoriam News and Insights News and Insights News and Insights News Archive Search for: About About DSI Data for Good Work with Us Become a DSI Member or Affiliate Faculty Recruitment Program Become an Industry Affiliate Hire a DSI Student Connect with Data Science Experts Careers at DSI Space Reservations Computing Resources Giving Identity Guidelines Find Us Contact Us Education Education Programs M.S. in Data Science Ph.D. Specialization in Data Science Certification of Professional Achievement in Data Sciences Executive Education DSI Scholars Fellowship Opportunities Student Services Alumni Services DSI Student Council Data Science Education Across Columbia Research Research Funding Opportunities Focus Areas Climate Health Care Social Justice Business and Finance Foundations of Data Science Research Centers Computing Systems for Data-Driven Science Cybersecurity Data, Media and Society Financial and Business Analytics Foundations of Data Science Health Analytics Sense, Collect and Move Data Smart Cities Columbia-IBM Center on Blockchain and Data Transparency Working Groups Computational Social Science Materials Discovery Analytics Education Postdoctoral Researchers Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub Poster Sessions Outreach Outreach Events Data Science Day Industry Affiliates Program Campus Connections Campus Tour Entrepreneurship Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub Diversity Diversity Race + Data Science Resources JPMorgan Fellowship Race + Data Science Lecture Series People People Leadership Leadership Team Executive Committee Data and Society Council Faculty Members Affiliates Research Postdoctoral Researchers Research Scientists and Scholars Education Adjuncts Ph.D. Specialization Committee Diversity Data Science Racial Equity Advisory Committee Administration Academic Programs, Student Services and Career Management Communications Development Finance and Research Operations Strategic Initiatives and Engagement Columbia-IBM Center for Blockchain and Data Transparency Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub In Memoriam News and Insights News News Archive DSI News Research News Insights Student Spotlight Alumni Download Postdoctoral Researchers Faculty Students Alumni Events Data Science Day Industry Work with Us Apply Contact Us Giving Close Menu Insights The Data Life Cycle January 23, 2018 Jeannette M. Wing Share: By Jeannette M. Wing Let’s take a step back from data science and look at the larger picture of the data life cycle. Generation The cycle starts with the generation of data. People generate data: Every search query we perform, link we click, movie we watch, book we read, picture we take, message we send, and place we go contribute to the massive digital footprint we each generate. Walmart collects 2.5 petabytes of unstructured data from 1 million customers every hour. (One petabyte is equivalent to 20 million filing cabinets.) Sensors generate data: More and more sensors monitor the health of our physical infrastructure, e.g., bridges, tunnels, and buildings; provide ways to be energy efficient, e.g., automatic lighting and temperature control in our rooms at work and at home; and ensure safety on our roads and in public spaces, e.g., video cameras used for traffic control and for security protection. As the promise of the Internet of Things plays out, we will have more and more sensors generating more and more data. At the other extreme from small, cheap sensors, we also have large, expensive one-of-a-kind scientific instruments, which also generate unfathomable amounts of data. The Large Hadron Collider generates tens of petabytes a year. The Large Synoptic Survey Telescope is expected to generate 1.28 petabytes a year. The latest round of Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) will produce 100 petabytes of data. Collection After generation comes collection. Not all data generated is collected, perhaps out of choice because we do not need or want to or for practical reasons because the data streams in faster than we can process. Consider how data are sent from expensive scientific instruments, such as the IceCube neutrino detector at the South Pole. Since there are only five polar-orbiting satellites, there are only certain windows of opportunities to transmit restricted amounts of data from the ground to the air. Suppose we drop data between the generation and collection stages: Could we possibly miss the very event we are trying to detect? Deciding what to collect defines a filter on the data we generate. Processing After collection comes processing. Here I mean everything from data cleaning, data wrangling, and data formatting to data compression, for efficient storage, and data encryption, for secure storage. Storage After processing comes storage. Here the bits are laid down in memory. Today we think of storage in terms of magnetic tape and hard disk drives, but in the future, especially for long-term, infrequently accessed storage, we will see novel uses of optical technology and even DNA storage devices. Management After storage comes management. We are careful to store our data in ways both to optimize expected access patterns and to provide as much generality as possible. Decades of work in database systems have led us to optimal systems for managing relational databases, but the kinds of data we generate are not always a good fit for such systems. We now have structured and unstructured data, data of many types (e.g., text, audio, image, video), data that arrive at different velocities, and data that stream in continuously and in real-time. We need to create and use different kinds of meta-data for these dimensions of heterogeneity to maximize our ability to access and modify the data for subsequent analysis. Analysis Now comes analysis. When most people think of what data science is they mean data analysis. Here, I include all the computational and statistical techniques for analyzing data for some purpose: the algorithms and methods that underlie data mining, machine learning, and statistical inference, be they to gain knowledge or insights, build classifiers and predictors, or infer causality. For sure, data analysis is at the heart of data science. Large amounts of data power today’s machine learning algorithms. The recent successes of the application of deep learning to different domains, from image and language understanding to programming to astronomy, continue to astound me. Visualization But it is not enough to analyze data and spit out an answer. We need data visualization to help present the answer in a clear and simple way a human can readily understand and visualize. Here a picture is worth not a thousand words (that comes later) but a thousand petabytes! It is at this stage in the data life cycle when we need to consider, along with functionality, aesthetics and human visual perception to convey the results of data analysis. Interpretation And also, it is not enough just to show a pie chart or bar graph. By interpretation, we provide the human reader an explanation of what the picture means. We tell a story explaining the picture’s context, point, implications, and possible ramifications. It was only after I came to Columbia and began talking to my colleagues in the journalism school that I understood the importance of story-telling for the end user. Human Finally, in the end, we have the human. The human could be a scientist, who through data, makes a new discovery. The human could be a policymaker who needs to make a decision about a local community’s future. The human could be in medicine, treating a patient; in finance, investing client money; in law, regulating processes and organizations; or in business, making processes more efficient and reliable to serve customers better. In the diagram, I omitted the arrows that show that it is a cycle and that there are many intermediate cycles. Inevitably, after we present some observations to the user based on data we generated, the user asks new questions and these questions require collecting more data or doing more analysis. I also omitted throughout the diagram the importance of using data responsibly—at each phase in the cycle. We must remember to consider ethical and privacy concerns throughout, from privacy-preserving collection of data about individuals to ethical decisions that humans or machines will need to make based on automated data analysis. This dimension of the data life cycle is so important, that I plan to devote future posts to it. And so, from raw bits to a rich story, we have the data life cycle. Jeannette M. Wing is Avanessians Director of the Data Science Institute and professor of computer science at Columbia University. Share: January 23, 2018 Categories Insights Contact Jeannette M. Wing Executive Vice President for Research The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science Professor of Computer Science Email: wing@columbia.edu Newsletter Stay informed. Sign up for our newsletter. First Name Last Name Email Address Organization Sign up to receive news and information about upcoming events, research, and more. Submit Questions? Email: datascience@columbia.edu. /* Remove dividing line from footer logo */ Northwest Corner, 550 W 120th St #1401, New York, NY 10027 (212) 854-5660 About Home Data for Good Work with Us Donate Contact Us News People Education M.S. in Data Science Ph.D. Specialization in Data Science Certification of Professional Achievement in Data Sciences Executive Education DSI Scholars Student Services Alumni Services Columbia Data Science Society Data Science Education Across Columbia Research Centers Computing Systems for Data-Driven Science Cybersecurity Data, Media and Society Financial and Business Analytics Foundations of Data Science Health Analytics Sense, Collect and Move Data Smart Cities Columbia-IBM Center on Blockchain and Data Transparency Focus Areas Foundations of Data Science Health Care Climate Business and Finance Social Justice Working Groups Computational Social Science Materials Discovery Analytics Education Outreach Events Industry Affiliates Program Campus Connections Entrepreneurship Columbia University Terms Privacy © The Data Science Institute at Columbia University Created by Constructive