Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Donate Contact Newsletter Search HOME About Our Vision People Leadership and Teams Advisory Committees Faculty Affiliates HDSI Postdoctoral Fellows News and Events Resources Elsevier Data R User Group Spacial Data Science Workshops Jobs & Internships Contact Us Mailing List Programs Research Themes Bias^2 Trust in Science Causal Inference for Machine Learning HDSI Postdoctoral Fellowships SPUDS Funding All Funding Opportunities HDSI Postdoctoral Fellowships Faculty Competitive Research Fund Faculty Special Projects Fund Postdoctoral Research Fund Public Service Data Science Graduate Fellowship Events All Events Calendar HDSI Anniversary Events Azure Tutorials 2020 HDSI Annual Conference Bias^2 Industry Seminars Around Campus Education Programs at Harvard Harvard Data Science Review Video Resources For Industry Corporate Members Industry Seminars Jobs & Internships Welcome Since its launch in 2017, the HDSI has worked across Harvard to unite leading computer scientists, statisticians, and domain experts from law, business, public policy, education, medicine, public health, and myriad academic disciplines to derive meaningful and actionable insights that shape the new science of data. Its research drives data-driven policy and analyzes implications of big data for human society. We welcome your interest and hope you will explore this site to learn more. COVID-19 Resources Collected by the HDSI Researchers across Harvard are using data science to tackle the novel coronavirus in an attempt to understand its transmission and slow its spread. In this unprecedented period, we will post their stories on this website and across our social media accounts. Featured work may represent initial results of early stage research conducted at Harvard University and may not yet have undergone peer review. This research is evolving quickly. If you know of important work or opportunities that you would like us to highlight, please email datascience@harvard.edu. COVID-19 Resources Featured News from the Harvard Data Science Initiative HDSR's Xiao-Li Meng on Biased Vaccine Surveys December 9, 2021 When Delphi-Facebook and the U.S. Census Bureau provided estimates of COVID-19 vaccine uptake last spring, their weekly reports drew on responses from as many as 250,000 people. The data sets boasted statistically tiny margins of error, raising confidence that the numbers were correct. But when the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported actual vaccination rates, the two polls were off — by a lot. By the end of May, the Delphi-Facebook study had overestimated vaccine uptake by 17 percentage points — 70 percent versus 53 percent, according to the CDC — and the Census Bureau’s... Read more about HDSR's Xiao-Li Meng on Biased Vaccine Surveys Artificial Intelligence's Promise and Peril October 14, 2021 As algorithms analyze mammograms and smarphones capture lived experiences, researchers are debating the use of AI in public health. Read more over at Harvard Public Health. Read more about Artificial Intelligence's Promise and Peril Trust in Science Round 2 Funding Awarded July 28, 2021 Congratulations to Matthew Baum, Elena Glassman, Hanspeter Pfister, and Minttu Rönn, recipients of recent awards from the HDSI Trust in Science Fund. You can read more about their projects, and our previous awards, here. From the Harvard Data Science Review A Telescopic, Microscopic, and Kaleidoscopic View of Data Science VISIT THE CURRENT ISSUE Featured Job Listings Senior Data Analyst @ Mass General Brigham Postdoc Research Fellow in Biomedical AI @ Zitnik Lab HMS Postdoc Research Fellow in AI/ML @ Zitnik Lab HMS Professor AI/ML @ DBMI/HMS Ai Postdoc Fellow Kohane Lab @ DBMI/HMS ML Postdoc Fellow in Yu Lab @ DBMI/HMS Harvard Data Science Twitter harvard_data 🎙 An interview from @FortuneMagazine with Lavista Ferres (@BDataScientist) about how the field of #datascience has developed and how data science #degree programs fit into the picture: t.co/slIvGK7z6K 2 hours 35 min ago. zakkohane How did @harvardmed grad create billion$ data company used throughout healthcare? Tomorrow (June 1) Keith Dunleavy and CEO @InovalonInc joins our Entrepreneurs Salon (in person and online: Register—free): t.co/phV6ojMghl t.co/5xLHuZ6Ubm 1 day 3 hours ago. harvard_data 📊 HDSI Co-Director David C. Parkes on adopting #AI and #RL to optimize economic policy design, mechanism design, and economics at large via @ScienceAdvances: t.co/8a5RC2HSy0 1 day 1 hour ago. harvard_data 📈 A different approach to #science inviting humility, broader measures of excellence and success, #diversity in our networks, and the creation of pathways to #inclusive education via @PNASNews: t.co/fGqT6dCFfz #datascience #ethics 2 days 3 hours ago. harvard_data Should we #LegalizeIt? Listen to the latest @TheHDSR podcast to hear two experts dive into the #data behind the arguments for and against the legalization of marijuana in the US: t.co/ZaHrZK5S9p t.co/v6cabAv0zM 2 days 23 hours ago. 8 Story Street Suite 380 Cambridge, MA 02138 Email: datascience@harvard.edu Ph: 617-496-2743 Subscribe to our mailing list Visit the HDSI on Facebook 511b9c0915a1a513b554fdf87ba49781 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement