Faculty Students Alumni Events Data Science Day Industry Work with Us Apply Contact Us Giving /* Remove dividing line from header logo */ About About DSI About DSI Work with Us Data for Good Find Us Contact Us Identity Guidelines Education Education Education Education Programs Student Services Alumni Services Data Science Education Across Columbia DSI Student Council Research Research Funding Opportunities Postdoctoral Researchers Focus Areas Climate Health Care Social Justice Business and Finance Foundations of Data Science Working Groups Computational Social Science Materials Discovery Analytics Education Research Centers Computing Systems for Data-Driven Science Cybersecurity Data, Media and Society Financial and Business Analytics Foundations of Data Science Health Analytics Sense, Collect and Move Data Smart Cities Columbia-IBM Center on Blockchain and Data Transparency Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub Poster Sessions Outreach Outreach Outreach Industry Affiliates Program Events Data Science Day Campus Connections Campus Tour Entrepreneurship Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub Diversity Diversity Diversity Race + Data Science Resources Data Science Racial Equity Advisory Committee JPMorgan Fellowship Race + Data Science Lecture Series People People People Leadership Education Research Faculty Administration Diversity In Memoriam News and Insights News and Insights News and Insights News Archive Search for: About About DSI Data for Good Work with Us Become a DSI Member or Affiliate Faculty Recruitment Program Become an Industry Affiliate Hire a DSI Student Connect with Data Science Experts Careers at DSI Space Reservations Computing Resources Giving Identity Guidelines Find Us Contact Us Education Education Programs M.S. in Data Science Ph.D. Specialization in Data Science Certification of Professional Achievement in Data Sciences Executive Education DSI Scholars Fellowship Opportunities Student Services Alumni Services DSI Student Council Data Science Education Across Columbia Research Research Funding Opportunities Focus Areas Climate Health Care Social Justice Business and Finance Foundations of Data Science Research Centers Computing Systems for Data-Driven Science Cybersecurity Data, Media and Society Financial and Business Analytics Foundations of Data Science Health Analytics Sense, Collect and Move Data Smart Cities Columbia-IBM Center on Blockchain and Data Transparency Working Groups Computational Social Science Materials Discovery Analytics Education Postdoctoral Researchers Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub Poster Sessions Outreach Outreach Events Data Science Day Industry Affiliates Program Campus Connections Campus Tour Entrepreneurship Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub Diversity Diversity Race + Data Science Resources JPMorgan Fellowship Race + Data Science Lecture Series People People Leadership Leadership Team Executive Committee Data and Society Council Faculty Members Affiliates Research Postdoctoral Researchers Research Scientists and Scholars Education Adjuncts Ph.D. Specialization Committee Diversity Data Science Racial Equity Advisory Committee Administration Academic Programs, Student Services and Career Management Communications Development Finance and Research Operations Strategic Initiatives and Engagement Columbia-IBM Center for Blockchain and Data Transparency Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub In Memoriam News and Insights News News Archive DSI News Research News Insights Student Spotlight Alumni Download Postdoctoral Researchers Faculty Students Alumni Events Data Science Day Industry Work with Us Apply Contact Us Giving Close Menu Faculty Recruitment Program About Data for Good Work with Us Identity Guidelines Find Us Contact Us Become a DSI Member or Affiliate Faculty Recruitment Program Become an Industry Affiliate Hire a DSI Student Connect with Data Science Experts Careers at DSI Space Reservations Computing Resources Giving We support faculty hires at all levels in any field with an interest in data science. The DSI Faculty Recruitment Program helps Columbia recruit and hire top scholars in their respective disciplines, and specifically those who are advancing and/or applying data science. We are as interested in candidates who bring data science expertise to their discipline as in those who bring their disciplinary expertise to data science. By jointly recruiting top candidates to Columbia, we hope to foster even deeper collaborations with all parts of the University. DSI is open to engage with faculty candidates at all levels (junior, mid-career, senior), for all faculty tracks (tenure-track, teaching, research) and from all fields of study. We have successfully hired junior faculty in law, nursing, and public affairs, and were directly involved in conversations with many faculty candidates—sometimes multiple times, at different stages of the hiring process—from many other departments and schools across the university. Both the hiring unit and the candidates should have an explicit interest in advancing or applying data science. DSI is particularly excited about candidates who will help fulfill the Institute’s mission. Funding and Expectations DSI’s financial commitment depends on available resources and Institute priorities. A successfully recruited candidate will be expected to be an active participant in the Institute. Process Interview: If you would like help interviewing a candidate during an on-campus visit, please contact Cliff Stein (cliff@ieor.columbia.edu) and his executive assistant will set up a time for him to connect with the candidate. Please include the candidate’s application package (c.v., letters, research and teaching statements, etc.). We will gladly meet with candidates on a rolling basis throughout the academic year depending on your recruitment timeline; early notice is strongly encouraged. We can also arrange for the candidate to speak with other DSI faculty members. Offer: After the department or school decides to make an offer, and you would like DSI funds to help with start-up costs, the dean/department chair and the Institute will negotiate the terms of the amount and expectations of engagement with the DSI on a case-by-case basis. Department chairs are expected to get approval from their respective dean to receive DSI funds. Contact Clifford Stein Data Science Institute Interim Director The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science Wai T. Chang Professor of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research and Professor of Computer Science Email: cliff@ieor.columbia.edu Newsletter Stay informed. Sign up for our newsletter. First Name Last Name Email Address Organization Sign up to receive news and information about upcoming events, research, and more. Submit Questions? Email: datascience@columbia.edu. /* Remove dividing line from footer logo */ Northwest Corner, 550 W 120th St #1401, New York, NY 10027 (212) 854-5660 About Home Data for Good Work with Us Donate Contact Us News People Education M.S. in Data Science Ph.D. Specialization in Data Science Certification of Professional Achievement in Data Sciences Executive Education DSI Scholars Student Services Alumni Services Columbia Data Science Society Data Science Education Across Columbia Research Centers Computing Systems for Data-Driven Science Cybersecurity Data, Media and Society Financial and Business Analytics Foundations of Data Science Health Analytics Sense, Collect and Move Data Smart Cities Columbia-IBM Center on Blockchain and Data Transparency Focus Areas Foundations of Data Science Health Care Climate Business and Finance Social Justice Working Groups Computational Social Science Materials Discovery Analytics Education Outreach Events Industry Affiliates Program Campus Connections Entrepreneurship Columbia University Terms Privacy © The Data Science Institute at Columbia University Created by Constructive