Faculty Students Alumni Events Data Science Day Industry Work with Us Apply Contact Us Giving /* Remove dividing line from header logo */ About About DSI About DSI Work with Us Data for Good Find Us Contact Us Identity Guidelines Education Education Education Education Programs Student Services Alumni Services Data Science Education Across Columbia DSI Student Council Research Research Funding Opportunities Postdoctoral Researchers Focus Areas Climate Health Care Social Justice Business and Finance Foundations of Data Science Working Groups Computational Social Science Materials Discovery Analytics Education Research Centers Computing Systems for Data-Driven Science Cybersecurity Data, Media and Society Financial and Business Analytics Foundations of Data Science Health Analytics Sense, Collect and Move Data Smart Cities Columbia-IBM Center on Blockchain and Data Transparency Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub Poster Sessions Outreach Outreach Outreach Industry Affiliates Program Events Data Science Day Campus Connections Campus Tour Entrepreneurship Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub Diversity Diversity Diversity Race + Data Science Resources Data Science Racial Equity Advisory Committee JPMorgan Fellowship Race + Data Science Lecture Series People People People Leadership Education Research Faculty Administration Diversity In Memoriam News and Insights News and Insights News and Insights News Archive Search for: About About DSI Data for Good Work with Us Become a DSI Member or Affiliate Faculty Recruitment Program Become an Industry Affiliate Hire a DSI Student Connect with Data Science Experts Careers at DSI Space Reservations Computing Resources Giving Identity Guidelines Find Us Contact Us Education Education Programs M.S. in Data Science Ph.D. Specialization in Data Science Certification of Professional Achievement in Data Sciences Executive Education DSI Scholars Fellowship Opportunities Student Services Alumni Services DSI Student Council Data Science Education Across Columbia Research Research Funding Opportunities Focus Areas Climate Health Care Social Justice Business and Finance Foundations of Data Science Research Centers Computing Systems for Data-Driven Science Cybersecurity Data, Media and Society Financial and Business Analytics Foundations of Data Science Health Analytics Sense, Collect and Move Data Smart Cities Columbia-IBM Center on Blockchain and Data Transparency Working Groups Computational Social Science Materials Discovery Analytics Education Postdoctoral Researchers Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub Poster Sessions Outreach Outreach Events Data Science Day Industry Affiliates Program Campus Connections Campus Tour Entrepreneurship Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub Diversity Diversity Race + Data Science Resources JPMorgan Fellowship Race + Data Science Lecture Series People People Leadership Leadership Team Executive Committee Data and Society Council Faculty Members Affiliates Research Postdoctoral Researchers Research Scientists and Scholars Education Adjuncts Ph.D. Specialization Committee Diversity Data Science Racial Equity Advisory Committee Administration Academic Programs, Student Services and Career Management Communications Development Finance and Research Operations Strategic Initiatives and Engagement Columbia-IBM Center for Blockchain and Data Transparency Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub In Memoriam News and Insights News News Archive DSI News Research News Insights Student Spotlight Alumni Download Postdoctoral Researchers Faculty Students Alumni Events Data Science Day Industry Work with Us Apply Contact Us Giving Close Menu About DSI About Data for Good Work with Us Identity Guidelines Find Us Contact Us Our Mission The Data Science Institute (DSI) at Columbia University strives to be a force for change. We advance the state-of-the-art in data science; transform all fields, professions, and sectors through the application of data science; and ensure the responsible use of data to benefit society. Drawing on Columbia’s strengths in computer science, statistics, and industrial engineering and operations research, DSI was launched in 2012 to unite our expertise and a University-wide interest in this revolutionary approach. The University is a trailblazer in the field and is uniquely poised to expand data science to every corner of the institution. We train the next generation of data scientists, develop innovative technology, foster collaborations in advancing techniques to interpret data and address pressing societal problems, and work closely with industry to bring promising ideas to market. What is data science? Although data science builds on knowledge from computer science, mathematics, statistics, and other disciplines, data science is a unique field with many mysteries to unlock: challenging scientific questions and pressing questions of societal importance. Data science is the study of extracting value from data. The three key words in this definition are study, extracting, and value. Study includes both the art and science that guides any field of scientific pursuit. Data science shows great applicability to many domains and the demand for practicing data scientists far exceeds the supply. Extracting emphasizes action on data. One or more transformations may need to occur to raw data before any value is gained. The data must be mined for its worth. Value leaves it to the end user to determine what value is. For a large technology company, value can be pegged to revenue. For a policymaker, value can mean a justification for a policy change. For a scholar, value can simply mean the discovery of knowledge. “Columbia has all fields, professions, and sectors. What's so gratifying to me is working with people across the university who have a lot of interesting data and ask for data science expertise because they understand the importance of how data science is going to transform the research and education aspects of their discipline.” Jeannette Wing Executive Vice President for Research and Professor of Computer Science Learn More DSI by the Numbers 2012 Year Established 417 Current Graduate Students (Fall 2021) 758 M.S. in Data Science Alumni (May 2022) 17 Columbia Schools, Institutes, and Colleges 27 Industry Affiliates 297 Bootcamp Participants 169 Undergraduate and Graduate DSI Scholars since Spring 2018 200+ Student Research Projects 98% Job or Internship Placement 3 months after graduation 183 Campus Connections Projects since August 2018 370+ Affiliated Faculty 11 Research Centers and Working Groups 370+ affiliated faculty across 17 Columbia schools About Us Leadership Team View All People Desmond Upton Patton Data Science Institute Associate Director of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion School of Social Work Professor of Social Work Ralph Scala Data Science Institute Director of Development Sharon Sputz Data Science Institute Executive Director of Strategic Programs Clifford Stein Data Science Institute Interim Director The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science Wai T. Chang Professor of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research and Professor of Computer Science Amber E.H. Tingle Data Science Institute Executive Director of Strategic Communications and Media Relations Ming Yuan Data Science Institute Associate Director for Academic Affairs Faculty of Arts and Sciences Professor of Statistics View All People Executive Committee View All People Omar Besbes Columbia Business School Vikram S. Pandit Professor of Business David Blei Faculty of Arts and Sciences Professor of Statistics The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science Professor of Computer Science Shih-Fu Chang The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science Dean Richard Dicker Professor of Telecommunications and Professor of Computer Science Ivan Corwin Faculty of Arts and Sciences Professor of Mathematics John P. Cunningham Faculty of Arts and Sciences Associate Professor of Statistics Ester Fuchs School of International and Public Affairs Professor of International and Public Affairs George Hripcsak Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Vivian Beaumont Allen Professor of Biomedical Informatics and Department Chair Amy Hungerford Faculty of Arts and Sciences Executive Vice President for Arts and Sciences and Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Professor of English and Comparative Literature Gary Miller Mailman School of Public Health Vice Dean for Research Strategy and Innovation Professor of Environmental Health Sciences Serena Ng Faculty of Arts and Sciences Edwin W. Rickert Professor of Economics Desmond Upton Patton Data Science Institute Associate Director of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion School of Social Work Professor of Social Work Paul Sajda The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science Vikram S. Pandit Professor of Biomedical Engineering and Professor of Radiology (Physics) and Electrical Engineering Clifford Stein Data Science Institute Interim Director The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science Wai T. Chang Professor of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research and Professor of Computer Science Eric L. Talley Columbia Law School Isidor and Seville Sulzbacher Professor of Law Chris H. Wiggins The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science Associate Professor of Applied Mathematics and Systems Biology Ming Yuan Data Science Institute Associate Director for Academic Affairs Faculty of Arts and Sciences Professor of Statistics Gil Zussman The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science Professor of Electrical Engineering View All People Data and Society Council View All People Carme Artigas Secretary of State for Digitization and Artificial Intelligence, Government of Spain Armen Avanessians Trustee, Council Co-Chair, EN’83, P: CC’12, CC’17, IA’17 Chief Investment Officer of Quantitative Investment Strategies, Goldman Sachs Rui Costa EN'85 Zuckerman Institute Director and Chief Executive Officer Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Professor of Neuroscience Herb Cunitz EN’85 Board of Directors, DataRPM Michael Donovan P: EN’13 Vice Chairman, Board of Directors of MediaOcean Shahram Ebadollahi EN’99, EN’02, EN’05, BU’16 Global Head, Advanced Analytics, Novartis Shawn Edwards EN’90, EN’95, P: EN’17 Chief Technology Officer, Bloomberg Roger Ehrenberg BU’93 Founder and Managing Partner, IA Ventures Tom Fortin EN’86 Managing Partner and Chief Operating Officer, iCapital Network Ben Fried Council Co-Chair, CC’88 Chief Information Officer, Google Alex Halliday Columbia Climate School Founding Dean The Earth Institute Director Faculty of Arts and Sciences Professor of Earth and Environmental Sciences Hsiao-Wuen Hon P: LW'18 Corporate Vice President, Microsoft Claire Le Gal BU’99 Senior Vice President, Fraud Intelligence, Strategy & Cyber Products, Mastercard Michael Leiter CC’91 Partner, Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom Mahmoud Naghshineh EN'94 Vice President of AI Impact and Partnerships, IBM Research Georgia Papathomas EN’73, EN’74, EN’78 Advisor, Investor, Board Member Jim Pastoriza EN’84 Managing Partner, TDF Ventures Arihant Patni GF'03 Managing Director, Patni Financial Advisors Deb Rieman GF’76, GF’78 Executive Chairman of the Board, MetaMarkets Alfred Z. Spector Technical Advisor, Two Sigma Investments Kathryn Surace-Smith Trustee, LW'84 Vice President and General Counsel, NanoString Technologies, Inc. Simon Tavaré Irving Institute for Cancer Dynamics Herbert and Florence Irving Director Faculty of Arts and Sciences Professor of Statistics and Biological Sciences Leonard Tow GF’52, GF’60, P: BC’87 Founder and Chief Executive Officer, New Century Holdings Chairman, Tow Foundation Richard E. Witten CC’75, P: CC’10, BUS’15, LAW’15 Senior Managing Director, Orienta Group Managing Member, RSW Capital Management HongJiang Zhang Venture Partner, SourceCode Capital Senior Advisor, Carlyle Group Chairman, Beijing Academy of Artificial Intelligence View All People Explore More Data for Good Every field has data. We use data to discover new knowledge, to interpret the world, to make decisions, and even to predict the future. Learn More Focus Areas DSI-affiliated faculty collaborate in interdisciplinary teams to gather and interpret data and address urgent problems facing our society. Learn More Work with Us Build together, grow together. We enjoy working on hard problems together because the hardest challenges are often the most rewarding. Learn More Newsletter Stay informed. Sign up for our newsletter. First Name Last Name Email Address Organization Sign up to receive news and information about upcoming events, research, and more. Submit Questions? Email: datascience@columbia.edu. /* Remove dividing line from footer logo */ Northwest Corner, 550 W 120th St #1401, New York, NY 10027 (212) 854-5660 About Home Data for Good Work with Us Donate Contact Us News People Education M.S. in Data Science Ph.D. Specialization in Data Science Certification of Professional Achievement in Data Sciences Executive Education DSI Scholars Student Services Alumni Services Columbia Data Science Society Data Science Education Across Columbia Research Centers Computing Systems for Data-Driven Science Cybersecurity Data, Media and Society Financial and Business Analytics Foundations of Data Science Health Analytics Sense, Collect and Move Data Smart Cities Columbia-IBM Center on Blockchain and Data Transparency Focus Areas Foundations of Data Science Health Care Climate Business and Finance Social Justice Working Groups Computational Social Science Materials Discovery Analytics Education Outreach Events Industry Affiliates Program Campus Connections Entrepreneurship Columbia University Terms Privacy © The Data Science Institute at Columbia University Created by Constructive