Faculty Students Alumni Events Data Science Day Industry Work with Us Apply Contact Us Giving /* Remove dividing line from header logo */ About About DSI About DSI Work with Us Data for Good Find Us Contact Us Identity Guidelines Education Education Education Education Programs Student Services Alumni Services Data Science Education Across Columbia DSI Student Council Research Research Funding Opportunities Postdoctoral Researchers Focus Areas Climate Health Care Social Justice Business and Finance Foundations of Data Science Working Groups Computational Social Science Materials Discovery Analytics Education Research Centers Computing Systems for Data-Driven Science Cybersecurity Data, Media and Society Financial and Business Analytics Foundations of Data Science Health Analytics Sense, Collect and Move Data Smart Cities Columbia-IBM Center on Blockchain and Data Transparency Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub Poster Sessions Outreach Outreach Outreach Industry Affiliates Program Events Data Science Day Campus Connections Campus Tour Entrepreneurship Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub Diversity Diversity Diversity Race + Data Science Resources Data Science Racial Equity Advisory Committee JPMorgan Fellowship Race + Data Science Lecture Series People People People Leadership Education Research Faculty Administration Diversity In Memoriam News and Insights News and Insights News and Insights News Archive Search for: About About DSI Data for Good Work with Us Become a DSI Member or Affiliate Faculty Recruitment Program Become an Industry Affiliate Hire a DSI Student Connect with Data Science Experts Careers at DSI Space Reservations Computing Resources Giving Identity Guidelines Find Us Contact Us Education Education Programs M.S. in Data Science Ph.D. Specialization in Data Science Certification of Professional Achievement in Data Sciences Executive Education DSI Scholars Fellowship Opportunities Student Services Alumni Services DSI Student Council Data Science Education Across Columbia Research Research Funding Opportunities Focus Areas Climate Health Care Social Justice Business and Finance Foundations of Data Science Research Centers Computing Systems for Data-Driven Science Cybersecurity Data, Media and Society Financial and Business Analytics Foundations of Data Science Health Analytics Sense, Collect and Move Data Smart Cities Columbia-IBM Center on Blockchain and Data Transparency Working Groups Computational Social Science Materials Discovery Analytics Education Postdoctoral Researchers Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub Poster Sessions Outreach Outreach Events Data Science Day Industry Affiliates Program Campus Connections Campus Tour Entrepreneurship Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub Diversity Diversity Race + Data Science Resources JPMorgan Fellowship Race + Data Science Lecture Series People People Leadership Leadership Team Executive Committee Data and Society Council Faculty Members Affiliates Research Postdoctoral Researchers Research Scientists and Scholars Education Adjuncts Ph.D. Specialization Committee Diversity Data Science Racial Equity Advisory Committee Administration Academic Programs, Student Services and Career Management Communications Development Finance and Research Operations Strategic Initiatives and Engagement Columbia-IBM Center for Blockchain and Data Transparency Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub In Memoriam News and Insights News News Archive DSI News Research News Insights Student Spotlight Alumni Download Postdoctoral Researchers Faculty Students Alumni Events Data Science Day Industry Work with Us Apply Contact Us Giving Close Menu Research Focus Areas Business and Finance About the Focus Area Data science is at the center of informed business decision-making. The global business landscape is increasingly data-driven. Valuable data is generated in every facet of business, and data science techniques help companies find pragmatic solutions to inform strategy, execution, and organizational leadership in finance, management, and marketing. Data scientists recognize patterns and form insights, contribute to risk management, build models, create viable products, and present and communicate financial data to effectively support company executives in sales, product development, planning, and customer acquisition. Causal techniques, including correlation and multiple regression analysis, are used to prepare business forecasts and long-range plans. Financial analytics are used to audit and optimize financial strategies based on both company and industry data. This nexus of data science and business analytics and Columbia’s position in the global business hub and ecosystem that is New York City places DSI in a unique position to leverage data science to improve business processes. DSI researchers study revenue maximization problems and combine labor market data with data science methods to identify factors and environments that shape gender and racial inequality. Teams of M.S. in data science students have developed and evaluated novel spatio-temporal trajectories clustering methods used for traffic planning, inventory optimization, and understanding movements; used public data, anomaly detection, and natural language processing to create a dashboard and pip-installable package to help executives learn the full news history of a potential client; and predicted the Moody’s rating changes. Collaboratory courses also prepare Columbia Business School students to succeed in an increasingly data-intensive world with a curriculum focused on programming, databases, and data analytics and the latest techniques for gathering, managing, and interpreting data. Related Centers Financial and Business Analytics Cybersecurity Smart Cities Contact Clifford Stein Data Science Institute Interim Director The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science Wai T. Chang Professor of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research and Professor of Computer Science Email: cliff@ieor.columbia.edu Events Jun08Wed Special Programs EduData Summit 1:00 AM Jun10Fri Special Programs Special Seminar: Dr. Eric Corbett 3:00 PM – 4:00 PM Research Highlights Gender and Racial/Ethnic Inequality in High-Skilled Labor Market: Gaining New Insights from Online Resume and Reviews Database Project This research team combines new sources of labor market data, which include online resumes and employee reviews, with data science methods to identify factors and environments that shape gender and racial inequality in the high-skilled labor market. The team charts long-term career trajectories of a large number of American workers, examines gender and racial variations, and constructs measures of company environment that pertain to gender and racial equity. Kriste Krstovski, Data Science Institute, Business Yao Lu, Sociology Programming, Analytics and Technology (Proptech) Curriculum for GSAPP Real Estate Development Program Collaboratory This course exposes real estate development graduate students to technology and programming foundations, and offers a set of electives that explore the use of these technologies and analytical tools in the real estate development domain. The courses are designed to proceed in tandem with detailed instruction in the related domain content, initially with foundational courses followed by lab courses around specific applications or methodologies. A Proptech capstone project is also offered in the final semester of the degree program. Patrice Derrington, Architecture, Planning and Preservation Hardeep Johar, Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Programming, Technology & Analytics Curriculum for Columbia Business School Collaboratory This series of new courses prepares Columbia Business School students to succeed in an increasingly data-intensive world with a curriculum focused on computer programming and the latest techniques for gathering, managing, and interpreting data. The cross-disciplinary curriculum, called Technology, Coding and Analytics for Columbia Business School, provides foundational courses in programming, databases, and data analytics, as well as industry-specific electives (digital advertising, sports analytics, et al.). Hardeep Johar, Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Costis Maglaras, Business Clustering of Spatio-Temporal Trajectories for Asset Tracking Capstone Project Mentor: Tapan Shah, GE Research Team Members: Tabitha Karuna Sugumar, Fatima Koli, Jacqueline Araya, Kun Tao With increasing use of asset tracking, large databases of spatio-temporal trajectories (STT) are used for traffic planning, inventory optimization, and understanding movements. This team developed and evaluated novel STT clustering methods with promising results. The key novelty arises from different similarity measures (DTW, Fréchet Distance, Edit Distance, LCSS) and representations (e.g. autoencoders) for STT. Know Your Client: A Client Intelligence Tool Capstone Project The “Know Your Client” requirement sets a broad mandate that financial institutions must execute adequate background checks on potential clients. This team used public data, anomaly detection, and natural language processing to create a dashboard and pip-installable package to help executives learn the full news history of a potential client. Mentor: Naftali Cohen, JPMorgan Chase & Co. Team Members: Jesse Patrick Cahill, Thomas Causero, James Anthony DeAntonis, Ryan Owen McNally Ralph Lauren Sales Prediction Capstone Project Are external factors able to affect long-term trends in sales? Answering this question is crucial for hind-sighting and determining future outlook of fashion stores. To explore the impact of events on sales, major event features were engineered to predict sales at the Orlando FOA store from April 2018 to September 2019. The team recommended to scale up the analysis to other stores to re-examine the effect of events, or switch the focus to other external factors like news to direct marketing strategies. Mentors: Rohit Cherian, Ralph Lauren; Ami Pascale, Ralph Lauren; Sining Chen, Data Science Institute Team Members: Qi Feng, Yawen Han, Jiaying Jin, Ruizhi Zhang Predicting Changes to Moody’s Credit Rating Capstone Project The announcements of Moody’s credit rating change have impact on the financial market. Predicting them in advance enables more informed investment decisions. The team was interested in predicting the next Moody’s rating change to generate alpha. They recommended to get more data (i.e. Moody’s ratings for more companies) and perform time series classification with a deep model. Mentors: Eunice Hameyie, Vanguard; Smaranda Muresan, Data Science Institute Team Members: Yunwen Cai, Aleksandra Hosa, Haoran Li, Vincent Pan Postdoctoral Research Scientist Kira Goldner (Ph.D. in computer science and engineering, University of Washington) does research on algorithmic mechanism design: designing algorithms that guarantee that the designer’s objectives are achieved, even when the data they run on is produced by individuals acting in their own self-interest. Her work includes studying revenue maximization problems, and understanding more behavioral and informational complex models. Newsletter Stay informed. Sign up for our newsletter. First Name Last Name Email Address Organization Sign up to receive news and information about upcoming events, research, and more. Submit Questions? Email: datascience@columbia.edu. /* Remove dividing line from footer logo */ Northwest Corner, 550 W 120th St #1401, New York, NY 10027 (212) 854-5660 About Home Data for Good Work with Us Donate Contact Us News People Education M.S. in Data Science Ph.D. Specialization in Data Science Certification of Professional Achievement in Data Sciences Executive Education DSI Scholars Student Services Alumni Services Columbia Data Science Society Data Science Education Across Columbia Research Centers Computing Systems for Data-Driven Science Cybersecurity Data, Media and Society Financial and Business Analytics Foundations of Data Science Health Analytics Sense, Collect and Move Data Smart Cities Columbia-IBM Center on Blockchain and Data Transparency Focus Areas Foundations of Data Science Health Care Climate Business and Finance Social Justice Working Groups Computational Social Science Materials Discovery Analytics Education Outreach Events Industry Affiliates Program Campus Connections Entrepreneurship Columbia University Terms Privacy © The Data Science Institute at Columbia University Created by Constructive