Faculty Students Alumni Events Data Science Day Industry Work with Us Apply Contact Us Giving /* Remove dividing line from header logo */ About About DSI About DSI Work with Us Data for Good Find Us Contact Us Identity Guidelines Education Education Education Education Programs Student Services Alumni Services Data Science Education Across Columbia DSI Student Council Research Research Funding Opportunities Postdoctoral Researchers Focus Areas Climate Health Care Social Justice Business and Finance Foundations of Data Science Working Groups Computational Social Science Materials Discovery Analytics Education Research Centers Computing Systems for Data-Driven Science Cybersecurity Data, Media and Society Financial and Business Analytics Foundations of Data Science Health Analytics Sense, Collect and Move Data Smart Cities Columbia-IBM Center on Blockchain and Data Transparency Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub Poster Sessions Outreach Outreach Outreach Industry Affiliates Program Events Data Science Day Campus Connections Campus Tour Entrepreneurship Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub Diversity Diversity Diversity Race + Data Science Resources Data Science Racial Equity Advisory Committee JPMorgan Fellowship Race + Data Science Lecture Series People People People Leadership Education Research Faculty Administration Diversity In Memoriam News and Insights News and Insights News and Insights News Archive Search for: About About DSI Data for Good Work with Us Become a DSI Member or Affiliate Faculty Recruitment Program Become an Industry Affiliate Hire a DSI Student Connect with Data Science Experts Careers at DSI Space Reservations Computing Resources Giving Identity Guidelines Find Us Contact Us Education Education Programs M.S. in Data Science Ph.D. Specialization in Data Science Certification of Professional Achievement in Data Sciences Executive Education DSI Scholars Fellowship Opportunities Student Services Alumni Services DSI Student Council Data Science Education Across Columbia Research Research Funding Opportunities Focus Areas Climate Health Care Social Justice Business and Finance Foundations of Data Science Research Centers Computing Systems for Data-Driven Science Cybersecurity Data, Media and Society Financial and Business Analytics Foundations of Data Science Health Analytics Sense, Collect and Move Data Smart Cities Columbia-IBM Center on Blockchain and Data Transparency Working Groups Computational Social Science Materials Discovery Analytics Education Postdoctoral Researchers Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub Poster Sessions Outreach Outreach Events Data Science Day Industry Affiliates Program Campus Connections Campus Tour Entrepreneurship Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub Diversity Diversity Race + Data Science Resources JPMorgan Fellowship Race + Data Science Lecture Series People People Leadership Leadership Team Executive Committee Data and Society Council Faculty Members Affiliates Research Postdoctoral Researchers Research Scientists and Scholars Education Adjuncts Ph.D. Specialization Committee Diversity Data Science Racial Equity Advisory Committee Administration Academic Programs, Student Services and Career Management Communications Development Finance and Research Operations Strategic Initiatives and Engagement Columbia-IBM Center for Blockchain and Data Transparency Northeast Big Data Innovation Hub In Memoriam News and Insights News News Archive DSI News Research News Insights Student Spotlight Alumni Download Postdoctoral Researchers Faculty Students Alumni Events Data Science Day Industry Work with Us Apply Contact Us Giving Close Menu Research Focus Areas Health Care About the Focus Area Data science is a driver of health care transformation. From the development of new technologies and devices to targeted interventions to improve health outcomes, data-based solutions are reshaping the health care landscape and improving the efficiency and effectiveness of medicine. Researchers and practitioners apply data science principles and techniques to better understand health processes and transform health care delivery for better diagnoses, better care, and better cures. Our Health Analytics Center, which is located at the Columbia University Irving Medical Center, facilitates collaborations between researchers from medicine, biology, public health, informatics, computer science, applied mathematics, and statistics. These thought leaders combine techniques from the growing field of data science with subject-matter expertise from their respective disciplines to improve the health of individuals and health care systems. For example, precision medicine aims to find the right drug for the right patient at the right moment. Such accuracy is especially crucial in cancer treatments; exact causes vary between different tumors, and no two tumors have the same set of alterations. DSI-affiliated researchers from statistics, biomedical informatics, and cell biology are mapping a comprehensive set of causes to model, predict, and target therapeutic sensitivity and resistance of cancer for better treatment. Other experts in biomedical informatics, biomedical engineering, radiology, urology, and pathology have collaborated to use data science with magnetic-resonance imaging physics to improve prostate cancer diagnosis and staging. Yet another team sought to understand tumor microbiology and determined that bacteria in pancreatic tumors actually degrade a popular chemotherapy drug. Data is also considered an organizational asset and plays an increasingly vital role in clinical administrative decision-making. Virtually every hospital and clinic collects detailed medical records about its patients, but hospitals are wary of sharing data with other institutions due to privacy concerns. Researchers in engineering, computer science, and biomedical informatics are building an infrastructure for sharing machine learning models of large-scale, clinical datasets to rapidly advance innovation in clinical data research while safeguarding patients’ privacy. DSI graduate students also collaborate with faculty to complete capstone projects and apply data science techniques to real challenges for the health professions. A recent student team used deep learning methods to build a model to predict whether high-resolution images of lung tissue showed evidence of pulmonary fibrosis. Another group partnered with New York City’s Department of Health and Mental Hygiene to scrape public social media posts from Twitter and Reddit and build a web app in R Shiny to flag posts associated with depression. By determining which genes influence biofilm structures, our M.S. students have also suggested ways to help make conventional antibiotics more effective and helped develop tools hospitals may use to diagnose bacterial conditions and treat infections. Related Centers Health Analytics Cybersecurity Smart Cities Materials Discovery Analytics Contact Clifford Stein Data Science Institute Interim Director The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science Wai T. Chang Professor of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research and Professor of Computer Science Email: cliff@ieor.columbia.edu Events Jun08Wed Special Programs EduData Summit 1:00 AM Jun10Fri Special Programs Special Seminar: Dr. Eric Corbett 3:00 PM – 4:00 PM Research Highlights The Observational Health Data Sciences and Informatics Program (OHDSI) Program OHDSI, pronounced “odyssey”, is a multi-stakeholder, interdisciplinary collaborative to bring out the value of health data through large-scale analytics. All of its solutions are open-source. OHDSI has established observational health databases with a Columbia-based central coordinating center and an international network of researchers, including DSI members David Blei, Noemie Elhadad, George Hripcsak, David Madigan, Karthik Natarajan, Nicholas Tatonetti, Ying Wei, and Chunhua Weng. Interpretable Microbiome Dynamics in Liver Transplant Recipients Project This project develops methods for temporal analysis of gut microbiome compositions to better define the risk of infections in liver transplant recipients. The team integrates existing coarse resolution data with newly collected deep metagenomics and metabolomics data. Itsik Pe’er, Computer Science Anne-Catrin Uhlemann, Infectious Diseases Modeling the Dynamics of Young Onset Colorectal Cancer Using Big Population Data Project Using multiple nationally representative large-scale exposure and cancer incidence datasets, this project builds a novel model-inference system to study the dynamics of colorectal cancer, to test a range of risk mechanisms over the life course, and to identify key risk factors underlying the recent increase in young onset colorectal cancer incidence in the U.S. to support more effective early prevention. Wan Yang, Epidemiology Mary Beth Terry, Epidemiology Jianhua Hu, Biostatistics Piero Dalerba, Pathology and Cell Biology Probabilistic Modeling of Intercellular Interactions that Drive Ferroptosis Susceptibility of Therapy-Resistant Cancer Cells Project This project leverages machine learning techniques to combine two types of single-cell data modalities to achieve a more comprehensive characterization of heterogeneous cell states in the tumor microenvironment. The team develops probabilistic models to elucidate the role of intercellular interactions in driving susceptibility of treatment-resistant mesenchymal tumor cells to a newly discovered ferroptotic vulnerability, which could offer a therapeutic avenue to prevent survival of these cancer cells that are prone to metastasis. Elham Azizi, Biomedical Engineering Jellert Gaublomme, Biological Sciences Brent Stockwell, Biological Sciences Predicting Personalized Cancer Therapies Using Deep Probabilistic Modeling Project This team models, predicts, and targets therapeutic sensitivity and resistance of cancer due to the need for new approaches that will match drugs to genomic profiles. Their predictions are validated in models designed in Lasorella’s lab to enhance the accuracy of effort. They also integrate Bayesian modeling with variational inference and deep-learning methods to leverage the expertise of two leading teams in computational genomics (Rabadan’s group) and machine learning (Blei’s group). David Blei, Statistics, Computer Science Raul Rabadan, Systems Biology, Biomedical Informatics Anna Lasorella, Pathology and Cell Biology, Pediatrics Wesley Tansey, Systems Biology Enabling Small-Data Medical Research with Private Transferable Knowledge from Big Data Project The team is building system infrastructure that will let large hospitals share data with smaller clinics and use differential privacy to respect boundaries between organizations. The long-term goal is to develop not only a library of useful private transferable knowledge (PTKs) for the medical community, but also to integrate them into a data sharing infrastructure system that creates, maintains, and optimizes multiple PTKs in support of a wide range of clinical datasets and research tasks. Roxana Geambasu, Computer Science Nicholas Tatonetti, Biomedical Informatics Daniel Hsu, Computer Science Newsletter Stay informed. Sign up for our newsletter. First Name Last Name Email Address Organization Sign up to receive news and information about upcoming events, research, and more. Submit Questions? Email: datascience@columbia.edu. /* Remove dividing line from footer logo */ Northwest Corner, 550 W 120th St #1401, New York, NY 10027 (212) 854-5660 About Home Data for Good Work with Us Donate Contact Us News People Education M.S. in Data Science Ph.D. Specialization in Data Science Certification of Professional Achievement in Data Sciences Executive Education DSI Scholars Student Services Alumni Services Columbia Data Science Society Data Science Education Across Columbia Research Centers Computing Systems for Data-Driven Science Cybersecurity Data, Media and Society Financial and Business Analytics Foundations of Data Science Health Analytics Sense, Collect and Move Data Smart Cities Columbia-IBM Center on Blockchain and Data Transparency Focus Areas Foundations of Data Science Health Care Climate Business and Finance Social Justice Working Groups Computational Social Science Materials Discovery Analytics Education Outreach Events Industry Affiliates Program Campus Connections Entrepreneurship Columbia University Terms Privacy © The Data Science Institute at Columbia University Created by Constructive