Skip to main content Close Main navigation About Academic Programs Research Initiatives Insights Events Global Nav STATEMENTS ON RUSSIA'S WAR AGAINST UKRAINE Media Inquiries People Outreach Donate Search Global Nav STATEMENTS ON RUSSIA'S WAR AGAINST UKRAINE Media Inquiries People Outreach Search Donate Menu Main navigation About Academic Programs Research Initiatives Insights Events Homepage Celebrating the REECA Class of ’22 At Commencement, graduates share memories, reflect on the region, and offer advice to future students of regional studies. Read more Latest Insights Eve Blau Named Director of the Davis Center First woman to serve as Center’s faculty director will lead from July 2022. Read more Childhood Under Siege: The Evolution of World War II Education in Russian Memory Politics Anxieties about children’s historical education have been co-opted by the Kremlin to marginalize political opposition and generate support for the war in Ukraine, writes Sydney Stotter. Read more Russia Is Repeating Its Brutal History in Ukraine Rather than promoting a narrative of triumph and victory, comparisons of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine to World War II reveal its inherent immorality, writes Mark Kramer. Read more See all insights Reimagining Regional Studies Find your program REECA Master’s Program Scholar-Entrepreneur Initiative Program on Georgian Studies Center Associates Postdoctoral Fellowships Secondary Field in Regional Studies: Russia, Eastern Europe, Central Asia Red Horizon Outreach Programming Arms Control Negotiation Academy Previous Next Upcoming Events Aug 1 - 3 The Future of Democracy: A Workshop for Educators See all events Scholar-Entrepreneurs A bold initiative to foster innovative scholarship and learning while bringing regional studies closer to practice. Universities tend to be risk-averse places, creating programs and then hiring people to staff them. The Scholar-Entrepreneur Initiative is the other way around: building from the ground up. As we build these programs, we are investing in these scholars. Rawi Abdelal Director of the Davis Center Choose your adventure Learn about undergraduate opportunities for research and internships in Russia, Eastern Europe, and Central Asia. Kathryn W. and Shelby Cullom Davis Center for Russian and Eurasian Studies Harvard University 1730 Cambridge Street, 3rd Floor Cambridge, MA 02138 +1.617.495.4037 Contact Us Main navigation About Academic Programs Research Initiatives Insights Events Global Nav STATEMENTS ON RUSSIA'S WAR AGAINST UKRAINE Media Inquiries People Outreach Footer menu Accessibility Privacy Policy Report Copyright Infringement ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook Youtube Channel LinkedIn Twitter