Ambassadors Challenges Donor Wall FAQ Ambassadors Challenges Donor Wall FAQ Become an Ambassador! Sign up to increase your impact! Sign Up or flogo-HexRBG-Wht-58 Continue with Facebook Already an Ambassador? Sign in here! Or invite your friends to become one too! Check your Email! We just sent you an email with a confirmation link. Use it to activate your Ambassador status. What is an Ambassador? UC Day of Giving is about the power of people coming together to make an impact. In addition to your gift, you can help by becoming an ambassador. Like influencers, our ambassadors are an important part of UC Day of Giving, because they help spread the word using #BearcatsGive on social media and encouraging others to give. Sign up today to be an Ambassador, and see the impact your personal network has throughout the day. We will provide everything you’re going to need to help you mobilize your network to join you in making a gift to the cause you are most passionate about on UC Day of Giving. That means graphics, copy, sample posts and more. When you sign up as an ambassador, you'll receive a custom URL that allows you to track the results of your efforts, including the number of donors you've recruited and the total dollars you've raised. Spread awareness within your network by using your preferred forms of communication — email, text, social media posts, etc. — to encourage others to join you in supporting UC! Why Should You Become an Ambassador? You have a strong affinity for UC. You have a personal network that shares that affinity. You are willing and proud to share UC's amazing stories of impact. (Banner Photo: Ethan Chaplin, CEAS & University Honors Student) Where Will You Make An Impact? Student Support Student Organizations Units/Institutes UC Alumni Association Allied Health Sciences Arts and Sciences Carl H. Lindner College of Business College-Conservatory of Music Education, Criminal Justice, and Human Services Engineering and Applied Science Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Law Medicine Nursing James L. Winkle College of Pharmacy UC Blue Ash UC Clermont UC Libraries InfoTrust Foundation Scholarship Marian Spencer Scholarship Program Bearcats Athletics UC Health UC Cancer Center UC Gardner Neuroscience Institute University of Cincinnati Foundation Contact Privacy Policy UC Foundation © 2022 University of Cincinnati Foundation, All Rights Reserved Powered by ScaleFunder Terms Privacy Login