Ambassadors Challenges Donor Wall FAQ Ambassadors Challenges Donor Wall FAQ UC Day of Giving has ended! Missed UC Day of Giving? Click to make a gift today. UC Day of Giving $ 2,544,094 raised 3,064 gifts Questions and Answers Below you will find answers to many common questions about UC Day of Giving. When is UC Day of Giving? UC Day of Giving is launching at noon on Thursday, April 7 and ending at noon on Friday, April 8. What is UC Day of Giving? UC Day of Giving is a 24-hour celebration of community and philanthropy. Our goal is to inspire UC alumni, students, staff, donors, parents and friends to support the many causes at the University of Cincinnati. On April 7-8, Bearcats can give back by supporting of their favorite cause, college or program. We encourage YOU to join thousands of Bearcats to impact UC on Day of Giving. #BearcatsGive Why should I make a gift or sponsor a challenge on UC Day of Giving? We appreciate your generosity any and every day of the year but we especially encourage you to join UC's philanthropic community by making a gift on April 7-8. When you make a gift on UC Day of Giving you identify yourself as someone who believes that #BearcatsGive! How do I make a gift to UC or UC Health? Make a gift online at dayofgiving.uc.edu. When the campaign is live, you can click the "Give Now" button at the top of the website. If you've reached this page before or after the campaign, please click here to make your donation. What if I don't see my area of interest? If you are not able to find the fund you would like to support, please select the cause, college or program of your choice, and select "Other" in the Fund Designation drop down menu, and type in the program and/or fund name you wish to support. We will ensure your gift is designated appropriately. Are there other ways to get involved with UC Day of Giving? Yes! We need your help spreading the word about this one day of giving. Use social media channels, emails, text and phone calls to help bring awareness to this event. For an easy way to share the event, you can become a Social Media Ambassador at DayOfGiving.uc.edu. By becoming an Ambassador you will have access to an easy social sharing tool that will allow you to share the campaign, track your contribution and be eligible to win prizes! How can I learn more about sponsoring a challenge or a match to raise funds and awareness for my UC cause? Yes! Thank you for your leadership. For more information on challenges and matches, please contact Liz Herbers, Director of Annual Giving at 513-556-3294 or email Liz.Herbers@foundation.uc.edu. Can I post my custom Ambassador link on my Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, LinkedIn, Snapchat, etc. account? Yes, please share as much as you can about UC Day of Giving through your social media channels. When you share your custom Ambassador link you can track how many donors have made gifts because of you! Can my donation on UC Day of Giving be anonymous? Your gift can be anonymous, simply check the appropriate box on the donation form. What will my donation fund? You may designate your gift to any area of the university or UC Health that you are passionate about. You may also divide your gift among several funds. When you make your gift, you can select from a list of funds. I am a UC or UC Health employee, can I make a gift on #GivingTuesday via UC Payroll Deduction? UC and UC Health employees can give via payroll deduction. Are gifts tax deductible? Yes. Gifts are 100 percent tax deductible. After you make your gift, you will receive a confirmation email that can be used for tax purposes. Does UC accept matching gifts? Yes. Click here to find out if your employer has a matching gift program. Is there a minimum donation amount on UC Day of Giving? Yes. The minimum donation amount for online gifts is $5. I have a question - who can I contact? Please contact Liz Herbers, Director of Annual Giving at Liz.Herbers@foundation.uc.edu. Still have questions? Contact us at annual.giving@uc.edu Where Will You Make An Impact? Student Support Student Organizations Units/Institutes UC Alumni Association Allied Health Sciences Arts and Sciences Carl H. Lindner College of Business College-Conservatory of Music Education, Criminal Justice, and Human Services Engineering and Applied Science Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Law Medicine Nursing James L. Winkle College of Pharmacy UC Blue Ash UC Clermont UC Libraries InfoTrust Foundation Scholarship Marian Spencer Scholarship Program Bearcats Athletics UC Health UC Cancer Center UC Gardner Neuroscience Institute University of Cincinnati Foundation Contact Privacy Policy UC Foundation © 2022 University of Cincinnati Foundation, All Rights Reserved Powered by ScaleFunder Terms Privacy Login