Tuck Tuck Executive Education at Dartmouth Tuck Tuck Diversity Business Programs About Faculty Campus Programs Building a Successful Diverse Business Growing an Established Diverse Business Digital Excellence Program Supplier Diversity Professional Excellence Program Custom Programs Alumni 40 Years of Developing Diverse Business Leaders Sponsorship Obtaining a Scholarship Current Sponsors Sponsorship Opportunities Give Now Contact Us Tuck About Alumni Programs Sponsorship Contact Us Growing an Established Diverse Business Overview Curriculum & Faculty Who Should Attend Home / Programs / Growing an Established Diverse Business Grow your Business to the Next Level Growing an Established Diverse Business enables participants in established businesses to accelerate their growth. This follow-up program to Building a Successful Diverse Business helps participants overcome the challenges that business owners often see after several years of successful growth, and helps them assess the alternatives to organic growth—strategic alliances and acquisitions. This week-long program on campus at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth gives business owners and their key executives the vital frameworks and skills they need to expand their scale and scope. It is an ideal program for any business owner at a crucial crossroads in their business journey, just seeking to take a successful business to the next level, or contemplating an exit strategy. Growing an Established Diverse Business focuses on a range of topics related to the successful design and implementation of growth strategies. Sessions devoted to financial skills, including business valuation and alternative sources of capital, deliver the insights needed to develop strong financial footing for growth. This program is offered once annually, and is open to diverse professional from all industries. Jun 19 Growing an Established Diverse Business June 19–24, 2022 $4,900 More than half of the full program price of $12,500 is charitably underwritten by donors and Tuck; the participant fee of $4,900 covers the balance of tuition, materials, accommodation, and most meals. Please review our enrollment policies. Start your application Home / Programs / Growing an Established Diverse Business Advanced Sessions for Established Business Owners Participants in Growing an Established Diverse Business already know much of the fundamentals it takes to establish a business, so our world-class faculty focus on only the most pertinent knowledge needed to achieve profitable long-term growth in today’s dynamic business environment. Throughout the program, participants use their own business as the case study, so they can apply and implement their learning immediately. Program sessions and objectives include: Strategy Your Business Strategy for Growth: Implementing Your Growth Strategy Strategic Growth Strategic Acquisitions Negotiating Strategic Acquisitions Marketing Marketing Strategies to Scale Creating an Authentic Brand for Growth Digital Crafting a Digital Presence Financial Overview of Financial Statements: Balance Sheet and Income Statement Information for Decision-making Financial Analysis in Preparation for Growth Implementing your Financial Strategy for Growth See Detailed Curriculum Jun 19 Growing an Established Diverse Business June 19–24, 2022 $4,900 More than half of the full program price of $12,500 is charitably underwritten by donors and Tuck; the participant fee of $4,900 covers the balance of tuition, materials, accommodation, and most meals. Please review our enrollment policies. Start your application Faculty Leonard Greenhalgh Professor of Management; Faculty Director of Building a Successful Diverse Business Leonard Greenhalgh Professor of Management; Faculty Director of Building a Successful Diverse Business Leonard Greenhalgh is faculty director of Building a Successful Diverse Business. His research expertise includes strategy, strategy implementation, changing demographics, negotiation, and entrepreneurial business. He is co-author, with James H. Lowry, of “Minority Business Success: Refocusing on the American Dream,” and author of “Managing Strategic Relationships.” He has written more than 130 articles, book chapters, monographs, cases, and professional papers, and has consulted to myriad international corporations. He has been honored with a Lifetime Achievement Award from the Minority Business Development Agency of the U.S. Department of Commerce, and listings in the Minority Business Hall of Fame and in 100 Men in Supplier Diversity. Read full bio × Joseph Hall Senior Associate Dean for Teaching and Learning; Clinical Professor of Business Administration Joseph Hall Senior Associate Dean for Teaching and Learning; Clinical Professor of Business Administration Joseph Hall is an expert in operations management, with particular emphasis on operations strategy, service operations, supply chain management, and business process design. As a consultant, he has advised service and manufacturing organizations in operations strategy, process improvement, and value chain organization. He has published articles in Harvard Business Review, Manufacturing and Service Operations Management, MIT Sloan Management Review, and Production and Operations Management. Read full bio × Phillip Stocken Jack Byrne Professor of Accounting Phillip Stocken Jack Byrne Professor of Accounting Phil Stocken specializes in accounting and business analysis and teaches accounting and financial management, analysis, and reporting. He is skilled at conveying the essential information in financial statements and financial statement analysis to audiences with varying levels of financial experience and understanding. He has conducted extensive research on the financial reporting behavior of publicly traded corporations. His work has been published in the Journal of Accounting and Economics, The Accounting Review, American Economic Review, Journal of Accounting Research, Journal of Economics, and RAND Journal of Economics. Read full bio × Ella L.J. Bell Smith Professor of Business Administration Ella L.J. Bell Smith Professor of Business Administration Ella L.J. Bell Smith is a leading expert on fostering diversity and inclusion in the workplace. She has consulted to Fortune 100 companies in organizational behavior and organizational change, and her research interests focus on career and life histories of successful women. She is author of Career GPS: Strategies for Women Navigating the New Corporate Landscape, and co-author of Our Separate Ways: Black and White Women and the Struggle for Professional Identity. She has contributed to scholarly journals and written for The New York Times, Wall Street Journal, Black Enterprise, Essence, and other mainstream publications. She has earned awards for her teaching and scholarship and has served as an advisory board member of the National Women’s Leadership Summit, The White House Project, and Best Companies for Women of Color, Working Mother Media. Read full bio × Alva Taylor Associate Professor of Business Administration; Faculty Director of Growing an Established Diverse Business Alva Taylor Associate Professor of Business Administration; Faculty Director of Growing an Established Diverse Business Alva Taylor’s areas of expertise include business strategy, technology, innovation management, entrepreneurship, and new product development. As faculty director of Tuck’s Center for Digital Strategies, he leads a research and knowledge center that provides intellectual leadership on the role of digital strategies in creating competitive advantage for corporations. His current research interests are new product development, technological change, new venture formation, organizational learning, and creativity. Taylor has authored articles and book chapters and serves on the editorial boards of Organization Science and Strategic Management Journal. Professor Taylor is faculty director of Growing an Established Diverse Business and the Tuck-Google Digital Excellence Program. Read full bio × Gail Taylor Clinical Professor Of Business Administration and Research Scholar Gail Taylor Clinical Professor Of Business Administration and Research Scholar Gail Taylor is an expert in service marketing and an advocate for the coordination of marketing, operations, and human resource management to create effective service systems. She has consulted to business owners to help them improve productivity and efficiency, and her research interests include customer loyalty, service employee retention, nontraditional advertising, and sales promotion effectiveness. Her work has appeared in a variety of academic journals, including Journal of Retailing, Health Marketing Quarterly, Psychology and Marketing, Journal of Services Marketing, and International Business & Economic Research Journal. Read full bio × Home / Programs / Growing an Established Diverse Business Are You Looking to Accelerate Your Success? Growing an Established Diverse Business is designed for experienced owners and key decision-makers who face a crossroads in the business journey or are just committed to taking their business to the next level. The program welcomes MBEs, WBEs, DoBEs, and other underrepresented entrepreneurs who have at least five years of ownership experience and annual revenue of $500,000 or more, and who have already attended Building a Successful Diverse Business. If you are interested in attending Growing an Established Diverse Business but have not attended the prerequisite Building a Successful Diverse Business course, we do offer exemptions and admission for any entrepreneurs who can demonstrate that they have comparable experience and education. If you have questions about admissions or which program is right for you, please contact us. Jun 19 Growing an Established Diverse Business June 19–24, 2022 $4,900 More than half of the full program price of $12,500 is charitably underwritten by donors and Tuck; the participant fee of $4,900 covers the balance of tuition, materials, accommodation, and most meals. Please review our enrollment policies. Start your application Learn more about the Tuck Diversity Business Programs Request Information CONTACT US 603-646-2839 Tuck.Diversity.Programs@tuck.dartmouth.edu Stay Connected ©2022, The Trustees of Dartmouth College. All rights reserved.