Skip to content Harvard Division of Continuing Education About History Meet Dean Coleman COVID-19 News Media Requests Leadership Our Programs Extension School Professional Development Summer School Learning in Retirement Harvard Extension Alumni Association Harvard Division of Continuing Education About History Meet Dean Coleman COVID-19 News Media Requests Leadership Our Programs Extension School Professional Development Summer School Learning in Retirement Harvard Extension Alumni Association The Division of Continuing Education Learn More About Our Programs Explore Your Opportunities at Harvard Harvard Extension School Harvard degrees, certificates and courses—online, in the evenings, and at your own pace. Harvard Summer School Academic summer opportunities for adult, college and high school students—at Harvard and abroad. Professional Development Short, intensive programs to develop skills and strengthen your professional profile. Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement Active intellectual engagement designed for and by retired and semi-retired professionals. The Division of Continuing Education A catalyst that amplifies your learning with practical knowledge gained from Harvard instructors and classroom peers. Harvard Division of Continuing Education A division of Harvard University dedicated to bringing rigorous programs and innovative online teaching capabilities to distance learners, working professionals, high school students, college students, and those seeking higher learning in retirement. Harvard Extension School Harvard degrees, certificates and courses—online, in the evenings, and at your own pace. Harvard Summer School Academic summer opportunities for adult, college and high school students—at Harvard and abroad. Harvard Professional Development Short, intensive programs to develop skills and strengthen your professional profile. Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement Peer learning in the liberal arts—a community program for retired and semi-retired professionals. Harvard Division of Continuing Education Privacy Statement Accessibility Rights & Regulations Digital Accessibility Policy Harvard.edu Cookie Settings Copyright ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College