Skip to content Harvard Division of Continuing Education About History Meet Dean Coleman COVID-19 News Media Requests Leadership Our Programs Extension School Professional Development Summer School Learning in Retirement Harvard Extension Alumni Association Harvard Division of Continuing Education About History Meet Dean Coleman COVID-19 News Media Requests Leadership Our Programs Extension School Professional Development Summer School Learning in Retirement Harvard Extension Alumni Association The Division of Continuing Education About News Meet the Dean Leadership News Media Requests COVID-19 and Visiting Campus Press Release How Higher Ed Can Compete With Silicon Valley "What makes the Division of Continuing Education different from some of our other competitors, particularly those in the business industry, is that we are a comprehensive research institution that can draw upon research conducted by our faculty. We can draw on a strong pool of practitioners we bring in to teach some of the non-credit programming that integrates some of that research." Announcement The State of Continuing Education The State of Continuing Education focused on how leaders can drive sustained impact. These are Dean Nancy Coleman's top five insights and key takeaways from the discussion. Announcement Thoughts on the Report on Harvard and the Legacy of Slavery Read Dean Nancy Coleman's letter to the DCE community about her thoughts on President Bacow's release of Harvard & the Legacy of Slavery. Announcement Dean Nancy Coleman Speaks With Consejo de Colegios Mayores Universitarios de España Nancy Coleman, Dean of Harvard: "If we want to remain relevant in our profession, we must never stop considering ourselves university students." Announcement A Shifting World, A Shifting Leadership Paradigm Nancy Coleman, dean of Harvard's Division of Continuing Education, writes about the challenges of leadership in the world of professional, online and continuing (POC) education. While always both unique and exciting, existing challenges leaders have always faced are now compounded by truly seismic shifts such as today's racial reckoning, climate change, and a global pandemic. Press Release New Ad Campaign Highlights Breadth, Inclusivity of Harvard Division of Continuing Education Cambridge, Mass.—Harvard University’s Division of Continuing Education (DCE) is launching a new campaign this week aimed at elevating DCE’s profile and building greater awareness of DCE and its signature brands: Harvard Extension School, Harvard Summer School, Professional Development Programs,… Leadership Team Mindmaxing Podcast: Episode 17 with Nancy Coleman In an interview with Lee Maxey, Nancy discusses the importance of making time for reflection, how to create value for today’s students, and the impact that the COVID-19 pandemic has had on higher education broadly and distance learning more specifically. Announcement The Division of Continuing Education (DCE) Announces Websites’ Redesign The Division of Continuing Education (DCE) announces the redesign of the Division’s main website and pages for all of its programs: Harvard Extension SchoolHarvard Summer School,Professional Development Programs,Harvard Institute for Learning in RetirementHarvard Extension Alumni… Harvard Magazine Online Takes Off When DCE moved entirely online in response to the crisis, the results proved both unexpected and surprising. Enrollment at Harvard Extension School rose by 5%, while Harvard Summer School reported an enrollment increase of 13%. Both DCE units anticipate continued… Higher Ed Dive How Colleges With Hybrid Instruction Can Support Online Students This Fall Ensuring that remote and in-person students get the same quality of education when they take classes together can be challenging for administrators and instructors alike. But with the right technology and creative thinking, it is possible. 1 / 2 Previous Next The Division of Continuing Education A catalyst that amplifies your learning with practical knowledge gained from Harvard instructors and classroom peers. Harvard Division of Continuing Education A division of Harvard University dedicated to bringing rigorous programs and innovative online teaching capabilities to distance learners, working professionals, high school students, college students, and those seeking higher learning in retirement. Harvard Extension School Harvard degrees, certificates and courses—online, in the evenings, and at your own pace. Harvard Summer School Academic summer opportunities for adult, college and high school students—at Harvard and abroad. Harvard Professional Development Short, intensive programs to develop skills and strengthen your professional profile. Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement Peer learning in the liberal arts—a community program for retired and semi-retired professionals. Harvard Division of Continuing Education Privacy Statement Accessibility Rights & Regulations Digital Accessibility Policy Harvard.edu Cookie Settings Copyright ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College