Skip to content Harvard Division of Continuing Education About History Meet Dean Coleman COVID-19 News Media Requests Leadership Our Programs Extension School Professional Development Summer School Learning in Retirement Harvard Extension Alumni Association Harvard Division of Continuing Education About History Meet Dean Coleman COVID-19 News Media Requests Leadership Our Programs Extension School Professional Development Summer School Learning in Retirement Harvard Extension Alumni Association The Division of Continuing Education About Meet the Dean Dr. Nancy Coleman Dr. Nancy Coleman, Dean of Continuing Education and University Extension Dr. Coleman is a senior PCO (professional, continuing and online education) leader. She is deeply committed to technology and innovation in online and place-based education that creates access and opportunities for learners of all ages, types, and socio-economic backgrounds. She is passionate about leadership and international education, and an enthusiastic supporter of women and girls in their personal and professional development journeys. Coleman brings diverse expertise to her leadership of the division, having previously served in roles in both small and large institutions, corporate, and start-up ventures; and taught both online and in the classroom. Before joining Harvard, Nancy created Wellesley Extended, a unit of Wellesley College encompassing summer term, professional and executive education, and the Nehoiden Golf Club. In 2017, she founded the Contemporary Women’s Leadership Institute, a global program designed to help undergraduates develop leadership skills and find their unique voices. Coleman also served as Director of Distance Education at Boston University, directing a business unit responsible for supporting the schools and colleges at BU with online learning initiatives. She was also VP of Academic Services at Keypath, an online program management firm, overseeing all instructional design and student services operations for the organization’s global offices. Dr. Coleman is currently board president of UPCEA (University Professional Continuing Education Association), the nation’s largest PCO association. She is a co-author of “Hallmarks of Excellence in Online Leadership,” published by UPCEA in March 2015. She is a frequent domestic and international conference speaker, covering such topics as the organization and leadership of nontraditional programs, establishment of best practices, and formulating successful partnerships. Coleman holds a doctorate in Human and Organizational Learning from George Washington University and an MBA from Boston University Questrom School of Management. Her research has focused on ambidexterity and innovation in online learning units. Interviews & Publications The State of Continuing Education Dean Nancy Coleman’s insights on the current state — and future of — continuing education, May 9, 2022 Thoughts on Harvard & the Legacy of Slavery Read Dean Nancy Coleman’s letter to the DCE community, April 27, 2022 Nancy Coleman Speaks With Consejo de Colegios Mayores Universitarios de España Read Dean Nancy’s interview with Consejo de Colegios Mayores Universitarios, April 26, 2022 A Shifting World, A Shifting Leadership Paradigm Unbound: Reinventing Higher Education, March 2, 2022 Conversations on Higher Ed with Nancy Coleman Mindmax Podcast Episode 17, June 24, 2021 Dean Coleman Looks to the Future of the Division of Continuing Education Harvard Extension School Blog Post Nancy Coleman named new dean for Division of Continuing Education The Harvard Gazette, June 18, 2020 Nancy Coleman Appointed Dean of Continuing Education Harvard Magazine, June 18, 2020 Contact the Dean (617) 495-2930 DCE_Dean@fas.harvard.edu The Division of Continuing Education A catalyst that amplifies your learning with practical knowledge gained from Harvard instructors and classroom peers. Harvard Division of Continuing Education A division of Harvard University dedicated to bringing rigorous programs and innovative online teaching capabilities to distance learners, working professionals, high school students, college students, and those seeking higher learning in retirement. Harvard Extension School Harvard degrees, certificates and courses—online, in the evenings, and at your own pace. Harvard Summer School Academic summer opportunities for adult, college and high school students—at Harvard and abroad. Harvard Professional Development Short, intensive programs to develop skills and strengthen your professional profile. Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement Peer learning in the liberal arts—a community program for retired and semi-retired professionals. Harvard Division of Continuing Education Privacy Statement Accessibility Rights & Regulations Digital Accessibility Policy Harvard.edu Cookie Settings Copyright ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College