Skip to content Harvard Division of Continuing Education About History Meet Dean Coleman COVID-19 News Media Requests Leadership Our Programs Extension School Professional Development Summer School Learning in Retirement Harvard Extension Alumni Association Harvard Division of Continuing Education About History Meet Dean Coleman COVID-19 News Media Requests Leadership Our Programs Extension School Professional Development Summer School Learning in Retirement Harvard Extension Alumni Association The Division of Continuing Education About COVID-19 and Visiting Campus Meet the Dean Leadership News Media Requests COVID-19 and Visiting Campus The safety of our students, faculty and staff remains our top priority during this unprecedented time. Visiting Campus As the local public health situation continues to improve, the University has resumed allowing visitors on campus. Beginning May 2, 2022, the Division of Continuing Education will open our buildings to visitors and look forward to welcoming summer students back to campus in June. Health and Safety To reduce the risk and spread of COVID-19, Harvard University Health Services (HUHS) and Environmental Health & Safety (EH&S) have established protocols for visitors and for the Harvard community members who invite visitors to campus. We will follow these protocols and adapt them for DCE. Harvard University requires some visitors to attest to their vaccination status and wellness prior to entering campus facilities. Please review visitors who need to complete this self-assessment form before entering Harvard Division of Continuing Education (DCE) buildings. A green check mark will be emailed to you, indicating that you are clear to come to the DCE campus. Visitors should be prepared to present it when requested. Self-Assessment Form Visitors who do not need to complete a self-assessment form before accessing DCE buildings Visitors who need to complete a self-assessment form before accessing DCE buildings Harvard University affiliates, including Faculty/TAs teaching in courses and Harvard Staff from other units Harvard Extension School students (Spring/Fall students) Harvard Summer School students (classroom spaces) Harvard Summer School students (administrative spaces) Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement (HILR) participants Non-affiliated Business Associates with permission from DCE Administration & Finance Professional Development Program participants Prospective Students Office Hours for Information/Services Admissions Office Degree Offices/Advisors Enrollment Services Student Financial Services Registrar Office Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday: 9 am – 5 pm Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday: 9 am – 5 pm Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday: 10 am – 12 pm and 2 pm – 4 pm Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday: 10 am – 12 pm and 2 pm – 4 pm Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday: 10 am – 12 pm and 2 pm – 4 pm By appointment. No walk-ins. By appointment. No walk-ins. Walk-in Walk-in Appointment only for Financial Aid By appointment. No walk-ins. General Visitor Guidelines Per University guidelines, masks are optional however DCE staff reserve the right to ask visitors to wear a mask for appointments and/or in private offices. Visitors to 51 Brattle will need to check in with the Security Guard and fill out a self-assessment form, if necessary (see above). Visitors will need to sign in and will be given a visitor badge. Appointments: Please bring confirmation email to gain access to a building. After appointments, visitors will be instructed to leave the building. Visitors will not be allowed in the building after office hours and will not be referred to other offices that don’t have office hours. Program Specific Guidelines To learn more about how to keep yourself and the DCE community healthy during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, please visit the program pages below. Here you will find information on some of the important changes we have made to how we live, learn, teach, and work to protect our community. Harvard Extension School COVID updates Harvard Summer School COVID updates Professional Development COVID updates Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement COVID updates You may also visit Harvard University’s COVID-19 information page, Keep Harvard Healthy. The Division of Continuing Education A catalyst that amplifies your learning with practical knowledge gained from Harvard instructors and classroom peers. Harvard Division of Continuing Education A division of Harvard University dedicated to bringing rigorous programs and innovative online teaching capabilities to distance learners, working professionals, high school students, college students, and those seeking higher learning in retirement. Harvard Extension School Harvard degrees, certificates and courses—online, in the evenings, and at your own pace. Harvard Summer School Academic summer opportunities for adult, college and high school students—at Harvard and abroad. Harvard Professional Development Short, intensive programs to develop skills and strengthen your professional profile. Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement Peer learning in the liberal arts—a community program for retired and semi-retired professionals. Harvard Division of Continuing Education Privacy Statement Accessibility Rights & Regulations Digital Accessibility Policy Harvard.edu Cookie Settings Copyright ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College