Skip to content Harvard Division of Continuing Education About History Meet Dean Coleman COVID-19 News Media Requests Leadership Our Programs Extension School Professional Development Summer School Learning in Retirement Harvard Extension Alumni Association Harvard Division of Continuing Education About History Meet Dean Coleman COVID-19 News Media Requests Leadership Our Programs Extension School Professional Development Summer School Learning in Retirement Harvard Extension Alumni Association The Division of Continuing Education About Media Requests Filming and Photography Policies For press and media requests, the Division of Continuing Education can provide information on the school and connect journalists with experts on a variety of subjects related to continuing higher education. For all media requests, please contact Harry Pierre, Associate Director of Communications. External Media, Filming, and Photography Policies Harvard University has strict policies about filming and taking photographs on campus. The following guidelines have been established to protect the privacy of all members of the Harvard community and to promote an environment conducive to learning. We appreciate your cooperation. Reporters, photographers, video/motion picture cameras, and media recording equipment are not permitted inside Faculty of Arts and Sciences (FAS) and Harvard Extension School buildings, including classrooms, laboratories, office buildings, or other facilities unless assigned by the director of PR/media relations. Only exteriors of buildings may be photographed or filmed with approval in advance. To request a permission form, call (617) 998-8530. This permission form must be completed in advance of shooting, and the photographers or film crew must carry the form with them during the shoot. Please secure the permission, in advance, of any students who will be photographed or filmed in wide shots of the Yard or elsewhere. Special events, conferences, seminars, speeches, etc. may be recorded or filmed by the Harvard Extension School sponsoring organization, for archival purposes and news posts. Such recording may not be sold or distributed to other internal or external organizations. Filming and reporting of Harvard Extension School sponsored events inside Harvard buildings may be permitted at the discretion of the director of PR and media relations, in advance. Photo Requests Harvard Extension School maintains an electronic database of thousands of photos suitable for media use. You cannot republish our photographs without specific permission. For photo permissions, please email photo_services@harvard.edu. All photos are copyrighted and must be properly credited and used for the stated purpose only. The Division of Continuing Education A catalyst that amplifies your learning with practical knowledge gained from Harvard instructors and classroom peers. Harvard Division of Continuing Education A division of Harvard University dedicated to bringing rigorous programs and innovative online teaching capabilities to distance learners, working professionals, high school students, college students, and those seeking higher learning in retirement. Harvard Extension School Harvard degrees, certificates and courses—online, in the evenings, and at your own pace. Harvard Summer School Academic summer opportunities for adult, college and high school students—at Harvard and abroad. Harvard Professional Development Short, intensive programs to develop skills and strengthen your professional profile. Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement Peer learning in the liberal arts—a community program for retired and semi-retired professionals. Harvard Division of Continuing Education Privacy Statement Accessibility Rights & Regulations Digital Accessibility Policy Harvard.edu Cookie Settings Copyright ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College