Skip to navigation Skip to main content Columbia College | Columbia University in the City of New York Double Discovery Center Search Educating Children of Promise since 1965 Main menu About Us Mission and History Center Statistics In the News Staff Board of Friends Contact & Location Protection of Minors Double Discovery Student Organization (DDSO) Program Information COVID-19 Partners Courses Overview Support Admissions FAQs Eligibility Work & Volunteer for DDC Employment Opportunities Volunteer Opportunities Articles Join Our Mailing List Reconnect! Newsletters Search Enter a keyword Search Program Model: A Formula for Success We prepare students to go “to, through and beyond” college with our high-quality academic courses, college and career counseling, and social-emotional guidance that support students’ resilience and persistence for success. Through our three-component model - Academic Enrichment, College & Career Success, Healthy Minds & Bodies - we provide a comprehensive and responsive approach to meet students’ needs. Need: In 2014, 53% of NYC students, most of whom Black and Latino, did not meet threshold requirements for college. Their lack of educational attainment blocked an important pathway out of poverty and the social mobility that benefits the individual, family, community and society. Solution: DDC’s expanded program model now includes these three essential components: Academic Enrichment; College & Career Success; and Healthy Minds & Bodies. Through our more robust and comprehensive approach to college readiness, we are maximizing the impact on our students’ educational attainments and socioeconomic mobility. Need: Poverty undermines young people’s educational opportunities and academic success by limiting their access to rigorous and diverse learning experiences that can prepare them for higher education Solution: DDC’s Academic Enrichment activities strengthen students’ academic competencies and behaviors that are requisite for college success by immersing them in innovative project-based learning and tutorial services across the Humanities, STEM, and the Arts. Need: With less guidance and fewer resources, low-income and first-generation students tend to lack the knowledge and skills to effectively access and persist through college. Solution: DDC’s College & Career Success activities develop students’ knowledge, awareness, and competencies to effectively navigate through the high school graduation, college admissions, financial aid & financial literacy, and college transition processes so that they can persist to college graduation. They also explore a range of careers through different opportunities ranging from career panels, job shadowing, and paid internships. Need: Low-income and first generation students’ journey to college graduation can be derailed by a lower sense of belonging on a college campus, anxiety about communicating with faculty and campus peers, diminished sense of efficacy, and weaker network of support amongst family and friends who may not understand their transition to college. Solution: DDC’s Healthy Minds & Bodies activities help students build the necessary dispositions and skills to support their resilience and persistence for lifelong success as well as their capacity to nurture their physical and mental well-being so they are able to attain their post-secondary goals. DDC embraces the idea that college readiness is the level of preparation a student needs to enroll and succeed—without remediation—in a credit-bearing general education course in order to advance to the next sequential course in the subject area at a postsecondary institution. We also recognize that the cost of not being college ready minimally can total $68,000 when loss of salary earnings is considered. Program Information COVID-19 Partners Courses Overview The Double Discovery Center Phone: (212) 854-3897 Fax: (212) 854-7457 ddc@columbia.edu Location Alfred Lerner Hall, Rm. 306 2920 Broadway, MC 2604 New York, NY 10027 Follow DDC DDC Facebook Page DDC on Twitter DDC on YouTube DDC on LinkedIn Join our Mailing List © 2022 Columbia University | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Notice of Non-Discrimination |University Home Page