Skip to navigation Skip to main content Columbia College | Columbia University in the City of New York Double Discovery Center Search Educating Children of Promise since 1965 Main menu About Us Mission and History Center Statistics In the News Staff Board of Friends Contact & Location Protection of Minors Double Discovery Student Organization (DDSO) Program Information COVID-19 Partners Courses Overview Support Admissions FAQs Eligibility Work & Volunteer for DDC Employment Opportunities Volunteer Opportunities Articles Join Our Mailing List Reconnect! Newsletters Search Enter a keyword Search Double Discovery Student Organization (DDSO) The Double Discovery Student Organization (DDSO), a recognized Columbia University student group consisting of Columbia College and Barnard College undergraduates. It assists with the recruitment and training of over 100 volunteers annually, and organizes events for Double Discovery high school students. The group is an integral part of the Center’s mission of “double discovery”, where high school students and college volunteers each learn from the other. The DDSO’s most well known event is their annual College Discovery Day. They take DDC students to their college classes to give them a first-hand look at a day in the life of an undergraduate. The day includes workshops and panels with Columbia and Barnard students and the admissions and financial aid staff. The DDSO has also sponsored the Center’s annual Halloween and holiday parties for students and post graduation reception for the senior class. For more information and the latest on the DDSO, you can follow them @DDSO_board on Twitter. About Us Mission and History Center Statistics In the News Staff Board of Friends Contact & Location Protection of Minors Double Discovery Student Organization (DDSO) The Double Discovery Center Phone: (212) 854-3897 Fax: (212) 854-7457 ddc@columbia.edu Location Alfred Lerner Hall, Rm. 306 2920 Broadway, MC 2604 New York, NY 10027 Follow DDC DDC Facebook Page DDC on Twitter DDC on YouTube DDC on LinkedIn Join our Mailing List © 2022 Columbia University | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Notice of Non-Discrimination |University Home Page