Skip to navigation Skip to main content Columbia College | Columbia University in the City of New York Double Discovery Center Search Educating Children of Promise since 1965 Main menu About Us Mission and History Center Statistics In the News Staff Board of Friends Contact & Location Protection of Minors Double Discovery Student Organization (DDSO) Program Information COVID-19 Partners Courses Overview Support Admissions FAQs Eligibility Work & Volunteer for DDC Employment Opportunities Volunteer Opportunities Articles Join Our Mailing List Reconnect! Newsletters Search Enter a keyword Search Protection of Minors Columbia University is committed to promoting a safe environment for minors who participate in our programs and activities. We have taken a number of important steps to establish safeguards for your child: We have revised our policy on Reporting Suspected Abuse and Maltreatment of Minors. We have established clear requirements for reporting abuse and maltreatment. We have widely disseminated a flyer reminding employees and volunteers how to make a report. We have developed a website that contains valuable information on the protection of minors at Columbia. We are educating members of the University community about the signs of abuse and maltreatment and how to make a report. We are requiring certain categories of adults who participate in programs or activities involving minors to clear criminal background checks and other screening requirements. You can read the University’s policy and access other helpful resources at http://compliance.columbia.edu/minors.html. About Us Mission and History Center Statistics In the News Staff Board of Friends Contact & Location Protection of Minors Double Discovery Student Organization (DDSO) The Double Discovery Center Phone: (212) 854-3897 Fax: (212) 854-7457 ddc@columbia.edu Location Alfred Lerner Hall, Rm. 306 2920 Broadway, MC 2604 New York, NY 10027 Follow DDC DDC Facebook Page DDC on Twitter DDC on YouTube DDC on LinkedIn Join our Mailing List © 2022 Columbia University | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Notice of Non-Discrimination |University Home Page