Skip to navigation Skip to main content Columbia College | Columbia University in the City of New York Double Discovery Center Search Educating Children of Promise since 1965 Main menu About Us Mission and History Center Statistics In the News Staff Board of Friends Contact & Location Protection of Minors Double Discovery Student Organization (DDSO) Program Information COVID-19 Partners Courses Overview Support Admissions FAQs Eligibility Work & Volunteer for DDC Employment Opportunities Volunteer Opportunities Articles Join Our Mailing List Reconnect! Newsletters Search Enter a keyword Search DDC Programs Partners Among our program partners are several Columbia University schools and departments: Schools of Social Work, Mailman School of Public Health, School of the Arts, School of Professional Studies, Teachers College, Zuckerman Institute for Brain Research and the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory. Freedom & Citizenship Started in 2009 with Columbia University’s Center for American Studies, the Freedom and Citizenship program gives rising seniors the opportunity to take part in the rigor of a Columbia College education. This yearlong program, which delves into the meaning and responsibilities of citizenship and freedom, is modeled on the Core Curriculum studied by all Columbia undergraduates. Learn more about Freedom & Citizenship In addition to the joint programming with Columbia University, DDC has forged several partnerships throughout New York City and beyond to give students the most diverse and well-rounded educational experiences, career opportunities and personal development. A sample of the partner programs is below: Macquarie Group The Macquarie Group is a global investment banking and diversified financial services organization. Since 2009, DDC students have taken part in their Leadership, Education, Advancement, Development and Support (LEADS) Summer Internship Program –a flagship community program in New York City that offers an opportunity for first generation college-bound high school students to better understand the links between education choices and career. This five-week paid internship, involves more than 60 staff members from across Macquarie’s business divisions that participate as mentors, trainers and volunteers. Students experience what it is like to work in a corporate office setting, learn best practices for business behavior, and take part in company projects. Upward Bound (UB) Partner Schools Students enroll in 9th or 10th grade. Partner schools include: Frederick Douglass Academy I Global Learning Collaborative Philip Randolph HS Wadleigh Secondary School for the Performing & Visual Arts Washington Heights Expeditionary Learning School Talent Search (TS) Partner Schools Students enroll from 7th thru 12th grade. Partner schools include: Community Health Academy of the Heights Manhattan Center for Science and Mathematics Park East High School Thurgood Marshall Academy for Learning & Social Change Urban Assembly School for the Performing Arts Program Information COVID-19 Partners Courses Overview The Double Discovery Center Phone: (212) 854-3897 Fax: (212) 854-7457 ddc@columbia.edu Location Alfred Lerner Hall, Rm. 306 2920 Broadway, MC 2604 New York, NY 10027 Follow DDC DDC Facebook Page DDC on Twitter DDC on YouTube DDC on LinkedIn Join our Mailing List © 2022 Columbia University | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Notice of Non-Discrimination |University Home Page