Skip to navigation Skip to main content Columbia College | Columbia University in the City of New York Double Discovery Center Search Educating Children of Promise since 1965 Main menu About Us Mission and History Center Statistics In the News Staff Board of Friends Contact & Location Protection of Minors Double Discovery Student Organization (DDSO) Program Information COVID-19 Partners Courses Overview Support Admissions FAQs Eligibility Work & Volunteer for DDC Employment Opportunities Volunteer Opportunities Articles Join Our Mailing List Reconnect! Newsletters Search Enter a keyword Search FAQs What is the Double Discovery Center (DDC)? The Double Discovery Center at Columbia University is one of the nation’s oldest federally funded educational programs to assist low-income and first-generation college bound students—Upward Bound since 1965 and Talent Search since 1977. Academic programming is year-round and divided into spring, summer, and fall semesters. Who is eligible to enroll? DDC accepts students who live and/or attend schools in Manhattan, and are low-income and/or first-generation college-bound. Why must I submit tax information when applying to DDC? Because Double Discovery is primarily funded by the U.S. Department of Education, federal guidelines require that all families submit proof of eligibility. Please click on this link to review financial guidelines. What are DDC’s office hours? Business hours are Monday – Friday, 10a.m. – 6p.m. Summer hours are Monday to Friday, 9a.m. to 5p.m. What is the difference between the Upward Bound (UB) and the Talent Search (TS) program? The Upward Bound program accepts students in 9th through 12th grades from select partner schools. During the summer, students can apply for entry into the UB Summer Academy where they live on campus, and take classes for four weeks. The Talent Search program accepts students in 7th through 12th grades from select partner schools. When does DDC accept students? DDC accepts applications on a rolling basis. To register for Fall semester courses, September 30 To register for Spring semester courses, January 30 For 9th and 10th grade students interested in Summer Academy, May 1 Could I just enroll in the SAT course offered at DDC? No. The SAT course is only available to students are who are enrolled in the program and participate in workshops, seminars, and/or academic courses. Could I enroll in DDC just for the summer? No. Only students who have been active with DDC for at least one semester are eligible to apply for summer programming. If I am a Double Discovery student, could I bring a friend and/or family member to a workshop, seminar, academic class, or Columbia facility? No. To help ensure the safety of students, staff, volunteers, and those on campus, all activities, academic courses, seminars, special programming, workshops, and University facilities are only available to current students enrolled in the program. What if my question is not on this list? If there is a topic not addressed or if there are additional questions, please feel free to email us at ddc@columbia.edu or call our office at 212-854-3897. Thank you for visiting our website and for your interest in the Double Discovery Center. Back to the main page Admissions FAQs Eligibility The Double Discovery Center Phone: (212) 854-3897 Fax: (212) 854-7457 ddc@columbia.edu Location Alfred Lerner Hall, Rm. 306 2920 Broadway, MC 2604 New York, NY 10027 Follow DDC DDC Facebook Page DDC on Twitter DDC on YouTube DDC on LinkedIn Join our Mailing List © 2022 Columbia University | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Notice of Non-Discrimination |University Home Page