Skip to navigation Skip to main content Columbia College | Columbia University in the City of New York Double Discovery Center Search Educating Children of Promise since 1965 Main menu About Us Mission and History Center Statistics In the News Staff Board of Friends Contact & Location Protection of Minors Double Discovery Student Organization (DDSO) Program Information COVID-19 Partners Courses Overview Support Admissions FAQs Eligibility Work & Volunteer for DDC Employment Opportunities Volunteer Opportunities Articles Join Our Mailing List Reconnect! Newsletters Search Enter a keyword Search Our Formula for Success The Double Discovery Center works with low-income, first-generation college-bound youth from Harlem and Washington Heights to help ensure their success to, through, and beyond college. We leverage and coordinate University resources to provide students with a comprehensive network of support that includes Academic Enrichment, College & Career Success and Healthy Minds & Bodies. Change a Life DDC gave me the audacity to think I belong on the Columbia campus. If it was not for DDC, I would not be where I am now. Faith A., DDC ’06: BA, Binghamton University; MA, Teachers College, Columbia University Launched in 1965 during President Johnson’s “War on Poverty” initiative, the Double Discovery Center has remained faithful to its founding mission – increase the rates of high school graduation, and college enrollment and graduation for low-income and first-generation college-bound youth from Harlem and Washington Heights. We are proud of what we have accomplished: As of 2019, the Double Discovery Center has made college access and success a reality for over 15,000 individuals. Every year, about 90% of DDC high school seniors graduate from high school on time and enter college the following fall semester – far surpassing city, state and national outcomes for low-income, first-generation college-bound and minority students. DDC students have been admitted to the most prestigious institutions of higher learning, from Brown to Harvard to Yale. We thank all of our donors, supporters, and partners for your continued support that has allowed us to persist in our mission and transform the lives of so many community youth through education. Without your financial donations, large and small, we wouldn’t be able to meet the college-going needs and aspirations of low-income and first-generation youth from Harlem and Washington Heights. To change a life with the Gift of Education, CLICK HERE! To join our mailing list and receive the DDC newsletter with regular updates on our programs, activities, and student accomplishments, please CLICK HERE. The Double Discovery Center Phone: (212) 854-3897 Fax: (212) 854-7457 ddc@columbia.edu Location Alfred Lerner Hall, Rm. 306 2920 Broadway, MC 2604 New York, NY 10027 Follow DDC DDC Facebook Page DDC on Twitter DDC on YouTube DDC on LinkedIn Join our Mailing List © 2022 Columbia University | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Notice of Non-Discrimination |University Home Page