Skip to navigation Skip to main content Columbia College | Columbia University in the City of New York Double Discovery Center Search Educating Children of Promise since 1965 Main menu About Us Mission and History Center Statistics In the News Staff Board of Friends Contact & Location Protection of Minors Double Discovery Student Organization (DDSO) Program Information COVID-19 Partners Courses Overview Support Admissions FAQs Eligibility Work & Volunteer for DDC Employment Opportunities Volunteer Opportunities Articles Join Our Mailing List Reconnect! Newsletters Search Enter a keyword Search DDC Staff Administration Annick Sullivan Development Officer Annick has a significant background in fundraising for educational institutions, from Columbia University Medical Center to the French-American School of New York. She attended high school in France and is familiar with both the public and private educational systems in the United States. She has a B.A. in Science Journalism from Baruch College and an M.S. in Nonprofit Management from Columbia University. Annick chose the development field because she wanted to make a positive impact on society and her values strongly match DDC’s mission. She believes in providing children access to quality education, regardless of income, so that every child can fulfill his/her potential and in turn, contribute positively to the economic growth and the democratic process of this country. College and Career Success Sarah Bowen Assistant Director, Talent Search Sarah is an educator, college access advocate, and art enthusiast born and raised by Jamaican parents in Milwaukee, WI. Before entering the classroom 8 years ago, she attended Marquette University where she received a dual-major Bachelors of Science degree in secondary education, writing-intensive English, and a minor in sociology. After graduating and teaching for one year in Milwaukee, she moved to Houston, TX via Teach for America where she planted her heart for two years as a 10th grade ELA teacher and two more years as a college counselor. In 2019, she decided to take her talents to the east coast where she resides in the heart of Harlem. For three years, she was a Lead Youth Development Specialist and College Access Manager. When Sarah is not working on behalf of young people, she is watching a tv show. Her favorite kinds are the ones that make her cry, and that’s why her favorite show is This Is Us. However, Lupin, Manifest, New Amsterdam, The Mandalorian, and many others are also in the mix. Sarah loves to try new food and experiences and gives everything at least three opportunities before calling it quits (i.e. yellow mustard). Sarah’s happy place is the art museum or anywhere with lots of foliage. Faatima Johnson Counselor, Talent Search Faatima is a school counselor who has been working with New York City students for more than eight years, guiding them to realize their fullest potential. Her mantra for working with young people can be summed up by her favorite author Toni Morrison "if you have some power, then your job is to empower somebody else." As a native Bronxite, she initially started this path at Lehman College where she got a bachelor's degree in English Education. She began teaching English, Yoga, and The Youth's Bookclub in New York City's Department of Education. She quickly realized that as a first-generation college graduate herself, she was most interested in preparing and emboldening young people for post-secondary prospects. She became College Access and Advisory Coach and showed post-secondary pathways to a student demographic that felt disengaged and discouraged at their previous high schools. She then returned to the South Bronx as Senior College Advisor and Youth Development Specialist while completing her Masters in Counseling and Guidance at New York University. In her quiet hours, she creates music playlists, paints by numbers, or tries out food recipes from YouTube. Nathaniel Robinson Counselor, Talent Search Nate has dedicated his life to helping inner city youth reach their potential and persist through college. His passion for college access and success stems from his own experiences growing up in New York City. Nate is committed to the growth and long-term success of DDC and its students Leticia Vasquez Assistant Director, Upward Bound In the pursuit of her life's calling, Leticia has discovered that she is passionate and committed to expanding opportunities in college access, persistence, and success, especially for students who identify as first-generation, low-income, and/or of historically marginalized, under-served, and underrepresented communities. As first-generation, Mexican-American Queens girl, Leticia believes it is her mission to give back to the community that has given her so much by guiding youth to tap into their highest self through the lens of College Access. When she's not working with youth, she loves to explore the crevices of New York City, listen to The Beatles, and learn about the social implications that exist in our geographies, a subject that sparked her interest while attending Hunter College. She holds a Bachelors of Art in Geography with a double minor in Environmental Science and Sociology from Hunter College. Emily Zanoli Counselor, Upward Bound Emily was born and raised in a large family on the central coast of California. Growing up, her siblings’ experiences in special education sparked an early interest in teaching. Guided and supported by amazing educators along the way; Emily has taught STEM, early literacy, and after-school programs; worked on school leadership teams and in college access programs; in school discipline policy reform; as an education advocate; and one on one with students–supporting their mental and behavioral health needs. She holds a Master of Science in Social Work from the Columbia School of Social Work and a Bachelor of Arts in History from San Francisco State University. On the weekends, Emily is often trying to find somewhere her dogs can run, biking all over the city, or experimenting with a new recipe. Jessica Yip Counselor, Upward Bound Jessica is a proud environmentalist, animal lover, and travel & food enthusiast. She graduated from the University at Buffalo with a B.A in Sociology and Economics. During her junior year, Jessica realized that she wanted to pursue a profession where she could help others so she decided to become a counselor. She went on to get her M.S.Ed in school counseling at Queens College and has been working with youth ever since. Yarisell Hernandez Alumni and Career Counselor Yarisell is a New York City raised, Dominican native, residing in Harlem, NYC. She spent the last two years as a school counselor in SoHo, helping at risk 9th – 12th grade students obtain a high school diploma and post-secondary success. Yarisell attended City College and obtained a Bachelor of Arts in Psychology and a minor in Theatre. She has a Master of Arts in Counseling with a Bilingual School Counseling extension from Manhattan College. Healthy Minds and Bodies Kristan Rosenthal Assistant Director Kristan is a public health social worker with over five years of experience working with teens and their families. Previously, Kristan worked with the BeWell Health and Wellness Program at Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health to provide health, wellness, and mental health support to teens in the NYPL's BridgeUP Program, provided health education and reproductive health counseling to teens at Curtis High School in Staten Island with the Children's Aid Society, and served as a Peace Corps Volunteer in Botswana. She holds a BA in Public Health Studies from Johns Hopkins University, and an MPH and MSW from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. She is a doctoral student in social welfare at the City University of New York (CUNY) Graduate Center. Kristan lives in the Bronx and enjoys cooking, hiking, kayaking, and pottery. Ronni Dana Isenberg Columbia University School of Social Work Intern Ronni received her BSW and B.A. in Policy Studies from Syracuse University. Ronni plans to pursue her MSW at Columbia School of Social Work this year and her M.S. in Nonprofit Management the following year so she can lead her own organization and change the world. Ronni has experience with direct clinical practice work with children in foster care, foster parents and birth parents, case management, and children with developmental and physical disabilities. In her free time, Ronni enjoys exploring NYC, baking and spending time with family and friends. Elizabeth Whatley Ozer Columbia University School of Social Work Intern Whatley recently graduated from the University of Virginia with a B.A. in Foreign Affairs. This year, Whatley will be attending the Columbia School of Social Work to receive her MSW in 2022 and will eventually pursue a Ph.D. in clinical psychology to become a licensed psychologist. Whatley has experience working directly with children of all ages. She has also served as a mentor and counselor to many students throughout her time at UVA. Whatley wears many hats: she is a ballet dancer, yogi, waitress, runner, and avid reader. Erica Danielle Wilson Columbia University School of Social Work Intern Erica received her Bachelor of Arts and Science in Sociology from Boston University and she is pursuing her MSW at Columbia School of Social Work this fall. She wants to be a counselor and one day set up her own youth center. Erica plans to incorporate nutritional health into her mental health counseling as she believes the two are very much connected. Erica spent a year in the AmeriCorps Service in Austin, TX as a Shelter Advocate/Case Manager for victims of domestic violence. She has several years of experience working with children, foster parents, and adult survivors of abuse. Erica enjoys traveling, spending time with her friends, and learning about holistic health. About Us Mission and History Center Statistics In the News Staff Board of Friends Contact & Location Protection of Minors Double Discovery Student Organization (DDSO) The Double Discovery Center Phone: (212) 854-3897 Fax: (212) 854-7457 ddc@columbia.edu Location Alfred Lerner Hall, Rm. 306 2920 Broadway, MC 2604 New York, NY 10027 Follow DDC DDC Facebook Page DDC on Twitter DDC on YouTube DDC on LinkedIn Join our Mailing List © 2022 Columbia University | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Notice of Non-Discrimination |University Home Page