Skip to navigation Skip to main content Columbia College | Columbia University in the City of New York Double Discovery Center Search Educating Children of Promise since 1965 Main menu About Us Mission and History Center Statistics In the News Staff Board of Friends Contact & Location Protection of Minors Double Discovery Student Organization (DDSO) Program Information COVID-19 Partners Courses Overview Support Admissions FAQs Eligibility Work & Volunteer for DDC Employment Opportunities Volunteer Opportunities Articles Join Our Mailing List Reconnect! Newsletters Search Enter a keyword Search Courses Overview Humanities Courses Black Feminist Literature: A Chorus for Us | Margaret Banks In this course, students will have the opportunity to study foundational Black feminist texts, including music, artwork and film, and consider how they reach through time to speak to us in our present day. While we read the texts, we will also think about what it means to create our own practice of Black feminist care — for ourselves and for others. To that end, the course closes with students creating a collage of women who are a part of their “chorus” – a group of women who give them “the strength life demanded – and the humor with which to live it.” Literary Imagination: Finding Your Voice and Obsessions | Ariel So & Nathan Motulsky In the course, we will explore the fundamentals of creative writing across genres of poetry, fiction, nonfiction, and hybrid forms. In discovering your own obsessions (this could be anything from a favorite TV show, an object, an activity, etc.), students with all levels of experience can dive into their interests through the play of language, style, narrative voice, character, and experimentation. Through in-class freewriting, exercises, and discussions, the goal for students will be to produce a body of work by the end of four weeks. We’ll do short readings in class and learn by imitating great writers. Students are encouraged to bring their own experiences and perspectives with the goal of building an inclusive, productive class environment. Lastly, we’ll take a look at writing contests where high school students can submit work they’re proud of! Cultivating Powerful Public Speaking Voices | Chiara Fuller Our voices uplift communities, advocate for justice and breathe purpose into stories of human experience. Our voices reinforce strength, speak love, and disrupt worldly issues with truth and power. In this class, we will explore pathways towards the expansion of the socio-political consciousness fused with hip hop pedagogy, spoken word poetry, and theater. DDC scholars will participate in activities that require interviewing, observations and storytelling. Together, we will confidently speak our brilliance into our academic classes, professional arenas and social spaces. This class is for the quiet scholars and talkative scholars who are ready to unapologetically use their bold voices as instruments for social change and building purpose. Unbecoming Me | Margaret Banks In “Unbecoming Me,” we will grapple with what it means to “become” and how we define ourselves as individuals. Through analysis of coming-of-age narratives, we will study characters who transgress (to deviate or go against) what it means to be black, girl, boy, latinx, and queer, and simultaneously recreate themselves anew. We will consider what consequences these characters face for breaking rules and ask whether the freedom they experience is worth it. Throughout, we’ll examine our own coming-of-age narratives and think about how our identities have been defined for us and by us, and how we might unbecome them. For the final project, students will create their own script of being for an identity of their choosing. At The Crossroads: Where We Stand | Diana Liu Our identities are made up of multiple different facets that define who we are. In this course, through various perspectives in the texts we read, short stories, poems, and non-print media (videos, podcasts, music, photography, etc.), we will develop our writing and speaking skills through an investigation of diverse literature. How do intersectionalities inform our identities? In what ways do our identities empower us in various spaces to engage in advocacy work? The selected literature will be taught through a critical examination of the intersections of history, race, sexual identity, gender, class and its connection to NOW. Through each text as the foundation of our inquiries and discussions, we will delve into a series of creative smaller projects that will culminate into the summative multigenre project. Hayao Miyazaki and Studio Ghibli: An Examination of Japanese Culture Through Film | Diana Liu This course will examine a series of one of the most famous animators of all time, Hayao Miyazaki! We will discuss his childhood and life events that have influenced his work and creativity. We will also investigate recurring themes throughout selected films (environmentalism, war trauma, politics of history, loss of innocence/growing up, friendship, love, and more) in relation to issues within Japanese society and culture. Furthermore, students will have the opportunity to make connections within their own communities and societies and draw comparisons between their lived spaces. They will engage in a series of analytical film critique papers, various creative pieces and a series of projects that will allow them to build on and complete the summative course project. Introduction to The Art of Debating | Chiara Fuller This highly interactive course should particularly benefit scholars who boldly dream in action. We will debate a range of topics surrounding social justice, environmentalism, educational reform and criminal justice to name a few. In our brave learning community, scholars examine community-based issues affecting global civil society. DDC scholars will use a multi-debate style platform fused with Hip Hop education pedagogy, spoken word poetry, and theater. At the end of the program, scholars will be able to connect their transferable skills, debate centered strategies, and practical tools to successfully complete their final project. Small groups will be created to present a pressing community issue in a competition format. During each final project, scholars will masterfully engage in cross-examination, rebuttals, crystallization, and weighing impact debate strategies. DDC Scholars who are interested can compete against debate scholars across the city during our monthly New York City Debate League tournaments. No experience required. STEM Courses Modern Genetics: Science, History, Ethics | Dennis Zhang This workshops explores the historical context and contemporary ethical issues of modern genetics. Some of the topics that will be covered are personal genetics, the American eugenics movement, and gene editing. Students should be prepared to engage actively in discussion, take stances, be open to new ideas, and readily present findings from in-class activities. Technical understanding of scientific concepts will not be emphasized or required, so this course is open to all students with interests in the sciences, humanities, law, social justice, and more. Art Courses We Are The Art: Wearable Art & Fashion | Imani Whyte-Anigboro In “We are the Art: Wearable Art & Fashion” we will explore and learn about four influential fashion designers/artists of the diaspora and delve into their story and techniques. Through learning their stories, we will see how they changed the fashion world forever. While learning about these black pioneers of fashion we will make our own wearable art using them as our inspiration and their techniques as our guide. As you become the artist you can explore how you can leave your own lasting impression on your world and possibly on the fashion community. Bring your uniqueness and willingness to stand out in a crowd for Fun and Fashion. College Prep Workshops 9th & 10th Grade: Students develop your goal-setting, decision-making, self-awareness, self-confidence, and stress management skills 11th Grade: Students learn to generate the first drafts of the documents (e.g. personal statement, resume, college list, etc.) necessary for college application process. They are paired with a mentor and with a counselor for individualized support. 12th Grade: Demystify and crack the code of college applications! Students review the detailed steps necessary to ensure a high-quality and competitive application and help you refine drafts of the documents (e.g. personal statement, resume, college list, etc.) necessary for college application process. SAT Prep: Priority to 10th and 11th graders through pre-registration. Intensive SAT tutoring includes SAT mock exams. Instructors monitor their progress and identify areas that need extra attention. Financial Literacy for Decision-Making & Wealth Building: Participants are empowered with important financial management knowledge and skills to support their financial decision-making. Tutorial Sessions Tutorial Sessions: Math (e.g. Algebra, Geometry, Calculus, SAT), English, Social Studies (e.g. SAT, Global and U.S. History), Science (e.g. Biology/Living Environment, Earth Science, Chemistry, Physics), and Writing Center. Student Success Skill-Building Series: Students develop and foster their time management, note-taking, study skills and communication. Healthy Minds and Bodies Courses Feel Good Friday Program Information COVID-19 Partners Courses Overview The Double Discovery Center Phone: (212) 854-3897 Fax: (212) 854-7457 ddc@columbia.edu Location Alfred Lerner Hall, Rm. 306 2920 Broadway, MC 2604 New York, NY 10027 Follow DDC DDC Facebook Page DDC on Twitter DDC on YouTube DDC on LinkedIn Join our Mailing List © 2022 Columbia University | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Notice of Non-Discrimination |University Home Page