Skip to navigation Skip to main content Columbia College | Columbia University in the City of New York Double Discovery Center Search Educating Children of Promise since 1965 Main menu About Us Mission and History Center Statistics In the News Staff Board of Friends Contact & Location Protection of Minors Double Discovery Student Organization (DDSO) Program Information COVID-19 Partners Courses Overview Support Admissions FAQs Eligibility Work & Volunteer for DDC Employment Opportunities Volunteer Opportunities Articles Join Our Mailing List Reconnect! Newsletters Search Enter a keyword Search The Roger Lehecka Double Discovery Center Appoints New Executive Director Columbia College has appointed Kecia Hayes, a Teachers College alumna with more than 20 years of education experience, as the new executive director of the Roger Lehecka Double Discovery Center (DDC), a program that works to enhance higher education opportunities for local low-income and first-generation youth ages 12–27. DDC’s academic enrichment program, which serves approximately 1,000 students annually and has become a model for similar programs throughout the United States, focuses on ensuring high school graduation, college enrollment and completion, and responsible adulthood. Hayes will formally begin transitioning into her new role on Monday, January 29 and will be fully on board on Monday, February 19. “We are thrilled to welcome Kecia Hayes, a longtime member of the Columbia community, as the new executive director of Double Discovery Center,” said James J. Valentini, dean of Columbia College and vice president for undergraduate education. “Kecia’s experience in urban education leadership, as well as her passion for transforming schools in the local community, will be a valuable asset to DDC’s current and future families.” Founded in 1965, DDC was the creation of Columbia undergraduates who were moved by the disparities between their Ivy League institution and the underserved Harlem community. Annually, 90 percent of high school seniors participating in DDC programs graduate on time and enter college the following fall semester, which greatly surpasses city, state and national outcomes for low-income, first-generation college and minority students. “Double Discovery Center has been an important anchor within the community, creating extraordinary learning opportunities and systems of support for Harlem’s youth as well as University students,” said Hayes. “I am excited and humbled by the opportunity to build on DDC’s strong foundation in order to deepen its impact on the lives of young people.” A native New Yorker and longtime Harlem resident, Hayes has spent the last six years as founding director of the Raising Educational Achievement Coalition of Harlem (REACH), a university-assisted, community school initiative at Teachers College. Anchored by teacher and school leader professional development, REACH supports simultaneous programming in expanded learning time, health resources and family engagement to mitigate the impact of poverty and improve the academic achievements of Harlem youth. Prior to Teachers College, she taught educational leadership at Montclair State University and worked in various roles to advance school improvement at local, city and state levels. Hayes earned a B.A. from Hamilton College, an M.A. and Ed.M. from Teachers College and received her Ph.D. in Urban Education from the CUNY Graduate Center. DDC Recent News 1 March 2019 - 11:03am DDC Appoints New Board of Friends Chair, Looks to the Future 11 January 2018 - 11:19am The Roger Lehecka Double Discovery Center Appoints New Executive Director 17 July 2017 - 5:09pm Columbia Scholars Lead DDC's Middle School Summer Program 11 July 2017 - 3:41pm Upward Bound Summer Academy Underway 15 June 2017 - 12:43pm Macquarie LEADS Program Kicks Off Summer See all News The Double Discovery Center Phone: (212) 854-3897 Fax: (212) 854-7457 ddc@columbia.edu Location Alfred Lerner Hall, Rm. 306 2920 Broadway, MC 2604 New York, NY 10027 Follow DDC DDC Facebook Page DDC on Twitter DDC on YouTube DDC on LinkedIn Join our Mailing List © 2022 Columbia University | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Notice of Non-Discrimination |University Home Page