Skip to navigation Skip to main content Columbia College | Columbia University in the City of New York Double Discovery Center Search Educating Children of Promise since 1965 Main menu About Us Mission and History Center Statistics In the News Staff Board of Friends Contact & Location Protection of Minors Double Discovery Student Organization (DDSO) Program Information COVID-19 Partners Courses Overview Support Admissions FAQs Eligibility Work & Volunteer for DDC Employment Opportunities Volunteer Opportunities Articles Join Our Mailing List Reconnect! Newsletters Search Enter a keyword Search Eligibility The Double Discovery Center is accepting applications from students, across the 7th through 12th grades, from its ten partner NYC public schools: Upward Bound (UB) | Students enroll in 9th or 10th grade. Partner schools include: Frederick Douglass Academy I Global Learning Collaborative Philip Randolph HS Wadleigh Secondary School for the Performing &Visual Arts Washington Heights Expeditionary Learning School Talent Search (TS) | Students enroll from 7th thru 12th grade. Partner schools include: Community Health Academy of the Heights Manhattan Center for Science and Mathematics Park East High School Thurgood Marshall Academy for Learning & Social Change Urban Assembly School for the Performing Arts Applicants must be low-income as defined by the Federal income guidelines and/or first-generation in his or her family to attend college. To be first-generation means that neither of the student’s parents or legal guardians has a bachelor’s degree from an institution of higher education in the United States. Additionally, students must have a current school attendance rate of no less than 80%. We invite all eligible students to complete and submit an application with the necessary documentation. A complete application must include responses to all of the questions and be signed by the student as well as the parent/guardian. Additionally, it must be accompanied by the items listed below. Failure to include all documents will result in a delay in the review of your application. Copy of the student’s most recent high school transcript Copy of the student’s current attendance record or most recent report card Copy of parent or guardian’s signed 1040 tax return or public assistance budget letter if available, or a completed family/household income section If you determine that you meet the eligibility criteria, we invite you to complete and submit an application with the necessary documentation (e.g. high school transcript, the report card or attendance record for the current academic year, and family income verification). Admissions FAQs Eligibility The Double Discovery Center Phone: (212) 854-3897 Fax: (212) 854-7457 ddc@columbia.edu Location Alfred Lerner Hall, Rm. 306 2920 Broadway, MC 2604 New York, NY 10027 Follow DDC DDC Facebook Page DDC on Twitter DDC on YouTube DDC on LinkedIn Join our Mailing List © 2022 Columbia University | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Notice of Non-Discrimination |University Home Page