Skip to navigation Skip to main content Columbia College | Columbia University in the City of New York Double Discovery Center Search Educating Children of Promise since 1965 Main menu About Us Mission and History Center Statistics In the News Staff Board of Friends Contact & Location Protection of Minors Double Discovery Student Organization (DDSO) Program Information COVID-19 Partners Courses Overview Support Admissions FAQs Eligibility Work & Volunteer for DDC Employment Opportunities Volunteer Opportunities Articles Join Our Mailing List Reconnect! Newsletters Search Enter a keyword Search Double Discovery Center Volunteer Registration Form Welcome to The Double Discovery Center (DDC)! Since 1965, DDC has worked to help youth from Harlem and Washington Heights achieve their college dreams. DDC’s mission continues to be increasing high school graduation as well as college enrollment and completion rates for low-income, first-generation college-bound youth from Northern Manhattan. To achieve its mission, DDC designs, implements, and monitors activities across ACADEMIC ENRICHMENT, COLLEGE & CAREER SUCCESS, and HEALTHY MINDS & BODIES. DDC was established through the efforts of Barnard and Columbia undergraduates. Today, we still rely on the civic commitment and volunteerism of students across Barnard and Columbia University to help us fulfill our mission. As indicated below, we have a range of opportunities in which you can participate. Our programming takes place Mondays through Fridays, between 4pm and 6pm; and on Saturdays, between 10am and 2:30pm. Most of our programming is campus-based. We have some programming that takes place at our partner schools, which are all located in Harlem and within walking distance of the Morningside campus. In accordance with the policies of Columbia University, all volunteers must successfully complete the Protection of Minors training and a Background Check. Once you complete this Form, we will contact you via email with the information to complete these tasks as well as the next steps to get you started as a volunteer. DDC could not so deeply impact the lives of our young people without you, so many thanks for joining us in this important work and making DDC a part of your College Journey! First Name * Last Name * Email Address * Phone Number * School Affiliation * Major Class Year * How did you hear about DDC? * Volunteer Areas of Interest * Teaching Assistant Middle School Tutor High School Tutor College Success Mentor The Double Discovery Center Phone: (212) 854-3897 Fax: (212) 854-7457 ddc@columbia.edu Location Alfred Lerner Hall, Rm. 306 2920 Broadway, MC 2604 New York, NY 10027 Follow DDC DDC Facebook Page DDC on Twitter DDC on YouTube DDC on LinkedIn Join our Mailing List © 2022 Columbia University | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Notice of Non-Discrimination |University Home Page