Skip to navigation Skip to main content Columbia College | Columbia University in the City of New York Double Discovery Center Search Educating Children of Promise since 1965 Main menu About Us Mission and History Center Statistics In the News Staff Board of Friends Contact & Location Protection of Minors Double Discovery Student Organization (DDSO) Program Information COVID-19 Partners Courses Overview Support Admissions FAQs Eligibility Work & Volunteer for DDC Employment Opportunities Volunteer Opportunities Articles Join Our Mailing List Reconnect! Newsletters Search Enter a keyword Search Volunteer today! Did you know that DDC is one of the University’s long-standing community engagement organizations serving Harlem youth? DDC was established in 1965 by undergraduates of Columbia University and Barnard College. Like you, they had a deep sense of dedication and promotion of social consciousness and sought to inspire others – particularly the young people of Harlem. Through their work at DDC, they personified leadership, scholarship, and empowerment. We invite you to join the DDC community as we continue to fulfill our mission to increase the high school graduation as well as college enrollment and completion rates of low-income and first-generation college-bound youth from public schools in Harlem and Washington Heights. Below is a list of the different ways in which you can get involved at DDC and have a meaningful impact on the college-going of a youngster from our community. - TEACHING ASSISTANTS (2 work-study positions available): They provide support for the instructor of the Journalism course that is scheduled for Thursdays from 4pm to 6pm. Individuals must have strong skills in using iMovie. - HIGH SCHOOL TUTORS: They provide high school students (individual or small groups of approximately 5-7 students) with Columbia campus-based tutoring in a specific academic area (academic areas needed: Math—Algebra, Geometry, Calculus; History – Global, U.S.; Literature; Science – Biology, Chemistry, Earth Science, Physics; SAT; and Writing). The time commitment is 4 to 6 hours (4pm to 6pm) per week (Mondays through Fridays) beginning in October. - MIDDLE SCHOOL TUTORS (work-study positions available): They provide 7th and 8th graders (individual or small groups of approximately 3-5 students) with school-based tutoring in a specific academic area (academic areas needed: Math and English). The DDC partner school is located at 215 West 114th Street between Frederick Douglass and Adam Clayton Powell boulevards. The time commitment is 4 to 6 hours (during the school day) per week (Mondays through Fridays) beginning in October. - COLLEGE SUCCESS MENTORS: They are paired with DDC students (11th and 12th graders) based on shared academic interests as well as the mentors’ academic strengths and the DDC students’ needs. College Success Mentors assist students with navigating the college application process and the transition from high school to college. They help to expand students’ college and career knowledge as well as build their self-confidence for college-going. The time commitment is 2 to 4 hours per week (4pm to 6pm) beginning in October. Click here to volunteer with DDC today! Work & Volunteer for DDC Employment Opportunities Volunteer Opportunities The Double Discovery Center Phone: (212) 854-3897 Fax: (212) 854-7457 ddc@columbia.edu Location Alfred Lerner Hall, Rm. 306 2920 Broadway, MC 2604 New York, NY 10027 Follow DDC DDC Facebook Page DDC on Twitter DDC on YouTube DDC on LinkedIn Join our Mailing List © 2022 Columbia University | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Notice of Non-Discrimination |University Home Page