Skip to navigation Skip to main content Columbia College | Columbia University in the City of New York Double Discovery Center Search Educating Children of Promise since 1965 Main menu About Us Mission and History Center Statistics In the News Staff Board of Friends Contact & Location Protection of Minors Double Discovery Student Organization (DDSO) Program Information COVID-19 Partners Courses Overview Support Admissions FAQs Eligibility Work & Volunteer for DDC Employment Opportunities Volunteer Opportunities Articles Join Our Mailing List Reconnect! Newsletters Search Enter a keyword Search Information Established in 1965, DDC provides low-income and first-generation college-bound community youth and families with a comprehensive set of services to support young people’s college readiness. We define college readiness as the level of preparation needed to enroll and succeed in a credit-bearing college course by proficiently completing the course without remediation so that a student can advance to the next sequential course and remain on-track for degree attainment. We know that young people, particularly low-income and first-generation students, pay a tremendous cost for not being college ready. According to Complete College America, an additional year in a public four-year college can cost $22,826. When coupled with an average loss of salary earnings of $45,327, the cost of not being college ready can total at least $68,153 for each additional year. To address this circumstance, DDC’s program intentionally includes three core components: Academic Enrichment, College & Career Success, and Healthy Minds & Bodies. Our Academic Enrichment activities provide students with exciting project-based classes across the humanities, STEM, and the arts that work to strengthen key academic skills that are necessary for college success as well as expose students to new areas of study through partnerships across Columbia University and with a range of organizations throughout NYC. Through our College & Career Success work, students are immersed in small group and individual sessions that increase their capacity for college access & persistence and that facilitates their career exploration & development. Students participate in grade-level college prep classes, individualized college counseling, college visit, and internships. We believe that college success requires a focus on the social-emotional development of young people. Consequently, our Healthy Minds & Bodies efforts are designed to develop students’ dispositions and skills for resilience and persistence as well as to build their capacity to nurture their physical and mental well-being so that they can overcome challenges in their quest to, through, and beyond college. Program Information COVID-19 Partners Courses Overview The Double Discovery Center Phone: (212) 854-3897 Fax: (212) 854-7457 ddc@columbia.edu Location Alfred Lerner Hall, Rm. 306 2920 Broadway, MC 2604 New York, NY 10027 Follow DDC DDC Facebook Page DDC on Twitter DDC on YouTube DDC on LinkedIn Join our Mailing List © 2022 Columbia University | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Notice of Non-Discrimination |University Home Page