Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Office of the Dean of Students Search ✕ Office of the Dean of Students Sorority and Fraternity Life Search OUR COMMUNITY Chapters Council Communities How to Join Expansion and Affiliation Quick Facts Staff PROGRAMS AND EVENTS Elevate UT Emerging Leaders Institute Gavel Club Good Standing & Achieved Excellence Risk Management Summit New Member Orientation The Sorority and Fraternity Life Awards New Member Educator Training RESOURCES Virtual Chapter Resources Chapter Advisors Friends and Family Funding Opportunities Housing Reports and Forms Cultural Consciousness SAFETY Risk Management Resources Safety Education Program Hazing Prevention and Response OUR COMMUNITY Chapters Council Communities How to Join Expansion and Affiliation Quick Facts Staff PROGRAMS AND EVENTS Elevate UT Emerging Leaders Institute Gavel Club Good Standing & Achieved Excellence Risk Management Summit New Member Orientation The Sorority and Fraternity Life Awards New Member Educator Training RESOURCES Virtual Chapter Resources Chapter Advisors Friends and Family Funding Opportunities Housing Reports and Forms Cultural Consciousness SAFETY Risk Management Resources Safety Education Program Hazing Prevention and Response Office of the Dean of Students -> Sorority and Fraternity Life Sorority and Fraternity Life Sorority and Fraternity Life welcomes new members, develops leaders, and advises council communities. We strive for a values-based sorority and fraternity experience. We foster a culturally conscious, safe, and responsible community, contributing to positive siblinghood. Virtual Chapter Resources Reports and Forms How to Join Good Standing Program Contact Us Sorority and Fraternity Life Office of the Dean of Students Student Services Building 4.400 100 West Dean Keeton Street Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-9700 Email: sfl@austin.utexas.edu Office Hours: Office location open 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. Please note that staff are currently on a flexible work arrangement schedule. We recommend scheduling an appointment with a staff member in advance. Report a Student Organization Incident The entire Student Services Building is excluded from the concealed carry of handguns. For more information, please visit campuscarry.utexas.edu. The Office of the Dean of Students provides a variety of student support services along with opportunities for leadership experience, diverse student work environments, engaging programming and specialized resources. Behavior Concerns and COVID-19 Advice Line (BCCAL) Report a Student Org or Hazing Incident Report Sexual Harrassment or Sexual Misconduct Staff Intranet UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader Updated 12/17/2021 | © The University of Texas at Austin 2022