Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Office of the Dean of Students Search ✕ Office of the Dean of Students Student Activities Search STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS Student Organization Center Start an Organization Find a Student Organization Attend an Organization Fair Earn Awards and Recognition Sponsored Organizations Annual Registration EVENT PLANNING Event Planning Resources Event Work Orders Find a Space Indoor Space Reservations Outdoor Space Reservations Promotions, A-frames, and Banners Student Organization Travel Tabling on Campus EDUCATION AND TRAINING Leading Successful Organizations Open Workshops Advisor Education Attend Officer Orientation POLICIES AND PROCEDURES Policies and Institutional Rules Trademarks and Copyrights Guest Speakers Demonstrations By Students Exhibits STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS Student Organization Center Start an Organization Find a Student Organization Attend an Organization Fair Earn Awards and Recognition Sponsored Organizations Annual Registration EVENT PLANNING Event Planning Resources Event Work Orders Find a Space Indoor Space Reservations Outdoor Space Reservations Promotions, A-frames, and Banners Student Organization Travel Tabling on Campus EDUCATION AND TRAINING Leading Successful Organizations Open Workshops Advisor Education Attend Officer Orientation POLICIES AND PROCEDURES Policies and Institutional Rules Trademarks and Copyrights Guest Speakers Demonstrations By Students Exhibits Office of the Dean of Students -> Student Activities Student Activities Student Activities FAQs Student Activities offers many services to student organizations and provides space reservations and training through its workshops, one-on-one consultations and event planning support. Through HornsLink, students can find events and join student organizations, explore opportunities based upon interests and track their service hours. Students can also work with Student Activities to start a new organization and manage organization business processes. Contact Us Student Activities Office of the Dean of Students 2609 University Avenue (UA9), Suite 2.112 Austin, TX 78712 Summer Hours (May 13 to August 12, 2022) Monday: 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. Tuesday: 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. Wednesday: 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. Thursday: 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. Friday: 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. Saturday: Closed Sunday: Closed Schedule a Meeting: Please schedule a meeting to choose a time to speak with a staff member on Microsoft Teams. Phone: 512-471-3065, when leaving a voice message please include your name, student organization, phone number, and inquiry. Email: studentactivities@austin.utexas.edu, including your name, student organization, and inquiry. The Office of the Dean of Students provides a variety of student support services along with opportunities for leadership experience, diverse student work environments, engaging programming and specialized resources. Behavior Concerns and COVID-19 Advice Line (BCCAL) Report a Student Org or Hazing Incident Report Sexual Harrassment or Sexual Misconduct Staff Intranet UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader Updated 04/21/2022 | © The University of Texas at Austin 2022