Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Remember... it is okay to not be okay. Mental Health Resources at Stanford Stanford Dean of Students Search this site Submit Search Menu Home Who We Are Our Team Offices Graduate Life Office Office of Accessible Education Office of Community Standards Residential Education Stanford Learning Lab James W. Lyons Award Get Support Policies & Protocols Certification Forms Involuntary Leave of Absence and Return Policy Protected Identity Harm Reporting Stanford Group Accountability Process (SGAP) SGAP Contact Information SGAP Support Resources SGAP Policies and Procedures OCB Working Group Hazing Education & Prevention Report Incidents of Hazing Tool Kit Power Dynamics Your Role as a Campus Security Authority Undergraduate Policies and Protocols Graduate Policies and Protocols Resources Undergraduate Resources Graduate Resources Families Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Contact Us Student Affairs News Stanford Group Accountability Process (SGAP) Main content start In Winter quarter 2022, the Stanford Group Accountability Process (SGAP) replaced the Organization Conduct Board (OCB) as the accountability process for student groups. Facilitated by the Office of Community Standards (OCS), SGAP addresses alleged violations of university policies by student groups, which includes all voluntary student organizations, Row Houses, sports teams (both club and varsity), fraternities, and sororities (“Groups”)*. *This policy currently only applies to registered student organizations (voluntary student organizations, club sports teams, fraternities, and sororities). It will apply to Row Houses and varsity sports teams beginning Fall quarter 22-23. The Fundamental Standard The Fundamental Standard has set the standard of conduct for individual students at Stanford since 1896 and embodies the values and definition of good university citizenship. Violations of university policies also constitute violations of the Fundamental Standard. The Fundamental Standard, as well as all university policies, apply to both individuals and Groups. In the spirit of collective responsibility, Groups bear a certain level of responsibility for the individual actions of their group members when this behavior can be attributed to the Group under the university’s policy on Collective Responsibility. The goals of SGAP are to identify problematic conduct and behavioral issues within a Group and to provide a combination of educational and disciplinary sanctions to help the Group self-correct their behavior. Submit a concern SGAP Policies and Procedures Facilitated by the Office of Community Standards (OCS), SGAP is the process for addressing alleged violations of university policies by student groups. Learn More SGAP Contact Information Learn how to submit a concern, connect with us, and how to get involved with the Stanford Group Accountability Process (SGAP). Learn More OCB Working Group In February 2020, Dr. Mona Hicks appointed a working group to examine the OCB Policies & Procedures and make recommendations for creating a learning- and student-centered process that also protects student safety and wellbeing and prevents harm to the University community. Learn More SGAP Support Resources Support resources available for Group Representatives and Group Members throughout the Stanford Group Accountability Process. Learn More Hazing Education & Prevention This page has information about hazing, a hazing report form, and a tool-kit to help students ensure that any Group events they plan are free from hazing. Learn More Stanford Dean of Students Web Login Address Tresidder Memorial Union 459 Lagunita Drive, Ste. 9 Stanford, CA 94305-8215 United States deanofstudents@stanford.edu Main Office: (650) 723-2733 Links to Student Affairs Helpful Links Get Support for Students Share a Concern Red Folder Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top