Skip to main content UT Home -> Office of the Dean of Students Division of Student Affairs Search ✕ Office of the Dean of Students Search OFFICE UNITS Legal Services for Students Legislative Student Organizations Safety Education Sorority and Fraternity Life Student Activities Student Conduct and Academic Integrity Student Emergency Services Texas Leadership Education and Development Veteran and Military Affiliated Services ABOUT US About the Office of the Dean of Students About Dr. Soncia Reagins-Lilly Dean's Office Hours Scholarships and Grants Dean's Dozen Award Student Elections Living the Longhorn Life Events CONTACT US MAKE A GIFT OFFICE UNITS Legal Services for Students Legislative Student Organizations Safety Education Sorority and Fraternity Life Student Activities Student Conduct and Academic Integrity Student Emergency Services Texas Leadership Education and Development Veteran and Military Affiliated Services ABOUT US About the Office of the Dean of Students About Dr. Soncia Reagins-Lilly Dean's Office Hours Scholarships and Grants Dean's Dozen Award Student Elections Living the Longhorn Life Events CONTACT US MAKE A GIFT Welcome to the Office of the Dean of Students The Office of the Dean of Students is committed to helping all students at The University of Texas at Austin reach their fullest potential. Our office provides a variety of student support services along with opportunities for leadership experience, diverse student work environments, engaging programming and specialized resources. The Office of the Dean of Students includes eight specialized units: Legal Services for Students, Legislative Student Organizations, Sorority and Fraternity Life, Student Activities, Student Conduct and Academic Integrity, Student Emergency Services, Texas Leadership Education and Development, and Veteran and Military Affiliated Services. Events and Programs Explore Unique Opportunities on Hornslink Find and attend events, browse and join organizations and more. Get Involved with Living the Longhorn Life Make connections and build community at monthly events. Build Leadership Skills with Texas LEAD Workshops Available for groups or individuals to learn new leadership skills. Behavior Concerns and COVID-19 Advice Line (BCCAL) Share behavior and COVID-19 concerns about the university community. The Office of the Dean of Students is here to help! We offer many resources, services and opportunities to fit your needs. Need Assistance? Legal Services for Students, Student Conduct and Academic Integrity, Student Emergency Services, and Veteran and Military Affiliated Services can help. Get involved in student organizations and leadership opportunities with: Legislative Student Organizations, Sorority and Fraternity Life, Student Activities, Student Elections, and Texas Leadership Education and Development. Report an Incident Report a Concern About a UT Community Member Report a Student Organization or Hazing Incident Report Sexual Harassment or Sexual Misconduct Resources STUDENT ELECTIONS Our office oversees elections for Student Government, the Graduate Student Assembly, Texas Student Media, the University Co-op, and University Unions. DEAN'S OFFICE HOURS BY APPOINTMENT Meet with the Vice President for Student Affairs and Dean of Students, Soncia Reagins-Lilly. HAZING INFORMATION Hazing prevention and education, along with student organizations sanctioned for hazing violations. ABSENCE NOTIFICATION REQUEST A request form intended for critical situations and/or medical or family emergencies SAFETY EDUCATION Registered and sponsored student organizations are required to complete Safety Education each year. The Office of the Dean of Students provides a variety of student support services along with opportunities for leadership experience, diverse student work environments, engaging programming and specialized resources. Behavior Concerns and COVID-19 Advice Line (BCCAL) Report a Student Org or Hazing Incident Report Sexual Harrassment or Sexual Misconduct Staff Intranet UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader Updated 04/06/2022 | © The University of Texas at Austin 2022