Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Department of Student Support and Transitions Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home Offices Case Management Services Investigations & Assessment New Student & Family Programs Office of Accessibility Services Victim Advocate Program Withdrawal Services Resources Family Connection Finding Help, Getting Connected Student Handbook ADA Information Reporting Discrimination and Grievances Reporting Descriptions & Routing Info Grievance/Complaint Procedures for Persons with Disabilities Hazing Prevention kNOw More: Sexual Violence Prevention Faculty & Staff Emergency Guide How to Assist a Student of Concern-PDF How to Assist a Student of Concern-DOCX Food for Thought Pantry Interfaith Council at FSU The Seminole Creed Contact Us Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Department of Student Support and Transitions Florida State University Toggle navigation Home Offices Case Management Services Investigations & Assessment New Student & Family Programs Office of Accessibility Services Victim Advocate Program Withdrawal Services Resources Family Connection Finding Help, Getting Connected Student Handbook ADA Information Reporting Discrimination and Grievances Reporting Descriptions & Routing Info Grievance/Complaint Procedures for Persons with Disabilities Hazing Prevention kNOw More: Sexual Violence Prevention Faculty & Staff Emergency Guide How to Assist a Student of Concern-PDF How to Assist a Student of Concern-DOCX Food for Thought Pantry Interfaith Council at FSU The Seminole Creed Contact Us Welcome and congratulations on your acceptance to Florida State University! Read more about the orientation » Florida State University does not tolerate sexual violence Read More about kNOwMORE » Previous Next The Department of Student Support & Transitions provides core programs and services both virtually and in person. Click the button below for more information on how to easily access DSST programs and services. DSST Programs & Services About Us Mission: The Department of Student Support & Transitions supports, connects, and empowers all students as they navigate their academic and personal journeys. Vision: We aspire to create welcoming and inclusive environments by helping students navigate the University, develop resilience, and make meaning of their unique experiences. We welcome students and family members to connect with the Department of Student Support & Transitions if you are experiencing a crisis or just need someone to talk through a problem or experience you are having at Florida State University. Report.fsu.edu allows you to share important information regarding incidents or concerning behavior happening in the Florida State University community. report.fsu.edu DSST Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion Statement The Department of Student Support & Transitions (DSST) is committed to equity and inclusion for all members of our Seminole community. Our goal is to create a welcoming environment for students, faculty, staff, and visitors that celebrates and welcomes the rich experiences and vast perspectives of each member. DSST commits to: Ensuring that all spaces within DSST offices are welcoming and inclusive of all persons. Recruiting and retaining a diverse professional staff. Representing all members of our campus community within our social media, marketing, and presentations. Celebrating all Diversity months and active engagement in educating our campus community about the history, impact and importance of each group. Assisting students to address bias, and support them in accessing campus resources as needed to address/improve a bias situation. Actively participate in university and division-wide diversity efforts including policy development, evaluation of processes, ongoing training and exploration of programs designed to promote equity and inclusion for all. DSST understands that the commitment to issues surrounding diversity, equity and inclusion are ongoing and require a continual commitment to invest in the processes and discussions necessary to further understanding and growth. The goal of the Department of Student Support & Transitions is to advance these values in ways which are meaningful and sustainable. The Division of Student Affairs and various partners have developed the FSU faculty and staff information guide to use when assisting distressed students or when dealing with a person with a weapon. Faculty & Staff Emergency Guide Department of Student Support and Transitions Case Management Services Case Management Services works with individuals to provide emotional support, counseling, advocacy, and to identify immediate needs, making appropriate referrals to campus and community resources. Find out more about Case Management Services» Investigations & Assessment Investigations & Assessment (I&A) provides investigative services for allegations of misconduct concerning Recognized Student Organizations (RSOs). Find out more about Investigations & Assessment» New Student & Family Programs New Student & Family Programs assists new students and families in their transition to Florida State University through programs like Orientation, Ask a 'Nole, and Family Connection. Find out more about New Student & Family Programs» Office of Accessibility Services The Office of Accessibility Services (OAS) serves as an advocate for FSU students with disabilities and ensure that reasonable accommodations are provided. Find out more about Office of Accessibility Services» Victim Advocate Program The Victim Advocate Program provides free, confidential, and compassionate assistance to primary and secondary victims of crime, violence or abuse against, or by, Florida State University students through advocacy, education and training. Find out more about Victim Advocate Program» Withdrawal Services The Withdrawal Services staff provides support to students and their families when a student’s enrollment is unexpectedly interrupted due to unforeseen circumstances (personal, family, medical or mental health reasons, and/or other crisis). Find out more about Withdrawal Services» Food for Thought Pantry The Food for Though Food Pantry provides food security for any current student. The Food for Thought Pantry is located in University Center A, Suite 4148. Find out more about the Food for Thought Pantry» The Department of Student Support and Transitions supports, connects, and empowers all students as they navigate their academic and personal journeys. We welcome students and family members to connect with the Department of Student Support and Transitions if you are experiencing a crisis or just need someone to talk through a problem or experience you are having at Florida State University. Department of Student Support AND Transitions Part of the Division of Student Affairs University Center A, Suite 4100 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306 Phone: 850.644.2428 Fax: 850.644.0687 Email: dsst@fsu.edu Department of Student Support and Transitions Office: Office of Accessibility Services: Connect with Us: © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media