Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Office of the Dean of Students Search ✕ Office of the Dean of Students Student Emergency Services Search OUR SERVICES How We Can Help Class Absence Notification Request Withdrawing and Returning Student Resources Victim Services Student Emergency Fund CONFIDENTIAL SUPPORT Confidential Advocates Interpersonal Violence Peer Support BEHAVIOR CONCERNS UT OUTPOST About UT Outpost Shopping UT Outpost Donations and Drives for UT Outpost Volunteer with UT Outpost OUR SERVICES How We Can Help Class Absence Notification Request Withdrawing and Returning Student Resources Victim Services Student Emergency Fund CONFIDENTIAL SUPPORT Confidential Advocates Interpersonal Violence Peer Support BEHAVIOR CONCERNS UT OUTPOST About UT Outpost Shopping UT Outpost Donations and Drives for UT Outpost Volunteer with UT Outpost Office of the Dean of Students -> Student Emergency Services Student Emergency Services Class Absence Notification Request Student Emergency Services can send email notifications to help confirm your situation. University Emergency Information Lists current emergency information for the university. Behavior Concerns and COVID-19 Advice Line (BCCAL) Share behavior and COVID-19 concerns about the university community. Donate to the Student Emergency Fund Help students facing unexpected challenges get the assistance they need. Situations that present an immediate threat to persons or property are considered emergencies and should be directed to the University of Texas Police Department (UTPD) at 911. Our office helps students and their families during difficult or emergency situations. Assistance includes outreach, advocacy, intervention, support, and referrals to relevant campus and community resources. Please note, our office does not provide counseling services. You can best access services available through SES by completing an online form or emailing studentemergency@austin.utexas.edu. Emergency situations include but are not limited to: Missing Student Family Emergency Fire or Natural Disaster Student Death (current or former) Medical or Mental Health Concern Academic difficulties due to crisis or emergency situations Interpersonal Violence (stalking, harassment, physical and/or sexual assault) Mission Through individualized consultation, Student Emergency Services provides assistance, intervention, and referrals to support students navigating challenging or unexpected issues that impact their well-being and academic success. Contact Us Student Emergency Services Office of the Dean of Students Student Services Building 4.104 100 West Dean Keeton Street Austin, TX 78712 A courtesy phone and computer are available for students seeking a private space for a phone call or zoom meeting. To request the use of a courtesy phone or computer for a meeting with Student Emergency Services, please use one of the methods below: Phone: 512-471-5017 Calls are answered between 8 a.m. - 5 p.m., Monday – Friday. Voicemails are responded to by the following business day. Email: studentemergency@austin.utexas.edu Email is checked between 8 a.m. – 5 p.m., Monday – Friday. Messages received after hours or over the weekend are responded to by the following business day. The Office of the Dean of Students provides a variety of student support services along with opportunities for leadership experience, diverse student work environments, engaging programming and specialized resources. Behavior Concerns and COVID-19 Advice Line (BCCAL) Report a Student Org or Hazing Incident Report Sexual Harrassment or Sexual Misconduct Staff Intranet UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader Updated 04/26/2022 | © The University of Texas at Austin 2022