Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today The DeBruce Center Home to Naismith's Original Rules of "Basket Ball" Search form Search Home About General Information Operating Hours Building Directory Frequently Asked Questions The Story of the DeBruce Center Tours and Exhibits The Rules Gallery The Rules Naismith, the Father of Basketball Phog Allen, the Father of Basketball Coaching Wall of Quotes The Naismith Statue At Home On the Hill Waving the Wheat Wall Theater Jayhawk Experience Tours DeBruce Gallery Dining Reserving Space Space Descriptions and Rates Make a Reservation at the DeBruce Center Contact Menu Home About General Information Operating Hours Building Directory Frequently Asked Questions The Story of the DeBruce Center Tours and Exhibits The Rules Gallery The Rules Naismith, the Father of Basketball Phog Allen, the Father of Basketball Coaching Wall of Quotes The Naismith Statue At Home On the Hill Waving the Wheat Wall Theater Jayhawk Experience Tours DeBruce Gallery Dining Reserving Space Space Descriptions and Rates Make a Reservation at the DeBruce Center Contact Search Search form Search Photo by Mike Sinclair «» The DeBruce Center is a unique facility in which fans of all ages can come together to explore the rich history of basketball, a sport near and dear to KU's heart. The DeBruce Center is closed for the summer from May 15 - August 22, 2021. Go to our Hours webpage for more information. Stay updated regarding KU's ongoing response at conoravirus.ku.edu. Find more KU Memorial Union related info to COVID-19 (including dining operational hours) at union.ku.edu/coronavirus Connect with us on Facebook and Twitter! The DeBruce Center is administered by the KU Memorial Union. Watch: The making of the Naismith Statue. Video courtesy of the KU Endowment. Watch: A short doc about us, produced by KJHK 90.7 FM. Video courtesy of KJHK 90.7 FM. Give to KU » Contact The DeBruce Center debrucecenter@ku.edu 785-864-9750 Routes 27, 38, 42 The DeBruce Center 1647 Naismith Drive Lawrence, KS 66045 The University of Kansas Non-Discrimination Statement Information regarding non-discrimination and equal opportunity at the University of Kansas may be found by clicking here. Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login