About DEEPS DEEPS Science-Teaching & Education Program (DEEPS STEP) Join DEEPS STEP DEEPS Leadership Alliance REU Main Menu About DEEPS DEEPS Science-Teaching & Education Program (DEEPS STEP) Join DEEPS STEP DEEPS Leadership Alliance REU DEEPS CORES DEEPS Career Opportunities and Research in Earth Sciences Read more DEEPS STEP 2020-2021 Department of Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences' Science-teaching and Education outreach program DEEPS STEP - Department of Earth, Environmental, and Planetary Sciences’ Science-Teaching and Education Program is the outreach program of our department that works in partnership with Providence Public Schools’ Department (PPSD) in order to develop and bring Earth Science lessons into local elementary classrooms. NEW PROGRAM FOR PROVIDENCE HIGH SCHOOLS In 2021-22 DEEPS STEP is partnering with Hope High School to expand our effort to high school students. The goal of this new initiative – DEEPS Career Opportunities and Research in Earth Science (CORES) – is to introduce local high school students, specifically juniors, to the field of earth and planetary sciences and the career opportunities it presents. Introducing students to earth science research and career paths in high school can open the door for opportunities in college and beyond. Read More DEEPS STEP is the outreach program of our department that works in partnership with Providence Public Schools’ Department (PPSD) in order to develop and bring Earth Science lessons into local elementary classrooms. The department of Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences (DEEPS) has been actively involved in science outreach with Providence public schools since early 2000. From 2007-2014, a NSF GK-12 grant (PI:Prof Tim Herbert) supported the work of 9 graduate students involved in science lesson development and teaching in several local public schools. After the grant’s completion, DEEPS graduate student volunteers continued the outreach work at Vartan Gregorian Elementary School. With the introduction of Next Generation Science Standards (NGSS) in Rhode Island schools in 2016 our program was re-designed under the leadership of the program’s coordinator, Olga Prilipko Huber, to focus on the goal of assisting PPSD teachers in their transition to NGSS and the three dimensions of learning. We develop quarter-long, multi-lesson Earth Science Modules for grades 2-5 that are aligned with grade-specific NGSS and are centered on inquiry-driven science learning. Our volunteers co-teach the Modules with participating teachers in three Providence public schools (Vartan Gregorian, Pleasant View and Martin Luther King). Each year ~30 members of our department (graduate and undergraduate students, postdocs and faculty) get involved in the program. We strive to make the science lessons engaging, creating a supportive learning environment that encourages both students and teachers to ask questions and experiment as they learn about Earth, Environmental, and Planetary Sciences. Current Partners In partnership with Providence Public School Department: Vartan Gregorian Elementary School (2016-present); Pleasant View Elementary School (2017-present); Martin Luther King Elementary School (2020); Read more here. Our Goals Develop high quality NGSS-aligned, inquiry-driven Earth Science lessons Assist PPSD teachers in bringing Earth Science lessons to their classrooms Help improve access to science education for Providence children, particularly for children from disadvantaged socio-economical backgrounds Offer a teaching and community-oriented experience to Brown grad and undergrad students, postdocs and faculty How our Program Works? Our program is designed to help teachers introduce Earth Science modules in their classrooms over the course of two years: First year (Phase I): Participating teachers and DEEPS STEP coordinators meet prior to the start of the academic Quarter to go over the lesson plans and teaching strategies. DEEPS STEP volunteers co-teach the lesson plans with the teachers once a week for 8 -10 weeks and prepare and supply the materials needed for the activities. At the end of each lesson, teachers and volunteers will make notes on what worked during the lesson and what can be improved. Second year (Phase II): Participating teachers and DEEPS STEP coordinators meet prior to the start of the academic Quarter to go over the lesson plans and teaching strategies. Participating teachers take the lead in teaching the Earth Science Module, with DEEPS STEP volunteers acting as support. DEEPS STEP volunteers provide and prepare materials for the lessons each week. At the end of the lesson, teachers will give feedback on the lesson to the volunteers. After the completion of the two-year program, DEEPS STEP stays in contact with our Alumni Teachers to provide support for science-related questions that arise during the lessons. We are also happy to organize guest scientists to come speak with students and to talk about our research. Contact info 324 Brook St, Providence, RI 02912 olga_prilipko_huber@brown.edu Our Team: Sloane Garelick Hannah Kruger Emily First Emily Joyce Kristin Kimble Alyssa Pascuzzo Anna Zuckerman Leah Zuckerman Rosa Xu Olga Prilipko Huber Who we are DEEPS STEP Coordinators DEEPS STEP coordinators work in tandem with the program manager, Olga Prilipko Huber, to organize and develop our work. They develop Earth Science Modules, work with Providence teachers co-teaching in elementary grades, train DEEPS STEP volunteers and much more. Our coordinators are the backbone of the program, keeping it vibrant and engaged. DEEPS STEP volunteers Brown University graduate or undergraduate students, postdocs and faculty – DEEPS STEP welcomes anyone who is passionate about science education and helping bring it to Providence elementary students. Whether you want to give it a try, can commit only a few hours, or are a seasoned DEEPS STEP member teaching over several months, we need you and are happy to welcome you to the program. Providence Teachers DEEPS STEP partners with Providence Public School teachers who work with us to bring Earth Science lessons into their classrooms. We are continuously humbled and inspired by the dedication, energy, patience and kindness of the teachers we are fortunate to collaborate with. Providence Students Children are the main reason all of us join forces to improve Earth Science education in our community. Quality education is the stepping stone for future possibilities and thriving, and we want all Providence students to have access to it, regardless of their socio-economic background, neighborhood or origin. Our goal is to spark the love of learning and transmit the sense of wonder about our planet in the growing generation, so they can fully realize their potential, and in turn, grow up caring for our world. Interested in teaching and outreach? Every person counts. Help us make a difference, one lesson at a time. Find out more and Join Us!