Skip to Content Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory Education Research Clinical Care Health Beyond the Clinic About Creating a New Kind of Doctor We recruit and train physician leaders as comfortable taking on systemic challenges in health as caring for individual patients. ARE YOU ONE? In This Section Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources More Information PLAN Application Timeline EXPLORE Continuing Medical Education PREPARE Programs for Youth & Undergrads Discovery to Impact — Faster We reward creative thinking and encourage rapid experimentation, using collaborative programs to speed promising research to market. SEE HOW In This Section Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources More Information ATTEND Research Events MEET Office of Research Team FIND Institutes & Centers Improving Care. Improving Health. We’re here to make health — including health care — better. The end goal is a complete revolution in how people get and stay healthy. WHAT IT MEANS In This Section Overview Vision Case Studies More Information GET CARE UT Health Austin EXPLORE Health Beyond the Clinic Health in the Landscape of Life Enabling the healthscape, the ecosystem outside the clinic, requires improving the system to pay for health drivers. EXPLORE FURTHER In This Section Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization More Information PARTNER Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE The Impact Factory Meet Dell Med We’re rethinking the role of academic medicine in improving health — and doing so with a unique focus on our community. ABOUT US Helpful Links Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports More Information GIVE Support Dell Med CONTACT Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE Our Cultural Values Education Overview Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources PLAN: Application Timeline EXPLORE: Continuing Medical Education PREPARE: Programs for Youth & Undergrads Research Overview Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources ATTEND: Research Events MEET: Office of Research Team FIND: Institutes & Centers Clinical Care Overview Overview Vision Case Studies GET CARE: UT Health Austin EXPLORE: Health Beyond the Clinic Health Beyond the Clinic Overview Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization PARTNER: Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT: Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE: The Impact Factory About Overview Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports GIVE: Support Dell Med CONTACT: Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE: Our Cultural Values Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory Creating a New Kind of Doctor We recruit and train physicians of the future — leaders who are as comfortable taking on systemic challenges in health as they are caring for individual patients. Are you up to the challenge? HOW TO APPLY » Creating a New Kind of Doctor We recruit and train physicians of the future — leaders who are as comfortable taking on systemic challenges in health as they are caring for individual patients. Are you up to the challenge? HOW TO APPLY » The idea is that as Dell Med and other schools demonstrate the effectiveness of new practices and procedures, other schools will start to embrace changes, if only to remain competitive. “Reinventing Medical School,” Fast Company, October 2015 Academics Undergraduate Medical Education Learn about our groundbreaking “Leading EDGE” curriculum, plus other opportunities for medical students. Graduate Medical Education Explore the school’s residency programs, fellowships and signature Advancing Care Transformation curriculum. Continuing Medical Education Find professional development opportunities open to anyone in the community. Master's Degree Programs Get details on graduate education offerings facilitated by Dell Med and our partners. Curriculum Spotlight: The Growth Year Do research. Design new systems. Explore population health. Earn a dual degree. The third year at Dell Med is the hallmark of the signature Leading EDGE curriculum. See examples Hands-On Training Improving Health Locally Residents and fellows at Dell Med are honing their skills in clinics and hospitals across Central Texas, directly improving community health. Read more » Providing Care as Students Serve & Learn Volunteer students are making a difference — and getting real-world experience — at a Dell Med-supported clinic in downtown Austin that serves everyone, regardless of their ability to pay. Explore Further » Training Doctors to Think Beyond the Clinic Physicians need to think holistically about health, which is in large part driven by what happens after a person leaves the clinic or the hospital. Dell Med’s curriculum instills that perspective. See how » Building the Health Professions Pathway Dell Med programs are working to make sure an increasingly diverse body of students have opportunity to explore the health professions. It’s good for the students … and it’s good for the system. Read about it » Email Me! Want updates about Dell Med and the larger health ecosystem? Sign Up About Us Directory Events Leadership Mission & Vision Newsroom REthink / New Perspectives on Health Helpful Links Careers Contact Us Intranet Media Resources UT Health Austin Google Translate Information Adobe Reader Emergency Information Site Feedback Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022