Skip to Content Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory Education Research Clinical Care Health Beyond the Clinic About Creating a New Kind of Doctor We recruit and train physician leaders as comfortable taking on systemic challenges in health as caring for individual patients. ARE YOU ONE? In This Section Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources More Information PLAN Application Timeline EXPLORE Continuing Medical Education PREPARE Programs for Youth & Undergrads Discovery to Impact — Faster We reward creative thinking and encourage rapid experimentation, using collaborative programs to speed promising research to market. SEE HOW In This Section Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources More Information ATTEND Research Events MEET Office of Research Team FIND Institutes & Centers Improving Care. Improving Health. We’re here to make health — including health care — better. The end goal is a complete revolution in how people get and stay healthy. WHAT IT MEANS In This Section Overview Vision Case Studies More Information GET CARE UT Health Austin EXPLORE Health Beyond the Clinic Health in the Landscape of Life Enabling the healthscape, the ecosystem outside the clinic, requires improving the system to pay for health drivers. EXPLORE FURTHER In This Section Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization More Information PARTNER Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE The Impact Factory Meet Dell Med We’re rethinking the role of academic medicine in improving health — and doing so with a unique focus on our community. ABOUT US Helpful Links Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports More Information GIVE Support Dell Med CONTACT Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE Our Cultural Values Education Overview Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources PLAN: Application Timeline EXPLORE: Continuing Medical Education PREPARE: Programs for Youth & Undergrads Research Overview Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources ATTEND: Research Events MEET: Office of Research Team FIND: Institutes & Centers Clinical Care Overview Overview Vision Case Studies GET CARE: UT Health Austin EXPLORE: Health Beyond the Clinic Health Beyond the Clinic Overview Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization PARTNER: Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT: Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE: The Impact Factory About Overview Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports GIVE: Support Dell Med CONTACT: Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE: Our Cultural Values Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory Feature 'Match Day' Heralds Arrival of 169 New Physicians to Austin March 18, 2022 Graduating Dell Med students matched to residencies across 18 states; nearly half will stay in Texas, with 1 in 4 remaining in Austin. Physicians from across the country will come to Austin to continue their medical training following today’s “match,” an annual rite of passage for graduating medical students and doctors pursuing highly specialized training. A record 169 incoming residents and fellows matched to Dell Medical School at The University of Texas at Austin this year. In all, Dell Med will be home to 400 physicians-in-training starting this summer — up by 83% since 2012. Last year, residents and fellows provided more than 700,000 hours of care at 75-plus clinics and hospitals across Central Texas. Most matches were revealed this morning, when graduating medical students across the country opened envelopes revealing where they would spend the next stage of their medical careers. Graduating medical students hold signs announcing their matches. On Match Day, students across the country open envelopes revealing where they will spend the next stage of their medical careers. The number of graduate medical education programs at Dell Med has nearly doubled in the last year, with 21 new training programs added in 2021. “It’s extraordinary to have attracted residents and fellows to nearly all the available positions in our programs, and we’re excited to welcome these new doctors to Central Texas,” said Jonathan MacClements, M.D., associate dean of graduate medical education. Where Dell Med's Grads Are Headed Match Day brought equally good news to the students graduating with medical degrees from Dell Med. All who plan to pursue residency matched, combining with the graduate medical education program placements to result in a near-perfect match for the school. Hours before the reveal, North Carolina native Helen Schafer was contemplative, calling Dell Med “a special place.” “I will never forget watching Dell Med get built, thinking about how I wanted to go to medical school and that this was the place that would help me accomplish my dreams,” she said. Schafer earned both M.D. and Master of Public Health degrees during her four years as a student. Among the 46 Dell Med students who entered the match, 47% will stay in Texas for residency. A quarter of graduates will remain in Austin, where they will continue to learn from Dell Med faculty as part of residency programs jointly led with the school’s academic medical partner, Ascension Seton. Graduates of Dell Med’s Class of 2022 are headed to residency programs in 18 states. “The students who will stay in Austin to practice as resident physicians — along with the new residents and fellows from out-of-state schools who we’re attracting — are a direct result of the investment the community made when it voted to create Dell Med in 2012,” said C. Martin Harris, M.D., MBA, interim vice president for medical affairs at UT. “Even as residents, these physicians’ contributions are critical to health care systems,” said President and CEO of Ascension Texas Andy Davis, citing their importance to Ascension’s mission to transform health care delivery and praising the relationship with Dell Med. “Through our collaboration, we are stronger in care delivery and at the forefront of the latest research, diagnostic and technological developments.” Helping Fill a Growing Gap in Primary Care Many of Dell Med’s graduating students will help address a shortage of primary care physicians in the U.S., which the Association of American Medical Colleges predicts will grow to between 17,800 and 48,000 doctors by 2034. Nearly half (22) of Dell Med’s fourth-year students will enter primary care fields, including internal medicine, pediatrics, family medicine, and obstetrics and gynecology. But the school’s aim isn’t to produce more of the same. “Our educational model is designed to train leaders as comfortable taking on systemic challenges in health as they are caring for individual patients,” said George Macones, M.D., interim dean. “Graduates of our M.D., residency and fellowship programs will be a new kind of doctor.” A hug on Match Day. How Match Works The National Resident Matching Program connects more than 44,000 applicants to 37,000 training positions every year. It uses a mathematical algorithm to consider the preferences of applicants and program directors and assign medical school graduates to training positions available at U.S. teaching hospitals. Not everyone matches, but for those who do, results are binding. Category: Feature Share this page: Back to News Email Me! Want updates about Dell Med and the larger health ecosystem? Sign Up About Us Directory Events Leadership Mission & Vision Newsroom REthink / New Perspectives on Health Helpful Links Careers Contact Us Intranet Media Resources UT Health Austin Google Translate Information Adobe Reader Emergency Information Site Feedback Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022