Skip to Content Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory Education Research Clinical Care Health Beyond the Clinic About Creating a New Kind of Doctor We recruit and train physician leaders as comfortable taking on systemic challenges in health as caring for individual patients. ARE YOU ONE? In This Section Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources More Information PLAN Application Timeline EXPLORE Continuing Medical Education PREPARE Programs for Youth & Undergrads Discovery to Impact — Faster We reward creative thinking and encourage rapid experimentation, using collaborative programs to speed promising research to market. SEE HOW In This Section Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources More Information ATTEND Research Events MEET Office of Research Team FIND Institutes & Centers Improving Care. Improving Health. We’re here to make health — including health care — better. The end goal is a complete revolution in how people get and stay healthy. WHAT IT MEANS In This Section Overview Vision Case Studies More Information GET CARE UT Health Austin EXPLORE Health Beyond the Clinic Health in the Landscape of Life Enabling the healthscape, the ecosystem outside the clinic, requires improving the system to pay for health drivers. EXPLORE FURTHER In This Section Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization More Information PARTNER Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE The Impact Factory Meet Dell Med We’re rethinking the role of academic medicine in improving health — and doing so with a unique focus on our community. ABOUT US Helpful Links Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports More Information GIVE Support Dell Med CONTACT Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE Our Cultural Values Education Overview Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources PLAN: Application Timeline EXPLORE: Continuing Medical Education PREPARE: Programs for Youth & Undergrads Research Overview Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources ATTEND: Research Events MEET: Office of Research Team FIND: Institutes & Centers Clinical Care Overview Overview Vision Case Studies GET CARE: UT Health Austin EXPLORE: Health Beyond the Clinic Health Beyond the Clinic Overview Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization PARTNER: Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT: Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE: The Impact Factory About Overview Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports GIVE: Support Dell Med CONTACT: Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE: Our Cultural Values Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory › Healthscape › Collaborative Opportunities › CoLab at Dell Med Texas Health Catalyst Supporting the Translation of Promising Ideas to Products That Improve Health Texas Health Catalyst provides researchers, innovators and entrepreneurs customized guidance on product development from industry and clinical experts as well as milestone-based seed funding. Application Process Early stage ideas and discoveries have the potential for profound impact, but translating innovations into health products is often expensive, time-consuming and complex. To give cutting-edge ideas a better chance of impacting health outcomes, Texas Health Catalyst leverages The University of Texas at Austin’s world-class academic research, Dell Medical School’s clinical enterprise and Central Texas’ innovative environment to identify and accelerate promising research. Texas Health Catalyst is a collaborative initiative of Dell Medical School with the Cockrell School of Engineering, College of Natural Sciences, College of Pharmacy and Office of Technology Commercialization at UT Austin. The program’s network includes clinical, scientific, regulatory and commercialization experts, as well as seasoned industry leaders and investors. The program supports innovation across all health care sectors including therapeutics, diagnostics, medical devices and digital health products. The impact of Texas Health Catalyst extends well beyond Dell Med, into UT Austin and the Central Texas community, and has included the development of new products for better care and improved outcomes, novel interdisciplinary collaborations with expanded funding opportunities, academic-industry partnerships, and unique educational offerings. NEJM Catalyst Commentary Texas Health Catalyst is led by Nishi Viswanathan, MBBS, MBA, the program director, and Jay Brown, the innovation program manager. Subscribe to the newsletter for quarterly updates on the program and portfolio projects and follow along on Twitter with the hashtag #TXHealthCatalyst. Researchers, Innovators & Entrepreneurs Clinical & Industry Experts Corporate Partners & Investors Students Researchers, Innovators & Entrepreneurs Texas Health Catalyst works with projects that have the potential to address real unmet needs in health care through technology innovation. The program evaluates projects by their likelihood of making a significant impact on health. In line with Dell Med’s focus on value-based care, Texas Health Catalyst also emphasizes the ability to improve health outcomes while reducing costs. Many past awardees have achieved major milestones since participating in Texas Health Catalyst, including company spinouts, significant funding from investors, corporate partnerships, clinical implementation and media coverage. Texas Health Catalyst accepts applications during its open submission period. The program encourages investigators to submit their project regardless of the stage — Texas Health Catalyst is open to collaborating with promising projects at even the earliest stages. Learn About the Benefits » Clinical & Industry Experts Texas Health Catalyst’s network of more than 300 experts — in clinical workflow, business, funding, intellectual property, regulatory, reimbursement and strategy — are the crux of the program. The advisers volunteer to assess applicants, provide feedback on projects and mentor investigators. In turn, Texas Health Catalyst aims to provide opportunities for experts to stay up to date on nascent and novel research and to network with a cross-sector community of professionals with common health care and research interests. If you are a clinician, Texas Health Catalyst is also interested in hearing about pain points you are interested in solving. The program can connect Dell Med and community clinicians with UT Austin scientific experts to create teams with the right mix of expertise to address real unmet needs. Email the Team to Get Involved » Corporate Partners & Investors Texas Health Catalyst has engagement opportunities for industry partners looking to gain access to pioneering research and future health care trends. Through the program, companies can get a quick introduction to Dell Med’s unique capabilities and explore partnerships including co-development of new tools, clinical validation studies and health outcomes research. In collaboration with corporate partners, the program hosts “painstorming” sessions to identify, define and frame unmet clinical needs to drive demand-pull health innovation. Sponsorship opportunities are also available for Texas Health Catalyst showcase events. Email the Team to Set Up a Call » Students UT Austin graduate students and recent graduates can get involved in Texas Health Catalyst operations through the highly selective Associate Program. Undergraduates may occasionally be accepted into the program if they have the requisite experience. Associates gain exposure to the business of health care through hands-on work with project teams and by supporting program operations including due diligence, communications and events. Texas Health Catalyst also occasionally has volunteer opportunities. Learn About the Associate Program » Sign Up for Updates » Follow on Twitter » Connect on LinkedIn » Email Me! Want updates about Dell Med and the larger health ecosystem? Sign Up About Us Directory Events Leadership Mission & Vision Newsroom REthink / New Perspectives on Health Helpful Links Careers Contact Us Intranet Media Resources UT Health Austin Google Translate Information Adobe Reader Emergency Information Site Feedback Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022