Skip to Content Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory Education Research Clinical Care Health Beyond the Clinic About Creating a New Kind of Doctor We recruit and train physician leaders as comfortable taking on systemic challenges in health as caring for individual patients. ARE YOU ONE? In This Section Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources More Information PLAN Application Timeline EXPLORE Continuing Medical Education PREPARE Programs for Youth & Undergrads Discovery to Impact — Faster We reward creative thinking and encourage rapid experimentation, using collaborative programs to speed promising research to market. SEE HOW In This Section Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources More Information ATTEND Research Events MEET Office of Research Team FIND Institutes & Centers Improving Care. Improving Health. We’re here to make health — including health care — better. The end goal is a complete revolution in how people get and stay healthy. WHAT IT MEANS In This Section Overview Vision Case Studies More Information GET CARE UT Health Austin EXPLORE Health Beyond the Clinic Health in the Landscape of Life Enabling the healthscape, the ecosystem outside the clinic, requires improving the system to pay for health drivers. EXPLORE FURTHER In This Section Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization More Information PARTNER Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE The Impact Factory Meet Dell Med We’re rethinking the role of academic medicine in improving health — and doing so with a unique focus on our community. ABOUT US Helpful Links Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports More Information GIVE Support Dell Med CONTACT Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE Our Cultural Values Education Overview Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources PLAN: Application Timeline EXPLORE: Continuing Medical Education PREPARE: Programs for Youth & Undergrads Research Overview Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources ATTEND: Research Events MEET: Office of Research Team FIND: Institutes & Centers Clinical Care Overview Overview Vision Case Studies GET CARE: UT Health Austin EXPLORE: Health Beyond the Clinic Health Beyond the Clinic Overview Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization PARTNER: Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT: Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE: The Impact Factory About Overview Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports GIVE: Support Dell Med CONTACT: Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE: Our Cultural Values Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory › Healthscape Vision: Healthscape The social and structural drivers of health — the things in life like access to financial resources, job opportunities, healthy food and education — matter as much to a person’s health as visits to the doctor or stays in the hospital. Work in the healthscape extends beyond the four walls of the clinic to improve health in the landscape of people’s lives, helping them get and stay healthy wherever they are and contributing to building healthy, resilient communities across Central Texas. From developing sustainable approaches to care for those without homes to delivering cancer screening kits right to people’s front doors to testing the effect of empathy-based friendly phone calls on loneliness, we’re meeting people where they are. Areas of Focus No. 1: Health Interventions Dell Med’s Factor Health program supports the development and sustainable funding of interventions that address the nonmedical drivers of health. The school is also working with partners to identify areas of shared interest for community impact work and to embed “health in all policies” where it can influence government and private industry to do so. No. 2: Data Infrastructure In places like People’s Community Clinic, Dell Med is creating mechanisms to facilitate data sharing so organizations working in health can benefit from each other’s knowledge. Teams are also working on ways to leverage existing data to help doctors identify risk factors that will help them better care for their patients. No. 3: Community Engagement Dell Med is building community engagement programs to get input from those who have been most challenged in getting and staying healthy — and to put that input to work, often in partnership with other community-serving organizations. The school’s Community-Driven Initiatives program seeks to support and implement health solutions proposed by and for residents of Austin and Central Texas communities. Innovation & Policy In addition, Dell Med sponsors a number of platforms to advance innovation in health, including the Innovation District, which connects Austin’s network of innovators and organizers focused on health. It is also working alongside partners to help develop Austin’s strengths in product development and innovation. The CoLab at Dell Medical School, a hub for product innovation and entrepreneurship, is one example. Finally, experts work to inform health policy to create sustainable, innovative models. Together with those in our community, we’re thinking about new ways to support health beyond the clinic. Part of this work includes exploring economic models that reward programs that help people get and stay healthy. Maninder “Mini” Kahlon, Ph.D., Vice Dean, Health Ecosystem Email Me! Want updates about Dell Med and the larger health ecosystem? Sign Up About Us Directory Events Leadership Mission & Vision Newsroom REthink / New Perspectives on Health Helpful Links Careers Contact Us Intranet Media Resources UT Health Austin Google Translate Information Adobe Reader Emergency Information Site Feedback Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022