Skip to Content Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory Education Research Clinical Care Health Beyond the Clinic About Creating a New Kind of Doctor We recruit and train physician leaders as comfortable taking on systemic challenges in health as caring for individual patients. ARE YOU ONE? In This Section Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources More Information PLAN Application Timeline EXPLORE Continuing Medical Education PREPARE Programs for Youth & Undergrads Discovery to Impact — Faster We reward creative thinking and encourage rapid experimentation, using collaborative programs to speed promising research to market. SEE HOW In This Section Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources More Information ATTEND Research Events MEET Office of Research Team FIND Institutes & Centers Improving Care. Improving Health. We’re here to make health — including health care — better. The end goal is a complete revolution in how people get and stay healthy. WHAT IT MEANS In This Section Overview Vision Case Studies More Information GET CARE UT Health Austin EXPLORE Health Beyond the Clinic Health in the Landscape of Life Enabling the healthscape, the ecosystem outside the clinic, requires improving the system to pay for health drivers. EXPLORE FURTHER In This Section Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization More Information PARTNER Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE The Impact Factory Meet Dell Med We’re rethinking the role of academic medicine in improving health — and doing so with a unique focus on our community. ABOUT US Helpful Links Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports More Information GIVE Support Dell Med CONTACT Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE Our Cultural Values Education Overview Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources PLAN: Application Timeline EXPLORE: Continuing Medical Education PREPARE: Programs for Youth & Undergrads Research Overview Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources ATTEND: Research Events MEET: Office of Research Team FIND: Institutes & Centers Clinical Care Overview Overview Vision Case Studies GET CARE: UT Health Austin EXPLORE: Health Beyond the Clinic Health Beyond the Clinic Overview Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization PARTNER: Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT: Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE: The Impact Factory About Overview Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports GIVE: Support Dell Med CONTACT: Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE: Our Cultural Values Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory Why Dell Med? › Education Rethinking Health Together As a new medical school at a top-tier research university, we are uniquely positioned to rethink medical education and to creatively address today’s health challenges. You can be a part of this revolution. Dell Med’s vision of a vital, inclusive health ecosystem inspires our mission to revolutionize how people get and stay healthy. We want to partner with you — a future physician leader — to improve the lives of people in our community and around the world. Equipping You to Make an Impact Our curriculum designers created a new education model to train the kind of doctor that can help transform health care. From a focus on value-based care to community engagement to learning in teams, the Dell Med experience offers unique opportunities based on the latest advances in medical education. EXPLORE THE CURRICULUM » [Dell Med’s] ambition to train M.D.s to handle 21st-century health care is part of a larger trend in medical education that stresses value-based care and the health concerns of communities. “Meet the M.D.s of the Future,” H&HN, August 2017 The Setting: Austin, Texas Whether you’re an artist, innovator, outdoor enthusiast or any other type of adventurer, you will find plenty of ways to get inspiration while exploring Austin. Our city is known for more than just excellent breakfast tacos and live music — it’s known for eclectic, friendly people who are ready to be your neighbor! DISCOVER AUSTIN » Commitment to Diversity & Inclusion Creating a vibrant, inclusive environment that supports diverse staff, students, trainees and faculty is a priority of Dell Med. The Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion fosters this climate while also providing impactful thought leadership for the school’s work in patient care, research, community engagement and pipeline programs. SEE MORE » Meet Dell Med Read More Profiles » Read More Profiles » Email Me! Want updates about Dell Med and the larger health ecosystem? Sign Up About Us Directory Events Leadership Mission & Vision Newsroom REthink / New Perspectives on Health Helpful Links Careers Contact Us Intranet Media Resources UT Health Austin Google Translate Information Adobe Reader Emergency Information Site Feedback Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022