Skip to Content Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory Education Research Clinical Care Health Beyond the Clinic About Creating a New Kind of Doctor We recruit and train physician leaders as comfortable taking on systemic challenges in health as caring for individual patients. ARE YOU ONE? In This Section Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources More Information PLAN Application Timeline EXPLORE Continuing Medical Education PREPARE Programs for Youth & Undergrads Discovery to Impact — Faster We reward creative thinking and encourage rapid experimentation, using collaborative programs to speed promising research to market. SEE HOW In This Section Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources More Information ATTEND Research Events MEET Office of Research Team FIND Institutes & Centers Improving Care. Improving Health. We’re here to make health — including health care — better. The end goal is a complete revolution in how people get and stay healthy. WHAT IT MEANS In This Section Overview Vision Case Studies More Information GET CARE UT Health Austin EXPLORE Health Beyond the Clinic Health in the Landscape of Life Enabling the healthscape, the ecosystem outside the clinic, requires improving the system to pay for health drivers. EXPLORE FURTHER In This Section Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization More Information PARTNER Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE The Impact Factory Meet Dell Med We’re rethinking the role of academic medicine in improving health — and doing so with a unique focus on our community. ABOUT US Helpful Links Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports More Information GIVE Support Dell Med CONTACT Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE Our Cultural Values Education Overview Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources PLAN: Application Timeline EXPLORE: Continuing Medical Education PREPARE: Programs for Youth & Undergrads Research Overview Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources ATTEND: Research Events MEET: Office of Research Team FIND: Institutes & Centers Clinical Care Overview Overview Vision Case Studies GET CARE: UT Health Austin EXPLORE: Health Beyond the Clinic Health Beyond the Clinic Overview Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization PARTNER: Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT: Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE: The Impact Factory About Overview Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports GIVE: Support Dell Med CONTACT: Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE: Our Cultural Values Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory Feature Rachel Boaz Gorham: Fighting — & Riding — Against Cancer May 25, 2022 Rachel Boaz Gorham knows a thing or two about stamina: While an undergraduate student in the summer of 2018, she rode a bicycle over 4,000 miles from Austin to Anchorage, Alaska, with Texas 4000 for Cancer, raising money for cancer research and support services across the U.S. and Canada. Now, as she wraps up her third year as a medical student at Dell Medical School at The University of Texas at Austin, Gorham’s passion for improving cancer care hasn’t waned. This time, though, she’s off the bike and in the clinic, helping the Livestrong Cancer Institutes clinical team measure and improve the patient experience in ways that go far beyond disease management. Along the way, she’s informed by crucial lessons learned while pursuing a Master of Science in Health Care Transformation and leading Dell Med’s Oncology Student Interest Group. Rachel Boaz Gorham, third-year Dell Med student. What’s the problem you’re hoping to solve, and how did you come to recognize it? Oncology was the reason I wanted to become a doctor in the first place; it was the people I met along the way riding for Texas 4000 who changed my life and the way I view the world. Complete strangers would see our jerseys and open up about the loved ones they’d lost, or share their own fight with the disease. The problem: While people like to believe that patients are at the center of health care, the reality is that their experiences are often overlooked, undervalued or simply unknown. I am hoping to turn the narrative and put the patient back where they belong — front and center, with a voice that’s not only listened to, but proactively sought. Through stories that summer, I quickly learned that what mattered to people wasn’t which chemo drug they got, how many side effects they had or how long they had to wait for radiation treatments. They found meaning in how they were treated as a human being. They talked about the oncologist that attended their family member’s funeral, the social worker who patiently helped them figure out their disability paperwork, or the chemo nurse who saved them the best magazines during treatment. It helped me realize that patients are just people, but somehow, we often forget that. What are you doing about it during your time in med school? Working with the incredible patient experience team at the Livestrong Cancer Institutes at UT Health Austin, the clinical practice of Dell Med, I had the chance to design and implement a survey asking the right questions from our patients. Instead of asking, “How satisfied are you with your care?” or “Rate the quality of the clinic facilities,” I get to ask if they feel listened to, if their beliefs and values are respected and incorporated into their care, and if their specific needs are being addressed. This survey is part of a broader initiative to test the institutes’ CaLM model of care, which is a unique, interdisciplinary, wrap-around care model that puts the patient at the center and immediately connects them to ancillary support services, links their treating physicians and helps to eliminate that fragmentation of care that is so pervasive in our health care system. Patient experience is a newer field where outcomes like quality of life, empowerment and whole-person care can be evaluated and acted upon. I didn’t even know that research like this existed before medical school; I thought there was something wrong with me when I finally admitted that “traditional” research just didn’t appeal to me. But through this year I have realized my passion for qualitative research and was given the unique chance to spearhead my own project from start to finish. I am thankful to be part of such an innovative initiative, but even more thankful that they are willing to measure their success from the patient’s point of view. The New York Times asks readers to tell their “Tiny Love Stories” in just 100 words. What’s yours? “Is there anyone you know that I can ride for?” This was our typical script. We were in a crowded, dusty McDonald’s in some tiny town in southern Colorado. To my surprise, the stoic man in front of me began to cry. “I haven’t talked about her in years. Her name was Sarah, my wife. I can’t … I don’t talk about her anymore, I’m sorry.” He left, leaving me — a complete stranger, just there for a cheeseburger — with a piece of him. I got back on my bike, whispering her name so I would not forget, not ever. This news feature is part of Dell Med's Voices, a series of profiles that highlight the people of Dell Med as they work to improve health with a unique focus on our community. Category: Voices Feature Share this page: Back to News Email Me! Want updates about Dell Med and the larger health ecosystem? Sign Up About Us Directory Events Leadership Mission & Vision Newsroom REthink / New Perspectives on Health Helpful Links Careers Contact Us Intranet Media Resources UT Health Austin Google Translate Information Adobe Reader Emergency Information Site Feedback Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022