Skip to Content Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory Education Research Clinical Care Health Beyond the Clinic About Creating a New Kind of Doctor We recruit and train physician leaders as comfortable taking on systemic challenges in health as caring for individual patients. ARE YOU ONE? In This Section Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources More Information PLAN Application Timeline EXPLORE Continuing Medical Education PREPARE Programs for Youth & Undergrads Discovery to Impact — Faster We reward creative thinking and encourage rapid experimentation, using collaborative programs to speed promising research to market. SEE HOW In This Section Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources More Information ATTEND Research Events MEET Office of Research Team FIND Institutes & Centers Improving Care. Improving Health. We’re here to make health — including health care — better. The end goal is a complete revolution in how people get and stay healthy. WHAT IT MEANS In This Section Overview Vision Case Studies More Information GET CARE UT Health Austin EXPLORE Health Beyond the Clinic Health in the Landscape of Life Enabling the healthscape, the ecosystem outside the clinic, requires improving the system to pay for health drivers. EXPLORE FURTHER In This Section Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization More Information PARTNER Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE The Impact Factory Meet Dell Med We’re rethinking the role of academic medicine in improving health — and doing so with a unique focus on our community. ABOUT US Helpful Links Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports More Information GIVE Support Dell Med CONTACT Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE Our Cultural Values Education Overview Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources PLAN: Application Timeline EXPLORE: Continuing Medical Education PREPARE: Programs for Youth & Undergrads Research Overview Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources ATTEND: Research Events MEET: Office of Research Team FIND: Institutes & Centers Clinical Care Overview Overview Vision Case Studies GET CARE: UT Health Austin EXPLORE: Health Beyond the Clinic Health Beyond the Clinic Overview Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization PARTNER: Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT: Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE: The Impact Factory About Overview Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports GIVE: Support Dell Med CONTACT: Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE: Our Cultural Values Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory Improving Health in the Landscape of Life We work beyond the four walls of the clinic to better health in people’s lives — where they live, work, eat and play. Introducing the Healthscape » Improving Health in the Landscape of Life We work beyond the four walls of the clinic to better health in people’s lives — where they live, work, eat and play. Introducing the Healthscape » A Vital, Inclusive Health Ecosystem We exist in an ecosystem: a dynamic interaction between interdependent, interconnected people, institutions, everyday settings, social networks and products. Enabling this healthscape — building a vital, inclusive health ecosystem — requires improving the system to pay for health drivers. Find opportunities Our Programs Community-Driven Initiatives Community-Driven Initiatives seeks to support and implement health solutions proposed by and for residents of Austin and Central Texas communities. Impact Factory The Impact Factory harnesses human-centered design, partnerships, research and business tools to launch and scale innovative programs and build an evidence base and talent pipeline for civic impact. Factor Health Factor Health partners with community organizations to test and build programs at scale that deliver health outside health care with outcomes that the health care industry will pay for. Texas Health Catalyst Texas Health Catalyst provides researchers, innovators and entrepreneurs customized guidance on product development from industry and clinical experts as well as milestone-based seed funding. Health Transformation Research Institute The Health Transformation Research Institute provides leadership and infrastructure to support clinical and late-stage translational research, directly applicable to people’s lives. Dell Med Beyond the Clinic What’s the Healthscape? 4 Examples Revolutionizing how people get and stay healthy requires more than medicine. Learn more » The Future of Health Innovation in Austin: 3 Things to Know A Texas Health Catalyst panel explores what makes Austin a prime place to move the needle on health innovation. Read about it » Alleviating Isolation for Older Adults Volunteers are using “sunshine” calls to check in on and support homebound adults experiencing loneliness. Read about it » Global Collaboration Leverages Cross-Cultural Learnings to Improve Health for Marginalized Populations Dell Med and Texas Global are addressing the shared health challenges in Texas and Mexico while promoting health access and equity. Keep Reading » Translating Ideas Into Tools For Impact In part due to support from Dell Med’s Texas Health Catalyst, an affordable, time-saving test for heart-failure patients to use in their homes will soon be available. And that’s only the beginning. Learn more » What’s the Healthscape? 4 More Examples Dell Med’s “Healthscape,” focused on health beyond the clinic, supports and advances innovations that improve health in the landscape of people’s lives. Learn more » Supporting Local Ideas for Improving Health A call for community proposals, open to anyone, is resulting in real change: a new university course designed to teach empathy for homelessness through experiential learning. Get the details » Meeting People Where They Are A mobile team is redefining care for people experiencing homelessness in Austin. See the story » Meet the Community Health Workers Supporting Health Beyond the Clinic Community health workers are addressing social needs and building relationships with often underserved communities through frontline work. Explore further » Let’s Do Big Things Together The healthiest people don’t just have strong hearts, minds or bodies. True health demands that the whole work in harmony, which is why we’re dedicated to partnership. Work with us Email Me! Want updates about Dell Med and the larger health ecosystem? Sign Up About Us Directory Events Leadership Mission & Vision Newsroom REthink / New Perspectives on Health Helpful Links Careers Contact Us Intranet Media Resources UT Health Austin Google Translate Information Adobe Reader Emergency Information Site Feedback Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022