Skip to Content Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory Education Research Clinical Care Health Beyond the Clinic About Creating a New Kind of Doctor We recruit and train physician leaders as comfortable taking on systemic challenges in health as caring for individual patients. ARE YOU ONE? In This Section Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources More Information PLAN Application Timeline EXPLORE Continuing Medical Education PREPARE Programs for Youth & Undergrads Discovery to Impact — Faster We reward creative thinking and encourage rapid experimentation, using collaborative programs to speed promising research to market. SEE HOW In This Section Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources More Information ATTEND Research Events MEET Office of Research Team FIND Institutes & Centers Improving Care. Improving Health. We’re here to make health — including health care — better. The end goal is a complete revolution in how people get and stay healthy. WHAT IT MEANS In This Section Overview Vision Case Studies More Information GET CARE UT Health Austin EXPLORE Health Beyond the Clinic Health in the Landscape of Life Enabling the healthscape, the ecosystem outside the clinic, requires improving the system to pay for health drivers. EXPLORE FURTHER In This Section Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization More Information PARTNER Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE The Impact Factory Meet Dell Med We’re rethinking the role of academic medicine in improving health — and doing so with a unique focus on our community. ABOUT US Helpful Links Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports More Information GIVE Support Dell Med CONTACT Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE Our Cultural Values Education Overview Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources PLAN: Application Timeline EXPLORE: Continuing Medical Education PREPARE: Programs for Youth & Undergrads Research Overview Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources ATTEND: Research Events MEET: Office of Research Team FIND: Institutes & Centers Clinical Care Overview Overview Vision Case Studies GET CARE: UT Health Austin EXPLORE: Health Beyond the Clinic Health Beyond the Clinic Overview Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization PARTNER: Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT: Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE: The Impact Factory About Overview Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports GIVE: Support Dell Med CONTACT: Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE: Our Cultural Values Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory Department of Medical Education › Units Preparing Future Generations to Lead & Advance Health Care The Department of Medical Education is committed to excellence in academics, building a dynamic learning community, promoting educational scholarship and enhancing the curriculum through recognition and support of outstanding educators. Focus Areas No. 1: Recruit & Educate Students Along the Physician Continuum Through innovative instruction and assessment of learning, leadership and social consciousness in both undergraduate medical education and graduate medical education, the department strives to ensure that Dell Medical School learners have the skills, knowledge and professional attitudes that will translate to excellence in care delivery. The department is committed to educating and mentoring learners to become the health care leaders of Texas and the world. No. 2: Identify Current & Future Needs for Faculty Excellence The Department of Medical Education identifies current and future needs for faculty to deliver on Dell Med’s education mission, helps to create succession plans for a strong and diverse teaching faculty and awards excellence in teaching by sponsoring the Academy of Distinguished Educators. No. 3: Develop Youth Interests in Health Sciences in the Central Texas Community Dell Med is committed to developing local youth and raising awareness of health sciences through education. The pre-health professions effort encompasses community development initiatives such as Health Sciences Summer Camps for middle and high school students from historically underrepresented communities who are considering a career in the health care field. See resources for faculty » Helpful Links Meet the Team View Events Make a Gift » Interim Department Chair <div class="c--bio-link"> <a class="person h-type" href="/directory/beth-nelson" aria-label="Beth Nelson, M.D."> <div class="photo" style="background-image: url('http://s3.amazonaws.com/ut-dms-prod-cds-s3-bucket/dmdmdm/HS-beth-nelson-320x320.png')"></div> <span class="name">Beth Nelson, M.D.</span> </a> </div> Contact Information dellmeded@austin.utexas.edu 512-495-5100 Mailing Address Department of Medical Education, Dell Medical School 1501 Red River St., Stop Z0100 Austin, TX 78712 Physical Address Health Learning Building 2.400 View Map » More About Medical Education Pre-Health Professions The Pre-Health Professions team develops and oversees programs focused on introducing the health sciences to middle-school, high-school and college students. See where med ed starts » Continuing Medical Education Dell Med facilitates educational opportunities for a range of learners to advance innovation, train physician leaders and promote new models of person-centered, multidisciplinary care. Find learning opportunities » Academy of Distinguished Educators The Academy of Distinguished Educators recognizes the outstanding contributions of Dell Med faculty to health education. Learn about the academy » Latest News See all news » See all news » Email Me! Want updates about Dell Med and the larger health ecosystem? Sign Up About Us Directory Events Leadership Mission & Vision Newsroom REthink / New Perspectives on Health Helpful Links Careers Contact Us Intranet Media Resources UT Health Austin Google Translate Information Adobe Reader Emergency Information Site Feedback Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022