Skip to Content Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory Education Research Clinical Care Health Beyond the Clinic About Creating a New Kind of Doctor We recruit and train physician leaders as comfortable taking on systemic challenges in health as caring for individual patients. ARE YOU ONE? In This Section Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources More Information PLAN Application Timeline EXPLORE Continuing Medical Education PREPARE Programs for Youth & Undergrads Discovery to Impact — Faster We reward creative thinking and encourage rapid experimentation, using collaborative programs to speed promising research to market. SEE HOW In This Section Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources More Information ATTEND Research Events MEET Office of Research Team FIND Institutes & Centers Improving Care. Improving Health. We’re here to make health — including health care — better. The end goal is a complete revolution in how people get and stay healthy. WHAT IT MEANS In This Section Overview Vision Case Studies More Information GET CARE UT Health Austin EXPLORE Health Beyond the Clinic Health in the Landscape of Life Enabling the healthscape, the ecosystem outside the clinic, requires improving the system to pay for health drivers. EXPLORE FURTHER In This Section Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization More Information PARTNER Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE The Impact Factory Meet Dell Med We’re rethinking the role of academic medicine in improving health — and doing so with a unique focus on our community. ABOUT US Helpful Links Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports More Information GIVE Support Dell Med CONTACT Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE Our Cultural Values Education Overview Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources PLAN: Application Timeline EXPLORE: Continuing Medical Education PREPARE: Programs for Youth & Undergrads Research Overview Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources ATTEND: Research Events MEET: Office of Research Team FIND: Institutes & Centers Clinical Care Overview Overview Vision Case Studies GET CARE: UT Health Austin EXPLORE: Health Beyond the Clinic Health Beyond the Clinic Overview Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization PARTNER: Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT: Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE: The Impact Factory About Overview Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports GIVE: Support Dell Med CONTACT: Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE: Our Cultural Values Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory Health Equity, Diversity & Inclusion A commitment foundational to Dell Med’s mission to revolutionize how people get and stay healthy Health Equity, Diversity & Inclusion A commitment foundational to Dell Med’s mission to revolutionize how people get and stay healthy Dell Med knows that addressing systemic inequities will help achieve optimal health for all and believes that a diverse, equitable and inclusive organizational culture deepens the intellectual environment and improves the academic experience, research, patient care and health. The Office of Health Equity and the Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion are two related — but distinct — efforts to that end. Office of Health Equity Office of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Office of Health Equity Dell Med’s health equity work takes place within the context of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation’s definition of health equity: Health equity means that everyone has a fair and just opportunity to be as healthy as possible. This requires removing obstacles to health such as poverty, discrimination, and their consequences, including powerlessness and lack of access to good jobs with fair pay, quality education and housing, safe environments, and health care. Guided by the Health Equity Strategic Map, over the next year the Office of Health Equity is laying groundwork internally to enable the school to effectively address externally those systems and drivers that affect the ability for Central Texans to have a “fair and just opportunity to be as healthy as possible.” This work takes place within the context of entrenched inequities across society and upholds racial equity as a foundational principle. EXPLORE HEALTH EQUITY WORK Office of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion The Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion focuses its work internally to create lasting institutional change: cultivating a diverse and inclusive campus environment and culture that advances equity. View ODEI’s Strategic Action Plan » The aim is to assure that everyone — especially people who have been historically marginalized — can fully participate in decision-making throughout Dell Med and equally benefit from and contribute to the institution. The office strives to create meaningful progress in four priority areas: Organizational climate Faculty and staff hiring, recruitment and retention Health professions pathway programs Strategic partnerships EXPLORE DIVERSITY, EQUITY & INCLUSION WORK A Blueprint for Health Equity Dell Med’s Health Equity Strategic Map is ambitious — and implementation has already begun. READ ABOUT THE MAP Email Me! Want updates about Dell Med and the larger health ecosystem? Sign Up About Us Directory Events Leadership Mission & Vision Newsroom REthink / New Perspectives on Health Helpful Links Careers Contact Us Intranet Media Resources UT Health Austin Google Translate Information Adobe Reader Emergency Information Site Feedback Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022