Skip to Content Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory Education Research Clinical Care Health Beyond the Clinic About Creating a New Kind of Doctor We recruit and train physician leaders as comfortable taking on systemic challenges in health as caring for individual patients. ARE YOU ONE? In This Section Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources More Information PLAN Application Timeline EXPLORE Continuing Medical Education PREPARE Programs for Youth & Undergrads Discovery to Impact — Faster We reward creative thinking and encourage rapid experimentation, using collaborative programs to speed promising research to market. SEE HOW In This Section Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources More Information ATTEND Research Events MEET Office of Research Team FIND Institutes & Centers Improving Care. Improving Health. We’re here to make health — including health care — better. The end goal is a complete revolution in how people get and stay healthy. WHAT IT MEANS In This Section Overview Vision Case Studies More Information GET CARE UT Health Austin EXPLORE Health Beyond the Clinic Health in the Landscape of Life Enabling the healthscape, the ecosystem outside the clinic, requires improving the system to pay for health drivers. EXPLORE FURTHER In This Section Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization More Information PARTNER Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE The Impact Factory Meet Dell Med We’re rethinking the role of academic medicine in improving health — and doing so with a unique focus on our community. ABOUT US Helpful Links Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports More Information GIVE Support Dell Med CONTACT Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE Our Cultural Values Education Overview Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources PLAN: Application Timeline EXPLORE: Continuing Medical Education PREPARE: Programs for Youth & Undergrads Research Overview Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources ATTEND: Research Events MEET: Office of Research Team FIND: Institutes & Centers Clinical Care Overview Overview Vision Case Studies GET CARE: UT Health Austin EXPLORE: Health Beyond the Clinic Health Beyond the Clinic Overview Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization PARTNER: Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT: Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE: The Impact Factory About Overview Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports GIVE: Support Dell Med CONTACT: Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE: Our Cultural Values Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory › Healthscape › Collaborative Opportunities Factor Health Catalyzing a New Business of Health With Outcomes Worth Paying For Research shows that as much as 80% to 90% of our health is determined by nonmedical factors such as smoking, access to healthy food, housing and transportation — also known as health drivers. That means only 10% to 20% of our health relates directly to medical care, where the vast majority of health-focused dollars are actually spent. Although there is a lot more research and evidence on how to implement interventions that focus on health drivers, the majority of efforts still focus on hospital and doctor visits, not on where you eat, live or exercise. Focusing on those drivers, Factor Health brings together community-based organizations, health care payers and investors in new ways to rethink the path to better health for vulnerable populations. The collaborative initiative tests and builds programs at scale that deliver health outside health care with outcomes worth paying for, with first efforts focused on addressing chronic disease and youth mental health. Engage With Factor Health Investors, Payers, Community Organizations & Researchers Read about how you can be part of new health solutions in the short-term or long-term. Factor Health is a partnership between Dell Medical School and the Episcopal Health Foundation. It launched in Austin, Texas, in January 2019, followed with an expansion to Houston in October 2019. Our work is about moving beyond traditional, fee-for-service care found in hospitals and clinics, to helping everyone in the health ecosystem — investors, health care payers, community-based organizations, academic medical centers — see themselves and the roles they can play in health differently. Mini Kahlon, Ph.D., Vice Dean for the Health Ecosystem Connect With Factor Health Contact the team to explore opportunities for partnership. Email the Team Email Me! Want updates about Dell Med and the larger health ecosystem? Sign Up About Us Directory Events Leadership Mission & Vision Newsroom REthink / New Perspectives on Health Helpful Links Careers Contact Us Intranet Media Resources UT Health Austin Google Translate Information Adobe Reader Emergency Information Site Feedback Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022