Skip to Content Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory Education Research Clinical Care Health Beyond the Clinic About Creating a New Kind of Doctor We recruit and train physician leaders as comfortable taking on systemic challenges in health as caring for individual patients. ARE YOU ONE? In This Section Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources More Information PLAN Application Timeline EXPLORE Continuing Medical Education PREPARE Programs for Youth & Undergrads Discovery to Impact — Faster We reward creative thinking and encourage rapid experimentation, using collaborative programs to speed promising research to market. SEE HOW In This Section Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources More Information ATTEND Research Events MEET Office of Research Team FIND Institutes & Centers Improving Care. Improving Health. We’re here to make health — including health care — better. The end goal is a complete revolution in how people get and stay healthy. WHAT IT MEANS In This Section Overview Vision Case Studies More Information GET CARE UT Health Austin EXPLORE Health Beyond the Clinic Health in the Landscape of Life Enabling the healthscape, the ecosystem outside the clinic, requires improving the system to pay for health drivers. EXPLORE FURTHER In This Section Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization More Information PARTNER Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE The Impact Factory Meet Dell Med We’re rethinking the role of academic medicine in improving health — and doing so with a unique focus on our community. ABOUT US Helpful Links Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports More Information GIVE Support Dell Med CONTACT Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE Our Cultural Values Education Overview Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources PLAN: Application Timeline EXPLORE: Continuing Medical Education PREPARE: Programs for Youth & Undergrads Research Overview Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources ATTEND: Research Events MEET: Office of Research Team FIND: Institutes & Centers Clinical Care Overview Overview Vision Case Studies GET CARE: UT Health Austin EXPLORE: Health Beyond the Clinic Health Beyond the Clinic Overview Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization PARTNER: Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT: Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE: The Impact Factory About Overview Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports GIVE: Support Dell Med CONTACT: Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE: Our Cultural Values Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory › Research Vision: Accelerating Impact From discovery to impact — much faster. Dell Medical School, unique in its positioning as a new medical school at a top-10 research university, is rethinking the role of academic medicine in improving health. This includes creating a research environment centered on partnership and care transformation with the goal of improving health outcomes as rapidly as possible. In addition to working with other medical and academic institutions, our researchers develop health solutions with partners including members of the community, nonprofit organizations and government entities. Research Priorities No. 1: Reducing the Time from Discovery to Impact We are rethinking the research life cycle with a focus on revolutionizing health maintenance, disease prevention and detection, and treatment. Studies have shown it takes about 17 years for results of a research project to impact health. That’s too long. Our goal is to reduce this time to five years so those counting on us don’t wait decades for transformational improvements to health. No. 2: Empowering World-Class Researchers to Collaborate Radically Building a medical school from scratch affords unusual opportunities for innovation. Our team is assembling leading experts with diverse expertise. We are also developing a culture of cross-disciplinary teamwork by working with external partners, the community and other UT Austin researchers from a diverse spectrum of schools and colleges. No. 3: Expanding the Breadth of Research on Campus Our faculty conduct research with the potential to improve health, focusing on better outcomes in local communities. Instead of duplicating the internationally recognized work of scientists, engineers and public health experts at UT Austin, we act to connect them to a unique clinical learning environment, with a special focus on advancing investigation that aligns with Dell Med’s mission. Redefining Health Innovation & Commercialization The CoLab at Dell Med provides strategic programs and immersive workshops to help researchers understand the opportunities and challenges of innovating in health care. Learn More Email Me! Want updates about Dell Med and the larger health ecosystem? Sign Up About Us Directory Events Leadership Mission & Vision Newsroom REthink / New Perspectives on Health Helpful Links Careers Contact Us Intranet Media Resources UT Health Austin Google Translate Information Adobe Reader Emergency Information Site Feedback Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022