Skip to Content Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory Education Research Clinical Care Health Beyond the Clinic About Creating a New Kind of Doctor We recruit and train physician leaders as comfortable taking on systemic challenges in health as caring for individual patients. ARE YOU ONE? In This Section Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources More Information PLAN Application Timeline EXPLORE Continuing Medical Education PREPARE Programs for Youth & Undergrads Discovery to Impact — Faster We reward creative thinking and encourage rapid experimentation, using collaborative programs to speed promising research to market. SEE HOW In This Section Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources More Information ATTEND Research Events MEET Office of Research Team FIND Institutes & Centers Improving Care. Improving Health. We’re here to make health — including health care — better. The end goal is a complete revolution in how people get and stay healthy. WHAT IT MEANS In This Section Overview Vision Case Studies More Information GET CARE UT Health Austin EXPLORE Health Beyond the Clinic Health in the Landscape of Life Enabling the healthscape, the ecosystem outside the clinic, requires improving the system to pay for health drivers. EXPLORE FURTHER In This Section Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization More Information PARTNER Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE The Impact Factory Meet Dell Med We’re rethinking the role of academic medicine in improving health — and doing so with a unique focus on our community. ABOUT US Helpful Links Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports More Information GIVE Support Dell Med CONTACT Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE Our Cultural Values Education Overview Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources PLAN: Application Timeline EXPLORE: Continuing Medical Education PREPARE: Programs for Youth & Undergrads Research Overview Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources ATTEND: Research Events MEET: Office of Research Team FIND: Institutes & Centers Clinical Care Overview Overview Vision Case Studies GET CARE: UT Health Austin EXPLORE: Health Beyond the Clinic Health Beyond the Clinic Overview Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization PARTNER: Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT: Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE: The Impact Factory About Overview Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports GIVE: Support Dell Med CONTACT: Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE: Our Cultural Values Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory › About Reports In collaboration with diverse partners, Dell Medical School is working to improve health for the people of Travis County. Supporting Central Health’s Mission A report created jointly by Dell Med and Central Health connects the school’s progress to objectives in Central Health’s Strategic Work Plan. Download the June 2021 edition in English or Spanish, or read the highlights: Delivering Better Care Even as Dell Med teams develop and test new models of care focused on value, our faculty and resident physicians play a vital, everyday role in making care accessible to all Central Texans. Responding to the Pandemic From creating a hub for exchanging critically needed resources to coordinating large-scale contact tracing and vaccination efforts, Dell Med teams are working as part of a collaborative UT Austin effort on the COVID-19 response. Supporting Our Community Positioned on the campus of a powerhouse research university, Dell Med leverages the expertise of its faculty, staff, students, residents and fellows to bring big ideas to Central Texas, which we implement alongside partners in pursuit of mutually held goals. Demographic Data Dell Medical School defines diversity broadly, to include all facets by which individuals identify themselves. More about our team Advancing Community Impact Driven by an unprecedented partnership with the community, Dell Med is focused on improving health locally as a model for the nation. Download the overviews below for a look at some of the ways in which Dell Med is meeting that challenge today. Pursuing Excellence in Medical Education Dell Med works with its clinical partner, Ascension Seton, to provide formative clinical experiences for doctors in training focused on a wide range of medical specialties. The result? Physicians who are prepared to engage in the critical work of revolutionizing how people get and stay healthy. Improving the Continuum of Care for Mental Health Teams across Dell Med are working with diverse partners to improve the continuum of care for mental health — broadly referred to as brain health — in support of people and families in Central Texas and beyond. Translating & Commercializing Health Innovations Supporting local innovators and researchers, the CoLab at Dell Med is addressing the challenges in bringing novel procedures, treatments and devices to market, bridging the gap between breakthrough discoveries at research universities like The University of Texas at Austin and everyday consumers. Catalyzing Innovation in Cancer Prevention & Care In collaboration with community partners, multidisciplinary teams at Dell Med are on the front line of local efforts to prevent cancer — the leading cause of death in Travis County — by supporting people with the least access to care and the greatest likelihood of severe disease. All Reports Dell Med Progress Snapshots July 2020: General Update | Pandemic Response January 2020 June 2019 January 2019 July 2018 November 2017 Annual Central Health/Dell Med Joint Progress Reports 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 Demographics Faculty/Staff Student Residency Email Me! Want updates about Dell Med and the larger health ecosystem? Sign Up About Us Directory Events Leadership Mission & Vision Newsroom REthink / New Perspectives on Health Helpful Links Careers Contact Us Intranet Media Resources UT Health Austin Google Translate Information Adobe Reader Emergency Information Site Feedback Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022