Skip to Content Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory Education Research Clinical Care Health Beyond the Clinic About Creating a New Kind of Doctor We recruit and train physician leaders as comfortable taking on systemic challenges in health as caring for individual patients. ARE YOU ONE? In This Section Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources More Information PLAN Application Timeline EXPLORE Continuing Medical Education PREPARE Programs for Youth & Undergrads Discovery to Impact — Faster We reward creative thinking and encourage rapid experimentation, using collaborative programs to speed promising research to market. SEE HOW In This Section Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources More Information ATTEND Research Events MEET Office of Research Team FIND Institutes & Centers Improving Care. Improving Health. We’re here to make health — including health care — better. The end goal is a complete revolution in how people get and stay healthy. WHAT IT MEANS In This Section Overview Vision Case Studies More Information GET CARE UT Health Austin EXPLORE Health Beyond the Clinic Health in the Landscape of Life Enabling the healthscape, the ecosystem outside the clinic, requires improving the system to pay for health drivers. EXPLORE FURTHER In This Section Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization More Information PARTNER Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE The Impact Factory Meet Dell Med We’re rethinking the role of academic medicine in improving health — and doing so with a unique focus on our community. ABOUT US Helpful Links Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports More Information GIVE Support Dell Med CONTACT Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE Our Cultural Values Education Overview Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources PLAN: Application Timeline EXPLORE: Continuing Medical Education PREPARE: Programs for Youth & Undergrads Research Overview Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources ATTEND: Research Events MEET: Office of Research Team FIND: Institutes & Centers Clinical Care Overview Overview Vision Case Studies GET CARE: UT Health Austin EXPLORE: Health Beyond the Clinic Health Beyond the Clinic Overview Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization PARTNER: Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT: Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE: The Impact Factory About Overview Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports GIVE: Support Dell Med CONTACT: Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE: Our Cultural Values Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory Academics › Education Educating Leaders to Transform Health & Care From youth to M.D.s in training to longtime practitioners, Dell Medical School offers formative experiences for all learners ready to impact health. Undergraduate Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Continuing Medical Education Master's Degree Programs Additional Training Programs Undergraduate Medical Education Amid a growing health district and in hospitals and clinics throughout our community, future physicians become leaders ready to transform health. Students benefit from Dell Med’s curriculum — created from scratch to train a new kind of doctor — opportunities to earn a dual degree, mentorship from national experts, and partnership with members of the local health ecosystem. Explore Undergraduate Medical Education » Related Information Leading EDGE Curriculum Learning Network Licensure Disclosures Student Demographics Student Resources Tuition Rates Graduate Medical Education Dell Med partners with Ascension Seton to provide clinical experiences and training in a range of specialties, including a signature curriculum — Advancing Care Transformation — that emphasizes value-based health care, quality improvement, equity, leadership, teamwork and other key competencies in health systems science. All of this happens in the vibrant city of Austin — a growing hub for tech, industry and breakfast tacos. Explore GME Programs Advancing Care Transformation Trainee Care in the Community Residencies Child Neurology Dermatology Emergency Medicine Family Medicine Internal Medicine Neurology Obstetrics & Gynecology Ophthalmology Orthopaedic Surgery Pediatrics Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation Psychiatry Radiology Surgery Transitional Fellowships Addiction Psychiatry Cardiac Electrophysiology Cardiovascular Disease Child & Adolescent Psychiatry Clinical Fellowship in Orthopaedic Surgery Clinical Neurophysiology Consultation-Liaison Psychiatry Craniofacial & Pediatric Plastic Surgery Emergency Medical Services (EMS) Epilepsy Female Pelvic Medicine & Reconstructive Surgery Gastroenterology & Hepatology Geriatric Psychiatry Headache Hematology & Medical Oncology Hospice & Palliative Medicine Hospital Medicine Fellowship in Quality & Patient Safety Interventional Cardiology Maternal-Fetal Medicine Minimally Invasive Gynecologic Surgery Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine Pediatric Critical Care Medicine Pediatric Emergency Medicine Pediatric Hospital Medicine Pulmonary & Critical Care Medicine Sports Medicine Vascular Neurology Continuing Medical Education By offering professional development opportunities that promote enhanced value, safety, quality and equity of care, Dell Med’s Continuing Medical Education program fosters innovation that improves how people get and stay healthy. Presenters include leading experts from Central Texas and across the country who deliver comprehensive, objective and evidence-based education to further scientific discovery and advancement. Read More About CME » More Details CME Events Master’s Degree Programs The University of Texas at Austin offers three master’s degree programs facilitated by cross-campus partnerships involving Dell Med. Working professionals from across the health care sector who want to lead change, catalyze transformation and create high-value services in their field can earn a Master of Science in Health Care Transformation. The Value Institute for Health and Care, a joint venture of Dell Med and the McCombs School of Business, leads this one-year, nonresidential program. Working professionals seeking expertise in how to apply human-centered design as a force for innovation in health and care can earn a Master of Arts in Design in Health. UT Austin’s School of Design and Creative Technologies co-leads this program with the Design Institute for Health, a collaboration of Dell Med and the College of Fine Arts. Working professionals seeking to explore how humanistic knowledge, skills and frameworks have the power to transform health and health care can earn a Master of Arts in Humanities, Health and Medicine. The humanities-focused degree — also aimed at those wishing to hone their skills as writers, researchers and critical thinkers — is offered in collaboration with the College of Liberal Arts. Dual Degrees Dell Med students are also able to earn one of these degrees — or other options, including a new Master of Public Affairs in partnership with the LBJ School of Public Affairs — as part of the school’s hallmark Growth Year. Degrees Master of Science in Health Care Transformation Master of Arts in Design in Health Master of Arts in Humanities, Health & Medicine Additional Training Programs Dell Med departments operate predoctoral, postdoctoral and additional training programs that build on the school’s value-based care focus and work to create a vital, inclusive health ecosystem. Trainees complete research, educational and clinical activities that further hone their expertise and position them as leaders in their field. Learn More Additional Training Programs Neurology Postdoctoral Residency in Clinical Neuropsychology Psychiatry & Behavioral Sciences Predoctoral Internship in Pediatric & Clinical Child & Adolescent Psychology Postdoctoral Fellowship in Pediatric Psychology Surgery and Perioperative Care Value-Based Health Care Summer Research Internship for Medical Students Orthopaedic Value-Based Health Care Fellowship for Medical Students Opportunities for Youth & Undergrads Dell Med helps learners — tomorrow’s leaders — discover the health sciences (and professions). Explore programs Email Me! Want updates about Dell Med and the larger health ecosystem? Sign Up About Us Directory Events Leadership Mission & Vision Newsroom REthink / New Perspectives on Health Helpful Links Careers Contact Us Intranet Media Resources UT Health Austin Google Translate Information Adobe Reader Emergency Information Site Feedback Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022