Skip to Content Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory Education Research Clinical Care Health Beyond the Clinic About Creating a New Kind of Doctor We recruit and train physician leaders as comfortable taking on systemic challenges in health as caring for individual patients. ARE YOU ONE? In This Section Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources More Information PLAN Application Timeline EXPLORE Continuing Medical Education PREPARE Programs for Youth & Undergrads Discovery to Impact — Faster We reward creative thinking and encourage rapid experimentation, using collaborative programs to speed promising research to market. SEE HOW In This Section Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources More Information ATTEND Research Events MEET Office of Research Team FIND Institutes & Centers Improving Care. Improving Health. We’re here to make health — including health care — better. The end goal is a complete revolution in how people get and stay healthy. WHAT IT MEANS In This Section Overview Vision Case Studies More Information GET CARE UT Health Austin EXPLORE Health Beyond the Clinic Health in the Landscape of Life Enabling the healthscape, the ecosystem outside the clinic, requires improving the system to pay for health drivers. EXPLORE FURTHER In This Section Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization More Information PARTNER Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE The Impact Factory Meet Dell Med We’re rethinking the role of academic medicine in improving health — and doing so with a unique focus on our community. ABOUT US Helpful Links Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports More Information GIVE Support Dell Med CONTACT Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE Our Cultural Values Education Overview Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources PLAN: Application Timeline EXPLORE: Continuing Medical Education PREPARE: Programs for Youth & Undergrads Research Overview Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources ATTEND: Research Events MEET: Office of Research Team FIND: Institutes & Centers Clinical Care Overview Overview Vision Case Studies GET CARE: UT Health Austin EXPLORE: Health Beyond the Clinic Health Beyond the Clinic Overview Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization PARTNER: Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT: Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE: The Impact Factory About Overview Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports GIVE: Support Dell Med CONTACT: Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE: Our Cultural Values Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory › Education › Academics Programs for Youth & Undergrads Exploring the health sciences at a young age helps learners develop skills that are necessary for future careers in related fields. And as a college student, meaningful experiences within the health professions cultivate leadership skills that can be applied to transform care. Dell Medical School is committed to creating such opportunities — what we call “pathways” — for local youth and young adults, with a focus on those from traditionally underrepresented areas of the community. Offerings Creating Leaders in Medicine and Beyond The Creating Leaders in Medicine and Beyond program provides an opportunity for students to further develop critical-thinking skills, interact with health professionals from various fields to gain exposure to related career opportunities and build academic and personal confidence from mentors and instructors. Clinical Undergraduate Shadowing Program Through the Clinical Undergraduate Shadowing Program, prospective genetic counseling students shadow a genetic counselor at the Livestrong Cancer Institutes at UT Health Austin, observing telehealth visits, clinical huddles and tumor boards. Health Leadership Apprentice Program In a semester-long apprenticeship, students of The University of Texas at Austin and Huston-Tillotson University as well as recent grads work alongside Dell Med faculty and staff on projects tied to health transformation. Health Sciences Summer Camps Each summer, middle and high school students from across Central Texas spend two weeks at UT Austin learning about a variety of health professions through hands-on activities. Health Sciences Yearlong Academy The Health Sciences Yearlong Academy offers high school students the opportunity to participate in monthly sessions covering health sciences, college readiness, strategies for a successful mentor experience, collaborative projects and health professions guest speakers. Livestrong at School Through Dell Medical School, health science middle school and high school students and their teachers take experiences from the Livestrong Foundation’s award-winning Livestrong at School online cancer curriculum beyond the classroom to discuss cancer and careers with clinicians, researchers, community organizations and cancer survivors. Stop the Bleed Stop the Bleed is a national awareness campaign that empowers bystanders to help in a bleeding emergency. Dell Medical School sponsors the UT Austin chapter of Stop the Bleed, which frequently hosts free trainings on basic bleeding control techniques. All are welcome to attend! Summer Healthcare Experience (SHE) in Cancer The Summer Healthcare Experience (SHE) in Cancer aims to empower high school student leaders who identify as female with experiences, activities and discussions that introduce them to the incredible breadth of career and leadership opportunities in the field of oncology. Summer Chemistry for Pre-Health Professions The Summer Chemistry for Pre-Health Professions program provides students with a foundation in general chemistry to help close the gap in what is considered a “weed-out” class that has a high potential to impact whether students change their major or career path. Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship Undergraduate students are eligible for this experience focused on cancer-related research. Fellows come from universities across the U.S. to spend 10 weeks in laboratories at the Dell Medical School and UT Austin. Texas Health Catalyst Associate Program UT Austin graduate and undergraduate students as well as recent grads can gain experience in technology commercialization, entrepreneurship and more through this semester-long position. Email Me! Want updates about Dell Med and the larger health ecosystem? Sign Up About Us Directory Events Leadership Mission & Vision Newsroom REthink / New Perspectives on Health Helpful Links Careers Contact Us Intranet Media Resources UT Health Austin Google Translate Information Adobe Reader Emergency Information Site Feedback Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022