Skip to Content Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory Education Research Clinical Care Health Beyond the Clinic About Creating a New Kind of Doctor We recruit and train physician leaders as comfortable taking on systemic challenges in health as caring for individual patients. ARE YOU ONE? In This Section Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources More Information PLAN Application Timeline EXPLORE Continuing Medical Education PREPARE Programs for Youth & Undergrads Discovery to Impact — Faster We reward creative thinking and encourage rapid experimentation, using collaborative programs to speed promising research to market. SEE HOW In This Section Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources More Information ATTEND Research Events MEET Office of Research Team FIND Institutes & Centers Improving Care. Improving Health. We’re here to make health — including health care — better. The end goal is a complete revolution in how people get and stay healthy. WHAT IT MEANS In This Section Overview Vision Case Studies More Information GET CARE UT Health Austin EXPLORE Health Beyond the Clinic Health in the Landscape of Life Enabling the healthscape, the ecosystem outside the clinic, requires improving the system to pay for health drivers. EXPLORE FURTHER In This Section Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization More Information PARTNER Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE The Impact Factory Meet Dell Med We’re rethinking the role of academic medicine in improving health — and doing so with a unique focus on our community. ABOUT US Helpful Links Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports More Information GIVE Support Dell Med CONTACT Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE Our Cultural Values Education Overview Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources PLAN: Application Timeline EXPLORE: Continuing Medical Education PREPARE: Programs for Youth & Undergrads Research Overview Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources ATTEND: Research Events MEET: Office of Research Team FIND: Institutes & Centers Clinical Care Overview Overview Vision Case Studies GET CARE: UT Health Austin EXPLORE: Health Beyond the Clinic Health Beyond the Clinic Overview Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization PARTNER: Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT: Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE: The Impact Factory About Overview Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports GIVE: Support Dell Med CONTACT: Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE: Our Cultural Values Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory Collaborative Opportunities › Healthscape Working Together, Working Better Dell Medical School is committed to collaborating broadly, learning and innovating alongside any partner with an informed perspective and a good idea. Are you ready to get started? Here’s how. DEVELOP AN IDEA BUILD THE ECOSYSTEM Develop an Idea Our programs to catalyze innovation bring value to inventors, entrepreneurs and investors alike. The Impact Factory harnesses the power of human-centered design, cross-sector partnerships, cutting-edge research and business tools to launch and scale innovative programs and build an evidence base and talent pipeline for civic impact. The CoLab at Dell Medical School, including the Texas Health Catalyst program, provides resources for those interested in commercializing an invention, launching a company or collaborating with industry. Learn more about the CoLab » Build the Ecosystem We can’t accomplish our goals without listening to and working with partners to solve community problems. In return, we offer customized support to individuals and organizations working in the larger health ecosystem. Community-Driven Initiatives solicits ideas from Central Texas communities and offers them implementation support, help with identifying funding opportunities and more. Our newest program, Factor Health, partners with community organizations to test and build programs at scale that deliver health outside health care with outcomes that the health care industry will pay for. Discover Factor Health » Email Me! Want updates about Dell Med and the larger health ecosystem? Sign Up About Us Directory Events Leadership Mission & Vision Newsroom REthink / New Perspectives on Health Helpful Links Careers Contact Us Intranet Media Resources UT Health Austin Google Translate Information Adobe Reader Emergency Information Site Feedback Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022