Skip to Content Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory Education Research Clinical Care Health Beyond the Clinic About Creating a New Kind of Doctor We recruit and train physician leaders as comfortable taking on systemic challenges in health as caring for individual patients. ARE YOU ONE? In This Section Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources More Information PLAN Application Timeline EXPLORE Continuing Medical Education PREPARE Programs for Youth & Undergrads Discovery to Impact — Faster We reward creative thinking and encourage rapid experimentation, using collaborative programs to speed promising research to market. SEE HOW In This Section Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources More Information ATTEND Research Events MEET Office of Research Team FIND Institutes & Centers Improving Care. Improving Health. We’re here to make health — including health care — better. The end goal is a complete revolution in how people get and stay healthy. WHAT IT MEANS In This Section Overview Vision Case Studies More Information GET CARE UT Health Austin EXPLORE Health Beyond the Clinic Health in the Landscape of Life Enabling the healthscape, the ecosystem outside the clinic, requires improving the system to pay for health drivers. EXPLORE FURTHER In This Section Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization More Information PARTNER Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE The Impact Factory Meet Dell Med We’re rethinking the role of academic medicine in improving health — and doing so with a unique focus on our community. ABOUT US Helpful Links Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports More Information GIVE Support Dell Med CONTACT Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE Our Cultural Values Education Overview Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources PLAN: Application Timeline EXPLORE: Continuing Medical Education PREPARE: Programs for Youth & Undergrads Research Overview Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources ATTEND: Research Events MEET: Office of Research Team FIND: Institutes & Centers Clinical Care Overview Overview Vision Case Studies GET CARE: UT Health Austin EXPLORE: Health Beyond the Clinic Health Beyond the Clinic Overview Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization PARTNER: Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT: Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE: The Impact Factory About Overview Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports GIVE: Support Dell Med CONTACT: Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE: Our Cultural Values Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory › Education › Academics Continuing Medical Education Dell Medical School physician leaders — from new graduates to longtime faculty members — must continue to enhance their provision of evidence-based, patient-centered care for the entirety of their careers. Through Continuing Medical Education (CME) activities offered by the school, Dell Med team members and local practitioners have access to lifelong learning opportunities that benefit the community. The mission of Dell Med’s CME program is to provide comprehensive, objective, evidence-based continuing medical education activities that advance participants’ knowledge, competence and performance. Dell Med’s CME program strives to foster innovation that improves how people get and stay healthy by offering professional development opportunities that promote enhanced value, safety, quality and equity of care. Activity presenters include leading experts from Central Texas and around the nation who deliver comprehensive, objective and evidence-based education to further scientific discovery and advancement. Details Eligibility CME Events are open to physicians, physician assistants, nurse practitioners and other interprofessional providers who practice primary, specialty and subspecialty care. Formats Dell Med hosts live, interactive lecture-based instruction, case-based discussion, hands-on training sessions and small-group workshops. The CME program includes regularly scheduled series and large conferences covering a broad range of topics in all medical specialties. In addition, Dell Med accredits activities for Maintenance of Certification and provides asynchronous enduring materials such as the Dell Med Discovering Value-Based Health Care modules. The University of Texas at Austin Dell Medical School is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education (ACCME). The Office of Continuing Medical Education only produces independent activities which are free from commercial support. They are implemented in accordance with the accreditation requirements and policies of the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education (ACCME). CME Information Dell Med Trainings Ascension Seton Trainings Texas Medical Association Trainings CME Policies and Procedures (UT EID required) Sample Activity Worksheet (UT EID required) Videos (Select Trainings Included) Contact Information 512-495-5268 DellMedCME@austin.utexas.edu CME Director Emily Vinas, Ed.D. Email Me! Want updates about Dell Med and the larger health ecosystem? Sign Up About Us Directory Events Leadership Mission & Vision Newsroom REthink / New Perspectives on Health Helpful Links Careers Contact Us Intranet Media Resources UT Health Austin Google Translate Information Adobe Reader Emergency Information Site Feedback Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022