Skip to Content Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory Education Research Clinical Care Health Beyond the Clinic About Creating a New Kind of Doctor We recruit and train physician leaders as comfortable taking on systemic challenges in health as caring for individual patients. ARE YOU ONE? In This Section Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources More Information PLAN Application Timeline EXPLORE Continuing Medical Education PREPARE Programs for Youth & Undergrads Discovery to Impact — Faster We reward creative thinking and encourage rapid experimentation, using collaborative programs to speed promising research to market. SEE HOW In This Section Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources More Information ATTEND Research Events MEET Office of Research Team FIND Institutes & Centers Improving Care. Improving Health. We’re here to make health — including health care — better. The end goal is a complete revolution in how people get and stay healthy. WHAT IT MEANS In This Section Overview Vision Case Studies More Information GET CARE UT Health Austin EXPLORE Health Beyond the Clinic Health in the Landscape of Life Enabling the healthscape, the ecosystem outside the clinic, requires improving the system to pay for health drivers. EXPLORE FURTHER In This Section Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization More Information PARTNER Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE The Impact Factory Meet Dell Med We’re rethinking the role of academic medicine in improving health — and doing so with a unique focus on our community. ABOUT US Helpful Links Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports More Information GIVE Support Dell Med CONTACT Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE Our Cultural Values Education Overview Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources PLAN: Application Timeline EXPLORE: Continuing Medical Education PREPARE: Programs for Youth & Undergrads Research Overview Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources ATTEND: Research Events MEET: Office of Research Team FIND: Institutes & Centers Clinical Care Overview Overview Vision Case Studies GET CARE: UT Health Austin EXPLORE: Health Beyond the Clinic Health Beyond the Clinic Overview Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization PARTNER: Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT: Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE: The Impact Factory About Overview Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports GIVE: Support Dell Med CONTACT: Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE: Our Cultural Values Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory › Healthscape › Collaborative Opportunities The Impact Factory Innovation & Entrepreneurship. For Good. A collaboration between Dell Medical School and the LBJ School of Public Affairs, The Impact Factory is an engine for civic innovation, entrepreneurship and service learning at The University of Texas at Austin. A first-of-its-kind, cross-sector collaboration, The Impact Factory aims to measurably improve health and prosperity for vulnerable populations in the United States. Together, we are multidisciplinary practitioners, educators, researchers, advocates, community leaders and other trailblazers who favor big ideas that challenge conventional thinking. From hunger and homelessness to lack of economic opportunity, we are tackling our communities’ toughest problems because we envision an America where everyone thrives. Helpful Links Go to TheImpactFactory.org Subscribe to the Newsletter Make a Gift Founder & Executive Director Michael K. Hole, M.D., MBA Contact Information TheImpactFactory@austin.utexas.edu Serving People Facing Food Insecurity Good Apple, a portfolio company of The Impact Factory, fights food insecurity and joblessness for families in need. Read About Good Apple What We Do The Impact Factory harnesses the power of human-centered design, cross-sector partnerships, cutting-edge research and business tools to launch and scale innovative programs and build an evidence base and talent pipeline for civic impact. Prototyping The Impact Factory leverages business tools to design, launch, study and scale proof-of-concept innovations. Acceleration The Impact Factory connects promising ventures with the networks, funding and mentorship they need to scale impact. Teaching The Impact Factory builds tomorrow’s leaders via experiential learning programs, fellowships, workshops and formal courses on design, impact evaluation, entrepreneurship and more. Capacity-Building The Impact Factory equips change-makers with cutting-edge data by strategically disseminating discoveries and best practices to academic, policy, other professional and lay audiences. How We Do It The Impact Factory uses five complementary strategies to identify needs, unite stakeholders and develop relevant, sustainable solutions. Human-Centered Design The Impact Factory develops and tests interventions alongside the individuals, organizations and systems facing the problems The Impact Factory aims to solve. Systems Integration The Impact Factory meets people in places they frequent and trust by incorporating the initiative’s products and services into health clinics, community centers, places of worship and more. Cross-Sector Partnerships The Impact Factory identifies and leverages the untapped resources of local leaders, agencies and the university to break down silos, increase efficiency and scale interventions. Community-Building The Impact Factory shares insights, stories and news with local, state and national audiences to mobilize a network of entrepreneurial public servants. Rigorous Evaluation The Impact Factory studies its programs’ scalability and impact on health and economic outcomes alongside experts at The University of Texas at Austin, a top-tier research university. Learn More About The Impact Factory Introducing The Impact Factory A collaboration between Dell Med and the LBJ School aims to improve health and prosperity for vulnerable populations in the U.S. through innovation and entrepreneurship. Read About the Launch Email Me! Want updates about Dell Med and the larger health ecosystem? Sign Up About Us Directory Events Leadership Mission & Vision Newsroom REthink / New Perspectives on Health Helpful Links Careers Contact Us Intranet Media Resources UT Health Austin Google Translate Information Adobe Reader Emergency Information Site Feedback Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022