Skip to Content Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory Education Research Clinical Care Health Beyond the Clinic About Creating a New Kind of Doctor We recruit and train physician leaders as comfortable taking on systemic challenges in health as caring for individual patients. ARE YOU ONE? In This Section Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources More Information PLAN Application Timeline EXPLORE Continuing Medical Education PREPARE Programs for Youth & Undergrads Discovery to Impact — Faster We reward creative thinking and encourage rapid experimentation, using collaborative programs to speed promising research to market. SEE HOW In This Section Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources More Information ATTEND Research Events MEET Office of Research Team FIND Institutes & Centers Improving Care. Improving Health. We’re here to make health — including health care — better. The end goal is a complete revolution in how people get and stay healthy. WHAT IT MEANS In This Section Overview Vision Case Studies More Information GET CARE UT Health Austin EXPLORE Health Beyond the Clinic Health in the Landscape of Life Enabling the healthscape, the ecosystem outside the clinic, requires improving the system to pay for health drivers. EXPLORE FURTHER In This Section Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization More Information PARTNER Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE The Impact Factory Meet Dell Med We’re rethinking the role of academic medicine in improving health — and doing so with a unique focus on our community. ABOUT US Helpful Links Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports More Information GIVE Support Dell Med CONTACT Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE Our Cultural Values Education Overview Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources PLAN: Application Timeline EXPLORE: Continuing Medical Education PREPARE: Programs for Youth & Undergrads Research Overview Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources ATTEND: Research Events MEET: Office of Research Team FIND: Institutes & Centers Clinical Care Overview Overview Vision Case Studies GET CARE: UT Health Austin EXPLORE: Health Beyond the Clinic Health Beyond the Clinic Overview Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization PARTNER: Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT: Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE: The Impact Factory About Overview Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports GIVE: Support Dell Med CONTACT: Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE: Our Cultural Values Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory News Dell Children’s, UT Health Austin Launch First Pediatric Abdominal Transplant Center in Central Texas March 31, 2022 UT Health Austin and Dell Children’s Medical Center announce the opening of the Pediatric Abdominal Transplant Center on April 5th, the first and only program of its kind in Central Texas, offering exceptional care to children ranging from newborns to young adults living with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) or kidney failure. The Pediatric Abdominal Transplant Center is a collaboration between Dell Children’s and UT Health Austin, the clinical practice of Dell Medical School at The University of Texas at Austin. “With the launch of our Pediatric Abdominal Transplant Center, children and young adults in Central Texas will no longer have to leave their homes, families or communities for kidney transplant care,” said Nicole Turgeon, M.D., transplant director for the Adult and Pediatric Abdominal Transplant Centers and professor in the Department of Surgery and Perioperative Care. “The new program represents a unique strategic collaboration across Dell Children’s Medical Center, Dell Seton Medical Center at The University of Texas and UT Health Austin, building on the Adult Abdominal Transplant Center to provide seamless kidney transplant care for patients of all ages, from newborns to adults.” “We’re pleased to provide critical pediatric kidney care to children in Central Texas and build centers of excellence providing industry-leading medical care and expertise,” said Christopher Born, MBA, president of Dell Children’s Medical Center. “Our multidisciplinary team of dedicated, skilled specialists at the Pediatric Abdominal Transplant Center will deliver personalized care that best fits each child and their unique healthcare needs.” More than 9,800 children and adolescents in the United States have ESRD or kidney failure and they rely on life saving dialysis or a kidney transplant, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Housed at Dell Children’s Medical Center, the Pediatric Abdominal Transplant Center diagnoses, treats and manages the care of infants, children and young adults in need of a kidney transplant. Distinguishing program elements include: · Coordination of patient care between referring physicians and team members to ensure each child receives the highest level of specialized care in Central Texas. · A team of medical experts comprising leaders in pediatric abdominal care and highly specialized pediatric transplant providers who work with young patients and their families to develop personalized treatment plans. · Leveraging of the latest research-proven methodologies to successfully treat pediatric patients in need of an organ transplant, using both donated kidneys and working with living kidney donors. The Pediatric Abdominal Transplant Center follows the November 2021 establishment of the Adult Abdominal Transplant Center, a program of Dell Seton Medical Center at The University of Texas, which diagnoses, treats and manages care for patients 18 years or older in need of a kidney, as well as those willing to be a living kidney donor. For more information, visit https://www.partnersincare.health/pediatric-abdominal-transplant-center. ### About Ascension Texas In Texas, Ascension operates Ascension Providence, Ascension Seton, which includes Dell Children’s Medical Center, the region’s only comprehensive children’s hospital and pediatric Level I trauma center, and Dell Seton Medical Center at The University of Texas, the region’s only Level I trauma center for adults. Ascension Seton collaborates with Dell Medical School at The University of Texas at Austin and shares a common vision of transforming healthcare through a focus on quality and value. Serving Texas for 120 years, Ascension is a faith-based healthcare organization committed to delivering compassionate, personalized care to all, with special attention to persons living in poverty and those most vulnerable. Ascension is one of the leading non-profit and Catholic health systems in the U.S., operating 2,600 sites of care – including 139 hospitals and more than 40 senior living facilities – in 19 states and the District of Columbia. Visit ascension.org and dellchildrens.net. About UT Health Austin UT Health Austin is the clinical practice of Dell Medical School at The University of Texas at Austin. UT Health Austin clinicians collaborate with colleagues at Dell Medical School, The University of Texas at Austin, and in the community to utilize the latest research, diagnostic and treatment techniques in every clinical encounter. Our experienced healthcare professionals deliver personalized, whole-person care of uncompromising quality and treat each patient as an individual with unique circumstances, priorities and beliefs. Working directly with patients and their families, we create individualized care plans designed to help our patients reach the goals that matter most to them — in the care room and beyond. Visit uthealthaustin.org. Category: News Share this page: Back to News Email Me! Want updates about Dell Med and the larger health ecosystem? Sign Up About Us Directory Events Leadership Mission & Vision Newsroom REthink / New Perspectives on Health Helpful Links Careers Contact Us Intranet Media Resources UT Health Austin Google Translate Information Adobe Reader Emergency Information Site Feedback Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022