Skip to Content Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory Education Research Clinical Care Health Beyond the Clinic About Creating a New Kind of Doctor We recruit and train physician leaders as comfortable taking on systemic challenges in health as caring for individual patients. ARE YOU ONE? In This Section Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources More Information PLAN Application Timeline EXPLORE Continuing Medical Education PREPARE Programs for Youth & Undergrads Discovery to Impact — Faster We reward creative thinking and encourage rapid experimentation, using collaborative programs to speed promising research to market. SEE HOW In This Section Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources More Information ATTEND Research Events MEET Office of Research Team FIND Institutes & Centers Improving Care. Improving Health. We’re here to make health — including health care — better. The end goal is a complete revolution in how people get and stay healthy. WHAT IT MEANS In This Section Overview Vision Case Studies More Information GET CARE UT Health Austin EXPLORE Health Beyond the Clinic Health in the Landscape of Life Enabling the healthscape, the ecosystem outside the clinic, requires improving the system to pay for health drivers. EXPLORE FURTHER In This Section Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization More Information PARTNER Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE The Impact Factory Meet Dell Med We’re rethinking the role of academic medicine in improving health — and doing so with a unique focus on our community. ABOUT US Helpful Links Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports More Information GIVE Support Dell Med CONTACT Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE Our Cultural Values Education Overview Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources PLAN: Application Timeline EXPLORE: Continuing Medical Education PREPARE: Programs for Youth & Undergrads Research Overview Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources ATTEND: Research Events MEET: Office of Research Team FIND: Institutes & Centers Clinical Care Overview Overview Vision Case Studies GET CARE: UT Health Austin EXPLORE: Health Beyond the Clinic Health Beyond the Clinic Overview Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization PARTNER: Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT: Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE: The Impact Factory About Overview Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports GIVE: Support Dell Med CONTACT: Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE: Our Cultural Values Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory Building a Healthier Future, Together Our philanthropic supporters are key partners in creating a healthier future. You choose how you want to make a difference, and together, we’ll make it happen. Make a Gift » Building a Healthier Future, Together Our philanthropic supporters are key partners in creating a healthier future. You choose how you want to make a difference, and together, we’ll make it happen. Make a Gift » It Starts Here. It Starts With You. Through unprecedented community support, investment from the Michael & Susan Dell Foundation, and gifts from people like you, Dell Medical School is training your future doctors, making life-changing discoveries and helping people get the care they need. What you make possible will change the world. Get In Touch Email Us Call Our Giving Line Meet Our Team Ways to Give Giving Opportunities Meet Our Donors Ways to Give Make Your Gift Online Making a one-time or recurring gift online is the easiest way to support any area of Dell Med. Establish an Endowment An endowment is a gift that lasts forever. Your gift is invested, and proceeds support the area you choose each year. Plan an Estate Gift Make a difference far into the future by including Dell Med in your will or as a beneficiary of your life insurance policy or retirement plan. Contact Our Team Looking for mailing and email addresses, specific giving opportunities and ways to get involved? The development team is here to help. Opportunities for Support Make A Gift » Training Your Future Doctors Your gift helps attract and train physician leaders who are as passionate about improving your health and serving local communities as they are about mastering the art and science of medicine. Contact Us to Learn More » Attracting & Supporting World-Class Faculty Through your generosity, our faculty shape the future of health and health care while training the next generation of doctors to do the same. Contact Us to Learn More » Providing Excellent Care to Central Texans Powered by community support, our UT Health Austin clinics put you, your family, your goals and your needs at the forefront of your care. Contact Us to Learn More » Preventing Illness & Improving Health in the Landscape of Life Your gift helps us revolutionize how people get and stay healthy — inside and outside our clinics. Contact Us to Learn More » Advancing Research With Clinical & Community Impact With your support, we lead medical breakthroughs in the ways we prevent, detect and treat illness. Contact Us to Learn More » Make A Gift » Meet Our Donors Learn how our donors are helping us train tomorrow’s physician leaders, conduct groundbreaking research, care for community members, and create new models of health care. Read Their Stories Dell Med Society Founders Circle Lead Campaign Donors Email Me! Want updates about Dell Med and the larger health ecosystem? Sign Up About Us Directory Events Leadership Mission & Vision Newsroom REthink / New Perspectives on Health Helpful Links Careers Contact Us Intranet Media Resources UT Health Austin Google Translate Information Adobe Reader Emergency Information Site Feedback Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022