Skip to Content Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory Education Research Clinical Care Health Beyond the Clinic About Creating a New Kind of Doctor We recruit and train physician leaders as comfortable taking on systemic challenges in health as caring for individual patients. ARE YOU ONE? In This Section Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources More Information PLAN Application Timeline EXPLORE Continuing Medical Education PREPARE Programs for Youth & Undergrads Discovery to Impact — Faster We reward creative thinking and encourage rapid experimentation, using collaborative programs to speed promising research to market. SEE HOW In This Section Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources More Information ATTEND Research Events MEET Office of Research Team FIND Institutes & Centers Improving Care. Improving Health. We’re here to make health — including health care — better. The end goal is a complete revolution in how people get and stay healthy. WHAT IT MEANS In This Section Overview Vision Case Studies More Information GET CARE UT Health Austin EXPLORE Health Beyond the Clinic Health in the Landscape of Life Enabling the healthscape, the ecosystem outside the clinic, requires improving the system to pay for health drivers. EXPLORE FURTHER In This Section Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization More Information PARTNER Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE The Impact Factory Meet Dell Med We’re rethinking the role of academic medicine in improving health — and doing so with a unique focus on our community. ABOUT US Helpful Links Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports More Information GIVE Support Dell Med CONTACT Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE Our Cultural Values Education Overview Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources PLAN: Application Timeline EXPLORE: Continuing Medical Education PREPARE: Programs for Youth & Undergrads Research Overview Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources ATTEND: Research Events MEET: Office of Research Team FIND: Institutes & Centers Clinical Care Overview Overview Vision Case Studies GET CARE: UT Health Austin EXPLORE: Health Beyond the Clinic Health Beyond the Clinic Overview Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization PARTNER: Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT: Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE: The Impact Factory About Overview Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports GIVE: Support Dell Med CONTACT: Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE: Our Cultural Values Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory › Education › Academics Undergraduate Medical Education Future Physicians Become Leaders Ready to Transform Health At Dell Medical School — one of the newest fully accredited medical schools at a top-tier U.S. research university — students gain the core competencies to practice modern medicine while also learning how to become better leaders, communicators, partners and caregivers. Training includes a focus on value-based health care, team-based learning, space for self-discovery, expanded clinical opportunities, engagement with community partners and more. This shift in the way doctors are educated equips students with the knowledge, skills and confidence needed to transform the health care system and improve outcomes locally. See how to apply Explore Leading EDGE Curriculum Developed to train a new kind of physician, Dell Med’s groundbreaking curriculum incorporates Essentials, Delivery, Growth and Exploration (EDGE). Student Resources The Office of Student Affairs supports Dell Med students through resources like financial aid, a student portal, academic assistance and more. Learning Network Medical students and health professionals from around the world can engage in training opportunities facilitated by Dell Med. Third-Year Students Improve Health Locally Learn about the impact of the Growth Year » A Curriculum ‘Built to Revolutionize Medicine’ Read Texas Medicine’s report on Dell Med » Helpful Links How to Apply Dell Medical School is seeking individuals who are interested in transforming health care. Are you one of these future physician leaders? See application details » Why Dell Med? As a new medical school at a top-tier research university, we are uniquely positioned to rethink medical education. You can be a part of this revolution. Learn more » Graduate Medical Education Dell Medical School partners with Ascension Seton to provide formative clinical experiences in a range of specialties, including a common curriculum — Advancing Care Transformation. Explore our programs » Student Demographics Dell Medical School’s full cohort — including the classes of 2022 to 2025 — consists of about 200 students, 23% of whom identify with a race or ethnicity underrepresented in medicine. See more stats Email Me! Want updates about Dell Med and the larger health ecosystem? Sign Up About Us Directory Events Leadership Mission & Vision Newsroom REthink / New Perspectives on Health Helpful Links Careers Contact Us Intranet Media Resources UT Health Austin Google Translate Information Adobe Reader Emergency Information Site Feedback Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022