Skip to Content Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory Education Research Clinical Care Health Beyond the Clinic About Creating a New Kind of Doctor We recruit and train physician leaders as comfortable taking on systemic challenges in health as caring for individual patients. ARE YOU ONE? In This Section Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources More Information PLAN Application Timeline EXPLORE Continuing Medical Education PREPARE Programs for Youth & Undergrads Discovery to Impact — Faster We reward creative thinking and encourage rapid experimentation, using collaborative programs to speed promising research to market. SEE HOW In This Section Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources More Information ATTEND Research Events MEET Office of Research Team FIND Institutes & Centers Improving Care. Improving Health. We’re here to make health — including health care — better. The end goal is a complete revolution in how people get and stay healthy. WHAT IT MEANS In This Section Overview Vision Case Studies More Information GET CARE UT Health Austin EXPLORE Health Beyond the Clinic Health in the Landscape of Life Enabling the healthscape, the ecosystem outside the clinic, requires improving the system to pay for health drivers. EXPLORE FURTHER In This Section Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization More Information PARTNER Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE The Impact Factory Meet Dell Med We’re rethinking the role of academic medicine in improving health — and doing so with a unique focus on our community. ABOUT US Helpful Links Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports More Information GIVE Support Dell Med CONTACT Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE Our Cultural Values Education Overview Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources PLAN: Application Timeline EXPLORE: Continuing Medical Education PREPARE: Programs for Youth & Undergrads Research Overview Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources ATTEND: Research Events MEET: Office of Research Team FIND: Institutes & Centers Clinical Care Overview Overview Vision Case Studies GET CARE: UT Health Austin EXPLORE: Health Beyond the Clinic Health Beyond the Clinic Overview Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization PARTNER: Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT: Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE: The Impact Factory About Overview Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports GIVE: Support Dell Med CONTACT: Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE: Our Cultural Values Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory Livestrong Cancer Institutes › Units Revolutionizing the Complete Continuum of Cancer Care The Livestrong Cancer Institutes of the Dell Medical School have a simple yet powerful mission: to rethink the full range of cancer care, from prevention to diagnosis, treatment, survivorship and end-of-life care — all with a focus on the patient’s needs, values and preferences. The team puts this person-centered approach to practice at UT Health Austin, using a model called CaLM (Cancer Life reiMagined) to deliver compassionate, state-of-the-art cancer care. Areas of Focus Radically Improve People’s Cancer Experience & Quality of Life Decades of Livestrong research and working with cancer survivors has given care providers an understanding of big challenges faced by cancer patients: chronic pain, loss of fertility, emotional distress, family instability, career impact and long-term financial hardships. Revolutionize Cancer Treatment The Cancer Institutes are developing a new model for cancer detection, prevention, treatment, survivorship, education and research that ensures everyone, regardless of income, education, neighborhood or ethnic background, has access to high-quality care when they need it. Reinvent the Way Cancer Patients Are Cared For The Cancer Institutes aim to provide integrated, whole-person care across the continuum of cancer care through coordinated support teams, including professionals in mental health, social work, palliative care, nutrition, financial services, cancer care and care management that address patients’ unique need and deliver individualized care plans. Hear from Livestrong Cancer Institutes team members and Dell Med leaders about the CaLM Model and its impact. Closely affiliated with the Livestrong Cancer Institutes is the Department of Oncology, which aims to advance care — and improve health outcomes — through a patient-centered enterprise strategy developed in partnership with the Central Texas cancer care community. Download an overview to learn more about the collaborative approach to cancer prevention and care. Helpful Links Meet the Team View Events Research Programs & Members Listen to "Cancer Uncovered" Podcast Read the Inaugural Annual Report Make an Appointment » Make a Gift » Director <div class="c--bio-link"> <a class="person h-type" href="/directory/s-gail-eckhardt" aria-label="S. Gail Eckhardt, M.D., FASCO"> <div class="photo" style="background-image: url('http://s3.amazonaws.com/ut-dms-prod-cds-s3-bucket/dmdmdm/HS-Gail-Eckhardt-320x320.jpg')"></div> <span class="name">S. Gail Eckhardt, M.D., FASCO</span> </a> </div> Contact Information 512-495-5400 Mailing Address Livestrong Cancer Institutes, Dell Medical School 1601 Trinity St., Bldg. B, Stop Z1100 Austin, TX 78712 Physical Address Health Discovery Building 6.200 View Map » More About the Cancer Institutes Patient-Centered Support Facilitating coordinated, individualized care that meets the health, emotional and financial needs of those who receive a cancer diagnosis and their loved ones is a priority of the team. Learn more » Promoting & Advancing Discovery Research is the key to conquering cancer. The Cancer Institutes’ innovative program fosters collaboration with the well-established research community in the Austin area. Read more » Reinvigorating Cancer Education Education is a critical component of the Livestrong Cancer Institutes’ mission and work to revolutionize cancer treatment and reinvent cancer care. Explore the Programs » In the Media See all » See all » Summer Research Fellowship Are you an undergraduate university student seeking experience in cancer-related research? Apply for the institutes’ 10-week-long fellowship. Learn About the Program Email Me! Want updates about Dell Med and the larger health ecosystem? Sign Up About Us Directory Events Leadership Mission & Vision Newsroom REthink / New Perspectives on Health Helpful Links Careers Contact Us Intranet Media Resources UT Health Austin Google Translate Information Adobe Reader Emergency Information Site Feedback Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022