Skip to Content Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory Education Research Clinical Care Health Beyond the Clinic About Creating a New Kind of Doctor We recruit and train physician leaders as comfortable taking on systemic challenges in health as caring for individual patients. ARE YOU ONE? In This Section Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources More Information PLAN Application Timeline EXPLORE Continuing Medical Education PREPARE Programs for Youth & Undergrads Discovery to Impact — Faster We reward creative thinking and encourage rapid experimentation, using collaborative programs to speed promising research to market. SEE HOW In This Section Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources More Information ATTEND Research Events MEET Office of Research Team FIND Institutes & Centers Improving Care. Improving Health. We’re here to make health — including health care — better. The end goal is a complete revolution in how people get and stay healthy. WHAT IT MEANS In This Section Overview Vision Case Studies More Information GET CARE UT Health Austin EXPLORE Health Beyond the Clinic Health in the Landscape of Life Enabling the healthscape, the ecosystem outside the clinic, requires improving the system to pay for health drivers. EXPLORE FURTHER In This Section Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization More Information PARTNER Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE The Impact Factory Meet Dell Med We’re rethinking the role of academic medicine in improving health — and doing so with a unique focus on our community. ABOUT US Helpful Links Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports More Information GIVE Support Dell Med CONTACT Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE Our Cultural Values Education Overview Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources PLAN: Application Timeline EXPLORE: Continuing Medical Education PREPARE: Programs for Youth & Undergrads Research Overview Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources ATTEND: Research Events MEET: Office of Research Team FIND: Institutes & Centers Clinical Care Overview Overview Vision Case Studies GET CARE: UT Health Austin EXPLORE: Health Beyond the Clinic Health Beyond the Clinic Overview Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization PARTNER: Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT: Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE: The Impact Factory About Overview Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports GIVE: Support Dell Med CONTACT: Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE: Our Cultural Values Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory › Healthscape › Collaborative Opportunities CoLab at Dell Med Taking a Holistic Approach to Commercialization, From Idea to Impact The hub for health innovation at UT. The CoLab at Dell Medical School at The University of Texas at Austin supports Dell Med’s mission to revolutionize how people get and stay healthy by quickly translating and commercializing life-changing health innovations. It is a launchpad for transformative health solutions that provides resources for innovators interested in commercializing an invention, starting a company or collaborating with industry partners. The CoLab addresses the challenges in bringing novel procedures, treatments and devices to market, bridging the gap between breakthrough discoveries at research universities like UT and everyday consumers. Areas of Focus Translating Innovations Through Strategic Programs Based on the stage and needs of each project, the CoLab identifies market gaps, develops smart solutions, builds partnerships and commercializes opportunities. A painstorming process defines desired health outcomes, articulates challenges to achieving outcomes and develops problem statements that can be used to guide new solutions. Texas Health Catalyst — a cross-campus collaboration — leverages clearly defined problem statements to solicit, vet and shape promising health innovations. It convenes teams from across industries and through the entire value chain and creates a safe harbor and clear process through which ideas can be presented, challenged, built upon and tested. Partnership and commercialization efforts identify partners, facilitate collaborations and negotiate agreements to commercialize promising innovations, as well as provide a support structure to manage and advance projects toward commercialization. Fostering Educational & Networking Activities UT students and faculty “learn by doing” when they work through the translation and commercialization of their technologies. Through Texas Health Catalyst’s associate program, students and graduates gain exposure to the business of health care through hands-on work with project teams and by supporting program operations. Further Establishing UT & Central Texas as Hubs of Health Innovation The CoLab’s programs, supported projects, and diverse partners and advisors attract investors and members of the health care industry to engage with the research of UT students and faculty. Additionally, health care companies from across the world partner with — and hire — UT students, faculty and staff in local offices and labs. The CoLab’s programs, including Texas Health Catalyst, are redefining what product innovation and commercialization — designed to efficiently support a value-focused health system — look like. To learn more about the approach, download an overview. We believe every health system can build and benefit from a Texas Health Catalyst-style accelerator, and can even use it to support a regional health innovation ecosystem. NEJM Catalyst Commentary Helpful Links View the Team Email the CoLab Make a Gift Download an Overview Managing Director Ruben Rathnasingham, Ph.D. Strategic Programs Painstorming Painstorming is a workshop-based process that convenes a group of key stakeholders to identify a clear problem statement. Get Involved » Texas Health Catalyst Texas Health Catalyst provides researchers, innovators and entrepreneurs customized guidance on product development. Learn More » Commercialization Partnership and commercialization efforts at the CoLab apply expertise and seed funding to innovations that address real market needs. Explore Further » Accelerating Innovation in Central Texas Dissecting Patient Handoffs Using a painstorming workshop, Texas Health Catalyst identified inefficiencies in patient handoffs as a key gap in care delivery. Read About It » The Future of Health Innovation in Austin: 3 Things to Know A Texas Health Catalyst panel explores what makes Austin a prime place to move the needle on health innovation. Read More » Fostering Innovation & Opportunity for Medical Entrepreneurs A program manager shares his observations about the consulting phase and how Texas Health Catalyst provides value for early-stage innovators. Read More » Rethinking Health Innovation From Invention to Commercialization Members of the CoLab discuss the benefits and challenges of building and supporting a robust and comprehensive pipeline for applied innovation in health care. Learn More » Translating Ideas Into Tools for Impact In part due to support from Dell Med’s Texas Health Catalyst, an affordable, time-saving test for heart-failure patients to use in their homes will soon be available. And that’s only the beginning. Read About It » Identifying & Cultivating Early-Stage Product Ideas Hear Texas Health Catalyst Director Nishi Viswanathan discuss early-stage medical technology on the Mastering Medical Device Podcast. Listen Now Email Me! Want updates about Dell Med and the larger health ecosystem? Sign Up About Us Directory Events Leadership Mission & Vision Newsroom REthink / New Perspectives on Health Helpful Links Careers Contact Us Intranet Media Resources UT Health Austin Google Translate Information Adobe Reader Emergency Information Site Feedback Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022