Skip to Content Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory Education Research Clinical Care Health Beyond the Clinic About Creating a New Kind of Doctor We recruit and train physician leaders as comfortable taking on systemic challenges in health as caring for individual patients. ARE YOU ONE? In This Section Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources More Information PLAN Application Timeline EXPLORE Continuing Medical Education PREPARE Programs for Youth & Undergrads Discovery to Impact — Faster We reward creative thinking and encourage rapid experimentation, using collaborative programs to speed promising research to market. SEE HOW In This Section Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources More Information ATTEND Research Events MEET Office of Research Team FIND Institutes & Centers Improving Care. Improving Health. We’re here to make health — including health care — better. The end goal is a complete revolution in how people get and stay healthy. WHAT IT MEANS In This Section Overview Vision Case Studies More Information GET CARE UT Health Austin EXPLORE Health Beyond the Clinic Health in the Landscape of Life Enabling the healthscape, the ecosystem outside the clinic, requires improving the system to pay for health drivers. EXPLORE FURTHER In This Section Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization More Information PARTNER Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE The Impact Factory Meet Dell Med We’re rethinking the role of academic medicine in improving health — and doing so with a unique focus on our community. ABOUT US Helpful Links Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports More Information GIVE Support Dell Med CONTACT Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE Our Cultural Values Education Overview Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources PLAN: Application Timeline EXPLORE: Continuing Medical Education PREPARE: Programs for Youth & Undergrads Research Overview Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources ATTEND: Research Events MEET: Office of Research Team FIND: Institutes & Centers Clinical Care Overview Overview Vision Case Studies GET CARE: UT Health Austin EXPLORE: Health Beyond the Clinic Health Beyond the Clinic Overview Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization PARTNER: Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT: Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE: The Impact Factory About Overview Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports GIVE: Support Dell Med CONTACT: Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE: Our Cultural Values Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory › Education Student Resources Our students — leaders dedicated to improving health — are the heart of Dell Medical School. Student Affairs supports their well-being, from financial aid to mental health referrals to stress-reducing social activities and beyond. Even before medical students commit to Dell Med, Student Affairs partners with the admissions team to ensure a positive experience during the application and interview process. For residents and fellows, the school’s Graduate Medical Education team partners with Ascension Seton to offer these resources. Our Approach Students play a key role in our work. We believe in our students. We trust them to contribute by identifying their own areas of greatest need and developing solutions. Not only does our team work with students to address challenges and areas of growth, we partner with them to improve resources that benefit all Dell Med students. Personal growth occurs within a tight-knit community. The Office of Student Affairs teaches. Not anatomy or biochemistry or foundations of disease — rather, we help our students build skills essential to their careers: self-understanding, influence, financial planning, graduate medical education application strategy and more. Dell Med’s focus on team-based learning is applied to this education as well, so students grow together in a social context. Our team offers one-on-one advising and referrals as needed depending on the circumstance. Our method of coaching is holistic and caring. Dell Med students come from a range of backgrounds and lifestyles. Our team recognizes that each person experiences medical school in a different way — and we keep this in mind when coaching and encouraging students. People make mistakes. Life throws us surprises. Our team strives for understanding while helping students achieve success in medical school and beyond. Related info: how to apply More Student Information Financial Aid The Student Affairs team provides assistance in financial planning and accessing aid. See what's available » Health & Wellness From counseling services to recreational facilities and beyond, Dell Med students can access UT Austin’s robust health promotion offerings. Explore all » Life in Austin Austin is more than just a city with tasty Tex-Mex and live music. It’s home to a vibrant community with abundant opportunities to get involved. Learn More » Student Wiki (Login Required) Current students can access resources that promote wellness and professional development as well as information technology support. Go to resources Dell Med Library Access books, test prep tools, evidence-based literature and more » Policy Documents Read Dell Med’s policies, as applicable to medical students » Email Me! Want updates about Dell Med and the larger health ecosystem? Sign Up About Us Directory Events Leadership Mission & Vision Newsroom REthink / New Perspectives on Health Helpful Links Careers Contact Us Intranet Media Resources UT Health Austin Google Translate Information Adobe Reader Emergency Information Site Feedback Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022