Skip to Content Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory Education Research Clinical Care Health Beyond the Clinic About Creating a New Kind of Doctor We recruit and train physician leaders as comfortable taking on systemic challenges in health as caring for individual patients. ARE YOU ONE? In This Section Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources More Information PLAN Application Timeline EXPLORE Continuing Medical Education PREPARE Programs for Youth & Undergrads Discovery to Impact — Faster We reward creative thinking and encourage rapid experimentation, using collaborative programs to speed promising research to market. SEE HOW In This Section Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources More Information ATTEND Research Events MEET Office of Research Team FIND Institutes & Centers Improving Care. Improving Health. We’re here to make health — including health care — better. The end goal is a complete revolution in how people get and stay healthy. WHAT IT MEANS In This Section Overview Vision Case Studies More Information GET CARE UT Health Austin EXPLORE Health Beyond the Clinic Health in the Landscape of Life Enabling the healthscape, the ecosystem outside the clinic, requires improving the system to pay for health drivers. EXPLORE FURTHER In This Section Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization More Information PARTNER Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE The Impact Factory Meet Dell Med We’re rethinking the role of academic medicine in improving health — and doing so with a unique focus on our community. ABOUT US Helpful Links Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports More Information GIVE Support Dell Med CONTACT Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE Our Cultural Values Education Overview Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources PLAN: Application Timeline EXPLORE: Continuing Medical Education PREPARE: Programs for Youth & Undergrads Research Overview Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources ATTEND: Research Events MEET: Office of Research Team FIND: Institutes & Centers Clinical Care Overview Overview Vision Case Studies GET CARE: UT Health Austin EXPLORE: Health Beyond the Clinic Health Beyond the Clinic Overview Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization PARTNER: Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT: Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE: The Impact Factory About Overview Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports GIVE: Support Dell Med CONTACT: Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE: Our Cultural Values Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory Mulva Clinic for the Neurosciences › Units An Emerging World-Class Center for Treatment & Research Founded on a desire to improve the lives of individuals and families affected by neurological and psychiatric disease, the James J. and Miriam B. Mulva Clinic for the Neurosciences is advancing patient care and neuroscience research. The Mulva Clinic builds on the expertise of a robust research community at The University of Texas at Austin to accelerate scientific breakthroughs and develop tools that will transform detection and care. As part of UT Health Austin — the clinical practice of Dell Med — the Mulva Clinic provides specialized care for medical conditions affecting the brain or central nervous system. Programs Comprehensive Memory Center Mental Health Disorders Multiple Sclerosis and Neuroimmunology Center Back and Neck Pain Center Institute for Early Life Adversity Research The Mulva Clinic was created through a $50 million gift from James and Miriam Mulva and the Mulva Family Foundation, with matching funds provided by UT Austin, the University of Texas System and the Dell Medical School. Helpful Links Meet the Team View Events See Executive Committee The Oskar Fischer Lecture Series Make an Appointment » Make a Gift » Director <div class="c--bio-link"> <a class="person h-type" href="/directory/david-paydarfar" aria-label="David Paydarfar, M.D."> <div class="photo" style="background-image: url('http://s3.amazonaws.com/ut-dms-prod-cds-s3-bucket/dmdmdm/HS-Paydarfar_David_UTHA_320x320.jpg')"></div> <span class="name">David Paydarfar, M.D.</span> </a> </div> Contact Information mulvaclinic@dellmed.utexas.edu Appointments: 1-833-882-2737 Administration: 512-495-5358 Mailing Address Mulva Clinic for the Neurosciences, Dell Medical School 1601 Trinity St., Bldg. B, Stop Z1300 Austin, TX 78712 Physical Address Health Discovery Building 5.802 View Map » Make an Appointment To make an appointment at UT Health Austin, the clinical practice of Dell Medical School, call 833-UT-CARES (833-882-2737) or complete the online request form. Request an Appointment More About the Mulva Clinic Caring for Patients & Families The clinic brings together skilled clinicians who provide comprehensive, interdisciplinary care through a team-based practice at UT Health Austin. Get the details » Conducting Interdisciplinary Research As part of a new medical school build at a Tier One research university, experts are equipped to collaborate on improving care. Explore the approach » Educating Physician Leaders Faculty members are not only dedicated to advancing research and care for neurological disorders, they are committed to teaching and mentoring the physicians of the future. Read more » Turning Brain Health on Its Head From early detection tools for cognitive impairment to redesigned systems of mental health support, Mulva Clinic experts are making their mark on care. Read About the Clinic Email Me! Want updates about Dell Med and the larger health ecosystem? Sign Up About Us Directory Events Leadership Mission & Vision Newsroom REthink / New Perspectives on Health Helpful Links Careers Contact Us Intranet Media Resources UT Health Austin Google Translate Information Adobe Reader Emergency Information Site Feedback Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022