Skip to Content Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory Education Research Clinical Care Health Beyond the Clinic About Creating a New Kind of Doctor We recruit and train physician leaders as comfortable taking on systemic challenges in health as caring for individual patients. ARE YOU ONE? In This Section Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources More Information PLAN Application Timeline EXPLORE Continuing Medical Education PREPARE Programs for Youth & Undergrads Discovery to Impact — Faster We reward creative thinking and encourage rapid experimentation, using collaborative programs to speed promising research to market. SEE HOW In This Section Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources More Information ATTEND Research Events MEET Office of Research Team FIND Institutes & Centers Improving Care. Improving Health. We’re here to make health — including health care — better. The end goal is a complete revolution in how people get and stay healthy. WHAT IT MEANS In This Section Overview Vision Case Studies More Information GET CARE UT Health Austin EXPLORE Health Beyond the Clinic Health in the Landscape of Life Enabling the healthscape, the ecosystem outside the clinic, requires improving the system to pay for health drivers. EXPLORE FURTHER In This Section Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization More Information PARTNER Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE The Impact Factory Meet Dell Med We’re rethinking the role of academic medicine in improving health — and doing so with a unique focus on our community. ABOUT US Helpful Links Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports More Information GIVE Support Dell Med CONTACT Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE Our Cultural Values Education Overview Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources PLAN: Application Timeline EXPLORE: Continuing Medical Education PREPARE: Programs for Youth & Undergrads Research Overview Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources ATTEND: Research Events MEET: Office of Research Team FIND: Institutes & Centers Clinical Care Overview Overview Vision Case Studies GET CARE: UT Health Austin EXPLORE: Health Beyond the Clinic Health Beyond the Clinic Overview Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization PARTNER: Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT: Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE: The Impact Factory About Overview Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports GIVE: Support Dell Med CONTACT: Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE: Our Cultural Values Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory News Changing the Cancer Equation May 17, 2022 Cancer is arguably the greatest health challenge of our time. Nearly 40% of us will be diagnosed with it at some point in our lives. In the last 50 years, clinical advances have substantially reduced the mortality rate for people with cancer, but new breakthroughs often require years of trial and error in the lab. An innovative partnership between The University of Texas at Austin’s Machine Learning Lab, Oden Institute for Computational Engineering and Sciences, and Dell Medical School aims to speed up those discoveries, saving lives in the process. Dheeraj and Swapna Pandey. UT researchers will integrate two emerging disciplines—computational oncology and machine learning—to transform the future of cancer care. Machine learning applies algorithms to large data sets to build classifiers that can make accurate predictions, even in complex biological and chemical domains. Computational oncology uses physics-based and data-driven advanced mathematical and computational approaches to model tumors, calibrate patient-specific models, and simulate patient responses to potential treatment options. Modeling and simulation occur across a spectrum of scales—from the cellular level to the organ level of the human body. The models can be theory-driven, knowledge-driven, data-driven, or, increasingly, a combination of all three. Substantial computational skills and capabilities, as well as medical knowledge, are required to capture the individuality of each cancer patient’s situation for accurate decision making at all levels. The research collaboration is possible because of a $10 million leadership gift from Dheeraj and Swapna Pandey. “The biggest promise of computational oncology is personalized medicine,” says Dheeraj Pandey, “the ability for us to answer questions that save precious lives. More importantly, the field is attempting to break silos between physics, biology, and computing researchers who are fighting indefatigably against cancer.” “UT Austin has a unique environment that enables the interdisciplinary research critical to tackling societal grand challenges such as personalized care for cancer patients,” said Karen Willcox, Director of the Oden Institute. “We are thrilled to build a new partnership with the Machine Learning Lab, building on the Oden Institute’s strength in computational oncology and our existing partnerships with the Dell Med, MD Anderson Cancer Center and the Texas Advanced Computing Center. Computational medicine is a top priority for the Oden Institute and the generosity of the Pandey family is a gamechanger in taking our efforts to a new level.” The Oden Institute and its Center for Computational Oncology sit at the forefront of developing mechanism-based modeling techniques that optimize treatment and outcomes for an individual patient. The Machine Learning Laboratory is the university’s headquarters for machine learning and artificial intelligence. “A new wave of machine learning is creating predictive models that are transforming science,” said Adam Klivans, Director of the Machine Learning Lab and NSF-funded Institute for Foundations of Machine Learning. “Our technologies can anticipate new biological and chemical interactions to advance the automated discovery of new treatments.” Currently, cancer biologists and chemists rely on trial and error to determine what treatments will be most effective. “Advances in a subfield known as deep learning will dramatically speed up this process,” added Klivans. “What would have previously taken years in the lab can potentially be accomplished in days with the appropriate computing simulations.” Connecting university research with community providers is central to the mission of Dell Med. Through initiatives such as the Livestrong Cancer Institutes, Dell Med translates leading-edge research into high-quality clinical trials and patient-focused precision medicine. "Time is critical when treating cancer,” said Gail Eckhardt, Director of the Livestrong Cancer Institutes at Dell Med. “The Pandeys’ gift brings us that much closer to the day when clinicians and researchers can integrate patient data and computational methods to individualize therapy, thereby improving the lives of patients with cancer.” “Computational approaches are the key to accelerating progress against cancer,” said David Jaffray, Ph.D., Chief Technology and Digital Officer at The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center. “This investment will further the collaborative, team science approach we have developed with the leadership at UT Austin,” added Jaffray. “Together, we are building a critical mass of talent to use the power of data and computing to make real progress against this terrible disease.” Category: News Share this page: Back to News Email Me! Want updates about Dell Med and the larger health ecosystem? Sign Up About Us Directory Events Leadership Mission & Vision Newsroom REthink / New Perspectives on Health Helpful Links Careers Contact Us Intranet Media Resources UT Health Austin Google Translate Information Adobe Reader Emergency Information Site Feedback Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022