Skip to Content Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory Education Research Clinical Care Health Beyond the Clinic About Creating a New Kind of Doctor We recruit and train physician leaders as comfortable taking on systemic challenges in health as caring for individual patients. ARE YOU ONE? In This Section Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources More Information PLAN Application Timeline EXPLORE Continuing Medical Education PREPARE Programs for Youth & Undergrads Discovery to Impact — Faster We reward creative thinking and encourage rapid experimentation, using collaborative programs to speed promising research to market. SEE HOW In This Section Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources More Information ATTEND Research Events MEET Office of Research Team FIND Institutes & Centers Improving Care. Improving Health. We’re here to make health — including health care — better. The end goal is a complete revolution in how people get and stay healthy. WHAT IT MEANS In This Section Overview Vision Case Studies More Information GET CARE UT Health Austin EXPLORE Health Beyond the Clinic Health in the Landscape of Life Enabling the healthscape, the ecosystem outside the clinic, requires improving the system to pay for health drivers. EXPLORE FURTHER In This Section Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization More Information PARTNER Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE The Impact Factory Meet Dell Med We’re rethinking the role of academic medicine in improving health — and doing so with a unique focus on our community. ABOUT US Helpful Links Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports More Information GIVE Support Dell Med CONTACT Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE Our Cultural Values Education Overview Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources PLAN: Application Timeline EXPLORE: Continuing Medical Education PREPARE: Programs for Youth & Undergrads Research Overview Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources ATTEND: Research Events MEET: Office of Research Team FIND: Institutes & Centers Clinical Care Overview Overview Vision Case Studies GET CARE: UT Health Austin EXPLORE: Health Beyond the Clinic Health Beyond the Clinic Overview Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization PARTNER: Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT: Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE: The Impact Factory About Overview Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports GIVE: Support Dell Med CONTACT: Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE: Our Cultural Values Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory › Education › Academics › Undergraduate Medical Education Leading EDGE Curriculum Free from the restraints of an established curriculum, our team created an education model from scratch that’s on the Leading EDGE (Essentials, Delivery, Growth and Exploration). At Dell Med, students teach each other through case studies, studying art to foster empathy, applying knowledge by caring for their patients and the community — and more. All of this is enhanced by a heavy focus on value-based care and health systems science so that graduates are equipped to transform how people get and stay healthy. Explore Core Competencies About the Curriculum Year 1: Essentials Dell Med pioneered an accelerated pre-clinical curriculum centered on students. In 12 months, students develop strong clinical skills through active learning, problem-solving and critical thinking. Year 2: Delivery Students start applying clinical skills to care for patients during clerkships in the second year, which is a year earlier than most schools. Each of the six rotations occur in hospitals and clinics across Austin for about eight weeks. Year 3: Growth This nine-month block provides students with the opportunity to gain experience in an area of personal interest and make progress toward individual goals, such as a dual degree. In the growth year, students also apply their skills to benefit the Central Texas community. Year 4: Exploration Leading up to medical residency, students further explore the specialty field of their choice while continuing to build advanced clinical skills through broad ranging electives, rotations and internships. This year includes a capstone transition-to-residency experience. Four-Year Longitudinal Courses To train students in the art of relationship building — a vital practice for physician leaders — four courses run parallel to the basic science and clinical coursework in all four years of study. Developing Outstanding Clinical Skills Throughout their training, Dell Med students hone diagnostic and clinical skills in tight-knit teams of five students partnered with one faculty mentor. This deep time spent learning from an experienced practitioner equips students to become compassionate and effective physicians. Interprofessional Education More than ever, modern physicians must be adept at collaborating with professionals to accomplish shared goals. Dell Med’s interprofessional education curriculum brings our students together frequently with those from social work, nursing, pharmacy and other areas of study for meaningful work. The result? Skills they can put to use to improve health as part of a team. Leadership By cultivating self-awareness, collaboration skills, feedback agility and more, Dell Med students transform into leaders ready to tackle health care’s toughest challenges. This curriculum fosters a new kind of physician — one driven by the opportunity to inspire and influence other practitioners with the goal of revolutionizing the health care ecosystem. Integrating Leadership, Interprofessional Education and Developing Outstanding Clinical Skills (ILIAD) This course integrates the final year of all three longitudinal courses (DOCS, IPE and Leadership) into a single course that leverages learners’ graduated autonomy in a mentor-supported, self-actuated clinical learning environment to crystallize the professional identity of graduating Dell Med students in preparation for residency. More Information Catalog Past Catalogs Core Competencies Curriculum At a Glance (PDF) Dual Degrees Graduate Medical Education Tuition Rates Readying for a Revolution In an age of electronic health records, surgical robots and artificial intelligence, it’s well past time to rethink medical education. Read About the Approach Email Me! Want updates about Dell Med and the larger health ecosystem? Sign Up About Us Directory Events Leadership Mission & Vision Newsroom REthink / New Perspectives on Health Helpful Links Careers Contact Us Intranet Media Resources UT Health Austin Google Translate Information Adobe Reader Emergency Information Site Feedback Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022