Skip to Content Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory Education Research Clinical Care Health Beyond the Clinic About Creating a New Kind of Doctor We recruit and train physician leaders as comfortable taking on systemic challenges in health as caring for individual patients. ARE YOU ONE? In This Section Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources More Information PLAN Application Timeline EXPLORE Continuing Medical Education PREPARE Programs for Youth & Undergrads Discovery to Impact — Faster We reward creative thinking and encourage rapid experimentation, using collaborative programs to speed promising research to market. SEE HOW In This Section Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources More Information ATTEND Research Events MEET Office of Research Team FIND Institutes & Centers Improving Care. Improving Health. We’re here to make health — including health care — better. The end goal is a complete revolution in how people get and stay healthy. WHAT IT MEANS In This Section Overview Vision Case Studies More Information GET CARE UT Health Austin EXPLORE Health Beyond the Clinic Health in the Landscape of Life Enabling the healthscape, the ecosystem outside the clinic, requires improving the system to pay for health drivers. EXPLORE FURTHER In This Section Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization More Information PARTNER Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE The Impact Factory Meet Dell Med We’re rethinking the role of academic medicine in improving health — and doing so with a unique focus on our community. ABOUT US Helpful Links Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports More Information GIVE Support Dell Med CONTACT Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE Our Cultural Values Education Overview Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources PLAN: Application Timeline EXPLORE: Continuing Medical Education PREPARE: Programs for Youth & Undergrads Research Overview Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources ATTEND: Research Events MEET: Office of Research Team FIND: Institutes & Centers Clinical Care Overview Overview Vision Case Studies GET CARE: UT Health Austin EXPLORE: Health Beyond the Clinic Health Beyond the Clinic Overview Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization PARTNER: Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT: Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE: The Impact Factory About Overview Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports GIVE: Support Dell Med CONTACT: Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE: Our Cultural Values Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory Case Studies Search Advanced Search Clear All Filters Clear All Improving Health Locally Improving Health Locally Summary Residents and fellows at Dell Med are honing their skills in the community and learning to take on systemic challenges in the health care. Right here in Central Texas, the impact is already measurable. Learn more » Supporting Our Community Supporting Our Community Summary We exist in an ecosystem: a dynamic interaction between interdependent people, institutions, everyday settings, social networks and products. Supporting each other’s work is critical to everyone’s success. Read More » Responding to the Pandemic Responding to the Pandemic Summary After the World Health Organization declared a global pandemic on March 11, 2020, Dell Med — like others around the world — entered uncharted territory. Read More » Delivering Better Care Delivering Better Care Summary Dell Med’s goal is a complete revolution in how people get and stay healthy. In partnership with others, we look for ways to create value and improve health in Austin — a model healthy city in the making. Read More » Improving Outcomes, Lowering Costs with Value-Based Care Improving Outcomes, Lowering Costs with Value-Based Care Summary Value-based health care is about efficiently achieving better health outcomes. Dell Med is home to leaders in the value-based care movement — and to an online curriculum that trains health leaders in delivering value to patients. Explore further » Translating Ideas Into Tools That Doctors — & Patients — Can Use Translating Ideas Into Tools That Doctors — & Patients — Can Use Summary In part due to support from Dell Med’s Texas Health Catalyst, an affordable, time-saving test for heart-failure patients to use in their homes will soon be available. And that’s only the beginning. Learn about it » Providing Care as Students Serve & Learn Providing Care as Students Serve & Learn Summary Volunteer students are making a difference — and getting real-world experience — at the Dell Med-supported C.D. Doyle Clinic in downtown Austin, which serves everyone, regardless of their ability to pay. Explore further » Responding to Women’s Gynecological Health Needs Responding to Women’s Gynecological Health Needs Summary Women in Travis County are getting much-needed care and attention for complex gynecological issues, such as pelvic floor disorders, chronic pelvic pain and vulvar disorders. See how » Supporting Local Ideas for Improving Health Supporting Local Ideas for Improving Health Summary A call for community proposals, open to anyone, is resulting in real change: a new university course designed to teach empathy for homelessness through experiential learning. Get the details » Fighting a Killer Cancer Fighting a Killer Cancer Summary A community-wide project is making sure screening for colorectal cancer is available to those facing the greatest challenges to health. Learn more » Email Me! Want updates about Dell Med and the larger health ecosystem? Sign Up About Us Directory Events Leadership Mission & Vision Newsroom REthink / New Perspectives on Health Helpful Links Careers Contact Us Intranet Media Resources UT Health Austin Google Translate Information Adobe Reader Emergency Information Site Feedback Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022