Skip to Content Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory Education Research Clinical Care Health Beyond the Clinic About Creating a New Kind of Doctor We recruit and train physician leaders as comfortable taking on systemic challenges in health as caring for individual patients. ARE YOU ONE? In This Section Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources More Information PLAN Application Timeline EXPLORE Continuing Medical Education PREPARE Programs for Youth & Undergrads Discovery to Impact — Faster We reward creative thinking and encourage rapid experimentation, using collaborative programs to speed promising research to market. SEE HOW In This Section Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources More Information ATTEND Research Events MEET Office of Research Team FIND Institutes & Centers Improving Care. Improving Health. We’re here to make health — including health care — better. The end goal is a complete revolution in how people get and stay healthy. WHAT IT MEANS In This Section Overview Vision Case Studies More Information GET CARE UT Health Austin EXPLORE Health Beyond the Clinic Health in the Landscape of Life Enabling the healthscape, the ecosystem outside the clinic, requires improving the system to pay for health drivers. EXPLORE FURTHER In This Section Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization More Information PARTNER Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE The Impact Factory Meet Dell Med We’re rethinking the role of academic medicine in improving health — and doing so with a unique focus on our community. ABOUT US Helpful Links Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports More Information GIVE Support Dell Med CONTACT Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE Our Cultural Values Education Overview Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources PLAN: Application Timeline EXPLORE: Continuing Medical Education PREPARE: Programs for Youth & Undergrads Research Overview Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources ATTEND: Research Events MEET: Office of Research Team FIND: Institutes & Centers Clinical Care Overview Overview Vision Case Studies GET CARE: UT Health Austin EXPLORE: Health Beyond the Clinic Health Beyond the Clinic Overview Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization PARTNER: Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT: Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE: The Impact Factory About Overview Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports GIVE: Support Dell Med CONTACT: Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE: Our Cultural Values Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory Better Health. Better Care. The goal? A complete revolution in how people get and stay healthy. It starts with value-based approaches that are measurable — and focused on you. OUR VISION » Better Health. Better Care. The goal? A complete revolution in how people get and stay healthy. It starts with value-based approaches that are measurable — and focused on you. OUR VISION » Health care costs are astronomical. Many don’t get the care they need, or receive treatments that would be unnecessary if prevention were prioritized. And the economic model is wrong: doctors and hospitals often are paid not for helping patients get and stay healthy, but for intervening when longstanding health challenges become crises. Redesigning Clinical Care Dell Medical School is helping to change this, redesigning care in a way that’s centered on people and that rewards value. The effort is led by faculty and other medical school experts from the Design Institute for Health and Value Institute for Health and Care, working alongside thought leaders in the community. The result is new models of care that patients are experiencing now in Austin and Travis County — and that people across the country and around the world will benefit from as new ways of doing things are tested and proven in Central Texas. UT Health Austin Dell Med’s approach to care is in practice at UT Health Austin, which includes over 40 primary care, walk-in and specialty clinics as well as adult and pediatric programs in partnership with Ascension Seton and Dell Children’s Medical Center of Central Texas. Working directly with patients, UT Health Austin’s health care professionals create individualized care plans to help patients reach the goals that matter most to them — in the care room and beyond. Learn more Community Settings Dell Med faculty, joined by physicians in residency, also practice in community settings across Central Texas. At Dell Seton Medical Center at The University of Texas, the primary teaching hospital affiliated with Dell Med, up-and-coming doctors complete their training, providing care to patients under the supervision of faculty. In addition, Dell Seton joins CommUnityCare Health Centers and Integral Care as a place where shared leadership brings a common focus to improvement. The chairs of Dell Med’s departments of Surgery and Perioperative Care, Women’s Health and Psychiatry are all heads of Ascension Seton’s service lines in their areas of specialization. Dell Med faculty and residents also provide care at CommUnity Care and People’s Community Clinic, and Dell Med students join with volunteer physicians, medical students from the University of Texas Medical Branch, and UT Austin nursing and pre-health undergraduate students to staff the C.D. Doyle Clinic, which provides care for un- and underinsured patients, particularly those experiencing homelessness. See a ‘Dell Med’ Doctor UT Health Austin is the clinical practice of Dell Med. Its care teams are focused on you, and treat conditions ranging from joint pain to Alzheimer’s disease. MAKE AN APPOINTMENT Email Me! Want updates about Dell Med and the larger health ecosystem? Sign Up About Us Directory Events Leadership Mission & Vision Newsroom REthink / New Perspectives on Health Helpful Links Careers Contact Us Intranet Media Resources UT Health Austin Google Translate Information Adobe Reader Emergency Information Site Feedback Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022