Skip to Content Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory Education Research Clinical Care Health Beyond the Clinic About Creating a New Kind of Doctor We recruit and train physician leaders as comfortable taking on systemic challenges in health as caring for individual patients. ARE YOU ONE? In This Section Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources More Information PLAN Application Timeline EXPLORE Continuing Medical Education PREPARE Programs for Youth & Undergrads Discovery to Impact — Faster We reward creative thinking and encourage rapid experimentation, using collaborative programs to speed promising research to market. SEE HOW In This Section Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources More Information ATTEND Research Events MEET Office of Research Team FIND Institutes & Centers Improving Care. Improving Health. We’re here to make health — including health care — better. The end goal is a complete revolution in how people get and stay healthy. WHAT IT MEANS In This Section Overview Vision Case Studies More Information GET CARE UT Health Austin EXPLORE Health Beyond the Clinic Health in the Landscape of Life Enabling the healthscape, the ecosystem outside the clinic, requires improving the system to pay for health drivers. EXPLORE FURTHER In This Section Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization More Information PARTNER Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE The Impact Factory Meet Dell Med We’re rethinking the role of academic medicine in improving health — and doing so with a unique focus on our community. ABOUT US Helpful Links Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports More Information GIVE Support Dell Med CONTACT Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE Our Cultural Values Education Overview Overview Academics How to Apply Graduate Medical Education Financial Aid Why Dell Med? Student Resources PLAN: Application Timeline EXPLORE: Continuing Medical Education PREPARE: Programs for Youth & Undergrads Research Overview Overview Translational Research Vision Mentorship & Collaboration Research Labs Research Resources ATTEND: Research Events MEET: Office of Research Team FIND: Institutes & Centers Clinical Care Overview Overview Vision Case Studies GET CARE: UT Health Austin EXPLORE: Health Beyond the Clinic Health Beyond the Clinic Overview Overview Collaborative Opportunities Vision Health Innovation & Commercialization PARTNER: Meet Factor Health DEVELOP A PRODUCT: Texas Health Catalyst INNOVATE: The Impact Factory About Overview Overview Directory Units: Departments & More Leadership Mission & Vision News & Events Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Reports GIVE: Support Dell Med CONTACT: Addresses, Phones & More EXPLORE: Our Cultural Values Make an Appointment Give Faculty Students Directory › Research Health Transformation Research Institute Advancing Translational Research to Improve Health Dell Medical School’s Health Transformation Research Institute provides leadership and infrastructure to support robust, innovative and world-class clinical and late-stage (T3-T5) translational research. This team supports training for Dell Med researchers and learners conducting translational investigation, as well as the development of an integrated learning health system in which research is embedded in, drives and reinforces excellence in clinical, educational and community-focused missions. This important work includes collaborations across The University of Texas at Austin, as well as with community and clinical partners, such as Ascension Seton. Initial Areas of Focus Educating and training the next generation of health-focused scientists, including in the execution of clinical and population research, in collaboration with the Biomedical Data Science Hub Improving access to electronic health data for faculty and trainee investigators Building and nurturing bridges to clinical partners, community partners and across UT Austin to maximize research opportunities Fostering a culture of inquiry and investigation to maximize impact of work across Dell Med’s education, care and community-focused pillars Developing a central resource for online learnings and grant writing Assisting with navigating logistical needs to ensure successful study execution Trainings The Health Transformation Research Institute facilitates a variety of trainings and educational series. Dell Med researchers and learners can access the full list on Cerebrum (login required). Ideas to Results This year-long course, developed in collaboration with Biomedical Data Science Hub, utilizes a mix of didactic and “flipped classroom” sessions and mentored lab exercises. Topics include epidemiology, study design, data computing and biostatistics, all at an introductory level. Nuts & Bolts of Executing a Clinical or Population Research Study This training series consists of one-hour monthly forums focusing on topics related to the execution of clinical and population research, from preparing IRB applications to quality assurance and control procedures. The target audience is Dell Med faculty and staff involved in clinical and/or population research. READ MORE ABOUT THE INSTITUTE’S TRAINING » HELPFUL LINKS View Events & Trainings Find Research Resources Explore Training Details (Login Required) Director Alison Cahill, M.D., MSCI Associate Director Elizabeth Matsui, M.D., MHS Upcoming Events See all » See all » Explore Training Details Dell Med researchers and learners can explore research trainings on Cerebrum (login required) » Research Resources Dell Med’s Research Support team advances the efficiency of clinical research through a variety of services » Email Me! Want updates about Dell Med and the larger health ecosystem? Sign Up About Us Directory Events Leadership Mission & Vision Newsroom REthink / New Perspectives on Health Helpful Links Careers Contact Us Intranet Media Resources UT Health Austin Google Translate Information Adobe Reader Emergency Information Site Feedback Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022