Toggle navigation Information for: Alumni Prospective Students Current Students Search Graduate Group in Demography Home People People GGD Faculty Current Students Alumni Students on the Job Market Ph.D. Program Ph.D. Program A.M. Degree Ph.D. Degree Joint Degree Programs Sociology Ph.D. Program Getting PhinisheD in Demography: A Guide for Students Prospective Students Prospective Students Program Statistics Demography Club News & Events News & Events Calendar Events News Announcements Funding Calls for Papers Employment Conferences & Workshops Resources Photo Gallery Contact Welcome to the GGD de·mog·ra·phy: noun the scientific study of populations, especially with reference to their size, distribution, and composition, changes therein, and the components of such changes (births, deaths, diseases, marriages, migrations, etc.) https://demog.pop.upenn.edu/prospective-students » 2018 Graduates The PhD program in demography trains independent researchers who are prepared to fill leading roles in social demography and population analysis at a variety of organizations and are well versed in the growth, structure, health, and well-being of human populations. Demography Ph.D. Program » Want to learn about our PhD programs? Demography PhD Sociology PhD Population Studies Center: In the News NEW POPULATION CENTER WORKING PAPER (PSC/PARC) New Population Center Working Paper (PSC/PARC): Gonalons-Pons, Pilar 2022. "Paid Family Leave and the Gender Division of Paid and Unpaid Work." University of Pennsylvania Population Center Working Paper (PSC/PARC), 2022-73. --May 25, 2022 Read more » NEW POPULATION CENTER WORKING PAPER (PSC/PARC) New Population Center Working Paper (PSC/PARC): Amin, Vikesh, Jere Behrman, Jason Fletcher, Carlos Flores, Alfonso Flores-Lagunes, and Hans-Peter Kohler. 2022. "Does Schooling Improve Cognitive Abilities at Older Ages: Causal Evidence from Nonparametric Bounds." University of Pennsylvania Population Center Working Paper (PSC/PARC), 2022-92. --May 20, 2022 Read more » NEW POPULATION CENTER WORKING PAPER (PSC/PARC) New Population Center Working Paper (PSC/PARC): Grant, Monica and Hans-Peter Kohler. 2022. "Marriage Change and Fertility Decline in sub-Saharan Africa, 1991-2019." University of Pennsylvania Population Center Working Paper (PSC/PARC), 2022-91. --May 16, 2022 Read more » More news » Learn about our new partner, the Philadelphia Federal Statistical Research Data Center » Publications PSC/PARC Research Associates are highly productive and very active in their respective fields. Database The Publications Database includes articles, books, chapters, reports, and published working papers. Working Papers The Population Center Working Papers series contains papers by researchers at the PSC/PARC. Selected Posters A selection of posters presented at the Population Association of America. Penn @ PAA Every year researchers at the PSC present at the Annual Meeting of the Population Association of America. Spotlight Monica King – GGD Alumni Monica King is a recent graduate with a PhD in Demography and Master in Statistics. She is now working at Penn’s School of Social Policy and Practice as director of the Administrative Data Research Facilities (ADRF) Network. When we spoke she was in the final stages of finishing her Dissertation. Below are answers to our some of our questions about her experience at Penn. Read More » @PennPSC on Twitter More » Calls for … There are no items at this time. Calls for … There are no items at this time. Calls for … There are no items at this time. Conferences 2022 Add Health Users Conference July 11, 2022 - July 14, 2022 Chapel Hill, North Carolina The 2nd European Conference on Aging & Gerontology (EGen2022) July 14, 2022 - July 17, 2022 London, United Kingdom Conferences & Workshops » Quartet Pilot Project Competition Request for Proposals: 2021-2022 Quartet Pilot Research Project Competition Proposals are due on Monday, March 22, 2021 The Annual Quartet award competition is jointly sponsored by the PSC, the Population Aging Research Center, Boettner Center for Pension Retirement Research, and LDI Center for Health Incentives and Behavioral Economics. The competition promotes high quality and innovative research in demography, economics, and related social and behavioral sciences. Quartet awards are funded for one year (or less) in duration and are selected through competitive peer review. Click here to download the application materials and to read the RFP Guidelines. Click here to read about former and currently funded projects. More About Us The Graduate Group in Demography is responsible for training students through course work and supervised research. Request Services Reserve the PSC Conference Room and/or Collaboration Space Submit a Working Paper/Brief Submit News & Events Quick Links IRB & Human Subjects NIH Public Access Policy PSC Library Catalog Sociology Department Economics Department DONATE TO THE PSC About Us The Graduate Group in Demography is responsible for training students through course work and supervised research. Contact Tel: 215-898-6441 Fax: 215-898-2124 239 McNeil Building 3718 Locust Walk Philadelphia, PA 19104-6298 [Map & Directions] Contact Us twitter.com/pennpsc facebook.com/pennpsc PSC Directory Penn A-Z - Penn Calendar © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania Population Studies Center