skip to main content Dental Education & Research Dental Patient Care About Mission Leadership Our Story Accreditation Departments Diversity Affiliations News Contact Us Calendar Primary Physical Locations Main Building 3302 Gaston Avenue Dallas, TX 75246 Clinic and Education Building 3000 Gaston Avenue Dallas, TX 75226 Main Number 214-828-8100 Education Current Student Resources Academic Departments Academic Affairs Continuing Education Admissions Degrees and Programs DDS Admissions Dental Hygiene Admissions Graduate Admissions Matriculation Reports Research Centers Clinical Trials and Studies Technology Development Office Research Mentors Community Clinical Center for Stomatology Oral Lichen Planus Support Group Dental Monitoring Service Bridge to Dentistry Patient Information Community Events and Programs Dental Professionals Alumni Give Search Search Close Menu Collapsed content that can be toggled with the menu button. Apply Alumni Contact News About Mission Leadership Our Story Accreditation Departments Diversity Affiliations News Contact Us Calendar Education Current Student Resources Academic Departments Academic Affairs Continuing Education Admissions Degrees and Programs DDS Admissions Dental Hygiene Admissions Graduate Admissions Matriculation Reports Patient Care Research Centers Clinical Trials and Studies Technology Development Office Research Mentors Community Clinical Center for Stomatology Oral Lichen Planus Support Group Dental Monitoring Service Bridge to Dentistry Patient Information Community Events and Programs Dental Professionals Alumni Apply Calendars Contact Directory Give News Parking Press & Media Webmail Peter H. Buschang, PhD Home Academic Departments Orthodontics Orthodontics Faculty Peter H. Buschang,PhD Peter H. Buschang, PhD Robert E. Gaylord Endowed Chair in Orthodontics Regents Professor Director of Orthodontic Research Curriculum Vitae CV (PDF) Contact Department of Orthodontics 3302 Gaston Avenue Dallas , TX 75246 phbuschang@tamu.edu Phone: 214.828.8122 Fax: 214.874.4569 Biography Peter Buschang, Regent’s Professor, received his PhD in Physical Anthropology from the University of Texas at Austin in 1980; he spent 3 years as a NIDR postdoctoral fellow in the Department of Orthodontics, University of Connecticut, and five years in the Orthodontic section and Human Growth Research Center, University of Montreal. He has been with the College of Dentistry since 1988 and is currently the Peter H. Buschang Endowed Professor of Orthodontics, Director of Orthodontic Research. His research interests focus on craniofacial growth, developmental adaptations to orthodontic and surgical treatments and oral-motor function. Over the years, Dr. Buschang's research has been funded by the Medical Research Council of Canada, the Fonds de le recherche en sante du Quebec, the NIDCR, the American Association of Orthodontics Foundation, and various private companies. He has published over 260 peer-reviewed articles and numerous book chapters, given over 150 invited lectures and workshops in 14 different countries, and has served as associate editor of several journals. Dr. Buschang has mentored over 160 Master's and PhD projects, and over 50 dental students. In 2011, his former residents honored him by establishing the Peter H. Buschang Endowed Professorship in Orthodontics. For his work with the American Board of Orthodontics, Dr. Buschang was awarded the Earle E. and Wilma S. Shepard Award. In 2005, Dr. Buschang was made an honorary member of the American Association of Orthodontics. In 2009, he was made an honorary member of the Edward H. Angle Society of Orthodontics. Education and Post-Graduate Training Ph.D., Human Growth and Development, The University of Texas at Austin, 1980 M.A., Primate Anatomy, The University of Texas at Austin, 1978 B.A., Physical Anthropology, The University of Texas at Austin, 1976 Facebook Twitter Instagram Linked In YouTube Flickr RSS Back to top Colleges Dentistry Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public Health Information Calendars Contact Us Diversity Emergency Information Maps & Parking Press & Media Title IX Clery Annual Reports Resources Directory Facilities Work Request Information Technology Intranet Libraries Mental Health Resources Webmail Request Web Services Texas A&M University · Texas A&M University System · State of Texas · Open Records · Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline · State Link Policy · Equal Opportunity / Nondiscrimination · Employment · Texas Veterans Portal · Security · Site Policies · Accessibility · Professional Licensure