Skip to site alert. Skip to content College of Dental Medicine Students Alumni Faculty Giving Contact Us Search About Us About Us Our Mission History Leadership and Administration Board of Advisors Global Dean's Council News Diversity Community Outreach Global Initiatives Support the College of Dental Medicine Events Calendar Contact Us Columbia Visiting Professorship Program CDM Publications Education Education DDS Program Advanced Standing Program for Foreign Trained Dentists Postdoctoral and Residency Programs Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Global Programs Visits & Externships Continuing Education Academic Sections/Divisions Academic Calendars Research Research Research Areas Research Labs Research Centers Research Faculty Clinical Trials Research Resources Student Research First International Symposium of Fusobacteria Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Teaching Clinics Patient Resources COVID-19 Safety ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Our Doctors Our Services Our Locations Make an Appointment Make an Appointment Choose between ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry and our affordable Dental Clinics. Para Español, haga clic aquí. Explore Your Options Events News You are here Home > Education > Postdoctoral and Residency Programs > Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery/MD Residency DDS Program Advanced Standing Program for Foreign Trained Dentists Postdoctoral and Residency Programs FAQs Advanced Education in General Dentistry Program Endodontics Program General Practice Residency Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology Residency Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery/MD Residency Admissions Information Orthodontics Program Pediatric Dentistry Residency Periodontics Program Prosthodontics Program Student Resources Postdoctoral Application Fee Postdoctoral Tuition & Fees Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Global Programs Visits & Externships Continuing Education Academic Sections/Divisions Academic Calendars Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery/MD Residency Alia Koch Program Director 212-305-7626 ak2045@cumc.columbia.edu PASS/Match Program PASS/Match Application Deadline September 15 Program Start Date July 1 Number of Positions 2 Length of Program 6 years Apply to the Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery/MD Residency The Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery/MD Residency Program at NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital/Columbia University Medical Center is designed to provide training in the full scope of oral and maxillofacial surgery while meeting the requirements of the Commission of Dental Accreditation. During the six-year program, residents obtain an MD degree from the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, receive training in oral and maxillofacial surgery, and complete one year in general surgery at NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital. Our graduates are well prepared for careers both as community-based practitioners or as academics. To explore careers in academics, residents teach predoctoral dental students, participate in several multi-disciplinary conferences, and fulfill a research requirement. During the residency years, a salary is paid at the level of training. Tuition payment is required for the medical school portion of the program and financial aid is available. During medical school at Columbia, OMS residents complete the second half of the first year, second year, third year and core rotations of the fourth year of the VP&S curriculum, receiving the MD degree at the end of the third year of the OMS training program. Close interaction with the faculty and postgraduate students in orthodontics, periodontics and prosthetics at the dental school serves to strengthen the resident's background in comprehensive case management in orthognathic, preprosthetic, and implant surgery. In addition, residents annually travel to South America with a team from the CUIMC Craniofacial Center to treat cleft lip and palate children, operating on approximately 175 patients per trip. We recognize the combined program is academically and financially challenging, of long duration, and not the only option in OMS training. However, we believe that the opportunity to be broadly educated and trained in recognized programs in medicine and dentistry is desired by a growing number of people choosing a career in oral and maxillofacial surgery. Everyone accepted to this program is expected to complete all six years. If you fail to complete the program because of transfer to another program in medicine or surgery, we will require you to repay any tuition abatement, stipends, or financial support you may receive from Columbia University or NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital while you are in medical school. You will be asked to withdraw from your course of study at VP&S and/or the residency program at CUIMC. Program of Study Year July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun 1st OMS OMS OMS OMS OMS OMS VP&S Funda 2 VP&S Funda 2 VP&S Funda 2 VP&S Funda 2 VP&S Funda 2 VP&S Funda 2/Elec 2nd Elec Elec VP&S Funda 3 VP&S Funda 3 VP&S Funda 3 VP&S Funda 3 3 wk Step 1 prep & exam. Late Jan begin MCY with Med away MCY MCY MCY MCY MCY 3rd MCY MCY MCY MCY MCY MCY Elective +Step 2 CK and CS Sub I elective in Med or Surg Anes Anes Anes OMS +Jun 30 VP&S grad 4th SUR SUR SUR PAnes SUR SUR OMS SUR SUR SUR SUR Anes 5th OMS OMS OMS OMS OMS OMS OMS OMS OMS OMS OMS OMS 6th OMS OMS OMS OMS OMS OMS OMS OMS OMS OMS OMS OMS 4 months Anesthesia (3 during 3rd year and 1 in Ped anes during 4th year) required by OMS: OMS is 30 months (minimum required) Formal Teaching in Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery Formal attending rounds are held each morning at 7am. Physical Diagnosis This twelve-hour course is held in the summer for all incoming hospital and postgraduate residents. Successful completion of the course allows the resident to perform the admission history and physical. Surgical-Orthodontic Conference This teaching conference is held monthly and is run jointly by the Divisions of Orthodontics and Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery. Pre-treatment, pre-operative and post-operative cases are presented and discussed. There is also a joint journal club once a month. Postdoctoral Implant Course This formal weekly course, which is held in both the fall and spring semesters, brings together the Divisions of Periodontics, Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, and Prosthodontics. The course consists of didactic material and laboratory exercises, including implant placement and prosthetic laboratory exercises. Residents also gain considerable clinical experience in implant reconstruction and adjunctive grafting procedures. Journal Club Topics of interest are presented by way of literature review twice per month. Residents critically review the literature and engage in evidence-based medicine. Patient Care Conference In addition to the surgical orthodontic patient care conferences, two additional conferences are held monthly. Topics in Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery This weekly lecture series explores topics that are crucial to the knowledge base of the oral and maxillofacial surgeon. Oral Pathology A formal oral pathology course consisting of lectures and microscopic evaluation meets twice per month in the fall and spring semester. Additionally, Oral Pathology CPC is held on a monthly basis. Residents also participate in the monthly New York Institute for Clinical Oral Pathology that meets at the NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell campus. Head and Neck Tumor Board This multidisciplinary conference occurs once per month. Orthognathic Surgery Course This lecture series is presented to both the oral and maxillofacial surgery residents and the orthodontic residents. Lectures include clinical and radiographic evaluation, diagnosis and treatment planning, model surgery, surgical techniques, complications, and treatment of the cleft and craniofacial patient. Craniofacial Lecture Series This is a monthly lecture series that is held in conjunction with the Craniofacial Center’s monthly patient conference. This is a multidisciplinary conference that is run jointly by Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery and Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery. Surgical Techniques in Craniofacial Surgery Fifth-year residents attend the annual Surgical Techniques in Craniofacial Surgery at St. Louis University. This is a hands-on cadaver course that is taught in part by one of the senior faculty of the Division. Annual Cleft Palate Trip Senior residents join with faculty on annual trips abroad to perform cleft lip and palate surgery in underserved communities. Research It is expected that residents will participate in scholarly activity while enrolled in the program. The opportunity to collaborate with other Departments at the Health Science Center and the Morningside campus is one of the strengths of the program. The Division of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery is actively involved with the Center for Craniofacial Engineering and the Center for Skin and Mucosal Biology. Program Goals and Objectives To conduct a 72-month Residency Program in Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery that exceeds the minimum requirements set forth in the American Dental Association's Commission on Dental Accreditation Standards for Advanced Specialty Education Programs in Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery. To incorporate within the program a curriculum that, upon successful completion, will lead to the receipt of the Medical Degree from the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University. To incorporate within the program 12 months of postdoctoral medical education which will qualify the resident for medical licensure in most states in the United States. To provide a training program that will qualify an individual to apply for the Board Examination by the American Board of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery. To provide a didactic and clinical curriculum which produces a resident who is capable of managing patients with conditions within the scope of oral and maxillofacial surgery. To provide an individual with sufficient exposure to the profession to allow them to choose a career in academic and/or clinical practice. To help develop within a resident moral and ethical standards that are an integral part of a clinician's responsibility to the patient and society. To teach the resident to read and critically review the scientific literature. To promote clinical and scholarly activity, including basic science and clinical research and teaching. To assure the resident provides compassionate, appropriate, and quality care to their patients. To provide community education as to the role of oral and maxillofacial surgery in health care. To aid in the development of a well-rounded and capable oral and maxillofacial surgeon with a strong background in: a. Physical diagnosis, risk assessment, and anesthesia as it relates to oral and maxillofacial surgery b. Hospital protocol and the care of the hospitalized patient c. Comprehensive evaluation and treatment planning d. Classical and state of the art oral and maxillofacial surgical procedures e. Philosophical values that will foster life-long learning, leadership, teaching, and contributions to the science of oral and maxillofacial surgery Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Education Research Student Life Alumni Faculty Contact Us Intranet Columbia University College of Dental Medicine 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Back to top