Skip to site alert. Skip to content College of Dental Medicine Students Alumni Faculty Giving Contact Us Search About Us About Us Our Mission History Leadership and Administration Board of Advisors Global Dean's Council News Diversity Community Outreach Global Initiatives Support the College of Dental Medicine Events Calendar Contact Us Columbia Visiting Professorship Program CDM Publications Education Education DDS Program Advanced Standing Program for Foreign Trained Dentists Postdoctoral and Residency Programs Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Global Programs Visits & Externships Continuing Education Academic Sections/Divisions Academic Calendars Research Research Research Areas Research Labs Research Centers Research Faculty Clinical Trials Research Resources Student Research First International Symposium of Fusobacteria Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Teaching Clinics Patient Resources COVID-19 Safety ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Our Doctors Our Services Our Locations Make an Appointment Make an Appointment Choose between ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry and our affordable Dental Clinics. Para Español, haga clic aquí. Explore Your Options Events News You are here Home > Alumni > Stay Connected Stay Connected Alumni Benefits and Services Alumni Job Board Volunteer Support The College of Dental Medicine Reunion Weekend Alumni Stories Class Notes Stay Connected Columbia Alumni Community The Columbia Alumni Community portal provides a way for you to stay connected with the College of Dental Medicine and communicate with your classmates and other alumni across schools. You can search the directory, send a message, update your profile, join or start a discussion group, and much, much more! Join the conversation by logging into the Alumni Community. You'll need your Columbia ID or UNI to log in. All Alumni have a UNI assigned to them; if you don't know yours, find it here. Alumni Directory Search the Alumni Directory to find and connect with alumni in your profession, year, or region and build a professional network. Access the Directory Discussion Groups Begin a discussion on a topic that interests you or join an existing discussion. Join or Start a Group Update Your Profile Create your online profile and customize your privacy settings. Share your achievements and help your classmates find you. Update your Profile Class Notes Share your professional and personal news and discover what your classmates are sharing by visiting class notes. View Your Class Notes Make a Difference Your gift is critical to our continued ability to stay at the forefront of dental education, research, and clinical care. Support The College of Dental Medicine Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Education Research Student Life Alumni Faculty Contact Us Intranet Columbia University College of Dental Medicine 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Back to top