skip to main content Dental Education & Research Dental Patient Care About Mission Leadership Our Story Accreditation Departments Diversity Affiliations News Contact Us Calendar Primary Physical Locations Main Building 3302 Gaston Avenue Dallas, TX 75246 Clinic and Education Building 3000 Gaston Avenue Dallas, TX 75226 Main Number 214-828-8100 Education Current Student Resources Academic Departments Academic Affairs Continuing Education Admissions Degrees and Programs DDS Admissions Dental Hygiene Admissions Graduate Admissions Matriculation Reports Research Centers Clinical Trials and Studies Technology Development Office Research Mentors Community Clinical Center for Stomatology Oral Lichen Planus Support Group Dental Monitoring Service Bridge to Dentistry Patient Information Community Events and Programs Dental Professionals Alumni Give Search Search Close Menu Collapsed content that can be toggled with the menu button. Apply Alumni Contact News About Mission Leadership Our Story Accreditation Departments Diversity Affiliations News Contact Us Calendar Education Current Student Resources Academic Departments Academic Affairs Continuing Education Admissions Degrees and Programs DDS Admissions Dental Hygiene Admissions Graduate Admissions Matriculation Reports Patient Care Research Centers Clinical Trials and Studies Technology Development Office Research Mentors Community Clinical Center for Stomatology Oral Lichen Planus Support Group Dental Monitoring Service Bridge to Dentistry Patient Information Community Events and Programs Dental Professionals Alumni Apply Calendars Contact Directory Give News Parking Press & Media Webmail Graduate Prosthodontics Home Academic Departments Comprehensive Dentistry Graduate Prosthodontics Graduate Prosthodontics History of the Program Program Strengths Meet Our Residents Current Facilities How To Apply Contact Our Department Helpful Links International Prosthodontic Fellowship Program Information for Prospective Applicants Purpose and Program Description Howdy! Welcome to Texas A& M Graduate Prosthodontics! WE BELIEVE it is an exciting time to be a dental professional! Advances in materials and technologies empower dentists like never before. Patients with complex needs have more treatment options than ever before, and we believe no other specialty can utilize these opportunities better than Prosthodontics! Why Pros? We are the quarterback of the interdisciplinary treatment planning for any complex cases. We are an architect who is able to design the big picture of the treatment and construct the restorations with esthetics and function for our patients. "TEXAS" Vision for the Program Teamwork Residents interact with faculty and co-residents in a culture that facilitates learning and collaboration. EXcellence Emphasis on healthy function and superior esthetics for patient treatment outcomes. Apprenticeship Faculty of experienced prosthodontists assist residents developing into competent professionals. State-of-the-art Residents employ cutting-edge technologies and materials for diagnosis, planning, and treatment. Program Goals Produce a graduate who is competent and proficient in all aspects of prosthodontics. Produce a graduate who will have the foundation for critical thinking, and problem solving. Prepare the graduate for successful certification by the American Board of Prosthodontics. Prepare and motivate the graduate for a lifetime of scholarly pursuit and active involvement. Provide a program environment that is patient centered, serves the students, faculty and staff, and contributes to the advancement of knowledge. Professional Licensure and Certification Disclosure Statements Notice to students pursuing programs that may lead to a professional license or certification required for employment. The following programs may lead to a professional license or certification that is required for employment. Professional licensure/certification requirements vary from state to state, which may affect a student’s ability to apply for a professional license/certification upon the completion of the program. The U.S. Department of Education regulation, 34 CFR 668.43 (a) (5) (v), requires an institution to disclose whether the program will fulfill educational requirements for licensure or certification for each state. The administrative departments that offer the programs have made the following determination regarding their curriculum. More ... Facebook Twitter Instagram Linked In YouTube Flickr RSS Back to top Colleges Dentistry Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public Health Information Calendars Contact Us Diversity Emergency Information Maps & Parking Press & Media Title IX Clery Annual Reports Resources Directory Facilities Work Request Information Technology Intranet Libraries Mental Health Resources Webmail Request Web Services Texas A&M University · Texas A&M University System · State of Texas · Open Records · Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline · State Link Policy · Equal Opportunity / Nondiscrimination · Employment · Texas Veterans Portal · Security · Site Policies · Accessibility · Professional Licensure