Herman Ostrow School of Dentistry of USC menu About Maps and Directions Our People Faculty Directory Work at Ostrow Strategic Vision Accreditation Contact Us Alumni & Friends Friends of Dentistry Hall of Fame TroDent Alumni Magazine Give Stay Connected Ostrow Connect Alumni Spotlights: 2021 Reunions Academic Documents for Alumni Externships Contact Us News & Events Recent News News Archive Upcoming Events Events Archive Community Oral Health Clinics Mobile Dental Clinics Educational Programs Health Fairs and Screenings Initiatives Affiliations Online Programs Continuing Education Ostrow Connect Give Intranet Search menu About Maps and Directions Our People Faculty Directory Work at USC Strategic Vision Accreditation Contact Us News & Events Recent News News Archive Upcoming Events Events Archive Educational Programs Doctor of Dental Surgery Advanced Standing Program For International Dentists (DDS) Post Graduate Education Certificate Programs 2022 Dental Explorers Program Craniofacial Biology Phd Program Master of Science in Biomaterials and Digital Dentistry Master of Science in Biomedical Implants And Tissue Engineering Academic Calendar Admission Doctor of Dental Surgery Advanced Standing Program for International Dentists DDS Post Graduate Education Certificate Programs Craniofacial Biology PhD Program Master of Science in Biomaterials and Digital Dentistry Master of Science in Biomedical Implants and Tissue Engineering Paying for Dental School Learning Objectives Community Oral Health Clinics Mobile Dental Clinics Educational Programs Health Fairs and Screenings Initiatives Affiliations Research Research Resources Student Research Research Faculty Contact Us Wilson Dental Library Center for Craniofacial Molecular Biology Alumni & Friends Friends of Dentistry Hall of Fame TroDent Alumni Magazine Give Career Connections Stay Connected Contact Us Patient Care Urgent Care New Student-Clinic Patients Dental Care Services Paying for Dental Care Patient Experience Survey Contact Information and Clinic Hours Patient Privacy, Rights and Responsibilities Dental Faculty Practice Online Programs Continuing Education Intranet Give Search Admission Doctor of Dental Surgery Advanced Standing Program for International Dentist (DDS) Post-Graduate Education Certificate Programs Craniofacial Biology PhD Program Online Programs Master of Science in Biomaterials and Digital Dentistry Master of Science in Biomedical Implants and Tissue Engineering Admission Events Take a Virtual Tour Paying for Dental School Learning Objectives Educational Programs Doctor of Dental Surgery Advanced Standing Program For International Students (DDS) Post-Graduate Education Certificate Programs Craniofacial Biology Phd Program Online Programs Master of Science in Biomaterials and Digital Dentistry Master of Science in Biomedical Implants and Tissue Engineering 2022 Dental Explorers Program Academic Calendar Patient Care Urgent Care New Student-Clinic Patients Dental Care Services Paying for Dental Care Patient Experience Survey Contact Information and Clinic Hours Patient Privacy, Rights and Responsibilities Dental Faculty Practice Research Research Resources Student Research Research Faculty Contact Us Wilson Dental Library Center for Craniofacial Molecular Biology Search: COVID-19 Updates Showcasing advancement, humanizing the practice. Our challenging clinical education and our expert faculty members provide future oral health professionals with the skills they need to become the best. —Avishai Sadan, DMD, MBA Dean, Herman Ostrow School of Dentistry of USC G. Donald and Marian James Montgomery Professor of Dentistry About Ostrow Educational Programs Patient Care Research Center for Craniofacial Molecular Biology Admission Recent News Upcoming Events Community Programs Alumni & Friends Trodent Alumni Magazine Online Programs Working At Ostrow Our People Give | Apply Now | Facebook | Instagram About Ostrow For more than 120 years, the Herman Ostrow School of Dentistry of USC has been educating some of the profession's finest practitioners. Learn more about what makes Ostrow such a great dental school. Educational Programs From our Doctor of Dental Surgery degree to post-graduate education certificate programs, Ostrow is the place to take your career to the next level. Find out more about the programs we offer. Patient Care Under faculty supervision, our dental students provide high-quality dental care services at a reduced cost. Click through to find out more about the services we provide. Research The Herman Ostrow School of Dentistry of USC brings clinical innovations and breakthroughs in craniofacial biology to the field of dentistry, shaping the way dentists practice and dental students are taught — and changing patients’ lives. Learn more about the pioneering research taking place at Ostrow. Center for Craniofacial Molecular Biology The Center for Craniofacial Molecular Biology is Ostrow's research center, funded by numerous federal and organization sponsored research grants. Admission Get your dental education started today. Find out more about applying to our prestigious dental school. Recent News From research breakthroughs to faculty awards to grants that allow us to give back to our community, there's always so much going on at Ostrow. Keep your finger on the pulse of this dynamic dental school. Upcoming Events Save the dates! Check out all the events that are on the horizon. Community Programs Every year, our Community Oral Health Programs provide much-needed dental treatment to underserved communities across Southern California. Learn more about how we aim to bridge the gap to access for dental health care. Alumni & Friends Being a Trojan is not just about where you received your education. It’s about the values, friendships and experiences that stay with you for a lifetime. Re-connecting with your alma mater is just a few clicks away. Trodent Alumni Magazine TroDent, the official publication of the Herman Ostrow School of Dentistry of USC, reaches alumni, friends and peer institutions around the globe. Online Programs Our online programs are specifically geared for practicing professionals so they can learn while keeping their practice. Take your career to the next level with these online master's and certificates programs. Working At Ostrow Want to work at Ostrow? Click here for faculty and staff career opportunities. Our People Administration, Board of Councilors, Faculty Directory and more Upcoming Events Alumni 04 Jun 22 Los Angeles Dodgers Reception and Game Alumni 11 Jun 22 Celebrating the Legacy of USC Dental Hygiene Student 24 Jun 22 Virtual Fight On! Friday (DDS) Student 24 Jun 22 Virtual Fight On! Friday (ASPID) (More Events) Recent News 12 May 22 Alumni, Student An Unimaginable Life Becomes Reality Michael DeBourg II DDS ’22 overcomes personal loss, a chronic disease and the specter of low expectations to craft a fulfilling life. AFTER HIS FATHER PASSED AWAY in 2007 from pancreatic cancer, Michael DeBourg II went soul searching. The first in his immediate family to earn a high school degree, the then-21-year-old DeBourg had settled […] 11 May 22 Uncategorized USC Graduate Achieves Longtime Dream of Dental Career First-generation college student Erika Correa DDS ’22 wants to use her career to help improve others’ lives. IT WAS A FABLED TRIP to the orthodontist to get braces that first sparked then-13-year-old Erika Correa’s interest in a dental career . “My new smile after my braces gave me confidence, which really changed my life for […] 10 May 22 Alumni, Student Family Matters ASPID student Artem Cheshkov has overcome a multitude of challenges on his path to graduation. CONSIDER ARTEM CHESHKOV’S DAILY SCHEDULE: After putting in a full day attending courses and working in the lab as part of Ostrow’s Advanced Standing Program for International Dentists (ASPID), he heads over to Bright Horizons Daycare to pick up his […] 09 May 22 Alumni, Student “This Degree is for My Parents” Ostrow graduate Anna Adjei DDS ’22 says Commencement will be a family affair. NO MATTER HOW BUSY Ostrow student Anna Adjei DDS ’22 is, her mother and father are never far from her mind. In fact, with graduation day a stone’s throw away, the first-generation college student says, “This degree is for my parents. They […] 06 May 22 Uncategorized ICYMI: Commencement 2022 ﻿ (More News) Herman Ostrow School of Dentistry of USC 925 West 34th Street Los Angeles, CA 90089-0641 (213) 740-2800 This site made possible, thanks to funds donated by the Maurice Amado Foundation. Maps and Directions Employment Research Resources New Patients Faculty Directory Intranet Privacy Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination Instagram Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Maps and Directions Employment Research Resources New Patients Faculty Directory Intranet Privacy Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination