skip to main content Dental Education & Research Dental Patient Care About Mission Leadership Our Story Accreditation Departments Diversity Affiliations News Contact Us Calendar Primary Physical Locations Main Building 3302 Gaston Avenue Dallas, TX 75246 Clinic and Education Building 3000 Gaston Avenue Dallas, TX 75226 Main Number 214-828-8100 Education Current Student Resources Academic Departments Academic Affairs Continuing Education Admissions Degrees and Programs DDS Admissions Dental Hygiene Admissions Graduate Admissions Matriculation Reports Research Centers Clinical Trials and Studies Technology Development Office Research Mentors Community Clinical Center for Stomatology Oral Lichen Planus Support Group Dental Monitoring Service Bridge to Dentistry Patient Information Community Events and Programs Dental Professionals Alumni Give Search Search Close Menu Collapsed content that can be toggled with the menu button. Apply Alumni Contact News About Mission Leadership Our Story Accreditation Departments Diversity Affiliations News Contact Us Calendar Education Current Student Resources Academic Departments Academic Affairs Continuing Education Admissions Degrees and Programs DDS Admissions Dental Hygiene Admissions Graduate Admissions Matriculation Reports Patient Care Research Centers Clinical Trials and Studies Technology Development Office Research Mentors Community Clinical Center for Stomatology Oral Lichen Planus Support Group Dental Monitoring Service Bridge to Dentistry Patient Information Community Events and Programs Dental Professionals Alumni Apply Calendars Contact Directory Give News Parking Press & Media Webmail Comprehensive Dentistry Home Academic Departments Comprehensive Dentistry Comprehensive Dentistry About the Department Advanced Education in General Dentistry Graduate Prosthodontics Research Faculty Contact Us Modern health care requires caring, competent primary care providers who place patient welfare above all other considerations. In dentistry, the General Dentist fulfills that role. The traditional term, “Attending Doctor” indicates such a doctor / patient relationship, and signifies the philosophy of the Department that the general dentist is responsible for leading diagnostic, treatment planning, and therapeutic endeavors for all patients under his or her care. The nine dental specialties support general attending dentists by providing expert care for those patients whose diagnostic or treatment needs demand advanced levels of skill and expertise. It is the responsibility of the general dentist to lead the referral team and constantly insure that the best interests of the patient are met. Mission The mission of Texas A&M University College of Dentistry is to improve the oral health of Texans and shape the future of dentistry by: Developing exemplary clinicians, educators, and scientists. Caring for the needs of a diverse community. Serving as a leader in health professions education. Seeking innovations in science, education, and health care delivery. The mission of the General Dentistry Program is to bring the College Mission stated above to reality in a patient-centered competency-based program of comprehensive dental care. The objectives of this patient-oriented focus are to: Prepare students to diagnose and provide comprehensive oral health services in a professional manner. Provide students a clinical experience that resembles a broadly-based general dental practice, including personnel and patient management. Demonstrate in word and action the commitment by the dental profession to provide competent care in a timely manner while respecting the patient’s values and interests. Behavioral Objectives The department’s vision is to consistently produce ethical graduates who are diagnostically, managerially, and therapeutically competent in keeping with Texas A&M University College of Dentistry’s competencies document. By the end of the General Dentistry program the student should be able to: Examine and evaluate patients’ general health status. Diagnose conditions, identify and list patients’ dental needs. Prescribe treatment plans, effectively communicate them, and perform the patient care competently. Recognize the need to refer patients to a specialist when the scope of required treatment is beyond the student practitioner’s competence. Manage and delegate to appropriate others, duties such as patient scheduling and other patient services that do not require the skill and judgment of a dentist. Demonstrate concern and understanding for patients. Model the intellectual, ethical, and behavioral aspects of professionalism. Comprehensive Care Philosophy The College’s definition of comprehensive patient care is: “a system of clinical instruction and operation which allows the student to provide or be responsible for all aspects of a given patient’s treatment needs in a manner that closely resembles the way the student will provide care in private practice after graduation.” The objectives of our comprehensive care programs are: to provide comprehensive oral health services in a professional manner; to provide a clinical experience that resembles a broadly-based general dental practice; to provide competent care in a timely manner while respecting the patient’s values and interest. The most important features of the Department’s programs are the patient-centered philosophy, the constant emphasis on professionalism, and achieving fundamental competencies in both clinical and behavioral endeavors. The term “competency” then, is a threshold outcome of clinical training and experience that denotes the ability and willingness to practice dentistry consistently and independently at acceptable levels of performance. Such performance has the following characteristics: it is a typical part of the general practice of dentistry; it is a combination of knowledge and attitude, psychomotor skills, and/or communication skills; it is performed in a clinical setting or clinical context, and; it is consistently at or above the profession’s defined standards of care. Facebook Twitter Instagram Linked In YouTube Flickr RSS Back to top Colleges Dentistry Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public Health Information Calendars Contact Us Diversity Emergency Information Maps & Parking Press & Media Title IX Clery Annual Reports Resources Directory Facilities Work Request Information Technology Intranet Libraries Mental Health Resources Webmail Request Web Services Texas A&M University · Texas A&M University System · State of Texas · Open Records · Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline · State Link Policy · Equal Opportunity / Nondiscrimination · Employment · Texas Veterans Portal · Security · Site Policies · Accessibility · Professional Licensure