skip to main content Dental Education & Research Dental Patient Care About Mission Leadership Our Story Accreditation Departments Diversity Affiliations News Contact Us Calendar Primary Physical Locations Main Building 3302 Gaston Avenue Dallas, TX 75246 Clinic and Education Building 3000 Gaston Avenue Dallas, TX 75226 Main Number 214-828-8100 Education Current Student Resources Academic Departments Academic Affairs Continuing Education Admissions Degrees and Programs DDS Admissions Dental Hygiene Admissions Graduate Admissions Matriculation Reports Research Centers Clinical Trials and Studies Technology Development Office Research Mentors Community Clinical Center for Stomatology Oral Lichen Planus Support Group Dental Monitoring Service Bridge to Dentistry Patient Information Community Events and Programs Dental Professionals Alumni Give Search Search Close Menu Collapsed content that can be toggled with the menu button. Apply Alumni Contact News About Mission Leadership Our Story Accreditation Departments Diversity Affiliations News Contact Us Calendar Education Current Student Resources Academic Departments Academic Affairs Continuing Education Admissions Degrees and Programs DDS Admissions Dental Hygiene Admissions Graduate Admissions Matriculation Reports Patient Care Research Centers Clinical Trials and Studies Technology Development Office Research Mentors Community Clinical Center for Stomatology Oral Lichen Planus Support Group Dental Monitoring Service Bridge to Dentistry Patient Information Community Events and Programs Dental Professionals Alumni Apply Calendars Contact Directory Give News Parking Press & Media Webmail Oral Surgery Home Academic Departments Oral Surgery Oral Surgery Patient Care Center for Maxillofacial Prosthodontics Facial Pain & Sleep Medicine Faculty OMS Predoctoral Program OMS Residency Program OMS Residents OMS Internships OMS Externship OMS Alumni Contact Our Department The Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery (OMS) at Texas A&M College of Dentistry provides a broad educational basis for our predoctoral and residency programs and serves the community through our Professional Services Division. The interaction with renowned medical centers enhances our students’ surgical/medical experiences. Our students' educational experiences are also enhanced by the presence of the Center for Maxillofacial Prosthodontics and the Center for Facial Pain and Sleep Medicine housed within our department. The department is staffed by five full-time faculty, twelve part-time clinical faculty, sixteen OMS residents, two OMS teaching Fellows and supported by clinical and clerical staff. Department Head is Dr. Likith Reddy. Patient Appointments 214-828-8228 Components of the Department Texas A&M Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery Professional Services is our faculty private practice. Our board-certified surgeons provide full-range oral and maxillofacial surgery services. They hold medical staff appointments at Baylor University Medical Center - a Level I Trauma Center located next door to the college - where patients may be admitted for more complex procedures, and admitting privileges with the Methodist Health System hospitals and Children's Medical Center Plano. The Center for Maxillofacial Prosthodontics dedicated in 2001, provides an exciting presence in the North Texas region to assist in the reconstruction of acquired and congenital defects of oral and facial deformities - one of three such centers in the United States. The Center for Facial Pain and Sleep Medicine provides diagnosis and treatment for patients with disorders of the jaw joint (temporomandibular joint disorders or TMD), as well as for patients with headache and/or neck pain disorders, other facial pains, and atypical toothaches or other mouth pain. Additionally, Center clinicians work with physician colleagues to provide screening and treatment for sleep-related breathing disorders, including sleep apnea and snoring. The OMS Graduate Clinic is staffed by oral and maxillofacial surgery residents under faculty supervision and provides exceptional patient care across a wide variety of OMS services at discounted fees. The Predoctoral (Undergraduate) Clinic provides patient care by dental students under faculty supervision at reduced fees. General Anesthesia Services are contracted for patients having medical or dental procedures done at the surgical suite located within our department. Other departments, such as Pediatric Dentistry and Advanced Education in General Dentistry, also utilize the OMS operating rooms and anesthesia services. Clinical and Basic Research is conducted by both full-time and several part-time OMS faculty in many areas of surgical science; including studies on bone morphogenetic proteins, salivary function, dental implantology, distraction osteogenesis, sleep apnea, oral cancer, patient information writing, and many others. The College of Dentistry contains excellent facilities and affiliations for these clinical and laboratory investigations. Faculty mentor the pre- and postdoctoral students in research, leading to student presentations and publications at local, state, regional, national and international levels. Community Service - Faculty members involve themselves in the community through continuing education course offerings, as consultants, and committee memberships at local, state, national and international levels. Facebook Twitter Instagram Linked In YouTube Flickr RSS Back to top Colleges Dentistry Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public Health Information Calendars Contact Us Diversity Emergency Information Maps & Parking Press & Media Title IX Clery Annual Reports Resources Directory Facilities Work Request Information Technology Intranet Libraries Mental Health Resources Webmail Request Web Services Texas A&M University · Texas A&M University System · State of Texas · Open Records · Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline · State Link Policy · Equal Opportunity / Nondiscrimination · Employment · Texas Veterans Portal · Security · Site Policies · Accessibility · Professional Licensure