skip to main content Dental Education & Research Dental Patient Care About Mission Leadership Our Story Accreditation Departments Diversity Affiliations News Contact Us Calendar Primary Physical Locations Main Building 3302 Gaston Avenue Dallas, TX 75246 Clinic and Education Building 3000 Gaston Avenue Dallas, TX 75226 Main Number 214-828-8100 Education Current Student Resources Academic Departments Academic Affairs Continuing Education Admissions Degrees and Programs DDS Admissions Dental Hygiene Admissions Graduate Admissions Matriculation Reports Research Centers Clinical Trials and Studies Technology Development Office Research Mentors Community Clinical Center for Stomatology Oral Lichen Planus Support Group Dental Monitoring Service Bridge to Dentistry Patient Information Community Events and Programs Dental Professionals Alumni Give Search Search Close Menu Collapsed content that can be toggled with the menu button. Apply Alumni Contact News About Mission Leadership Our Story Accreditation Departments Diversity Affiliations News Contact Us Calendar Education Current Student Resources Academic Departments Academic Affairs Continuing Education Admissions Degrees and Programs DDS Admissions Dental Hygiene Admissions Graduate Admissions Matriculation Reports Patient Care Research Centers Clinical Trials and Studies Technology Development Office Research Mentors Community Clinical Center for Stomatology Oral Lichen Planus Support Group Dental Monitoring Service Bridge to Dentistry Patient Information Community Events and Programs Dental Professionals Alumni Apply Calendars Contact Directory Give News Parking Press & Media Webmail Texas A&M College of Dentistry Serving Greater Dallas and All of Texas Since 1905 Latest News Texas A&M COVID-19 Updates Up-to-date information about the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) and the College of Dentistry's response Commencement 2022 Future Students Current Students Patients Dental Professionals "I like the location and the city the school was located in. It is very easy to get overwhelmed during dental school, so time management is the best way to make sure that doesn’t happen.” Payton Keller D4, Texas A&M College of Dentistry A Day In Their Scrubs Dentistry NEWS Dentistry News is the place to find updates on the latest events, achievements and professional activities from across our campus. Third-year Resident Earns Prichard Award Dr. Sarah Kelly is the 2022 recipient of the coveted Prichard Award. A third-year resident in the Department of Periodontics at Texas A&M College of Dentistry, Kelly says, “I am thankful to have my co-residents and faculty members cheering me on and am thrilled to bring this award back to Texas A&M.” READ MORE FROM DENTISTRY NEWS Transformational educators Highly accomplished clinicians, researchers and distinguished scholars are instrumental in producing graduates who are amply prepared for the realities of an evolving health care landscape. Get to know the dedicated faculty who support our mission. Jacqueline Plemons Jacqueline Plemons, DDS, MS, CERT, says she was first drawn to oral medicine while working with a group of oral cancer survivors when she was a resident here in the late ’80s. Because those patients’ conditions fell somewhere between oral and medical health, they often struggled to find the specialized care they needed. Read more about Dr. Plemons’ work Amerian Sones “Head and neck cancer is so devastating because it affects how we present ourselves to the world—our face and smile, our ability to speak, drink, enjoy our favorite foods, display our emotions, and present to our friends and family,” Amerian Sones, BS, DMD, MS, says. “Restoring these important personal characteristics is why intraoral and extraoral rehabilitation is so important and appreciated by patients.” Read more about Dr. Sones’ work Lavern Holyfield The new faculty orientation seminars and the Faculty Mentoring and Career Development Program allow me to help faculty members learn the resources that are available to them, understand what is expected of them. It is rewarding to know that I play a role in guiding them along their paths as academicians, says Lavern Holyfield, BA, DDS. Read more about Dr. Holyfield’s work Next Jacqueline Plemons Jacqueline Plemons, DDS, MS, CERT, says she was first drawn to oral medicine while working with a group of oral cancer survivors when she was a resident here in the late '80s. Because those patients' conditions fell somewhere between oral and medical health, they often struggled to find the specialized care they needed. Read more about Dr. Plemons’ work Amerian Sones "Head and neck cancer is so devastating because it affects how we present ourselves to the world—our face and smile, our ability to speak, drink, enjoy our favorite foods, display our emotions, and present to our friends and family," Amerian Sones, BS, DMD, MS, says. "Restoring these important personal characteristics is why intraoral and extraoral rehabilitation is so important and appreciated by patients." Read more about Dr. Sones’ work Lavern Holyfield "The faculty orientation seminars and the Faculty Mentoring and Career Development Program allow me to help faculty members learn the resources that are available to them, understand what is expected of them. It is rewarding to know that I play a role in guiding them along their paths as academicians", says Lavern Holyfield, BA, DDS. Read more about Dr. Holyfield’s work Giving to Alumni Association The college has graduated more than 9,000 dentists and dental hygienists since its founding in 1905. Our alumni are among the best and most sought after clinicians, educators and researchers throughout the world. Alumni Association Facebook Twitter Instagram Linked In YouTube Flickr RSS Back to top Colleges Dentistry Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public Health Information Calendars Contact Us Diversity Emergency Information Maps & Parking Press & Media Title IX Clery Annual Reports Resources Directory Facilities Work Request Information Technology Intranet Libraries Mental Health Resources Webmail Request Web Services Texas A&M University · Texas A&M University System · State of Texas · Open Records · Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline · State Link Policy · Equal Opportunity / Nondiscrimination · Employment · Texas Veterans Portal · Security · Site Policies · Accessibility · Professional Licensure