Skip to content SOD Intranet Calendar UW Directories UW Campus Maps News & Events Helpful Links Course Catalog Compliance Policies Health & Safety Northwest Center for Oral and Facial Surgery University of Washington UW SOD New Patients Make a Gift Quick Links Important notice to unvaccinated patients We are dropping the COVID testing requirement for unvaccinated adults. Please read the full details here » NO visitors allowed. Only patients with appointments will be allowed to enter. If essential, one care giver may accompany a patient. Visitor policy » Política de Visitantes » 访客政策 » Chính Sách Khách Thăm Viếng » Правила для посетителей » 방문객 규정 » Menu About Us About the School Vision and Mission Location & Directions Fast Facts News & Events Calendar Contact Departments Endodontics Oral Health Sciences Oral Medicine Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery Oral Pathology Orthodontics Pediatric Dentistry Periodontics Restorative Dentistry Programs RIDE Timothy A. DeRouen Center for Global Oral Health Office of Educational Partnerships and Diversity Center for Pediatric Dentistry Compliance Policies Health and Safety Patients Patients Make an Appointment UW Dentistry Faculty Practice Dental Urgent Care (DUCC) Predoctoral Dental Teaching Clinic Specialty Clinics What our patients say about our care Frequently Asked Questions Quick Links Referrals Fees and Insurance Make a Payment Patient Care Policies Students DDS Programs DDS Admissions International DDS Program RIDE Predoctoral Course Catalog Internships, Externships, & Observerships Essential Requirements Equal Opportunity Statement Student Life and Admissions Current Students Student Life Mentorship In the Community Office of Educational Partnerships and Diversity Graduate and Postdoctoral Programs MSD / Postgraduate Certificates Oral Health Sciences (PhD/MS) Graduate Endodontics Advanced Education in Pediatric Dentistry Graduate Oral Medicine Graduate Orthodontics Graduate Periodontics Graduate Prosthodontics OMS Residency Oral Radiology Residency General Practice Residency Research Office of Research Research Labs and Centers Research Day Training Programs Student Research COHO Summer Institute in Clinical Research Methods Dental Professionals From the School Continuing Dental Education Case of the Month OMS Grand Rounds Schedule Practice Opportunities Visiting Scholars COVID-19 Clinical Dental Protocol Volunteer Come Join Us The A-Team Administrative Opportunities Volunteer Honor Roll Alumni & Friends Alumni Association About the Board Join or Renew Membership Practice Opportunities Give Make a Gift Dean’s Club Planned Giving Participate Volunteer Be a Mentor Business Partners Events Connect Meet Our Team Alumni News Dental Alumni Magazine Post Graduate Student Services In Memoriam The History Project UW School of Dentistry UW School of Dentistry Department of Orthodontics Department of Orthodontics Orthodontics Clinic Welcome to the Department of Orthodontics – where beautiful smiles are created. The Department is well known for its outstanding graduate program, and for training many US and international clinicians, academicians, and leaders in the profession. It is also known for conducting significant and timely research on important orthodontic and other health-related topics. The mission of the Department is to train both pre-doctoral dental students and graduate students to be proficient in the clinical specialty of orthodontics, at their respective levels. The pre-doctoral orthodontic experience includes various didactic and laboratory courses, as well as some opportunities to gain clinical experience. The graduate program consists of intensive didactic, clinical, and research components. Each year, 5 students who have completed their dental degree are selected to enroll in our 33-month graduate program, after which they earn a Certificate in the specialty of orthodontics, as well as a Master of Science in Dentistry (MSD). An evidence-based approach to diagnosis and treatment planning is emphasized throughout the program, as are the highest ethical standards. The Department consists of a talented and experienced group of faculty who have dedicated their careers to the orthodontic profession. These faculty are supported by an excellent and caring administrative and clinical staff. Our students come from all over the world, and provide an infusion of energy and new ideas every year. To all of you who visit us – as a patient, parent, student, or colleague – we look forward to a positive and enriching experience. Inclement Weather If you have an appointment at either our Graduate or Faculty Orthodontics Clinic and there is snow or other inclement weather, please call the clinic before departing for your appointment at 206.543.5787. It may be necessary to reschedule your appointment if normal clinic operations have been impacted by weather. Please Note: If the UW suspends operations, then the Graduate and Faculty Orthodontics clinics will be closed. Home Department of Orthodontics Course Offerings Graduate Program Application and Selection Deadlines and Expenses International Applicants FAQs Graduate Curriculum Graduate Faculty Affiliate Faculty Visiting Scholars Program Staff Directory Publications Graduate Students Graduate Student Research Orthodontic Alumni Association Orthodontics Contact Information Make a Gift Dr. Greg J. Huang Kokich-Shapiro Endowed Professor and Chair Anne-Marie Bollen Graduate Program Director Geoffrey M. Greenlee Graduate Clinic Director Administrative Office 206-543-5788 206-685-8163 (FAX) Graduate Clinic 206-543-5787 206-543-5886 (FAX) (HSC, Room B-338) New Patient Screening Line 206-543-5787 Location University of Washington School of Dentistry Department of Orthodontics 1959 NE Pacific St. Health Sciences Center, D-569 Box 357446 Seattle, Washington 98195-7446 University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Contact Us SOD Jobs SOD Intranet Campus Safety Privacy Terms © 2022 UW School of Dentistry | Seattle, WA