Skip to main content Skip to footer Employee of the Month Nomination Form The deadline for submitting nomination forms to Human Resources is the first day of September, December, March or June. If the 1st falls on a weekend the deadline will be the following Monday. Nominations are then reviewed and voted upon the following month by the Recognition Committee. In the event the nominated employee is not selected as a winner for next quarter the nomination remains active for a second review round. The nomination form is the primary source of information for review purposes. For this reason specifics about the nominee’s contributions and accomplishments are vital to the process. In addition, a representative of the committee will contact the supervisor or manager of the unit for supplemental information. Other documentation and/or letters of support may be submitted with the nomination by sending them to hrdept@ku.edu. To be eligible a nominee must have a half-time or greater appointment in a regular, ongoing position at the time of nomination with one (1) year of service at KU or a recognized Affiliate. Assistance in completion of the nomination form may be received by contacting HR at 864-4946. ×Please Note: This form requires JavaScript. Please turn it on and reload this page. Instructions on how to enable JavaScript. Nominee Nominee's Full Name: ×Please Note: This form requires JavaScript. Please turn it on and reload this page. Instructions on how to enable JavaScript. Nominee Nominee's Preferred Pronouns: KU Start Date Employee Type None University Staff Affiliated Corporation Nominee's Supervisor Supervisor Name: Supervisor's Phone: - - Co-Worker(s) / Contact Person(s) for Reference(s) Co-Worker(s) / Contact Person(s) for Reference(s) Name(s): Department: Nominator Nominator Name: Department: Campus Phone: - - Email: How do you know the nominee? Briefly describe the nominee's job duties Why are you nominating this person, what brought this person to your attention? Provide example(s) of exemplary service, activities, and/or performance that goes above and beyond the expectations of their position. How do they stand out from their peers/coworkers? Please provide specific examples. Specific examples could be times they have exhibited dedication and interest in getting the job done, personal strengths, quantity and quality of work, ability to interact/work well with others, special service to fellow employees, the university community or to other individuals. How has this person exhibited qualities or behaviors that have made them an exceptional team player? Examples could include initiative, communications with co-workers, students, visitors, supervisors, a “go-to” in their field/department. Please provide specific examples. If you were to provide a quote or anecdote to describe this employee what would it be? (If you have heard quotes from others about this nominee, you may include those as well) Submit Form qForms • Copyright © 2022 • The University of Kansas