W University of Washington UW Home Directories Calendar Libraries Maps My UW The National Student Exchange program at the University of Washington will be discontinued after the end of the 2015-2016 academic year, and the UW is no longer accepting any new incoming or outgoing NSE students. UW NATIONAL STUDENT EXCHANGE Home Outgoing Students Incoming Students Timeline Participating Schools Contact & Staff Info WELCOME! The National Student Exchange is a consortium of U.S. colleges and universities that have joined together to provide their students with domestic exchange opportunities throughout the US and its territories. Imagine the opportunities available when accessing courses from the 180 participating NSE campuses. Think of the adventure, the untold diversity of people, the culture, and the geography among the 48 states, the District of Columbia and 3 U.S. territories (Puerto Rico, Guam and the U.S. Virgin Islands). Qualified University of Washington students can exchange to one of the member schools to enhance and expand their personal and academic horizons. The University of Washington joined NSE in 1997, sending a dozen students on exchange. Since that time, the program has tripled in size. We continue to heavily recruit students to send on exchange, as each year many students request to come to UW and Seattle. If you are a current UW student with at least a 2.5 GPA, please consider the National Student Exchange as a great opportunity to explore other parts of the U.S. If you are a student at another particpating institution, please contact your home campus coordinator to learn about the application process for your institution. The UW NSE program cannot consider applicants without the recommendation of their home campus coordinator. The exchange program allows students to pay tuition, either: Plan A: the student pays in-state tuition at their host institution; or Plan B: the student pays their regular tuition to their home institution. We invite you to browse through our website to discover what opportunities may work for you! If you are a UW student, and have any questions after browsing through these pages, please email Leslie Ikeda, NSE Coordinator, at ikedal@uw.edu. Note to all students: participating in NSE does not grant you resident status in the state of your host school. 141 Mary Gates Hall For Appointments: (206) 543-2550 Email: ikedal@uw.edu © 2012 University of Washington Seattle, Washington Contact Us Jobs My UW Privacy Terms