Skip to main content University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home Resident Adviser Advice from the Selection Committee FAQ Info Sessions Quotes from RAs Community Assistant (CA) RCSA REP RPB Meet the Team Photo Gallery Hall Council Contact your Hall Council Hall Council Meeting Times & Locations Join your Hall Council SEED DAWGS Crew FAQ About Us Residence Education Menu Home Resident Adviser Advice from the Selection Committee FAQ Info Sessions Quotes from RAs Community Assistant (CA) RCSA REP RPB Meet the Team Photo Gallery Hall Council Contact your Hall Council Hall Council Meeting Times & Locations Join your Hall Council SEED DAWGS Crew FAQ About Us Home Residence Education Home hank you for your interest in the Resident Adviser (RA) position. RAs serve an important role that helps HFS provide welcoming, inclusive, safe, respectful, academically supportive, and fun residential communities. Student Leader Application Grow with us – apply to be a 2022-2023 Resident Adviser! Residential Life is seeking to RA, Residential Programming Board, ad Residence Education Programmer positions to support our campus community. Applications open NOW! Application Details: You can find the application here: https://forms.office.com/pages/responsepage.aspx?id=W9229i_wGkSZoBYqxQYL0uormDL52-ZLluOBWz9baaJUOFNUVjI2RU1DS0NKRktMRVNBWkRWRUpUWC4u. Priority Deadline: The priority deadline for the student leader application is Wednesday, December 1, 2021 at 8:00 AM. The final deadline is Monday, January 10, 2022 at 8:00 AM. Information Sessions: There are several information sessions that are coming up for you to learn more about the student leadership positions. See information below about details. Wednesday, November 10 | 6:00 PM – 7:00 PM | Maple Hall Room 217 This session is intended to provide an overview of available student leader positions. Wednesday, November 10 | 6:00 PM – 7:00 PM | wǝɫǝbʔaltxʷ Intellectual House This session is intended to provide an overview of available student leader positions. Residential Life is committed to providing spaces that center the experiences of Black, Indigenous, or Person of Color (BIPOC) student leaders. This session is available for perspective student leaders that hold one or more of these identities only to chat with current BIPOC student leaders and professional staff members about the selection process and their experiences working in Residential Life. Wednesday, November 17 | 6:00 PM – 7:00 PM | Alder Hall Room 107 This session is intended to provide an overview and support for the development of diversity statements and cover letters. Wednesday, November 17 | 6:00 PM – 7:00 PM | McMahon Hall Pompeii Room This session is intended to provide an overview and support for the development of diversity statements and cover letters. Tuesday, December 7 | 6:00 PM – 7:00 PM | Zoom This session is intended to provide an overview of available student leader positions. Thursday, December 9 | 6:00 PM – 7:00 PM | Zoom This session is intended to provide an overview and support for the development of diversity statements and cover letters. Wednesday, January 12 | 6:00 PM – 7:00 PM | Maple Hall Room 217 This session is intended to cover interview preparation for student leader positions. Wednesday, January 12 | 6:00 PM – 7:00 PM | McMahon Hall Pompeii Room This session is intended to cover interview preparation for student leader positions. Wednesday, January 19 | 6:00 PM – 7:00 PM | Maple Hall Room 217 This session is intended to cover interview preparation for student leader positions. Wednesday, January 19 | 6:00 PM – 7:00 PM | McMahon Hall Pompeii Room This session is intended to cover interview preparation for student leader positions. this video of HFS RAs explaining “What it Means to be an RA.” University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Google+ Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA