Skip to main content Health Systems and Population Health School of Public Health (intranet) (intranet) Site Navigation Academics Research Faculty News/Events Diversity About Us Husky 100 Congratulations to HSPop students Carolyn Fan and Monserrat Morales Miranda, named to the 2022 Husky 100!read more . . . The ARCH Center Dr. Wendy Barrington, HSPop associate professor, leads our new Center for Anti-Racism and Community Health. Learn about the goals for the center and the work that is already underway. read more . . . Meet our new HSPop faculty members Michelle Johnson-Jennings and Derek Jennings came to UW this summer from the University of Saskatchewan in Saskatoon. Learn about their interests and what they hope to achieve. read more . . . New name, same outstanding department! It's official: we are now the Department of Health Systems and Population Health. We chose this name through an inclusive process of discussions, surveys, and polling of staff, students, and faculty. We feel it will better represent the excellent teaching and research for which the Department has been known. Go HSPop! read more . . . 50 Years of Changemakers To celebrate the UW School of Public Health's 50 years of impact, the School is recognizing 50 alumni from around the world, including 17 Health Services graduates, who have a demonstrated record of distinguished service and achievement across public health disciplines and settings. read more . . . Coronavirus response, resources, and news Go here to find the latest on how the UW School of Public Health is assisting in the public health response, links to the latest information on what authorities know about the disease, and how UW scientists are sharing their expertise via the news media. read more . . . Previous Next The Department of Health Systems and Population Health prepares future health practitioners, managers, and researchers to conduct the unfinished work of improving the well-being of communities in the United States and throughout the world. Popular Links: Prospective Students Jobs: (RA and TA) (Faculty) Recent Publications Health Services Research Definitions Support the Department Make a Gift Events: We train students for influential careers in: health system management program design & evaluation health promotion policy analysis public health practice & research HSPop Quarterly Seminar - Disability Justice: May 20 12-1pm PST Join our Spring Quarter Seminar: "Disability Justice & Confronting Ableism in Academic Spaces" Friday, May 20, online 12-1pm PST. Guest speaker Imani Barbarin, disability activist, has written extensively on issues of ableism and disability justice. read more... 2022 Seminar Series on Homelessness: series final is May 18 Join us in-person or online for the final seminar in our four-part series addressing homelessness, sponsored by the Center for Health Innovation & Policy Science (CHIPS). Wednesday, May 18, at 12:00 pm PST, we will present "Portraits for Change: Homelessness and Refusal Politics." read more... Hellen Mwithiga promoted to Manager of Staff and Student HR Hellen Mwithiga, who has been working as an HSPop HR Associate, has been promoted to Manager of Staff and Student Human Resources. Please enjoy this story about the foundation she founded in Kenya in 2012, and how its reach continues to expand. read more... Evaluating a free meal program for U.S. schools A new NIH-funded study led by HSPop associate professor Jessica Jones-Smith seeks to understand effects of a national U.S. policy that allows school districts to provide free meals for all children in a school, regardless of household income. read more... Kemi Doll study examines endometrial cancer screening disparities A study published in JAMA Oncology, by HSPop adjunct associate professor Kemi Doll, indicates that a screening tool used to determine the need for biopsies frequently misses signs of endometrial cancer in Black women. read more... In the News: Hybrid work can be healthy at home and the office - Jeffrey Harris Opinion: To be anti-racist, don’t confuse character for accountability - Wendy Barrington Go to top of page © Department of Health Systems and Population Health Contact Us / Intranet / Privacy / Terms