Toggle navigation About About Us Governing Documents Programs Fee History Records Services and Activities Fee Special COVID-19 Advisory During the COVID-19 Pandemic, the Services & Activities Fee Committee has had to alter its regular operations to remain compliant with the latest information and guidance. Under current advice from the University, the meetings will be held in-person until further notice, and will update as-needed based on the latest information. Mission Statement The Services and Activities Fee is a student levied, student distributed fee to support and enhance the out of class experience of students at the University of Washington Seattle. The Services and Activities Fee provides ongoing operational and capital funding for programs, which protect and enrich the cultural, emotional, intellectual, physical, and social well being of the student. History Created in 1973, The Services & Activities Fee Committee has been delivering on student demands for over 40 years. The Committee begins the process by meeting from November to June to develop an annual recommended operating and capital budget through a series of submitted reports, budget discussions with unit leaders and directors, and committee deliberations. The committee evaluates each unit’s individual operating request and weighs the needs against the demand & need of students across campus and the financial pressures of the collective student population while being mindful to avoid funding items that are covered by tuition, such as research or academics. By the end of budget deliberations, the chair with support of their committee drafts a letter to the Board of Regents detailing how funds collected from the Services & Activities Fee should be spent. These recommendations are then presented concurrently with the recommendations from the Vice President & Provost for Student Life at the June Board of Regents Meeting. Once approved by the Board of Regents the Services and Activities Fee Budget and subsequent capital fees are implemented by the University Administration. As a model of shared governance, the SAF Committee is unable to allocate funding without the University Administration, nor is the University of Washington permitted to spend money without review and approval by the committee. Together, this partnership strengthens the University of Washington to respond to student needs and create institutions that address them. Committee Members The Committee is composed of eleven annually appointed students, six from the Associated Students of the University of Washington and five from the Graduate Professional Student Senate. These eleven members are the only voting members of the committee and elect a Chair and a Vice-Chair from amongst their membership. The Committee also has two non-voting members appointed by the Faculty Senate and three non-voting member appointed by the University Administration. In accordance with state law, the Associated Student of the University of Washington and the Graduate and Professional Student Senate submit nominations for student members to the University of Washington Administration. The Vice President for Student Life reviews and approves nominations, officially appointing students to the committee. Students on the committees represent the wide and diverse interests of all undergraduate and graduate students. Committee Chair Benajmin Chan safcom@uw.edu University of Washington Husky Union Building, Room 305B 4001 NE Stevens Way Seattle, WA 98195 Student Members Benjamin Chan - ASUW Representative, Committee Chair Alece Stancin - ASUW Representative, Committee Vice Chair A.J Balatico - GPSS Vice President of Finance Ted Cohen - GPSS Representative Melanie Busch - GPSS Representative Mathew Mitnick - GPSS Representative Christie Lee - ASUW Finance & Budget Director Benjamin Roscoe - ASUW Senate Liaison Teerth Mehta - ASUW Representative Melody Fung - ASUW Representative Suryanshi Goyal - GPSS Representative Ex-Officio Members Vacant - School of Pharamacy Representative L. Lincoln Johnson - Associate Vice President, Student Life Kristian Wiles - Executive Director of Retention and Academic Support Programs, Minority Affairs and Diversity Vacant - Faculty Senate Seat 1 Vacant - Faculty Senate Seat 2 Committee Staff Alece Stancin - SAF Committee Vice Chair safvc@uw.edu Fatin Almaroof - SAF Organizing Director safcd@uw.edu Meetings The main SAF Committee meets on Fridays at 1:00PM Pacific Time. These meetings are currently held in HUB 303 until further notice. All meetings are open to the public. Agendas are posted no later than 24 hours in advance, but may be edited during the meeting. Some materials for the meeting are available ahead of time. If you have questions about any of the materials, please reach out to a committee staff member. Please allow up to 72 hours for a response. If you have difficulty accessing a meeting, please contact the Committee Chair immediately (email: safcom@uw.edu). Regular Meeting on Friday October 29th, 2021 at 1:00PM PST - Agenda Minutes Regular Meeting on Friday November 5th, 2021 at 1:00PM PST - Agenda Minutes Regular Meeting on Friday November 12th, 2021 at 1:00PM PST - Minutes Regular Meeting on Friday November 19th, 2021 at 1:00PM PST - Agenda Minutes Regular Meeting on Friday December 3rd, 2021 at 1:00PM PST - Agenda Minutes Regular Meeting on Friday December 10th, 2021 at 1:00PM PST - Agenda Minutes Regular Meeting on Friday January 7th, 2022 at 1:00PM PST - Agenda Minutes Regular Meeting on Friday January 14th, 2022 at 1:00PM PST - Agenda Minutes Regular Meeting on Friday January 21st, 2022 at 1:00PM PST - Agenda Minutes Regular Meeting on Friday January 28th, 2022 at 1:00PM PST - Agenda Minutes Regular Meeting on Friday February 4th, 2022 at 1:00PM PST - Agenda Minutes Regular Meeting on Friday February 11th, 2022 at 1:00PM PST - Agenda Minutes Regular Meeting on Friday February 18th, 2022 at 1:00PM PST - Agenda Minutes Regular Meeting on Friday February 25th, 2022 at 1:00PM PST - Agenda Minutes Regular Meeting on Friday March 4th, 2022 at 1:00PM PST - Agenda Minutes Regular Meeting on Friday March 11th, 2022 at 1:00PM PST - Agenda Minutes Regular Meeting on Friday April 1st, 2022 at 1:00PM PST - Agenda Minutes Regular Meeting on Friday April 8th, 2022 at 1:00PM PST - Agenda Minutes Office Hours During the COVID-19 pandemic, all office hours and meetings with the committee staff will be held remotely. Please contact a committee staff member to make an appointment Benjamin Chan, Chair By Appointment Alece Stancin, Vice Chair By Appointment Fatin Almaroof, Organizing Director By Appointment Services and Activities Fee