Skip to main content University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home About Us Staff Annual Report Campus Allies For Parents Eligibility For UW-Bothell Students Limitations Student versus Student Services Confidentiality Consultations Intake Form Hiring Process Group Presentations COVID-19 Recursos en Español COVID-19 Testing in King County Resources UW Resources Self-Help Legal Resources Government and Courts Contact Us Frequently Asked Questions Student Legal Services Menu Home About Us Staff Annual Report Campus Allies For Parents Eligibility For UW-Bothell Students Limitations Student versus Student Services Confidentiality Consultations Intake Form Hiring Process Group Presentations COVID-19 Recursos en Español COVID-19 Testing in King County Resources UW Resources Self-Help Legal Resources Government and Courts Contact Us Frequently Asked Questions Home Student Legal Services Welcome to Student Legal Services! Student Legal Services (SLS) is an on-campus law office that provides a safe and confidential space for all UW-Seattle and Bothell students who have legal questions or concerns. We offer free 40-minute consultations on a broad range of issues. Students can also hire us for ongoing representation for a low hourly rate. We are located in Husky Union Building (HUB) 306. Eligibility SLS can assist only currently enrolled UW-Seattle and UW-Bothell students (undergraduate, graduate, and professional degree-seeking) who have paid the Services & Activities Fee as part of their tuition. If you are not enrolled for the current quarter but you were enrolled last quarter and you intend to enroll next quarter, then you are still eligible for our services. Newly admitted students are currently enrolled once they have registered and are taking classes. SLS does not currently serve UW Tacoma students at this time, and cannot represent a student when the opposing party is another UW-Seattle or Bothell student or UW entity. Schedule a Consultation To begin the scheduling process, fill out our Intake Form. You must be logged into your UW NetID to access the intake form. If you are not already logged onto your UW NetID on your browser, you will see an error page when you click on the link above. If you are not a current student, you will not be able to access the form. We do not provide legal advice by email or phone, and walk-ins and same-day appointments are not accepted. After the intake form has been completed, SLS staff will screen your intake to confirm your eligibility and identify any conflicts of interest. Make sure you click “Submit” and not “Save progress and exit” to ensure that we receive your intake. If no conflicts arise, a separate link will be emailed to you to schedule your appointment. Appointments are typically scheduled one week in advance. After your appointment has been scheduled, you will be emailed a link to our Conditions of Consultation form, which must be filled out electronically prior to your appointment. Fill out the Intake Form Here are some examples of the kinds of cases we can help with: Immigration Immigration laws and regulations are constantly changing. Protecting your immigration status is a priority for most students. Student Legal Services is available to help eligible University of Washington students on a variety of immigration matters including questions about DACA, adjusting status, immigration consequences of criminal convictions, citizenship, domestic issues, employment based immigration, and family based immigration questions. Schedule a consultation with SLS to help address your concerns and discuss eligibility for certain forms of relief. Landlord/Tenant Landlord/Tenant disputes are our most common area of practice. We have a strong reputation for aiding students in this area by holding landlords accountable. Some common reasons students come to our office include: Assessing lease violations Return of your security deposit Reviewing your lease Terminating your lease Eviction defense You can come to SLS for a consultation or hire us for ongoing representation in these matters. Protection Orders Determining if you need a protection order can be scary. Our office helps make the filing process less overwhelming by answering your questions and addressing your concerns. However, if the person you want a protection order against is a current UW-Seattle student, we are limited to explaining the process and providing you with resources. If the opposing party is not a UW-Seattle student, then you can hire SLS to file the case and represent you in court. Wills and Powers of Attorney Our office works with students to create estate planning documents for themselves and for their spouses (who do not need to be UW-Seattle students). We commonly draft the following documents: Last Will and Testament Power of Attorney for Health Care Power of Attorney for Finances Healthcare Directive Name and Gender Marker Changes If your name and/or gender marker on your government issued identification does not match who you really are, we can help you. You can hire SLS to file a case to make those changes. Criminal Cases SLS commonly represents students who have been charged with misdemeanors such as Driving Under the Influence (DUI) or Malicious Mischief. If you have been charged with a crime or if you are worried that you might be charged with a crime, SLS can help. Discrimination Have you been discriminated against in the workplace or in housing? Schedule an appointment with SLS to help sort through your options. Divorce Many students seek our help during periods of instability in their marriage. If you are going through a divorce that is uncontested (i.e. you and your spouse are in agreement about how to split up your property and share time with your children), then SLS can represent you during the case. If your divorce is contested, SLS may not be able to represent you in court, but can help you negotiate and find other resources. Traffic Tickets If you have received a traffic citation, come to SLS. We can help you consider all your options and we can represent you in court, if necessary. Auto Collisions and Insurances Issues If you have been involved in an auto collision, SLS can help you understand your rights, whether or not you had insurances at the time. Other Legal Issues SLS works on too many issues to list them all here. Even if your issue does not appear above, stop by or call us to see if we can help. Confidentiality From the moment you initiate contact with SLS, whether by phone or in-person, your communications with our office are confidential. Client confidentiality is at the core of the attorney-client relationship. This applies even if your relationship with SLS ends after a phone call or consultation. SLS cannot release information about you except with your written permission or in extremely limited situations. If you have questions about client confidentiality, please discuss them with SLS staff at the consultation. Due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, our office is operating under a hybrid model. Students can choose to have their consultation over Zoom or in-person. For in-person consultations, we we strongly encourage everyone to wear masks. We also encourage unvaccinated students to choose the virtual option to ensure their safety and the safety of our staff. If you are an ongoing client and need to pay an invoice, visit TouchNet. If you have any questions, please email hubcash@uw.edu. SLS is committed to ensuring that students are able to access low-cost legal services. All proceeds go towards students facing severe financial hardship to pay for legal and filing fees. We greatly appreciate your donation and contribution to helping our office remain accessible to the greater UW community. Contact SLS OFFICE HOURS Mon - Fri: 9 AM - 5 PM Limited hours during exams and breaks. 206-543-6486slsuw@uw.edu SLS is in HUB 306 View larger Follow SLS Funded by University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA