Skip to content Toggle navigation About Our Department Strategic Plan Diversity Diversity Plan Statement on Harassment Support Contact & Directory Fact Sheet 50th Anniversary News & Events Top News Astro Colloquia Astro Lunch Public Newsletters Astrobio Seminars Physics Colloquia Data Science Seminars ESS Seminars Faculty Meetings Academics Overview Undergraduate Program Pre-MAP Graduate Program A Top Ranked Program Graduate Admissions Financial Support Grad FAQs Grad Life in Seattle Courses Interdisciplinary Tracks Postdoctoral Program Research Research Areas N-body Shop Observing Facilities Research Statements Undergrad Research Pre-MAP People All Faculty Researchers Post-Docs Graduates Staff Alumni Outreach Overview UW Mobile Planetarium UW Planetarium Planetarium Accessibility Tips Jacobsen Observatory GCAP: Graduates of Color in Astronomy and Physics Astronomy for the Sight Impaired Astro in the High School Intro Astro Clearinghouse Department Tools Quick Links Visitor Info For Colloquium Speakers Department Meetings Room Reservations Astro Wiki Forms Return to Research Plans Announcements UW Faculty and Students Secure MRO for Winter UW Faculty member Oliver Fraser (on selfie duty) and students Teagan O’Reilly, Maria Chernyavskaya, and Cyrus Goodman secured Manastash Ridge Observatory for the winter over the weekend of December 5th. Like many things this year, normal operations have been suspended, but even maintenance trips encountered the additional challenges of wildfire,... Read more → Top News Remembering Professor Julie Lutz Julie Haynes Lutz died Tuesday, May 3, 2022, at her daughter’s home in West Sacramento, California, at the age of 77. She was the daughter of the late Willard Damon Haynes and the late Julia Awilda Ha… Read more Professor Vikki Meadows Named AAS Fellow The American Astronomical Society has named UW Professor Victoria Meadows one of 23 new AAS Fellows for the year 2022. Professor Meadows has been recognized for “pioneering work in developing the fiel… Read more Professor Željko Ivezić to Lead Rubin Observatory Project Professor of Astronomy Željko Ivezić has been appointed as the next Director of the Vera C. Rubin Observatory Construction Project. Read the full article at UW College of Arts and Sciences. Read more Welcome New Chair Professor Thomas Quinn Please read his inaugural Chair’s Letter in our Fall 2021 newsletter. Read more New high-precision measurements of TRAPPIST-1 planets The TRAPPIST-1 system contains seven planets spanning the range of properties of the terrestrial planets in our Solar System. Astronomers at UW, led by Professor Eric Agol, have now measured the masse… Read more Astronomy is the quest to make the Universe comprehensible, an adventure into the beginning of time and through the infinite recesses of space. About The Astronomy Department at the University of Washington (UW) began in 1965 and has grown to 15 full and part-time faculty, approximately 20 postdocs, and 30 graduate students. Like every department at the UW, our goals and responsibilities can be summarized as excellence in education, research, and public service. The Astronomy Department provides the most engaging and challenging of research opportunities covering the spectrum of modern astrophysics. Courses provide the background; the close, diverse community of learning provides the excitement; and the array of observational and computational tools provides the opportunities for everyone to participate and learn together. Give to the Department Learn MoreStatement on Harassment Spotlight Faculty Spotlight: Sarah Tuttle Sarah Tuttle recently joined the UW Astronomy Department as an Assistant Professor, and is head of UW’s new Space & Ground Instrumentation Laboratory. In her own words: “I am primarily an instrumental astrophysicist working on novel hardware approaches, and build spectrographs to study the physical processes of galaxies. I’m interested... Read more → View Archive Upcoming Events From milliseconds to decades: The dynamic Galactic Plane unveiled with infrared time domain surveys May 31 @ 12:00 PM - 1:00 PM Science Accessible via GPU-based Planetary Dynamics Integrators June 1 @ 12:00 PM - 1:00 PM The Broader Impacts of Mapping the Universe June 2 @ 3:30 PM - 4:30 PM TBA: Girish Kulkarni June 21 @ 12:00 PM - 1:00 PM View All Events View Calendar Visitor Info Directions to UW Campus Map Floor Map Helpful Links NASA ESA SPACE ASTRONOMY UW ASTROBIO UW eSCIENCE UW PHYSICS UW COMPSCI HUBBLE SPITZER SDSS LSST Contact Office Physics-Astronomy Bldg, Room C319 Mail Box 351580, U.W. Seattle, WA 98195-1580 Deliveries Physics-Astronomy Bldg. 3910 15th Ave NE, Room C319 Seattle WA 98195-0002 MyUW UW Home UW Directory Astronomy Directory Explore with us! Sign up to receive regular news and updates. SUBSCRIBE © 2022 University of Washington. All rights reserved.