Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation College of Design Main navigation About Contact Information Visit Us Buildings and Facilities Digital Fabrication Lab Employment Opportunities Support the College History John Portman Dean's Chair Future Students FOCUS On Design Day Pre-College Design Program Undergraduate Portfolio Guidance Current Students Academics Degree Programs Undergraduate Academics Graduate Academics Study Abroad Schools Research Welcome to Research in the College of Design Research Centers and Labs School Labs People News and Events Open Search Search Breadcrumb Home Welcome to the Center of Campus Welcome to the Center of Campus We’ve learned that when you put a college filled with creative intellectuals in a culture of technology and innovation, you end up with the kind of design that can change the planet and the lives of everyone on it. Many of our students had a hard time deciding between majoring in Engineering, Computing, or one of our design-centered majors. That’s not surprising because our academic programs are driven by evolving technology, enterprise, and social change. It's actually not so hard to combine these interests at Georgia Tech. We engage in nutty, brainy problems like everyone else at Georgia Tech but we do it in a very specific way: we come up with solutions to complex issues through the design process, whether that’s Architecture, Industrial Design, or Music Technology. From the BeltLine, to astronaut suits, to robotic drumming arms. At Georgia Tech you see the future of environments and objects. Schedule a Visit! Pre-College Summer Programs Our Pre-College programs are intensive, two-week workshops for high school students interested in architecture and industrial design. The dates for our 2022 Summer Programs will be announced soon. Check here for more information Admissions Information Undergraduate admissions are handled through the Georgia Tech Office of Undergraduate Admissions. Undergraduate admission decisions are not made by the College of Design or any of the schools. Undergraduate Admission Requirements, Calendar and Deadlines A portfolio is not a requirement for admission to the undergraduate program in Architecture or Industrial Design at Georgia Tech. Apply Now as an Undergraduate All graduate admissions are handled centrally through the Georgia Tech Office of Graduate Admissions. Graduate Admission Requirements, Calendar and Deadlines Apply Now as a Graduate Transfer Students A complete course transfer evaluation will be done when you have been accepted to Tech. The Institute will determine whether you have completed courses that transfer credit for design studio work or other architecture-related course work. You should provide course descriptions, syllabi, and a portfolio for review. Prospective transfer students to any College of Design majors must speak with an academic advisor prior to applying to discuss the most appropriate semester for them to apply. Our Academic Advisors Robin Tucker or Nitra Wisdom in the School of Architecture Laura Alger in the School of Building Construction Johnny Sawyer in the School of City & Regional Planning Troy Whyte in the School of Industrial Design Chris Moore in the School of Music Financial Aid Financial aid provides support for students to help meet the costs of obtaining a Georgia Tech education. There are a number of ways you can receive financial aid, including: Scholarships & Grants Also known as “gift aid,” and include federal, state, institutional and private aid. Funds come from several sources: Federal (Pell grant, SEOG) State (HOPE/Zell Miller scholarship) Institutional Private Work Programs & Loans Known as “self-help aid,” this is provided by federal work-study programs and educational loans. Funds include the Federal Work Study Program and Education Loans. Alternative Awards and Scholarships There are a number of alternative scholarships and awards available to student applicants. Merit-Based Financial Aid Each school provides merit-based financial aid, which primarily includes fellowships, graduate research or teaching assistantships and co-ops. Questions? If you can't find the information you were looking for, we'll get you to the right place. Contact Us Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN User account menu Log in Design Footer 4 College Resources Intranet IT Resources