Skip to Main Content Brown University School of Engineering Brown-RISD Master of Arts in Design Engineering Search Menu Site Navigation Home The MADE Experience Program Studios Trajectories People Apply FAQ Search School of Engineering Brown-RISD Master of Arts in Design Engineering Apply Questions? Please reach out to us if you need assistance or have any questions. Contact us Apply Application: Applications for enrollment in July 2022 open September 1. → Apply Via Secure Portal Our application asks for: → Personal Statement: Why is this the right program for you? What will you bring to strengthen the cohort? What future will the program enable for you? (Guidelines) → Portfolio (Guidelines) → Official Transcript → 3 Letters of Recommendation → TOEFL Score: Required for any non-native English speaker who does not have a degree from an institution where English is the sole language of instruction. While Brown recognizes the difficulties that standardized tests may pose for applicants during this time, we encourage all applicants to review our updated policy here. We now accept both the in-person and at-home versions of these exams, such as the TOELF iBT Special Home Edition. Given the choice of in-person or at-home testing options, Brown strongly encourages applicants to submit official scores for programs when asked. If you are unable to take the TOEFL or IELTS exam due to significant financial or other hardship(s), please write to masters_admissions@brown.edu with a brief explanation of your situation and we will determine your eligibility for a waiver request. Timeline: MADE applications are due on January 19, 2022. Notification of admission will be sent via email and viewable in the application portal by Early March, 2022. Support: Financial Aid Scholarship support may be awarded to select candidates who have demonstrated financial need and who have a record of outstanding achievements and demonstrate the potential to contribute significantly to peer-to-peer learning that is valued so highly in the program. Additionally, to supplement other forms of support that may be received from Brown, students may also be eligible for federal direct student loans and other alternative loans. Student loans for graduate students are administered through the Office of Financial Aid. Questions? Please reach out to us if you need assistance or have any questions. Contact us Brown University School of Engineering made@brown.edu Rhode Island School of Design Division of Architecture + Design Quick Navigation Contact Us Sign Up Footer Navigation Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home The MADE Experience Program Studios Trajectories People Apply FAQ This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Apply Open details for Apply Bookmark this Page