Skip to Main Content Brown University School of Engineering Brown-RISD Master of Arts in Design Engineering Search Menu Site Navigation Home The MADE Experience Program Studios Trajectories People Apply FAQ Search School of Engineering Brown-RISD Master of Arts in Design Engineering Frequently Asked Questions Have Other Questions? We'd love to hear from you. Contact us Frequently Asked Questions How does MADE compare to other programs? The MADE program asks students to engage in a diverse, collaborative environment where multiple ideas are able to mesh and meld, addressing various problems. We promote inclusive, reflective design practices that create meaningful projects and build community bonds. What is the tuition? Total tuition is expected to be comparable to other master's degree programs at Brown and RISD, estimated at $75,000 for the 11-credit program. Official approved rates will be posted as soon as possible. Is financial aid available? Our goal is to have a diverse cohort and to support those in need of assistance. We have allocated funds so that 25% of the tuition income will be returned to qualified students. What are some unique aspects of the MADE program? MADE is a joint degree program, awarded by RISD and Brown, and utilizes the assets of both institutions. Affiliated faculty come from a wide range of disciplines, with deep and broad experience. We are located in the creative hub of Providence RI. Does the MADE program have unique connections with design and engineering firms? The MADE faculty bring existing partnerships with a wide range of organizations to the program. See the partners section of the program page for a list. Industry leaders serve as studio critics and studio project partnership leads. What are the benefits of an interdisciplinary master’s education? In addition to adding to your body of knowledge and skills, you will work in a team whose members have diverse perspectives and come from different disciplinary frameworks. This prepares you for team-based work environments that facilitate a holistic approach to problem solving. Is the MADE program STEM eligible? Yes, Brown's Office of International Student and Scholar Services works with students to complete the necessary documentation. How extensive should my career experience be? We are not looking for a specific level of career experience. The average age of our students is 25. Some are straight out of undergraduate and some have several years of work experience. Will students be making physical items? Yes, The Design Workshop is a state of the art maker space located down the hall from the MADE studio. Students use this space to work on prototype testing. Physical making and making things in collaboration with others is an integral part of the program. Do I need a technical background? No, our cohorts are a mix of technical, design and "other" backgrounds. Can I shadow students or attend classes in order to understand if the program is a good fit for me? Attending a critique at the end of the semester where students would be showing their work is a great way to see what students are doing and how they are evaluated. How close to one another are the Brown and RISD campuses? The two campuses are relatively small and so close to one another that if feels like one dual campus space. Will I receive my graduate degree from Brown or RISD? Upon completion of the program you will receive a single joint degree from Brown and RISD. What are the required courses for the program? Completion of 3 program specific studios and 1 winter communication course (ENGN2170, ENGN2171, ENGN2172, ENGN2173) as well as completion of 4 electives, chosen in consultation with program advisors. What are the differences between the Rhode Island School of Design Industrial Design Masters and MADE? The RISD MID program focuses on the individual, welcomes those with a variety of backgrounds, and runs 4 to 5 semesters. The MADE program focuses on working collaboratively, using people's technical or design backgrounds, and runs 11 months. https://player.vimeo.com/video/649129237 MADE Information Session With Co-Directors Khipra Nichols and Christopher Bull and Executive Director Beth Altringer. Learn More About Applying to MADE Have Other Questions? We'd love to hear from you. Contact us Brown University School of Engineering made@brown.edu Rhode Island School of Design Division of Architecture + Design Quick Navigation Contact Us Sign Up Footer Navigation Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home The MADE Experience Program Studios Trajectories People Apply FAQ This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Frequently Asked Questions Open details for Frequently Asked Questions Bookmark this Page