Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation College of Design Main navigation About Contact Information Visit Us Buildings and Facilities Digital Fabrication Lab Employment Opportunities Support the College History John Portman Dean's Chair Future Students FOCUS On Design Day Pre-College Design Program Undergraduate Portfolio Guidance Current Students Academics Degree Programs Undergraduate Academics Graduate Academics Study Abroad Schools Research Welcome to Research in the College of Design Research Centers and Labs School Labs People News and Events Open Search Search Breadcrumb Home Pre-College Design Program Pre-College Design Program The Pre-College Design program consists of two-week in-person workshops in architecture, building construction, industrial design, and music technology. Hosted by the College of Design at the Georgia Institute of Technology, this program provides the opportunity to engage with our world-class faculty and current students, and give high-school (rising juniors and rising seniors) students insight into what it is like to study design. Summer 2022 We are planning for the pre-college program during summer 2022 to take place in person. Session 1: 6/13 - 6/24 Architecture + Building Construction + Music Technology Session 2: 7/11 - 7/22 Architecture + Industrial Design Applications are now open for Building Construction + Music Technology (Architecture I & II, and Industrial Design are at full capacity). Cost of the program is $2300 per student. This includes their stay at the dorms, all their meals, all the materials they will need during the program, as well as any transportation during the program and special ticket admission costs. Architecture Workshop Have you always been curious about architecture? Are you interested in learning how to communicate like an architect? Come join us for an energetic immersion into the field of design and making where students will interact with professors, current students, recent graduates, and local practitioners. Our Pre-College summer experience provides hands-on experience in drawing and making to test design ideas for an architectural project. Participants will understand the path to a career in architecture, as well as leave with a design project ready for inclusion in their own portfolio. We are offering 2 sessions of the architecture workshop. Apply Now Building Construction Workshop Do you want to have an occupation where you get to visit (and show off) your “fruits of work” every time you drive around a town? Do you want to make a big impact in creating the future of the built environment? Would you like to have the option to balance being outdoors with office work? Then a career in construction may be for you! Construction program graduates are highly sought after in the industry. A degree in construction is determined to be one of the most lucrative investments by several studies. During this program, you will learn that a career in the construction industry goes beyond a muddy construction site. There are many career paths possible with a degree in Construction that leverage many emerging technologies, project management skills, and provide employment opportunities beyond the field. This action-packed 2-week summer program will involve hands-on building activities, construction site visits (real as well as through immersive virtual-reality), meetings with industry leaders, and tons of hands-on practice with cutting-edge technology such as drones, laser scanners, 3D printing, Augmented/Virtual Reality, and even robots! You will learn how to use REVIT and other computer software to model a building and take home a 3D print of your own design-build project’s miniature replica as a souvenir. You will also get your very own Georgia Tech Gold hard hat! Apply Now Industrial Design Workshop Industrial Designers design the products we use every day! Appliances, phones, tools, bikes, and many more products emerge through the creative thinking and making of Industrial Designers. Explore the possibilities of this exciting career in our in-person camp. Students will enjoy drawing and modeling to test design ideas, along with learning about local industrial design firms on their way to making their very own consumer product. All will leave with a new understanding of this exciting profession, and a design project ready for inclusion in their own portfolio. We are offering 1 session of the industrial design workshop. Apply Now Music Technology Workshop Music technologists imagine new inventions for, new ways of listening to, and new ways of playing music. The Music Technology Pre-College program explores ways we create and experience music. In addition to music production, we explore machine learning, music information retrieval systems, immersive audio environments, and performance technologies. We study the use of popular software and hardware in music creation, manipulation, and what future developments are on the horizon. Each student will have the opportunity to create projects suitable for their own portfolio. We are offering 1 session of the music technology workshop. Apply Now The Difference of Design at Georgia Tech The College of Design's academic approach is more dynamic than other design programs based on fine arts. While our students and our faculty have strong foundations in the traditional industries of architecture, building construction, industrial design, and music technology, at Georgia Tech they regularly collaborate with engineers, computer scientists, and entrepreneurs. Our Pre-College Design Program focuses on the symbiotic relationship between technology, design, and construction. Questions? If you can't find the information you were looking for, we'll get you to the right place. Contact Us Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN User account menu Log in Design Footer 4 College Resources Intranet IT Resources