Skip to main content Jump to navigation Skip to navigation Apply Calendar Make a Gift People Search this Website Search Who We Are The School of Design and Creative Technologies at The University of Texas at Austin aims to graduate diverse, creative students who are the best technical creators, designers and problem solvers with exceptional job opportunities. Our Stories No Longer, Not Yet 2022 Senior Design Capstone Exhibition New ‘I Voted’ 2022 Election Sticker Designed by UT Design Student Ashwara Pillai Design Student Wins "I Voted" Sticker Contest AET Student Zane Giordano Wins Gold at MIT Reality Hack 2022 AET Student Takes Home the Gold AET Students Help Bring Bee Cave BuzzFest to Life Bee Cave BuzzFest 2022 No Longer, Not Yet No Longer, Not Yet 2022 Senior Design Capstone Exhibition No Longer, Not Yet View the 2022 B.F.A. Design exhibition, "No Longer, Not Yet." READ STORY View Exhibition New ‘I Voted’ 2022 Election Sticker Designed by UT Design Student Ashwara Pillai New ‘I Voted’ 2022 Election Sticker Designed by UT Design Student Ashwara Pillai Design Student Wins "I Voted" Sticker Contest New ‘I Voted’ 2022 Election Sticker Designed by UT Design Student Ashwara Pillai Ashwara Pillai, a B.F.A. Design Senior, won the inaugural Travis County “I Voted” sticker contest with a design featuring a bluebonnet in the shape of a checkmark. The new sticker, inspired by her own annual encounters with the Texas state flower while growing up in Austin, will be available at all Travis County voting locations for the November 8, 2022 election. READ STORY AET Student Zane Giordano Wins Gold at MIT Reality Hack 2022 AET Student Zane Giordano Wins Gold at MIT Reality Hack 2022 AET Student Takes Home the Gold AET Student Zane Giordano Wins Gold at MIT Reality Hack 2022 At the MIT Reality Hack 2022, Zane Giordano, University of Texas at Austin student from the School of Design and Creative Technologies, and his team were awarded Overall Gold for Best Project and Winner: Best Use of Microsoft Reality Toolkit (MRTK). WATCH VIDEO AET Students Help Bring Bee Cave BuzzFest to Life AET Students Help Bring Bee Cave BuzzFest to Life Bee Cave BuzzFest 2022 AET Students Help Bring Bee Cave BuzzFest to Life Students from two Arts and Entertainment Technologies classes put theory into practice at the 2022 Bee Cave BuzzFest, a 3-day immersive music, tech, and art festival in Bee Cave, Texas. VIEW GALLERY MORE STORIES Degrees + Programs B.S. in Arts and Entertainment Technologies Tip: Use Arrow keys to navigate this list B.F.A. and B.A. in Design M.F.A. in Design M.A. in Design in Health B.D.P. Certificate in Design Strategies B.D.P. Certificate in Digital Arts and Media Center For Integrated Design Industry Relations Design Institute for Health B.S. in Arts and Entertainment Technologies Arts and Entertainment Technologies (AET) is the first professionally oriented Bachelor of Science program offered by the College of Fine Arts. With coursework in game design, themed entertainment, music and sound, motion graphics and video, immersive media, interactive storytelling, and other creative technology fields, this cross-disciplinary program is focused on the future. A flexible degree plan allows students to double-major or minor in other areas of study such as design, computer science, or business. LEARN MORE B.F.A. and B.A. in Design The undergraduate Design program empowers students with a rich, multi-faceted educational experience that poises graduates for careers in the design profession, professions with a design component or a strategic focus and entrepreneurial endeavors. The B.A. in Design is intended for students who desire a solid foundation in design techniques, aesthetics, research methods, history and theory, but who prefer the flexibility and breadth of a liberal arts degree to the more studio-intensive pre-professional B.F.A. degree. LEARN MORE M.F.A. in Design The M.F.A. program at The University of Texas at Austin is distinctive by design. LEARN MORE M.A. in Design in Health The School of Design and Creative Technologies, in partnership with Dell Medical School and the Design Institute for Health, is eager to announce a first-of-its-kind Master of Arts in Design in Health. At the heart of one of the world’s top research institutions, expert designers and health design specialists have come together to teach future health care leaders realistic solutions to many of health care’s most wicked problems. LEARN MORE B.D.P. Certificate in Design Strategies The Bridging Disciplines Program Certificate in Design Strategies provides a multidisciplinary framework open to ALL UT undergraduate students to master design thinking skills outside of traditional departmental programming to better prepare them to tackle real-world wicked problems. LEARN MORE B.D.P. Certificate in Digital Arts and Media The Bridging Disciplines Program Certificate in Digital Arts and Media explores the use of computer technology and production techniques to create digital art. Students develop skills in areas such as gaming, animation, computer-generated music and interactive media. LEARN MORE Center For Integrated Design The University of Texas at Austin brings Design Thinking into the core of the UT curricula on a comprehensive scale with the interdisciplinary Center for Integrated Design (CID). In collaboration with the Design, Engineering, Information, Business, Computer Science and Architecture programs, the CID has created a multidisciplinary curriculum that offers ALL UT students the opportunity to study design methodology and apply it in creative and entrepreneurial scenarios. LEARN MORE Industry Relations Industry Relations facilitates collaborations with top creative firms, design studios and entertainment companies, providing UT students with new opportunities across the country. Led by Patti Burke who has over 20 years of experience in entertainment, professional development and product and studio management. Burke showcases the talents of Design and AET students as they perfect their craft and prepare to graduate. LEARN MORE Design Institute for Health The Design Institute for Health is a first-of-its-kind institute born from the radical collaboration between Dell Medical School and the College of Fine Arts at The University of Texas at Austin. The program’s embedded team of health design specialists uses creative problem-solving methods to deeply understand the needs of patients and providers, generate fresh systemic approaches, and rapidly prototype and realize solutions. LEARN MORE Degrees + Programs B.S. in Arts and Entertainment Technologies Arts and Entertainment Technologies (AET) is the first professionally oriented Bachelor of Science program offered by the College of Fine Arts. With coursework in game design, themed entertainment, music and sound, motion graphics and video, immersive media, interactive storytelling, and other creative technology fields, this cross-disciplinary program is focused on the future. A flexible degree plan allows students to double-major or minor in other areas of study such as design, computer science, or business. LEARN MORE B.F.A. and B.A. in Design The undergraduate Design program empowers students with a rich, multi-faceted educational experience that poises graduates for careers in the design profession, professions with a design component or a strategic focus and entrepreneurial endeavors. The B.A. in Design is intended for students who desire a solid foundation in design techniques, aesthetics, research methods, history and theory, but who prefer the flexibility and breadth of a liberal arts degree to the more studio-intensive pre-professional B.F.A. degree. LEARN MORE M.F.A. in Design The M.F.A. program at The University of Texas at Austin is distinctive by design. LEARN MORE M.A. in Design in Health The School of Design and Creative Technologies, in partnership with Dell Medical School and the Design Institute for Health, is eager to announce a first-of-its-kind Master of Arts in Design in Health. At the heart of one of the world’s top research institutions, expert designers and health design specialists have come together to teach future health care leaders realistic solutions to many of health care’s most wicked problems. LEARN MORE B.D.P. Certificate in Design Strategies The Bridging Disciplines Program Certificate in Design Strategies provides a multidisciplinary framework open to ALL UT undergraduate students to master design thinking skills outside of traditional departmental programming to better prepare them to tackle real-world wicked problems. LEARN MORE B.D.P. Certificate in Digital Arts and Media The Bridging Disciplines Program Certificate in Digital Arts and Media explores the use of computer technology and production techniques to create digital art. Students develop skills in areas such as gaming, animation, computer-generated music and interactive media. LEARN MORE Center For Integrated Design The University of Texas at Austin brings Design Thinking into the core of the UT curricula on a comprehensive scale with the interdisciplinary Center for Integrated Design (CID). In collaboration with the Design, Engineering, Information, Business, Computer Science and Architecture programs, the CID has created a multidisciplinary curriculum that offers ALL UT students the opportunity to study design methodology and apply it in creative and entrepreneurial scenarios. LEARN MORE Industry Relations Industry Relations facilitates collaborations with top creative firms, design studios and entertainment companies, providing UT students with new opportunities across the country. Led by Patti Burke who has over 20 years of experience in entertainment, professional development and product and studio management. Burke showcases the talents of Design and AET students as they perfect their craft and prepare to graduate. LEARN MORE Design Institute for Health The Design Institute for Health is a first-of-its-kind institute born from the radical collaboration between Dell Medical School and the College of Fine Arts at The University of Texas at Austin. The program’s embedded team of health design specialists uses creative problem-solving methods to deeply understand the needs of patients and providers, generate fresh systemic approaches, and rapidly prototype and realize solutions. LEARN MORE VIEW ALL DEGREES + PROGRAMS APPLYPLAN A VISIT NEWS Natacha Poggio Earns Fulbright Scholar Award May 23, 2022 Drawing to Break the Silence: Yuliya Lanina May 16, 2022 New ‘I Voted’ 2022 Election Sticker Designed by UT Design Student Ashwara Pillai May 10, 2022 Yuliya Lanina: Drawing on violence in Ukraine May 10, 2022 READ MORE NEWS Diversity & Inclusion Resources Browse Industry Relations' list of career resources centering on diversity, equity and inclusion. View Now 2020 Journal of Design and Creative Technologies Explore the 2020 Journal of Design and Creative Technologies in two volumes. Volume 1 centers on the COVID-19 pandemic, and Volume 2 explores the use of design for social good at large. EXPLORE JOURNAL Back to top About People Leadership Faculty Staff Welcome Message From Doreen Lorenzo Maps, Location & Parking Events News Send Us Your Alumni News History Facilities Support Connect Industry Partners Response to Student Demands Admissions Freshman Admissions Transfer Admissions General Undergraduate Admissions Questions Graduate Admissions Tuition & Scholarships Plan a Visit Faculty and Staff Directory Contact Admissions Academics & Programs Department of Arts and Entertainment Technologies B.S. in Arts and Entertainment Technologies AET Courses Spring 2022 Spring 2021 AET Showcase Past AET Showcases Game Development Capstone Special Honors Program Hardware/Software Recommendations Frequently Asked Questions Department of Design B.F.A. and B.A. in Design Fall 2022 Design Courses 2022 Senior Capstones M.A. in Design focused on Health View M.A. Curriculum MA in Design Student Directory Design in Health Advisory Council M.F.A. in Design View M.F.A. Curriculum MFA in Design Student Directory Rob Roy Kelly Collection (The RRK) Laptop Requirement for Design Students Center for Integrated Design Frequently Asked Questions Center for Integrated Design Partners Industry Relations Jobs & Internships Career Resources Diversity & Inclusion Networking 101 Creative Entrepreneurship Design Institute for Health Showcase For Students Undergraduate Academic Advisors Undergraduate Degree Resources Undergraduate Advising FAQs Enroll in Major-Restricted Courses Industry Relations Jobs & Internships Career Resources Diversity & Inclusion Networking 101 Creative Entrepreneurship Fine Arts Career Services Student Organizations Faculty Directory Extended Education Executive and Extended Education (SDCTx) About Design Thinking Design Thinking Resources Think Before You Design Think (TBYDT) Sponsored Design Studio SDCTx Summer Design Camps Apply Calendar Make a Gift People Join our Email list SUBSCRIBE About People Welcome Message From Doreen Lorenzo Maps, Location & Parking Events News History Facilities Support Connect Industry Partners Response to Student Demands Admissions Freshman Admissions Transfer Admissions General Undergraduate Admissions Questions Graduate Admissions Tuition & Scholarships Plan a Visit Faculty and Staff Directory Contact Admissions Academics & Programs Department of Arts and Entertainment Technologies Department of Design Center for Integrated Design Industry Relations Creative Entrepreneurship Design Institute for Health Showcase For Students Undergraduate Academic Advisors Undergraduate Degree Resources Undergraduate Advising FAQs Enroll in Major-Restricted Courses Industry Relations Creative Entrepreneurship Fine Arts Career Services Student Organizations Faculty Directory Extended Education Executive and Extended Education (SDCTx) About Design Thinking Think Before You Design Think (TBYDT) Sponsored Design Studio SDCTx Summer Design Camps Apply Calendar Make a Gift People Contact Us School of Design and Creative Technologies 2301 Trinity St. Austin, TX 78712 512-471-5446 Follow Us Make a Gift Copyright 2022 The University of Texas at Austin College of Fine Arts Emergency Information Site Policies Web Privacy Web Accessibility PDF downloads require Adobe Reader