Skip to Main Content Brown University School of Engineering Brown-RISD Master of Arts in Design Engineering Search Menu Site Navigation Home The MADE Experience Program Studios Trajectories People Apply FAQ Search School of Engineering Brown-RISD Master of Arts in Design Engineering Program Schedule Sub Navigation In This Section Studios Trajectories Program Schedule Format The Brown RISD Masters of Art in Design Engineering (MADE) Program is designed as an intensive, 11-month residential experience. This program begins in July and lasts through May of the following year. Applications are due January 19th. Cohorts are limited to 18 students. The program’s curriculum is based on the experiential pedagogy of studio courses, enhanced with electives offered by Brown and RISD. MADE is unique in that students experience the culture and utilize the resources of both institutions. Focus The goal of this program is to enable competent, humble, and effective action by graduates. This means working across disciplinary and ideological boundaries, accepting the validity of multiple perspectives; starting with design and engineering, and moving forward to a fuller integration of people, places, and perspectives. 2021-22 Calendar July 5 Commence Measure and Make August 27 Complete Measure and Make September 8 Commence Fall Semester December 17 Complete Fall Semester January 3 Commence Winter Session January 19 Commence Spring Semester February 11 Complete Winter Session May 15 Complete Spring Semester May 29 Commencement Course Structure Summer Fall Winter Spring Measure and Make Studio Iterate with Intention Studio Communication Course . Implementation Studio No Electives 2 Electives No Electives 2 Electives Partners Visit Page Open details for Partners Trajectories Students will define their own pathways through the program. Here are some examples of what's possible. Visit Page Open details for Trajectories Skills Visit Page Open details for Skills Studios Visit Page Open details for Studios Brown University School of Engineering made@brown.edu Rhode Island School of Design Division of Architecture + Design Quick Navigation Contact Us Sign Up Footer Navigation Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home The MADE Experience Program Studios Trajectories People Apply FAQ This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Program Schedule Open details for Program Schedule Bookmark this Page