Skip to Main Content Brown University School of Engineering Brown-RISD Master of Arts in Design Engineering Search Menu Site Navigation Home The MADE Experience Program Studios Trajectories People Apply FAQ Search School of Engineering Brown-RISD Master of Arts in Design Engineering Studios Breadcrumb Home Program Schedule Sub Navigation In This Section Studios Trajectories Studios MADE Studio courses emphasize design thinking, iteration and collaboration. Each studio emphasizes skillsets relevant to a design trajectory and features mentoring relationships with Brown and RISD faculty members. Summer Studio: Measure and Make Introductory Studio: How to Measure, Make Meaning of, and Implement Almost Anything We practice our process - observing, understanding, changing, testing, and iterating. Along the way we learn about measuring, making, and each other. We also plan your trajectory through the program, identifying areas of interest and choosing electives. 6 week duration Fall Semester: Collaborate and Iterate Studio: Engaging Challenge / Engagingly Challenged We work on a sequence of three projects that engage partner organizations. As we move through the projects, groups become increasingly independent in their problem setting and solution finding. Our summer’s work informs our process. 14 week duration Winter Session: Identify and Engage Studio: Identifying and Engaging Different Audiences We take on the challenge of creating materials to communicate our products and processes in ways that align with diverse audiences. One of the outputs are proposals for spring semester projects. 5 week duration Spring Semester: Integrate and Implement Capstone Studio: Integrate and Implement We execute semester long projects with partner organizations. These projects implement, test, and refine ideas, with the goals of creating value for the partner and compelling portfolio elements for members of the cohort. 14 week duration RISD Course Catalog Brown Course Catalog Brown University School of Engineering made@brown.edu Rhode Island School of Design Division of Architecture + Design Quick Navigation Contact Us Sign Up Footer Navigation Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home The MADE Experience Program Studios Trajectories People Apply FAQ This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Studios Open details for Studios Bookmark this Page