Skip to Main Content Brown University School of Engineering Brown-RISD Master of Arts in Design Engineering Search Menu Site Navigation Home The MADE Experience Program Studios Trajectories People Apply FAQ Search School of Engineering Brown-RISD Master of Arts in Design Engineering The MADE Experience Student Projects MADE draws on the talents of its students and the institutions it brings together to create great things. Learn More The MADE Experience Design Engineering “Everyone designs who devises courses of action aimed at changing the current situation to a preferred one.” - Herbert Simon The faculty and students of the MADE program bring backgrounds in design and engineering. These combinations of vision with pragmatism, qualitative with quantitative, and users with tech, multiply our ability to assess conditions, envision alternatives, and produce effective solutions. Our work responds to practical challenges with creativity, analytical reasoning, research skills, and collaboration. World Class Institutions The MADE program takes full advantage of our unique combined structure, engaging the excellent faculties and up-to-date facilities of both the Rhode Island School of Design and Brown University. Whether it’s taking an elective that deepens your understanding of a particular field or collaborating with students from other degree programs, MADE's joint institutional nature provides a rich environment for growth. MADE Community The MADE program limits the cohort size (18) to facilitate frequent and substantial interactions between faculty and students, and to develop a strong cohort identity. Students have close mentoring relationships with advisors and receive individual attention planning a program path that aligns elective choices and skill development with personal objectives. Where Will You Learn? The MADE program inhabits two types of space: Studio Space — a dynamic space, easily configured for individual and group work, formal presentations, and program events. Our “home” space is ready to reflect the personality of each cohort. Shop Space — a maker space, shared with the RISD and Brown community, for building prototypes and professional relationships, and for expanding skills using a range of tools and techniques. Brown School of Engineering The Brown School of Engineering houses resources for the entire campus including cleanrooms, core research facilities, and high tech research labs. RISD Museum Our collection currently contains more than 100,000 works of art and design dating from ancient times to today including paintings, sculpture, decorative arts, costume and textiles, and furniture from all over the world. The RISD Museum provides free access to digital images of public domain materials in the collection for any purpose. Brown Design Workshop The Brown Design Workshop is a student-run makerspace which aims to make the practices of design and creation more collaborative, open, flexible and accessible. RISD Nature Lab The Nature Lab furthers RISD’s hands-on approach to learning by enabling students to investigate ethical, sustainable modes of making informed by natural systems and designed to benefit the environment. Student Life Providence, Rhode Island A combined Brown & RISD program draws on the complementary strengths of Brown University and Rhode Island School of Design (RISD) to provide students with the opportunity to explore and engage with diverse spheres of academic and creative inquiry. The campuses neighbor each other on College Hill among brick quadrangles, scenic greens, repurposed centuries-old structures, state-of-the-art laboratories and world-class libraries. All of this is located within the heart of Rhode Island’s vibrant capital city, known for its restaurants, innovative arts scene, youthful energy and quaintness. Organizations and Activities Student organizations allow individuals and groups the opportunity to engage with new people sharing common interests. Brown and RISD support 500+ active, recognized student organizations ranging from intramural sports to video games and a cappella. See a list of Graduate student groups on the Brown Graduate Student Council page and a complete list of RISD student groups on RISD Involved. More Resources Brown and RISD are committed to providing resources that support training, research, professional development and student life for all students. On the Graduate Student Resources page, you can see myriad resources organized by academics, health & wellness, and the graduate student experience . If you have specific student support concerns or questions, you can also contact Student Support Services or the Graduate School's Associate Dean of Student Support. See also the Code of Student Conduct. Student Projects MADE draws on the talents of its students and the institutions it brings together to create great things. Learn More Brown University School of Engineering made@brown.edu Rhode Island School of Design Division of Architecture + Design Quick Navigation Contact Us Sign Up Footer Navigation Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home The MADE Experience Program Studios Trajectories People Apply FAQ This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search The MADE Experience Open details for The MADE Experience Bookmark this Page