Skip to main content College of Design Menu Close About About From the Dean Faculty and Staff Directory Diversity Facilities Rankings History of the College Contact Us Initiative for Community Growth and Development Academics Academics Architecture Art + Design Design Studies Graphic Design Industrial Design Landscape Architecture and Environmental Planning Doctor of Design Ph.D. in Design Admissions Admissions Undergraduate Programs Masters Programs Doctoral Programs Graduate Certificates Schedule a Tour Research Research Office of Research, Engagement and Extension BETlab Building Systems Integration Coastal Dynamics Design Lab Experience Design Lab Health Centered Design Lab Mixed Reality Lab Natural Learning Initiative Public Interest Design RED Lab Visual Narrative Initiative Student Enrichment Student Enrichment Design Lab for K-12 Education Student Organizations IT Resources Career Resources Study Abroad The Student Publication Design + Build First Year Experience Sponsored Studios Art2Wear Get Involved Get Involved Alumni and Friends Receptions Leaders Council Leaders Council Members College of Design Awards Designlife Award Gala Support the College Support the College Ways to Give Celebrating the Think and Do the Extraordinary Campaign Leaders Council Contact the Development Team Resources Resources Students Advisors Alumni News and Events News and Events Student Work Events Lectures and Educational Programs Designlife Magazine Newsletter Signup Awards and Recognition Venice Biennale Exhibition + Award Contact the Communications Team Give Now About About About From the Dean Faculty and Staff Directory Diversity Facilities Rankings History of the College Contact Us Initiative for Community Growth and Development Academics Academics Academics Architecture Art + Design Design Studies Graphic Design Industrial Design Landscape Architecture and Environmental Planning Doctor of Design Ph.D. in Design Admissions Admissions Admissions Undergraduate Programs Masters Programs Doctoral Programs Graduate Certificates Schedule a Tour Research Research Research Office of Research, Engagement and Extension BETlab Building Systems Integration Coastal Dynamics Design Lab Experience Design Lab Health Centered Design Lab Mixed Reality Lab Natural Learning Initiative Public Interest Design RED Lab Visual Narrative Initiative Student Enrichment Student Enrichment Student Enrichment Design Lab for K-12 Education Student Organizations IT Resources Career Resources Study Abroad The Student Publication Design + Build First Year Experience Sponsored Studios Art2Wear Get Involved Get Involved Get Involved Alumni and Friends Receptions Leaders Council Leaders Council Members College of Design Awards Designlife Award Gala Support the College Support the College Support the College Ways to Give Celebrating the Think and Do the Extraordinary Campaign Leaders Council Contact the Development Team Resources Resources Resources Students Advisors Alumni News and Events News and Events News and Events Student Work Events Lectures and Educational Programs Designlife Magazine Newsletter Signup Awards and Recognition Venice Biennale Exhibition + Award Contact the Communications Team Give Now Filter By All Academics Faculty Architecture Art + Design Design Studies Doctor of Design Graphic Design Industrial Design Landscape Architecture and Environmental Planning PhD in Design Emeritus Faculty Offices Administration Admissions and Student Services Development and External Relations Communications Finance IT K-12 Design Lab Library Materials Lab Research and Extension Study Abroad Research Building Energy Technology Lab Coastal Dynamics Design Lab Experience Design Lab Natural Learning Initiative Research and Extension Research in Ergonomics and Design Lab Visual Narrative Cluster Menu All Academics– Faculty – Architecture – Art + Design – Design Studies – Doctor of Design – Graphic Design – Industrial Design – Landscape Architecture and Environmental Planning – PhD in Design – Emeritus Faculty Offices– Administration – Admissions and Student Services – Development and External Relations – Communications – Finance – IT – K-12 Design Lab – Library – Materials Lab – Research and Extension – Study Abroad Research– Building Energy Technology Lab – Coastal Dynamics Design Lab – Experience Design Lab – Natural Learning Initiative – Research and Extension – Research in Ergonomics and Design Lab – Visual Narrative Cluster Margret Kentgens-Craig, Ph.D. MK Professor of the Practice 919-515-8350 mkentge@ncsu.edu View CV Bio Dr. Kentgens-Craig first came to the United States on a teaching grant and spent a year at the North Carolina State University Department of Foreign Languages and Literatures. She later returned as a lecturer at both NCSU and Duke University. After working for the NC Department of Cultural Resources’ public art program she served as head of the Bauhaus Dessau Foundation’s Department of Museum, Collection, and Archive and joined the faculty at the Magdeburg-Stendal University of Applied Sciences, Department of Engineering and Industrial Design. Dr. Kentgens-Craig also curated art exhibitions in Germany and North Carolina and served on the NCSU Committee For International Affairs, the Federation of Architecture Collections in Germany, and the German UNESCO Commission. Bibliography (selection) The Bauhaus and America. First Contacts 1919-1936. The MIT-Press: Cambridge, Mass., London 1999, 2001. The Dessau Bauhaus Building 1926-1999 (ed. with Dessau Bauhaus Foundation). Birkhäuser: Basel, Berlin, Boston 1998, 1999. Reception between Fascination and Rejection: The Bauhaus in the USA. In: J. Fiedler (ed.), Social Utopias of the Twenties. Bauhaus, Kibbutz and the Dream of the New Man. Müller + Busmann: Wuppertal 1995. “Nur der Schein trügt nicht”: Josef Albers und die “Homage to the Square” Bilder. In: Josef Albers, Works on Paper. Exhibition catalogue. Wienand: Köln 1998. Transformation einer Idee. In: Bernd Nicolai, Architektur und Exil. Kulturtransfer und architektonische Emigration 1930-50. Porta Alba: Trier 2003. The Bauhaus in America: The modernist émigrés and their influence on American architecture, interiors, and design, 1920-1940. In: Dominic Bradbury (ed.), Essential Modernism. Yale University Press: New Haven, CT, Nov. 2018. Bauhaus reception in the USA. In: The whole world a Bauhaus. Exhibition catalogue. Munich: Hirmer, October 2019 Recent essays: published in Appalachian Journal, Dezeen, and Architectural Record. Area(s) of Expertise Twentieth-century modernism; Bauhaus influence and history in America; Reception theory; Interrelationships of intellectual movements; Art and design pedagogy; Urban housing and sustainability. Groups Academics: Architecture Faculty College of Design Home NC State University College of Design 50 Pullen Rd Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.8302 Campus Map Contact Us Accessibility Accreditation Diversity Academics Facilities All News Stories FY21 Report to the Chancellor Update My Information External Relations Resources Newsletter Signup Support the College Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.