Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation GIVE >> Office of Development Main navigation Home Why Give Reasons to Give Celebrate a Milestone Reunion Leave a Lasting Legacy Honor a Loved One Impact of Giving What to Support All Areas to Support Students Faculty Colleges and Schools International Facilities Athletics Unrestricted Ways to Give About Us About Our Office Who We Are Contact Us Contact Us Action items Give Now Open Search Search Search Breadcrumb Home About Our Office The Office of Development is committed to securing the philanthropic resources that are transforming Georgia Tech. We engage alumni, friends, families, corporations, and foundations in the life of the Institute and encourage financial investment in Tech's future. A Message from Interim Vice President for Development Jim Hall Every day, we here in the Office of Development have the privilege of connecting with alumni and friends of the Georgia Institute of Technology. Every day, we see the difference that they have made on campus, across the state, and around the globe — ever since the Georgia School of Technology opened its doors over 135 years ago. Philanthropy is woven into the fabric of the Institute. As you explore this site, you will read the stories of individuals, foundations, corporations — all of whom have shaped, and will continue to shape, Georgia Tech. Stories of Philanthropy at Work have come in many forms, including named undergraduate scholarships and graduate fellowships, named faculty chairs and professorships, new and enhanced academic and cocurricular programs, new and renovated facilities, and named colleges and schools. At the core of these stories – past, present, and future – is and always will be generous donors and grateful beneficiaries, whose lives and work have been enriched through the advancement of the Institute’s mission, values, and vision, as articulated in the Georgia Tech Strategic Plan. We appreciate each and every one of you who have given of your time and resources to advance the cause of this great institution. And if you are new to this particular philanthropic landscape, we invite you to join us, as part of the Georgia Tech community, in making a difference. Sincerely, Jim Hall Interim Vice President for Development 404.894.8219 jhall@athletics.gatech.edu Jim Hall Who We Are Learn about the groups that make this possible. College & School Representatives From endowed chairs and professorships to undergraduate scholarships, graduate fellowships, and facilities, we invite you to support the college, school, or academic program of your choice. Unit Development Corporate Engagement Building partnerships with the corporate community is a top priority for Georgia Tech. Working together, we grow philanthropy and help companies connect to Tech through research, recruitment, and diversity initiatives. Corporate Engagement Foundation Relations Support from foundations provides vital resources for Georgia Tech strategic initiatives, making it possible for the Institute to advance knowledge across all disciplines. Foundation Relations Gift Planning Gift planning begins with your desire to make a gift. Whether you choose a bequest provision in your will or revocable trust, or a life-income gift, the gift planning team is ready to assist you. Gift Planning Intercollegiate Athletics Athletic excellence has long been a source of pride and passion at Georgia Tech. We want to become one of the elite athletics programs in the nation with the best combination of athletics and academics. Intercollegiate Athletics International Development Georgia Tech's vision of leadership in the 21st century is a global one. Moving international efforts to the next level cannot happen without private philanthropy. International Development Parent Giving Parents play a vital role in the life of Georgia Tech. Through advocacy, volunteering, and philanthropy, they have a unique opportunity to become stakeholders in every Yellow Jacket's future. Parent Giving Regional Development Regional development representatives travel extensively, connecting with alumni and friends and sharing opportunities for supporting Georgia Tech through private philanthropy. Regional Representatives Reunion Giving Each year, milestone reunion classes celebrate through combined philanthropic giving that advances Georgia Tech and enhances opportunities for students – today and for generations to come. Reunion Giving Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education