Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation GIVE >> Office of Development Main navigation Home Why Give Reasons to Give Celebrate a Milestone Reunion Leave a Lasting Legacy Honor a Loved One Impact of Giving What to Support All Areas to Support Students Faculty Colleges and Schools International Facilities Athletics Unrestricted Ways to Give About Us About Our Office Who We Are Contact Us Contact Us Action items Give Now Open Search Search Search Breadcrumb Home Reasons to Give Giving creates a lasting connection with the institute. Here are some meaningful ways to establish that connection. Celebrate a Milestone Reunion Each year the 25th, 40th, and 50th reunion classes celebrate these milestones by giving back – supporting projects that advance the Institute and enhance opportunities for current and future Georgia Tech students. About Reunion Giving Leave a Lasting Legacy Endowments are forever. They are the financial bedrock upon which Georgia Tech has risen to become one of the leading technological research universities in the nation and the world. About Endowments Honor a Loved One Gifts in honor or memory of a loved one, classmate, friend, or faculty member benefit Georgia Tech and serve as a permanent reminder of the impact of the honorees. These gifts may be made by an individual donor or by a group, and may be designated to a specific fund or program. About Memorial Gifts Make a Difference The power of private philanthropy cannot be overstated. Generous, private donors make scholarships, graduate fellowships, faculty chairs, new and existing programs, and state-of-the-art facilities possible. Jean Marie Richardson Builds a Legacy “I believe in investing in people, in the intersection of technology and business, and in Georgia Tech. My intent is to benefit bright students, women athletes, and future Tech entrepreneurs.” Read More. Popes Make it Permanent "Jim Pope’s fellowship program will allow us to attract the best of our faculty and train them in entrepreneurial methodologies and curriculum.” Read More. Joint Faculty Chair a Logical Solution "This is a particularly exciting gift, as it will impact the areas of health and medicine in ISyE and BME, expanding the level of expertise and creating an increased synergy between the two disciplines.” Read More. Read inspiring stories made possible by giving. Philanthropy at Work Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education