Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation GIVE >> Office of Development Main navigation Home Why Give Reasons to Give Celebrate a Milestone Reunion Leave a Lasting Legacy Honor a Loved One Impact of Giving What to Support All Areas to Support Students Faculty Colleges and Schools International Facilities Athletics Unrestricted Ways to Give About Us About Our Office Who We Are Contact Us Contact Us Action items Give Now Open Search Search Search Breadcrumb Home Having an Impact After graduating from Tech, Jean Marie Richardson, MGT 2002, began building an impressive career in the technology field that included a series of leadership positions at Microsoft, Oracle, and Mastercard before she founded iFOLIO, a cloud-based digital marketing platform. In true startup fashion, Richardson started iFOLIO in her basement but soon moved her company into the Atlanta Tech Village as the customer base expanded and the product evolved. Continued expansion recently necessitated a move to Salesforce Tower in Buckhead. “During the pandemic, iFOLIO powered 232 million seconds of engagement for clients with unique digital portfolios delivered to mobile,” Richardson said. As a woman-owned business, “iFOLIO is unique in the tech industry,” Richardson said. “The current ratio of women to men in technology is similar to the ratio of women to men at Georgia Tech when I was a student — although I hear that is changing for the better.” Blazing trails doesn’t intimidate Richardson, who says she is inspired by digital transformation, customer engagement, and personalization. “I believe in investing in people, in the intersection of technology and business, and in Georgia Tech,” she said. Her investment in Georgia Tech is considerable: a seven-figure bequest to benefit women’s athletics scholarships, merit-based scholarships in the Ernest Scheller Jr. College of Business, and support for the Dean’s Innovation Fund in the Scheller College. “My goal is to leave a legacy that builds leaders for the future,” Richardson said. “My intent is to benefit bright students, women athletes, and future Tech entrepreneurs.” Both Richardson and her husband, Harry L. “Hap” Richardson, BIOL 2002, are passionate fans of all Tech sports teams. Through her work with the Alexander Tharpe Fund, however, Richardson became aware of the difference in private philanthropic support for men’s sports. “Women’s sports are often overlooked, while men’s sports get most of the attention,” she said. When Richardson decided to support women’s sports, her “first focus was volleyball, then softball, and then women’s basketball — and then I realized that I wanted to build up all women’s sports.” Her support for the Scheller College is related to her own student experience at Tech as well as her appreciation for everything Scheller offers to students. A President’s Scholarship recipient, Richardson had high academic qualifications and scholarship offers from several top schools. “My journey started in high school when I put together a portfolio to apply to Georgia Tech,” she said. “I was valedictorian, but I’d done my research and discovered that — given the competition — I had a 97% chance of not being accepted to Georgia Tech.” To stand out, Richardson created a visually engaging portfolio and ran through her presentation with friends to prepare for scholarship interviews. Richardson had the drive and academic credentials to succeed here, but said she still benefited from “being part of a cohort through the President’s Scholarship Program. We met together before we officially entered Tech, so I already had friends and a network as a first-year student,” she said. “I want to give back to programs like that.” Likewise, Richardson’s decision to support the Dean’s Innovation Fund was inspired by her interactions with Maryam Alavi, Scheller’s dean and Stephen P. Zelnak Jr. Chair, and her service on the Scheller College Advisory Board. “The Dean’s Innovation Fund has a strong focus on analytics and on the intersection of business and technology, and Scheller is actively bringing thought leadership to campus so that students can hear from and learn about corporations such as Coca-Cola, Facebook, Google, and Accenture, among others,” she said. “When you are involved in programs like this during college, you get a taste of the real world.” As she continues to grow her company, Richardson plans to “expand the jobs that we provide, and I want to hire the best in the world – and some of those are Yellow Jackets.” Her commitment to diversity in hiring is also evident. “Hiring the best means hiring a diverse group of people.” Her Legacy Although she has already achieved a high level of success, Richardson continues to generate goals — for her company and for the future. “The first thing I plan to do is run my business well,” she said. “Then when you get to the point where you start to build wealth, in my mind, a true legacy is what you leave behind.” And she isn’t stopping with the current bequest. “This is a fraction of what I plan to give away in my lifetime, and I want to encourage other Tech alumni to make bold gifts to support the Institute. Much of the innovation in the world is designed at Georgia Tech. This is where the future is being built.” Read more stories that demonstrate the Impact of Giving. Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education