Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation GIVE >> Office of Development Main navigation Home Why Give Reasons to Give Celebrate a Milestone Reunion Leave a Lasting Legacy Honor a Loved One Impact of Giving What to Support All Areas to Support Students Faculty Colleges and Schools International Facilities Athletics Unrestricted Ways to Give About Us About Our Office Who We Are Contact Us Contact Us Action items Give Now Open Search Search Search Breadcrumb Home Areas to Support Today's students, tomorrow's leaders. Philanthropic support for scholarships and fellowships like the one's below makes it possible for Georgia Tech to recruit the brightest, most talented students from around the world. Merit-based Scholarships Each year, Georgia Tech enrolls approximately 40 of the top incoming freshmen as Stamps President's Scholars. Since its inception, Tech's most prestigious scholarship program has sought to identify, invest in, and develop undergraduates who have demonstrated excellence in both leadership and academics. Need-based Scholarships Since 2007 the G. Wayne Clough Georgia Tech Promise Scholarship program has helped hundreds of students from Georgia – qualified, bright young men and women whose families lack the financial resources to attend Georgia Tech. The first program of its kind in the state, Tech Promise is changing lives, one student at a time. Athletic Scholarships Georgia Tech's student-athletes have a proud tradition of excellence, both on the field and in the classroom. Today, Tech is seeking to become one of a handful of universities to fully endow all athletic scholarships. Graduate Fellowships To be competitive with elite graduate programs in the nation, Georgia Tech must be able to offer graduate fellowships that attract the brightest, most promising scholars – enhancing both the prestige of the program and the capacity to attract external research dollars. Co-ops & Internships The Undergraduate Co-op Program complements students' formal education with paid, practical work experience directly related to their academic majors. Gifts and commitments may be directed for general program support and for scholarship support. Study Abroad Scholarships Georgia Tech is committed to enriching students' learning experiences and increasing their competitiveness in the global marketplace. The Institute seeks to significantly increase the number of students served by study and work abroad scholarships. Parent Giving Each year, parents of current Georgia Tech students provide generous philanthropic support to further enhance the lives of every student on campus. The Parents Fund for Student Life and Leadership plays a vital role in promoting student health and safety, community engagement, and campus connectivity. Ready to Give? Contact Us Phil Spessard Associate Vice President for Development Student and Faculty Support 404.385.1418 phil.spessard@dev.gatech.edu What to Support Students Faculty Colleges and Schools International Athletics Facilities Unrestricted Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education