University of Miami | Alumni Connect Your Alumni Connect — the official alumni newsletter of the University of Miami. View in Browser ’Canes 30 Under 30 The University of Miami Alumni Association honors 30 outstanding young alumni for making impressive strides in their professions and their communities. Meet the 2022 honorees, and nominate a young ’Cane, or yourself, for the 2023 30 Under 30. Learn more ’Canes Communities celebrate successful return of two national programs Commencement speakers acclaim resilience of 2022 graduates University’s tech innovations take center stage at eMerge Americas Miller School establishes scholarship to honor legacy of beloved dean College of Engineering to launch digital tech initiative with gift from alumni family Stay hydrated in style this summer with this limited-edition insulated tumbler! A mindful life Trae Williamson, Ph.D. ’20, is president of his family’s car dealership and part-time faculty member at Miami Herbert, giving him scope to illuminate mindfulness in all facets of life. Building and applying litigation skills Katie Phang, J.D. ’00, has built a stellar career as a litigator as well as legal analyst for NBC News. Her new show, “The Choice from MSNBC,” premiered in April 2022. Watch Now 735 That is the number of clinical trials currently enrolling participants across the University of Miami Health System. UHealth conducts more clinical research than any other institution in South Florida as we work tirelessly to find new cures and more effective treatments. Help advance brighter health outcomes for all – make a gift today. May 19 | 5:30 p.m. ET ’Canes Film Showcase The 2022 ’Canes Film Showcase at the Bill Cosford Cinema features a screening of the top films produced by University of Miami students in the Department of Cinematic Arts. Register June 17 | 11 a.m. ET Juneteenth: A Celebration of Freedom The University of Miami Black Alumni Society invites you to celebrate Juneteenth, highlighting the achievements and honoring the impact of Black students and alumni. Join us virtually, along with fellow students, alumni, faculty, and staff, for a campus tour in support of our independence. Register August 15 | Save the date Fall Legacy Welcome Reception Celebrate the start of a new academic year as we welcome new legacy ’Canes - incoming students who are children or grandchildren of University of Miami alumni - to campus. November 4 + 5 | Save the dates Alumni Weekend and Homecoming Mark your calendars now for Alumni Weekend and Homecoming 2022 - and for what promises to be a landmark rivalry game against Florida State as the new era of Hurricane football begins under new head coach Mario Cristobal. Alumni Benefits Make a Gift Upcoming Events ’Cane Biz Directory Update Contact Info/ Submit Class Note This email was sent by: University of Miami Alumni Association Newman Alumni Center, 6200 San Amaro Drive, Suite 200, Coral Gables, FL 33146, United States Unsubscribe | Privacy Policy