Emergency Alert Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Search Tools People Search Course Search Cane Link myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Apply About UM Give to UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap Apply About UM Give to UM Schools Alumni Roadmap Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links News and Events Center People Search Canelink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Search Site Ways to Give Annual Giving Canefunder Endowment Giving Estate and Gift Planning How to Give Why Giving Matters Greatest Need President’s Initiatives Scholarships Schools & Colleges College of Arts and Sciences College of Engineering Frost School of Music Miami Herbert Business School Miller School of Medicine Rosenstiel School School of Architecture School of Communication School of Education School of Law School of Nursing and Health Studies The Graduate School Centers & Units Academic Affairs Alumni Giving Athletics Citizens Board Contemporary and Judaic Studies Corporate & Foundation Relations Ethics Programs Hurricane Club Leonard and Jayne Abess Center Libraries Lowe Art Museum Osher Institute Parent Giving Student Affairs Give to Student Affairs Support a Student Organization Campaign for New Student Housing Give Now Ways to Give Why Give Greatest Need Schools & Colleges Centers & Units Student Affairs Be Recognized Give Now Support Our Students Students are facing new economic hardships as a result of COVID-19. Help them continue their education through increased scholarships and financial supports. Give Now COVID-19 Response Our health care providers are on the frontlines, working to protect the health and safety of our patients and community. Your support helps combat COVID-19. Give Now President’s Initiative Help the University meet immediate and long-term needs. This unrestricted support furthers our mission of transforming lives through education, research, innovation, and service. Give Now CALLING ALL ’CANES Our students and patients are counting on us more than ever. Our work as a research institution has never been more important. As the U mobilizes on all fronts, many of you – our alumni, parents, and friends – have asked how you can help. During this time of uncertainty, your support can help our students rise above the challenge, enhance patient care, and further our mission of transforming lives. Give Now Schools and Colleges Your generosity can help UM achieve some of its key initiatives in the areas of research, intellectual inquiry and scholarship. Direct your gift to a University priority, or to the school, college, department, or area of the University that means the most to you. 52 Centers and Programs Support researchers and physicians across 52 departments, centers, and research institutions on campus to improve and save lives daily. Your generosity can help UM achieve some of its key initiatives in the areas of research, intellectual inquiry and scholarship. Find your Cause Search for a fund or keyword: Give to the U Regardless of how―or how much―you choose to give, your support of the University’s high-priority initiatives is critical to keeping the University of Miami on the fast track to greatness. The generosity of our donors provides the University of Miami with the resources it needs to be one of the world’s most distinguished centers of research, intellectual inquiry, and scholarship. Schools and Colleges Each of the University of Miami’s academic units has general funding initiatives—from student scholarships, to faculty research, to facility upgrades—that need your support today. College of Arts and Sciences › College of Engineering › Frost School of Music › Miami Herbert Business School › Miller School of Medicine › School of Education and Human Development › School of Architecture › School of Communication › Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science › School of Law › School of Nursing and Health Studies › The Graduate School › Centers, Programs, and Other Areas Academic Affairs › Athletics › Campaign for New Student Housing › Citizens Board › Ethics Programs › Hurricane Club › Institute for Advanced Study of the Americas › Leonard and Jayne Abess Center › Libraries › Lowe Art Museum › Miller Center for Contemporary and Judaic Studies › Osher Lifelong Learning Institute › President’s Initiatives › Scholarships › Student Affairs › Student Organizations › Make an Impact Your generosity can help UM achieve some of its key initiatives in the areas of research, intellectual inquiry and scholarship. Check or Cash Giving Endowment Giving Permanent, Quasi, and Term Tribute Giving Donation in honor or memory of someone Community Involvement Holding an Event Securities Stocks and Giving Tangible Giving Personal Property Give To Support UM Your generous gift will go to the area of greatest need The following error(s) must be corrected before continuing: Required $25 $100 $250 $500 Give Thank you for your gift! Gift Amount: University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 UM Network & Tools About UM My UM CaneLink Academic Calendar Alumni Association Employment Opportunities Hurricane Sports Medical Center DAR Resources About DAR Citizens Board Donor Recognition Societies Estate and Gift Planning Matching Gift Company Search Ways to Make a Gift State Nonprofit Disclosures Contact Us Connect Campus Map Parking & Transportation Visit Copyright: 2019 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices