Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation GIVE >> Office of Development Main navigation Home Why Give Reasons to Give Celebrate a Milestone Reunion Leave a Lasting Legacy Honor a Loved One Impact of Giving What to Support All Areas to Support Students Faculty Colleges and Schools International Facilities Athletics Unrestricted Ways to Give About Us About Our Office Who We Are Contact Us Contact Us Action items Give Now Open Search Search Search Breadcrumb Home Areas to Support A world-class faculty is the foundation of a world-class university. There are a number of ways your gifts can strengthen Georgia Tech, from nurturing and rewarding early-career professors to attracting and retaining distinguished senior academic leaders Dean's Chairs Dedicated to the incumbent dean of the respective college, Dean's Chairs enhance the ability to attract and retain leading educators to this senior position of academic administration. Named endowments from $3 million. No longer available. School Chairs Dedicated to the incumbent school chair within a specified school, School Chairs enhance the ability to attract leading educators in this position of academic administration. Named endowments from $3 million. Center Chairs Dedicated to the academic leader of a center or institute, Center Chairs enhance the ability to attract leading educators in this position of academic administration. Named endowments from $3 million. Faculty Chairs The stature of an appointment to an endowed Faculty Chair is perhaps the highest recognition accorded a university faculty member. Chair holders draw talented students to the program, attract junior and senior faculty, stimulate innovative research, and leverage external funding. Named endowments from $2 million. Institute Chairs Institute Chairs are designated by the president where needed campus-wide, and may be reassigned to another college or school when vacated. Named endowments from $2 million. GRA Chairs GRA Chairs/Eminent Scholars are made possible by the Georgia Research Alliance, which provides partial funding in strategic areas of academic endeavor to encourage economic development along with initial startup funds. Named endowments from $750,000. Subject to availability. Professorships Endowed Professorships provide ongoing appointments to attract and retain promising teacher-scholars. Named endowments from $1,000,000. Early-Career Professorships Early-Career Professorships provide term-of-years appointments to attract and retain promising teacher-scholars who are in the early stage of their careers. Named endowments from $500,000. Professorships of the Practice Professorships of the Practice attract eminently qualified leaders who have a distinguished record of professional accomplishment outside of academia, bringing their knowledge and expertise into the classroom. Named endowments from $2,000,000. Ready to Give? Contact Us Phil Spessard Associate Vice President for Development Student and Faculty Support 404.385.1418 phil.spessard@dev.gatech.edu What to Support Students Faculty Colleges and Schools International Athletics Facilities Unrestricted Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education