Skip to content Menu About What We Do Building an R&D Platform Transforming the Landscape Working Globally Who We Are Center Director Center Leadership Team Staff Affiliated Faculty Center Fellows and Senior Fellows History of the Center Equity, Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Investors Events and Employment Opportunities Press and Media Coronavirus Pandemic Separation and Detention of Migrant Children and Families Newsletter Archive Student Opportunities Contact Us Browse the About Section Science Key Concepts An Introduction to Early Childhood Development (ECD 1.0) Introducing ECD 2.0 Brain Architecture Serve and Return Toxic Stress Executive Function & Self-Regulation Resilience Deep Dives The Science of Adult Capabilities Early Childhood Mental Health Lifelong Health Neglect Gene-Environment Interaction Special Topic: COVID-19 National Scientific Council on the Developing Child The JPB Research Network on Toxic Stress Communicating the Science Related Activities Browse the Science Section Innovation & Application Key Concepts IDEAS Impact Framework One-Day Training Building Adult Capabilities Three Principles to Improve Outcomes Our Innovation Approach Guiding Principles Components Frontiers of Innovation IDEAS Impact Framework IDEAS Impact Framework One-Day Training Science x Design: Workshops and Technical Assistance Portfolio Projects Transition to Scalability Innovation in Action Programs by Area of Focus Programs by Name Innovation Clusters Pediatric Innovation Initiative Browse the Innovation & Application Section Collective Change Key Concepts Learning Communities Distributed Leadership Leadership Programs & Initiatives Executive Leadership Program Student Opportunities Science and Innovation Fellowship Learning Communities in Action Communicating the Science Browse the Collective Change Section Resource Library Media Types Briefs Infographics Multimedia Presentations Reports & Working Papers Tools & Guides Topics Adult Capabilities Brain Architecture Executive Function Lifelong Health Mental Health Neglect Play Program Effectiveness Resilience Serve and Return Toxic Stress All Resources Resources in Other Languages Related Content Communicating the Science Partner Resources Selected Publications By Center Director Jack P. Shonkoff Special Topic: COVID-19 Browse the Resource Library Center on the Developing Child at Harvard University homepage ONLINE TOOLKIT Introducing HCDC Pediatrics A brand-new website and suite of products curated specifically by and for pediatricians and pediatric health care professionals. A brand-new website and suite of products curated specifically by and for pediatricians and pediatric health care professionals. Visit the pediatric toolkit PODCAST The Brain Architects: Building Resilience Through Play Resilience is needed now more than ever. One simple, yet often overlooked way of supporting healthy and resilient child development is as old as humanity itself: PLAY. Play contributes to sturdy brain architecture, the foundations of lifelong health, and the building blocks of resilience. Listen to this episode of The Brain Architects podcast to learn how! Listen & Subscribe BRIEF Moving Upstream: Confronting Racism to Open Up Children’s Potential This new brief discusses how racism creates conditions that harm the well-being of children and families, and the need to go "upstream" and create policy solutions to address the source of structural, cultural, and interpersonal racism. Read the Brief MULTIMEDIA How Early Childhood Experiences Affect Lifelong Health and Learning In this animated video, narrated by Center on the Developing Child Director Jack P. Shonkoff, M.D., learn what the latest science tells us about how early experiences affect not only early learning and school readiness, but also lifelong health. Watch Video CALL TO ACTION Re-Envisioning Early Childhood Policy and Practice in a World of Striking Inequality and Uncertainty The early childhood field is at a critical inflection point in a changing world. The opportunity to align new science and the lived experiences of families and decision makers across a diversity of sectors, cultures, and political values offers a powerful pathway forward. The need for shared leadership along that path is urgent. Read the Call to Action Reaching for Breakthroughs with Science-Based Innovation Science Innovation & Application Collective Change The science of early childhood is a source of new ideas that could be used to develop more effective policies & services focused on the early years of life. Browse Key Concepts | Browse Deep Dives Learn more and browse all of Science Using current best practices as a starting point, the Center works with a network of fellow change agents to design, implement, and evaluate innovative, science-based practice models that achieve transformational change for vulnerable children and families. Our Innovation Model | Innovation in Action Learn more about Innovation & Application Innovation does not happen in a vacuum. To bring about lasting, population-level change for children facing adversity, we must foster a movement of collective change. Browse Key Concepts | Learning Communities in Action Learn more about Collective Change Connect With Us Twitter @HarvardCenter We are looking for folks to join our team and support our mission. We currently have 3 full-time positions open: Communications Specialist, Senior Project Manager, Administration and Culture, and Executive Coordinator. Apply at https://t.co/y9Czaaxfwo Follow us on Twitter Subscribe to our mailing list Subscribe to our mailing list to stay up to date on the latest news and events from the Center on the Developing Child. Subscribe to our mailing list Contact us to Join Our Investor Team Contact us regarding Press / Media Inquiries Sign up for Student Opportunities Visit our Resource Library Browse the full list of Center resources. Filter by media type or topic. About the Center What We Do Who We Are Press and Media Investors Events and Employment Opportunities Student Opportunities Contact Us Science Key Concepts Deep Dives National Scientific Council on the Developing Child The JPB Research Network on Toxic Stress Related Activities Innovation & Application Key Concepts Frontiers of Innovation Our Innovation Approach Innovation in Action Collective Change Key Concepts Leadership Development Learning Communities in Action Communicating the Science Resource Library Search Site Map Instagram YouTube Facebook Twitter Privacy Policy | Terms & Conditions © The President and Fellows of Harvard College × Want to use this in your own work?