Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation GIVE >> Office of Development Main navigation Home Why Give Reasons to Give Celebrate a Milestone Reunion Leave a Lasting Legacy Honor a Loved One Impact of Giving What to Support All Areas to Support Students Faculty Colleges and Schools International Facilities Athletics Unrestricted Ways to Give About Us About Our Office Who We Are Contact Us Contact Us Action items Give Now Open Search Search Search Breadcrumb Home Impact of Giving Whether you support qualified students through need-based scholarships, research that leads to life-saving cancer treatments, or the construction of world-class facilities like the G. Wayne Clough Undergraduate Learning Commons, your gift is making a real difference in the lives of real people. Jean Marie Richardson Builds a Legacy “I believe in investing in people, in the intersection of technology and business, and in Georgia Tech. My intent is to benefit bright students, women athletes, and future Tech entrepreneurs.” Popes Make it Permanent "Jim Pope’s fellowship program will allow us to attract the best of our faculty and train them in entrepreneurial methodologies and curriculum.” Scholarship Benefits Black Students Pursuing STEM “When we established the first scholarships, we thought they would capture all qualified candidates — and objectively, they have — but this past year, with the reality of systemic racism so apparent, we wanted to do something more focused.” Joint Faculty Chair a Logical Solution "This is a particularly exciting gift, as it will impact the areas of health and medicine in ISyE and BME, expanding the level of expertise and creating an increased synergy between the two disciplines.” Wallers Support School of Mathematics “Endowed chairs are foundational to building a strong faculty.” Byers Endow Tennis Head Coach Positions “This latest commitment will provide additional annual strategic revenue for both programs to recruit and develop student-athletes who will compete for ACC and national championships.” Scholarship Honors Former Provost’s Vision and Commitment “I think this new scholarship will open some doors, and I hope it will allow more students from Puerto Rico to attend Georgia Tech.” Nease Names Renovated Baseball Complex “To get great players, you need great facilities. A few years ago, the baseball facilities were upgraded, and with Phase 2, our facilities will rival any school in the ACC.” Need-based support to women in computing and engineering “[I want] to give someone else the opportunity that I was given 20 years ago. I think that’s the American dream — not a house and a 30-year mortgage, but getting an education that gives you opportunities to advance and have a great life.” Closing the STEM Gender Gap “We are building a pipeline for women in STEM, and that pipeline starts in academia.” CREATE-ing a Ripple Effect "CREATE-X “is a competitive advantage that will benefit Tech, Georgia, and the nation.” A Lott of Passion & Promise “Knowing that I’m doing something that really changes and improves lives, and to have Coffee kids graduating from Georgia Tech with a degree that, depending on their own initiative and opportunity, can go anywhere and do anything — debt free — that is hugely rewarding to me.” Philanthropy Quarterly Archives Philanthropy Quarterly is a quarterly publication from Georgia Tech’s Development Office that highlights the generosity and commitment of the Institute’s alumni and friends. Winter 2022 Edition View or download the PDF Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education