Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... Admitted Students School of Professional Studies Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Search Search Menu Digital Health Innovation Certificate Build the multidisciplinary framework and network necessary to develop, evaluate and deploy impactful digital health technologies. Sub Navigation In This Section Digital Health Innovation Curriculum Program Schedule Registration & Cost Faculty Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Learn More Digital Health Innovation | Learn More Register for an upcoming webinar or request more information and we'll be in touch. Upcoming Events Request Information Schedule a Call Connect with an Advisor Digital Health Innovation Certificate Build the multidisciplinary framework and network necessary to develop, evaluate and deploy impactful digital health technologies. From mHealth apps and wearables, to blockchain-based electronic health records and social media, new technologies in healthcare are transforming the well-being of communities and populations. We know the path forward to improving health equity, access and outcomes is digital. And the opportunity is enormous. It’s time to look at digital healthcare through different lenses. The complex and fragmented healthcare ecosystem makes innovation hard. Successful design and implementation demands a deep understanding of the healthcare landscape from a multitude of perspectives. Innovation is made easier by bringing minds together. That’s where we come in. An actionable approach to digital health innovation. Brown University’s online Digital Health Innovation Certificate convenes top faculty and practitioners from our renowned School of Public Health, School of Engineering, and the Warren Alpert School of Medicine with healthcare professionals, engineers, researchers, regulators, and entrepreneurs to improve healthcare delivery through technology. You will learn new skills and build the network necessary to conceptualize an idea that solves a current health challenge. Through the interdisciplinary curriculum, you will gain a comprehensive understanding of the process needed to go from idea-to-impact. Register Today Request More Information Schedule a Call Certificate Snapshot Fully Online Self-paced, asynchronous format Includes a weekly, one hour synchronous meeting with faculty and peers 6 Months Fall & Spring Start Time Commitment: Four, 6-week courses. 7 hours/week $ 10,000 For Full Certificate See Registration & Cost for more details By the end of the 4-course online certificate, you’ll learn how to: Analyze the current digital health landscape within the private, public and nonprofit sectors to identify opportunities and barriers within the space Apply user-centered design thinking practices to create high-quality, inclusive, and user-friendly products Identify relevant innovation funding sources to start your business design Evaluate digital health products using evidence-based research for safe, effective, ethical, and equitable use Optimize outcomes for scalable deployment and broader adoption, including pursuit of suitable regulatory pathways in the United States Develop a commercialization or implementation plan that meets high clinical, technical, ethical, regulatory, and inclusivity standards "This program is ground-breaking. The interdisciplinary curriculum, world-class faculty, flexible learning model, and hands-on capstone experience ensures all participants graduate with the skills, frameworks, and analytical tools they need to successfully implement a digital health innovation as an entrepreneur or within their organization. For those in any industry looking to lead healthcare into the future, this program is for you.” Megan Ranney MD, MPH, FACEP Academic Dean, Brown School of Public Health Founding Director, Brown-Lifespan Center for Digital Health Certificate Benefits Advance your career without interrupting it. Our flexible learning experience works into your busy schedule by combining interactive, self-paced online modules with one, 1-hour synchronous virtual class per week to consult with faculty and peers. Break into the health tech industry with new emerging career opportunities in digital health strategy, digital health equity, project management, or health informatics. Connect with internationally renowned Brown faculty and thought leaders to gain insights into the remarkable possibilities available to you in the digital healthcare space. Collaborate with the Brown-Lifespan Center for Digital Health, an incubator for practical research, fusing the individual innovation efforts of entrepreneurs, academicians, and clinicians into potentially life-changing technology for patients and providers. Build community with other professionals in the digital space, from tech organizations and entrepreneurs to those in healthcare in order to collaborate and share ideas and best practices. Create your own innovation implementation plan and pitch solutions for healthcare challenges that impact you or your organization. Increase your earning potential. A Forbes report indicates that graduate certificate holders can expect an estimated 13–25% salary increase. Earn Brown University credentials for each completed class and a certificate upon program completion that carries the Ivy League reputation of academic excellence. Participant Profile Healthcare professionals, including physicians, counselors, nurses, technicians, and administrators who seek a leading role in shaping the future of care Industry leaders, like software developers, engineers, technologists, pharmaceutical and insurance professionals, amongst others who work within organizations that develop, manage, or have a direct interaction with healthcare-related products such as wearables, apps, and durable medical device equipment Government and public health officials at the federal, state, and local level who work within a regulatory capacity, oversee social healthcare programs, or have an interest in solving healthcare inequities Entrepreneurs & Intrapreneurs interested in developing new business ventures in healthcare technology Play 1 of 2 Digital Health Innovation Certificate | Program Overview Play 2 of 2 Digital Health Innovation Certificate | CCP Learn More Digital Health Innovation | Learn More Register for an upcoming webinar or request more information and we'll be in touch. Upcoming Events Request Information Schedule a Call Connect with an Advisor Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7901 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation Privacy Policy Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Professional Studies Brown University For You Admitted Students Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication | Live Online Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Teaching Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Resources For... This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Digital Health Innovation Certificate Open details for Digital Health Innovation Certificate Bookmark this Page