retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content MENU TwitterFind us on Twitter Search Search About Compliance & Ethics at UT UCS Staff Hotline Policy Training Training Library Training FAQs Ethics Department of Investigation and Adjudication Department of Investigation and Adjudication Department of Investigation and Adjudication dia@austin.utexas.edu | 512-471-3701 File a Complaint Welcome to DIA The University of Texas at Austin is committed to advancing a diverse, equitable, and supportive campus culture. As part of that commitment, the university created the Department of Investigation and Adjudication (DIA) to investigate allegations of discrimination, harassment, and other prohibited conduct. These claims can involve students, faculty, staff, contractors, applicants, visitors, and other members of the university community. As a neutral investigator, DIA supports the university in fostering a campus environment that is inclusive, respectful, and free from discrimination and harassment. Mission Statement To support the university’s compliance with applicable laws and policies and promote equal opportunity within the workplace and academic environment by providing a centralized, impartial process to: INVESTIGATE — thoroughly and with integrity — claims of discrimination or harassment based on protected categories such as race or gender, and complaints alleging unwelcome sexual conduct, retaliation, or other prohibited conduct; and ADJUDICATE — through fair and efficient live hearings — allegations of sexual assault, interpersonal violence, stalking, and sexual harassment. DIA's Process Learn more about DIA's investigative process. DIA's Purview The University of Texas at Austin is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer and Title IX institution that complies with all applicable federal and state laws. To ensure compliance, DIA investigates alleged violations of the following policies in the university’s Handbook of Operating Procedures (HOP): HOP 3-1022 — Protection from Retaliation for Suspected Misconduct Reporting (Whistleblower) HOP 3-3010 — Disability Accommodation for Applicants and Employees HOP 3-3020 — Nondiscrimination Policy HOP 3-3031 — Prohibition of Sexual Assault, Interpersonal Violence, Stalking, Sexual Harassment, and Sex Discrimination HOP 3-3050— Consensual Relationships HOP 5-1260 — Employment of Close Relatives (Nepotism) HOP 5-4310 — Family and Medical Leave These policies protect you from discrimination or harassment based on race, color, religion, national origin, sex, pregnancy, age, disability, citizenship, veteran status, genetic information, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression. They also protect you from retaliation for reporting a suspected policy violation or participating in an investigation. You have the right to file a complaint with DIA to raise concerns about discrimination, harassment, or retaliation at The University of Texas at Austin. Reporting requirement under Texas Senate Bill 212: Any faculty or staff member who learns of an incident involving sexual assault, sexual harassment, dating violence, or stalking committed by or against a student or employee must report it to the university’s Title IX coordinator. File a Complaint Any person may report what they believe to be an act of discrimination, harassment, or retaliation at The University of Texas at Austin. File a Complaint Online DIA Annual Report Read our Annual Report for a comprehensive look at DIA's accomplishments over the last fiscal year. View Annual Report Contact DIA For questions about the complaint process or more information about the university’s policies prohibiting discrimination, harassment, and retaliation, email or call DIA. Phone: 512-471-3701 Send DIA an Email About Us See a list of DIA staff. (EID required to view contact information.) Meet the Team Additional Resources The Title IX Office maintains a comprehensive list of university resources available to students and employees. Campus Resources 1616 Guadalupe St. UTA 2.206 Austin, Texas 78701-1204 Phone: 512-232-7055 Fax: 512-232-3722 Email: compliance@austin.utexas.edu TwitterFind us on Twitter Footer menu Behavior Concerns and COVID-19 Advice Line (BCCAL) University Police (UTPD) Legal Affairs Human Resources Protect Texas Together - Information and resources related to Covid-19 UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022