Home Contact Search Harvard Medical School Accessibility Search form Search Home Calendar Who We Are About Staff Directions/Map Contact Research Converge Awards Dean’s Community Service Award Diversity Awards Equity, Social Justice, and Advocacy Award Excellence in Mentoring Awards Exceptional Institutional Service Awards Program Award for Culture of Excellence in Mentoring HMS Offices Clinical and Academic Affairs Faculty Affairs Human Resources Recruitment and Multicultural Affairs Ombuds Office Postdoctoral Fellows Office for Academic and Research Integrity Affiliates Hospital Affiliates Institutions Diversity and Faculty Development Offices Harvard University Harvard University Faculty Development and Diversity Office for Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging Harvard International Office University Disabilities Services Harvard School of Public Health Harvard School of Public Health Diversity and Inclusion Harvard School of Dental Medicine Harvard School of Dental Medicine Diversity Inclusion Affinity Groups Asian Pacific American Medical Student Association (APAMSA) Association of Harvard Asian and Asian American Faculty and Staff Association of Harvard Latinx Faculty and Staff Harvard Gender and Sexuality Caucus Harvard Foundation for Intercultural and Race Relations Harvard University Association of Black Faculty, Administrators, and Fellows LGBTQ and Allies at Harvard Medical School (LAHMS) Harvard University Native American Program HMS/HSDM Joint Committee on the Status of Women South Asian Medical and Dental Association (SAMDA) Get Involved DICP Mission The mission of the Office for Diversity Inclusion and Community Partnership (DICP) is to advance diversity inclusion in health, biomedical, behavioral, and STEM fields that builds individual and institutional capacity to achieve excellence, foster innovation, and ensure equity in health locally, nationally, and globally. NOTE: Due to ongoing concerns posed by coronavirus (COVID-19), the Office for Diversity Inclusion & Community Partnership has moved its operations offsite until further notice. We will continue to provide our services to the community using telephonic and other remote communications technology. Spotlight The Unfinished Business of Creating a More Just Society | Message from President Larry Bacow Racism in any form is unacceptable | Message from Dean George Q Daley President Bacow announces the annual Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Commemorative Lecture at Harvard University. PulseWave 2 Report Resources on Health Disparities and COVID-19 Perspectives of Change | online historical exhibit More Resources Welcome DICP Programs Community Engagement & Education Middle School High School Programs Resources | Getting into College Teachers Contact College Project Success Summer Clinical and Translational Research Program Howard Hughes Medical Institute Exceptional Research Opportunities Program (HHMI EXROP) at Harvard Medical School New England Science Symposium Skills Workshops Resources | Getting into College Medical and Graduate Visiting Clerkship Program Harvard Affiliated Residency Programs Showcase Visiting Research Internship Program New England Science Symposium Resources | Applying to Residency Programs Postdoc and Fellow The Dean’s Postdoctoral Fellowship Joseph L. Henry Oral Health Fellowship in Minority Health Policy The Commonwealth Fund Fellowship in Minority Health Policy at Harvard University California Endowment Scholars in Health Policy at Harvard University Visiting Resident Program Yerby Postdoctoral Fellowship Program New England Science Symposium Faculty Faculty Fellowships Leadership and Career Development Awards Related Links LGBT LGBT Advisory Committee LGBT Announcements LGBT Events LGBT News LGBT COVID-19 LGBT Research & Publications Groups for the LGBT Community Resources Restrooms Mentoring Announcements & Upcoming Events Council of Mentors CHADD Mentoring Course Mentoring and Promotion Mentoring Awards for Faculty Mentoring Awards for Programs Mentor Training Mentoring Resources Mentoring in the Academy Research within DICP Converge DICP Events Jun 14 Juneteenth Celebration | Embrace Ideas Festival Day 2 @ HMS: RACIALIZED HEALING Jul 28 Visiting Research Internship Program Closing Ceremony Jul 28 Visiting Research Internship Program Closing Ceremony Aug 28 HMS UiM Trainee & Family BBQ More Events In the News Healthcare industry leaders take a 'dollars and cents' approach to tackling racial disparities in care “The injustice and inequity exists no matter where you look, the data tell us clearly that the playing field is not equal,” Dr. Joan Reede, a Harvard Medical School professor, told a gathering of 40 Black and Latino healthcare leaders at a meeting Monday at the Dimock Center in Roxbury. “And for many, it's worsening.” GBH | May 16, 2022 ‘We’re losing lives.’ Black, Latino leaders tackle racial health disparities “The data tell us clearly that the playing field is not equal and for many it’s worsening,” Reede said. Reede added that all too often the people analyzing the data — and creating policy — do not come from the affected communities. ... Boston Globe | May 16, 2022 Changemakers: Joan Reede, Harvard Medical School’s dean for diversity and community partnership Joan Y. Reede, the pioneering Harvard Medical School professor and its first dean for diversity and community partnership, talks about why she became a physician ... Harvard Equity, Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging | May 5, 2022 Drawing Inspiration André Churchwell celebrates creativity, diverse paths to excellence at annual Howard, Dorsey, Still Lecture and Diversity Awards HMS News | April 27, 2022 Honoring Social Justice Efforts Inaugural HMS awards program recognizes work done to advance equity, justice, advocacy HMS News | December 2, 2021 Celebrating Values in Action New award highlights commitment to equity, social justice, advocacy HMS News | November 23, 2021 More In the News Harvard Medical School MISSION To nurture a diverse, inclusive community dedicated to alleviating suffering and improving health and well-being for all through excellence in teaching and learning, discovery and scholarship, and service and leadership. HMS Community Values Statement Harvard Medical School presents the HMS Community Values Statement, as a reminder of the standards that HMS upholds and strives for. MORE... DIVERSITY STATEMENT Harvard Medical School is committed to convening and nurturing a diverse community of individuals dedicated to promoting excellence and leadership in medicine and science through education, research, clinical care and service. Our unique perspectives, talents, experiences and contributions as HMS students, trainees, faculty, staff and administrators are the foundation and drivers of our excellence. MORE... DICP Connections BSCP The Biomedical Science Careers Program, Inc. provides students of every race, ethnic background, gender and financial status with encouragement, support and guidance needed for the successful pursuit of biomedical science and other science-related careers. Converge: Building Inclusion in the Sciences Through Research gathers, expands, disseminates and utilizes knowledge related to human resource development and human capital in the biomedical, behavioral science and high demand science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) fields. Of particular interest are groups that are traditionally underrepresented in these fields. PFDI The Harvard Catalyst Program for Diversity Inclusion seeks to emphasize the recruitment and retention of a diverse Clinical Translational workforce as a top priority throughout Harvard Catalyst | The Harvard Clinical and Translational Science Center in governance, programming, training and resource allocation. Home Calendar Who We Are Research Awards HMS Offices Affiliates Affinity Groups Get Involved ofis taşıma, istanbul evden eve nakliyat, ev eşyası depolama Copyright © 2022 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College