Home Search Browse Collections My Account About Digital Commons Network™ Skip to main content Journal of Catholic Education Home About FAQ My Account Home > SOE > Catholic Education Follow The Journal of Catholic Education (formerly Catholic Education: A Journal of Inquiry and Practice), is currently managed and edited by the University of Notre Dame and digitally hosted by Loyola Marymount University. We are an open access journal representing Catholic colleges and universities, Catholic education leaders, and scholars from a variety of disciplines who are collectively committed to contributing research and encouraging best practice in Catholic elementary, secondary, and higher education by advancing the field of Catholic educational research. Mission The Journal of Catholic Education is a refereed, open access, online journal that promotes and disseminates scholarship about the purposes, practices, and issues in Catholic education at all levels. Governing Board Boston College Creighton University DePaul University Fordham University Loyola Marymount University Loyola University Chicago Saint Louis University University of Dayton University of Notre Dame University of San Diego University of San Francisco Special Issue Call for Papers: Formation, Recruitment, and Retention of Hispanic Educators in Catholic Schools Key foundations related to Hispanic and Catholic education were established in a 2016 Journal of Catholic Education special issue. To build on this topic we propose a special issue on the "Formation, Recruitment and Retention of Hispanic Educators in Catholic Schools." This special issue would be an extension of the recent report released by Boston College, Cultivating Talent: A Summary of Findings from the National Study: Examining Pathways to Increase the Presence of Hispanic Teachers and Leaders in Catholic Schools. In this report our findings present clearly that Catholic schools in the US are and will be further enriched by the presence and contributions of Hispanic teachers and leaders. As we plan for a stronger future for Catholic education in our country, we must make a renewed commitment to invest and cultivate talent within the Hispanic community. Drawing from diverse voices and institutions, this special issue will challenge stakeholders committed to Catholic education to more deeply examine the formation, recruitment, and retention of Hispanic educators. We are seeking papers related to the formation, recruitment, and/or retention of Hispanic educators in Catholic schools. To be included, please contact special issue editors Hosffman Opsino ( ) and Melodie Wyttenbach ( ) with a brief description of your proposed paper. Final submissions will be requested by June 1, 2022 and will undergo peer review consistent with the Journal of Catholic Education review process. Call for papers: Education in Practice Papers are also continuously requested for the Education in Practice section. See submission guidelines for more information. Current Issue: Volume 24, Issue 2 (2021) Introduction This issue of the Journal of Catholic Education marks a return of the Journal to one of its former institutional homes, the University of Notre Dame. The Journal was originally housed at the University of Dayton (1997-2003), and then moved to Notre Dame (2003-2008) and Boston College (2008-2013) before its most recent host, Loyola Marymount University (2013-2021). The founders of the Journal imagined it rotating its institutional location every five years. Loyola Marymount just completed an eight year term which included a worldwide pandemic and numerous challenging issues in Catholic education. We in the field of Catholic education owe LMU a great debt of gratitude for its leadership during that period, most especially that of Dr. Rebecca Stephenson and Dr. Mary McCullough. Any such transition invites reflection on goals, strategy, and configuration of the Journal. This issue represents a transition point, where accepted articles in the pipeline are published as the new editorial team (including its significant continuity with the prior team) discerns targeted areas of research, the role of special issues and Focus sections, and the place of book reviews. Our primary goal is to promote outstanding research in Catholic education in service to scholars and practitioners in the field. As we reflect on how to best do that, the mission of Catholic education continues, as does the work of scholars supporting that mission. This issue is evidence of that scholarship. We are grateful to the authors of this issue’s research for the work they do, and to our readership that is so committed to the mission of Catholic education in myriad venues all over the world. Articles PDF Achievement Growth in K-8 Catholic Schools Using NWEA Data Julie W. Dallavis, Megan Kuhfeld, Beth Tarasawa, and Stephen Ponisciak PDF Theorizing a Catholic Hispanic-Serving Institution (C-HSI) Identity Through Latinx Theological Lenses of Lo Cotidiano and Traditioning Gina A. Garcia, John DeCostanza Jr, and Jaqueline Romo PDF Cultivating Catholic Classroom Communities During Remote Teaching John L. Beltramo, Krizia Layam, Julia Lucas, and John Schmitt PDF Marianist Educational Associates: Advancing and promoting the mission of Catholic and Marianist Universities Corinne Brion and Allison Leigh PDF As Catholic Schools Become More Diverse, How Should We Prepare New Catholic School Educators for Inclusive Schools? An Analysis of Research on University and Diocesan Teacher Training Rebekka J. Jez, Julie C. Cantillon, Lauren H. Ramers, and Melissa M. Burgess PDF Catholic Education and the Idea of Curriculum Leonardo Franchi and Robert Davis PDF Mission, Faith, and Values - A Study of 94 Voices from Rhode Island Catholic Secondary School Graduates Thomas E. Keefe PDF Applying Rerum Novarum towards the Academic Service-Learning (ASL) Reflection Process for Promoting Ethical Leadership in Post-Secondary Students Henry J. Davis Education in Practice Articles PDF Building Family Partnerships in a Catholic School by Connecting After-School and Home with Mathematics Bilge Cerezci PDF Utilizing Comparative Education as a Platform for Deepening Student Engagement with Catholic Social Teaching: An Exploratory Case Study in Study-Abroad Bryan Meadows Journal Home About This Journal Editorial Board Policies Submission Guidelines Login/Create Account Submit Article Most Popular Papers Receive Email Notices or RSS Special Issues: Special Issue: Inclusion in Catholic Schools COVID-19 and Catholic Schools Special Issue: The Challenges and Opportunities of Including the LGBTQ Community in Catholic Education 20th Anniversary Special Issue Select an issue: All Issues Vol. 24, Iss. 2 Vol. 24, Iss. 1 Vol. 23, Iss. 2 Vol. 23, Iss. 1 Vol. 22, Iss. 3 Vol. 22, Iss. 2 Vol. 22, Iss. 1 Vol. 21, Iss. 2 Vol. 21, Iss. 1 Vol. 20, Iss. 2 Vol. 20, Iss. 1 Vol. 19, Iss. 3 Vol. 19, Iss. 2 Vol. 19, Iss. 1 Vol. 18, Iss. 2 Vol. 18, Iss. 1 Vol. 17, Iss. 2 Vol. 17, Iss. 1 Vol. 16, Iss. 2 Vol. 16, Iss. 1 Vol. 15, Iss. 2 Vol. 15, Iss. 1 Vol. 14, Iss. 4 Vol. 14, Iss. 3 Vol. 14, Iss. 2 Vol. 14, Iss. 1 Vol. 13, Iss. 4 Vol. 13, Iss. 3 Vol. 13, Iss. 2 Vol. 13, Iss. 1 Vol. 12, Iss. 4 Vol. 12, Iss. 3 Vol. 12, Iss. 2 Vol. 12, Iss. 1 Vol. 11, Iss. 4 Vol. 11, Iss. 3 Vol. 11, Iss. 2 Vol. 11, Iss. 1 Vol. 10, Iss. 4 Vol. 10, Iss. 3 Vol. 10, Iss. 2 Vol. 10, Iss. 1 Vol. 9, Iss. 4 Vol. 9, Iss. 3 Vol. 9, Iss. 2 Vol. 9, Iss. 1 Vol. 8, Iss. 4 Vol. 8, Iss. 3 Vol. 8, Iss. 2 Vol. 8, Iss. 1 Vol. 7, Iss. 4 Vol. 7, Iss. 3 Vol. 7, Iss. 2 Vol. 7, Iss. 1 Vol. 6, Iss. 4 Vol. 6, Iss. 3 Vol. 6, Iss. 2 Vol. 6, Iss. 1 Vol. 5, Iss. 4 Vol. 5, Iss. 3 Vol. 5, Iss. 2 Vol. 5, Iss. 1 Vol. 4, Iss. 4 Vol. 4, Iss. 3 Vol. 4, Iss. 2 Vol. 4, Iss. 1 Vol. 3, Iss. 4 Vol. 3, Iss. 3 Vol. 3, Iss. 2 Vol. 3, Iss. 1 Vol. 2, Iss. 4 Vol. 2, Iss. 3 Vol. 2, Iss. 2 Vol. 2, Iss. 1 Vol. 1, Iss. 4 Vol. 1, Iss. 3 Vol. 1, Iss. 2 Vol. 1, Iss. 1 Search Enter search terms: Select context to search: in this journal in this repository across all repositories Advanced Search ISSN: 2373-8170 Tweets by @CatholicEdJrnl Digital Commons Home | About | FAQ | My Account | Accessibility Statement Privacy Copyright Loyola Marymount University | Los Angeles