Search for: Events Case Studies Media Library About Mission, Vision & History Annual Reports Digital Excellence Program Expertise Enterprise Transformation Technology & Innovation Digital Business Models Trust, Security & Privacy Digital Society MBA Enrichment MBA Fellows Program MBA Associates Program Britt Technology Impact Series Tech@Tuck People MBA Fellows MBA Associates Alumni MBA Fellows Core Team Blog TuckSHIFT About Mission, Vision & History Annual Reports Digital Excellence Program Expertise Enterprise Transformation Technology & Innovation Digital Business Models Trust, Security & Privacy Digital Society MBA Enrichment MBA Fellows Program MBA Associates Program Britt Technology Impact Series Tech@Tuck People MBA Fellows MBA Associates Alumni MBA Fellows Core Team Blog TuckSHIFT Events Case Studies Media Library Search for: digital strategies. competitive advantage. Explore Our Areas of Expertise: Enterprise Transformation Technology & Innovation Digital Business Models Trust, Security & Privacy Digital Society Features Playbook: Brand Marketing for Mobile Games Recent changes by mobile platforms and changing customer demands greatly impact performance marketing, forcing gaming companies to develop brand marketing capabilities. What lessons can mobile game developers learn from AAA game studios to be more effective at building brand? Read More Growth, Strategic Partnerships, and Social Media with ByteDance ByteDance, parent of TikTok, has grown incredibly quickly in the U.S. Much of its success can be attributed to a divergent strategy on content and content partnerships. Learn how the company builds strategic partnerships to grow the social platform. Watch Fireside Chat with Eric Ly, Co-Founder, LinkedIn LinkedIn co-founder, Eric Ly, shares shares his thoughts on disinformation and social media, trust, and technology, as well as his own career path through talent solutions. Watch Mission The Glassmeyer/McNamee Center for Digital Strategies (CDS) at the Tuck School of Business helps leaders better understand the impact of digital technologies on business strategy, enabling them to ask the right questions when faced with critical decisions. We craft learning opportunities and nurture diverse communities of thought leaders to grow understanding of the complexities of modern organizations and their relation to employees, ecosystems, markets, and society. Read More Vision The Center aspires to influence the development of leaders who understand the widespread impact of all elements of digital business on people’s lives, and the implications for the future. It is a prominent hub of curated digital strategies knowledge for students, executives, alumni, and academics. It also provides thought leadership and encourages critical analysis of the status quo understanding of digital strategies for the Tuck community. Our People: A Diverse Group of Amazing Thinkers Core Team VIEW ALL Carolyn Catomeris Assistant Director view bio Alumni MBA Fellows VIEW ALL Sprague Brodie T’14 Web Direct GTM Lead Stripe view bio MBA Fellows VIEW ALL Eva Grant T’22 view bio MBA Associates VIEW ALL Nicholas Lovinger T’23 view bio CDS Blog VIEW ALL BLOG POSTS Introducing Our T’23 MBA Fellows CDS Associates Explore: NFTs and the Creator Economy Meet the New CDS Associates Meet Our Fellows: Alexander Becker T’21 centerdigital Glassmeyer/McNamee Center for Digital Strategies Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College. All Rights Reserved. Join Us Newsletter Signup About Mission, Vision & History Annual Reports Expertise Enterprise Transformation Digital Business Models Technology & Innovation Trust, Security & Privacy Digital Society MBA Enrichment MBA Fellows Program MBA Associates Britt Technology Impact Series Tech@Tuck People MBA Associates MBA Fellows Alumni MBA Fellows Core Team Tuck SHIFT Conference | September 23-24, 2021 test Blog Events Case Studies Media Library Contact Us Search for: