Welcome Welcome Digital Arts @ Dartmouth Digital art sits at the intersection of computation, art, and society. The Digital Arts program sits in the Computer Science Department and it intersects with studio art, film, theater, engineering, music. Students from all possible majors take digital arts courses (COSC 20-29/120-129). Some go on to minor in digital arts or complete one of the graduate opportunities in CS with a concentration in Digital Arts. Undergraduate The Computer Science Department houses a minor in Digital Arts in collaboration with Film Studies, Psychological and Brain Sciences, Studio Art, Music and Theater. The Digital Arts Minor is designed to allow students from multiple departments an opportunity to bring their talents and skills into the digital arts realm. Use the Links below to learn more about the specifics of our Minor. The Minor Projects Outing with the MS-DA students to pick apples and get maple creamies! Graduate Program MS in Computer Science with a Concentration in Digital Arts. The intersection of art and technology is a quickly growing area with tremendous room for innovation and creativity. The Digital Arts MS program at Dartmouth offers students a strong foundation in computer science in order to provide a set of tools that can be used towards the creation of digital arts or for the design and development of new tools to better understand or make art. Ours is a small and selective program aimed at students who want a deep dive into computer science, while furthering their arts practice. We cover a wide range of topics within computer science, including: HCI, computer graphics, computer modeling and animation, computational photography, UI/UX design, AR/VR, data visualization, digital music, computational fabrication and 3D printing. All students in this program complete a mix of courses and research. 4 + 1 Program for current Dartmouth students Link 2 year program Link Our alumni work in tech firms, design firms, the film industry, and game design. Some choose to pursue a PhD after completing their MS Degree. Application Deadline December 15th Learn More Apply Here Alumni Story Dan Garcia ‘09 I remember having a blast doing speed modeling contests in the Sudikoff lab and spending late nights there working on projects. That's when I realized I wanted to do computer graphics for a living, so the Digital Arts program at Dartmouth started me on my path to Pixar. At Pixar, most of my time has been in the Global Technology department working on tech and pipeline unique to each movie. Most of what I do is not directly visible in the final images, but some is including a procedural which grows peach fuzz on surfaces (first used on Toy Story 4), optimizing the giant towers in Coco's Land of the Dead, and the volumetric deformation of crowds on Soul. Recently I've been in the Dailies and Rendering department as a technical point person for sequences of the film, running reviews and developing creative solutions to technical hurdles. It's amazing the breadth of possibilities available in the world of computer graphics since everything you see has to be essentially created from scratch. Combined with the ever evolving technology and magical storytelling there's never a dull moment! Below is an image from Coco that I had the pleasure of working on… ©Disney/Pixar. Image of Coco Towers (Dan Garcia) Faculty Lorie Loeb Director, Digital Arts. Research Professor, CS/Design James Mahoney Lecturer, CS Patricia Hannaway Lecturer, CS Michael Casey Professor, Digital Music/CS Wojciech Jarosz Associate Professor, CS/Visual Computing Bo Zhu Assistant Professor, CS/Visual Computing Affiliated Faculty Karolina Kawiaka (Studio Art/Architecture) Jodi Mack (Film and Media Studies/Animation) Mary Flanagan (Film and Media Studies/Tiltfactor) Dan Kotlowitz (Theater) Christine Seely (Studio Art/Photography) Zenovia Toloudi (Studio Art/Architecture) The DALI Lab Digital Applied Learning and Innovation Where students design & build mobile applications, websites, virtual & augmented reality, digital installations, and more. Our Mission DALI’s mission is to elevate learning through the transformative process of building digital solutions from discovery to impact. We challenge ourselves to care for each other, the craft we are learning, the problems we are solving, the reality we live in, and the future we envision. Join DALI Let us help you explore some of the possibilities you can have with a career in Digital Arts. Explore Alumni Story Dan Garcia ‘09 I remember having a blast doing speed modeling contests in the Sudikoff lab and spending late nights there working on projects. That's when I realized I wanted to do computer graphics for a living, so the Digital Arts program at Dartmouth started me on my path to Pixar. At Pixar, most of my time has been in the Global Technology department working on tech and pipeline unique to each movie. Most of what I do is not directly visible in the final images, but some is including a procedural which grows peach fuzz on surfaces (first used on Toy Story 4), optimizing the giant towers in Coco's Land of the Dead, and the volumetric deformation of crowds on Soul. Recently I've been in the Dailies and Rendering department as a technical point person for sequences of the film, running reviews and developing creative solutions to technical hurdles. It's amazing the breadth of possibilities available in the world of computer graphics since everything you see has to be essentially created from scratch. Combined with the ever evolving technology and magical storytelling there's never a dull moment! Below is an image from Coco that I had the pleasure of working on… Back to Top