× By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Toggle navigation Information for you: Skip to main content Prospective Students Admitted Students COVID-19 Preparedness For the Media International Apply Now Contact Admissions Give Now Search for: SEARCH Toggle navigation Main Menu Academics Academics J.D. Residential JDinteractive: Online J.D. Program Master of Laws (LL.M.) in American Law Centers & Institutes Experiential Courses, Clinics, & Externships Advocacy Training Academic Journals Course Descriptions Academic & Bar Support Registrar Events & Initiatives Calendars & Schedules Academic Handbook Admissions Admissions J.D. Admissions JDinteractive: Online J.D. Program Transfer & Visiting Students Online J.D./M.B.A. Program LL.M. Admissions & Program Information S.J.D. Admissions & Program Information Two-Year J.D. Program for Foreign Law Graduates Diversity & Inclusion Office of International Programs Visit Syracuse University College of Law Admitted Students Veterans & Servicemembers Fast Facts ABA Required Disclosures Contact Admissions Financial Aid Financial Aid Types of Aid Cost of Attendance How to Apply for Financial Aid Financial Aid Policies & Resources Loan Repayment Financial Awareness for Law Students Contact Us Student Affairs Student Affairs Academic Success Accommodations & Accessibility Diversity & Inclusion Mentoring in Action Student Bar Association Student Organizations Forms Our Staff Student Service Request Form Exam Information Deans & Faculty Deans & Faculty Deans Faculty, Emeriti, and Instructors Career Services Career Services Statistics & ABA Employment Summaries Class of 2022 Graduate Employment Survey Students Employers Alumni Reciprocity Career Services Staff Law Library Law Library About the Library Collections Student Services Faculty Services Alumni & Visitor Services Diversity & Inclusion Diversity & Inclusion Alumni Alumni & Friends Dean’s Dispatch Newsletter Syracuse Law Magazine Law Alumni Weekend Alumni Events Syracuse Law Honors Awards College of Law Alumni of Color Awards Alumni Leadership Giving Back & Volunteering Class Notes ‘Cuse Community: The Alumni Directory Contact Us Celebrating Black History Month 2022 Celebrating Hispanic Heritage Month Make a gift Click for Details Read Now Read Joseph’s Story Apply Today Learn More News In the News Commentary COVID-19 Research Diversity & Inclusion Alumni Class Notes Syracuse University College of Law Adds Terence Lau L’98 to its Board of Advisors Syracuse University College of Law has added Dean of the College of Business at California State University, Chico, Terence Lau L’98 to its Board of Advisors, effective September 1, 2022. × Terence Lau L'98 Close College of Law Hosts Inaugural Consortium Summer Residency Program in Partnership with AUC HBCUs Vice Dean Keith Bybee Speaks with the Law Student Podcast on the SCOTUS Leak View all College of Law News Vice Dean Keith Bybee Speaks with the Law Student Podcast on the SCOTUS Leak Vice Dean Keith Bybee, Paul E. and Hon. Joanne F. Alper ’72 Judiciary Studies Professor, recently discussed the leak of the draft Roe decision with the Law Student Podcast. College of Law Professor Gregory Germain Discusses Tax Implications in the LeClairRyan Bankruptcy Proceedings College of Law Faculty Weigh in on Leaked Roe v. Wade Opinion View all College of Law In the News Professor Paula Johnson writes “It’s time to replace ‘replacement theory'" As a start, I call for a replacement to replacement theory. Replace it with knowledge, education, and equitable economic, legal and political systems. More» Vice Adm. Robert B. Murrett (Ret.) writes “The current fight and lasting implications of the war in Ukraine” at The Hill Distinguished Visiting Lecturer David Cay Johnston writes "How the Prosecution of Donald Trump can Continue" View all College of Law Commentary Professor David Driesen Speaks with CNY Central on the New York State Mask Mandate for Schools University Professor David Driesen recently spoke with CNY Central on governmental power issues surrounding New York State’s mask mandate for schools. Professor Nina Kohn Discusses “Why the Future of Legal Ed is Online” with prelaw Magazine Professor Nina Kohn Reacts to Big Law Firms Join Nursing Homes, Hospitals in Fight Over Liability for COVID-19 Deaths View all College of Law COVID-19 Recording Available of Professor Shubha Ghosh’s Presentation on how COVID and Other Crises Shape Innovation Crandall Melvin Professor of Law Shubha Ghosh recently spoke at the Conference on Innovation and Communication Law, held May 19 and 20 at the Danube University, Krems, Austria. Ghosh spoke on “Crisis, Invention, and Innovation” in relation to COVID and other crises. The audio of his presentation is here. Professor Cora True-Frost G’01, L’01 Awarded Fulbright to European Center of Excellence for Research on European Tribunals Professor Shubha Ghosh Invited to Present on how COVID and Other Crises Shape Innovation View all College of Law Research College of Law Hosts Inaugural Consortium Summer Residency Program in Partnership with AUC HBCUs The College of Law held its Inaugural Consortium Summer Residency Program on May 16-20, 2022. Disability Law Fellow Nana Gochiashvili LL.M. '22 Awarded Fellowship at Jindal Global Law School in Delhi, India Professor Paula Johnson writes “It’s time to replace ‘replacement theory'" View all College of Law Diversity & Inclusion Constantino joins Barclay Damon LLP View all Alumni Class Notes Apply Now Schedule a Visit Fast Facts Register for Orange Edge Preparing for Law SchoolApply Now Raising the Bar Applying to law school can be a stressful undertaking. We thought it would be helpful to provide a handy guide with all of this information in our eBook, Raising the Bar: Preparing For Law School. Word Document Mobile Alumni Spotlight Adom Cooper L'12 Learn about the risks and rewards of Adom’s impressive, growing national security career. Faculty Spotlight Mary C. Szto Teaching Professor Before entering teaching, Professor Szto practiced law in New York City, representing banks in financing matters. She also co-founded a legal aid organization specializing in immigration law. Among other schools, she has previously taught at Mitchell Hamline School of Law, and Valparaiso University School of Law. Szto has written extensively on issues such as the role of real estate agents… Dineen Hall Virtual Reality TourApply Now To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video Our College Step Inside Dineen Hall Contact Us Welcome to... Syracuse University College of Law Dineen Hall 950 Irving Avenue Syracuse, NY 13244-6070 Map Facebook youtube twitter linkedin instagram News & Events Request a Transcript Event Scheduling and Room Request Fast Facts SU Home SU Bookstore SU Athletics Accessible Syracuse General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Information For: Prospective Students Admitted Students Current Students Alumni & Friends Media ©2022 All rights reserved.