Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Dining Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Menus Nutrition Allergies/Special Diets Sustainability Events JJ's Catering Dining Plans About Us Dining Halls Ferris Booth Commons JJ's Place John Jay Dining Hall Columbia Dining @ Faculty House Retail Locations Blue Java Café - Butler Library Blue Java Café/Café 212 - Lerner Hall Blue Java Café - Mudd Hall Blue Java Café - Uris Hall Lenfest Café Chef Mike's Sub Shop All Events Dining Plan Details & Comparison About Our Dining Plans First-Year Dining Plans Upperclass, GS, and Graduate Student Dining Plans Select a Plan Select/Review a First-Year Plan Select an Upperclass, GS or Graduate Student Plan Change Plan (January 12-27) Change Your Plan Flex Food Delivery with Flex FAQ About Us Our Pledge Food Nutrition People Sustainability Caring for Our Community Food Insecurity Community Outreach Media Video Library Staff Directory News Columbia Dining You are here: Home About Us About Us Our Pledge People People Our culinary team, including our Chefs and Managers, have all received formal education and training in the culinary arts from respected institutions. Continuous learning opportunities are also an important component of our organization. Each year Columbia Dining arranges for culinary training for all kitchen staff on campus. This ranges from basic knife skills to intensive cuisine training. In 2019, the team took on-the-job learning to a whole new level when it hosted Master Chef James Hanyzeski and Chef Sam Hazen from the esteemed Culinary Institute of America (CIA). Over the course of just three days, Chefs James and Sam led Dining staff in a cooking intensive of Chinese, Japanese, Korean, and Thai cuisines. The goal of the education session was not only to provide a continued learning opportunity for the Dining staff, but to uphold a commitment to the student community. This training enables Columbia chefs to prepare authentic dishes that give some of our students the taste of home – and a more delicious meal for all. See more photos from the training. COLUMBIA DINING PLANS Select a Plan Great food. Great service. Great people. Learn more about our plans and sign-up today. If you are a first-year student at Columbia College or SEAS, choose First-Year Plans below. If you are an Upperclass student at Columbia College or SEAS, a General Studies student, or a graduate student, choose Upperclass Plans below. First-Year Plans Upperclass Plans 212-854-4076 [email protected] Columbia Dining Main Office515 West 114th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-4076 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close