Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Admin Site Banner Dartmouth Dining Contact Us Dartmouth.Dining@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Hours & Locations Spring Term Dining Locations & Schedule Dining Safety Protocol Back to Top Nav Menu Dining Plans Dining Plan Options Dining Plan Management Employee & Graduate Student Dining Plans 1st Year Dining Back to Top Nav Inclusive Dining Nutritional Information Kosher & Halal Dining Food Allergies & Restrictions About Food Allergies & Dietary Needs Allergies & Food Safety 101 Allergen & Menu Symbols FAQ's Food Allergies Food Allergy Resources Testimonials Vegan & Vegetarian Dining Submit a Recipe Back to Top Nav Events Get Text Updates Dartmouth Birthdays Yearly Calendar Past Events Back to Top Nav Employment Dining Employment Student Employment Back to Top Nav About Overview Certifications and Awards 2022 Isolation & Quarantine Dining Info Share Your Feedback Initiatives Community Engagement Faculty Lunch Program Sustainability Green2Go Heroes Among Us Policies People Recent News Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Update From Dining Please be aware that due to staffing shortages, which vary by the day, Dining may have to alter or curtail various food stations within our properties, often without advanced notice. We will continue to work hard to offer all of our program's features to the best of our abilities, and hope to return to a complete offering at all venues very soon. For the latest information on events, promotions and happens, as well as any program changes, text the word "scoop" to 55744 on your mobile device and join those in the know with the Scoop. We love serving you, and appreciate your kindness during these times. For More Information on the Scoop Video of 2022 Website Banner Here for you We are committed to offering students a wide variety of food options, and a variety of dining plans to meet their needs. Learn More Here for you We are committed to offering students a wide variety of food options, and a variety of dining plans to meet their needs. Learn More Pancake Night! Need some comfort food before your final exams? Join us for a late-night pancake breakfast at '53 Commons! Click through to see more of what Dining has to offer! Sushi at Collis Café! We are now offering freshly made sushi at Collis Café from 11am 'til 8pm, Monday through Friday. Stop in and see us! Click through to see more of what Dining has to offer! The Fern Come visit our new unique sustainable café located in the Irving Institute, featuring a new coffee & tea bar. We offer grain bowls, smoothies, bubble tea, organic breads, King Arthur pastries and more! Click through to see more of what Dining has to offer! Dining Safety Protocol Dartmouth Dining works hard to ensure the safety of our guests and our staff who serve them - It is our #1 priority. During these challenging times, please do your part and observe these rules for the wellbeing of the community. Click here to learn more. Join Our Team! We are always looking for people to join our team as cooks, food service associates, dishwashers, storeroom helpers, and more. We have a few full-time positions open and lots of part-time options available, too. Learn about how to apply for current openings here. Click through to see more of what Dining has to offer! PreviousNext Spring Term Dining Hours Everything you need to know about Spring Term Dining hours & locations! Isolation & Quarantine Dining Info Dartmouth Dining is committed to providing meals for students living in college housing, who are quarantining or isolating in their room, or at designated properties on campus. Dining Safety Protocol Dartmouth Dining works hard to ensure the safety of our guests and our staff who serve them - It is our #1 priority. During these challenging times, please do your part and observe these rules for the wellbeing of the community. Learn more! Upcoming Events w/ Dining Curious about what's happening here at Dining? Check out our Yearly Events calendar to be sure you're don't miss any future fun happening on campus throughout the semester!learn more Beat the lines at '53 Commons! Curious what the lines are like at '53 Commons? Check out our Cookie-O-Meter for live traffic updates by clicking here now! Sign up for the Scoop! Join the Scoop by texting "Scoop" to 55744 and get exclusive information on dining happenings, promotions, and giveaways!learn more Regional Food Partners Our menus are filled with organically grown fruits and vegetables, grass-fed beef, delicious cheeses, breads, and other farm-based foods provided by our local and regional partners. Learn more! Dietary Concerns? We work with students to address a wide variety of dietary requirements every day. If you have a food allergy or other dietary concerns, please contact Beth Rosenberger.learn more A Thank You from the Dick's House Nurses This wonderful note was delivered to us by the Nursing Staff at the Student Infirmary. We feel the love! Quicklinks Dining plan options Use Get Funds to Track Spending Today's Menu Food Allergies Quicklinks Join the Scoop Events Submit a recipe Meet the People of Dartmouth Dining Dartmouth Birthday's events view all Jun 02 10:00PM Pancake Night! '53 Commons Join us for a late-night pancake breakfast at '53 Commons! Main menu Dartmouth College Dartmouth Dining Hours & Locations Spring Term Dining Locations & Schedule Dining Safety Protocol Menu Dining Plans Dining Plan Options Dining Plan Management Employee & Graduate Student Dining Plans 1st Year Dining Inclusive Dining Nutritional Information Kosher & Halal Dining Food Allergies & Restrictions About Food Allergies & Dietary Needs Allergies & Food Safety 101 Allergen & Menu Symbols FAQ's Food Allergies Food Allergy Resources Testimonials Vegan & Vegetarian Dining Submit a Recipe Events Get Text Updates Dartmouth Birthdays Yearly Calendar Past Events Employment Dining Employment Student Employment About Overview Certifications and Awards 2022 Isolation & Quarantine Dining Info Share Your Feedback Initiatives Community Engagement Faculty Lunch Program Sustainability Green2Go Heroes Among Us Policies People Recent News Ribbon Footer People Director of Dartmouth Dining Services Jon Plodzik Jon.K.Plodzik@Dartmouth.edu 603-646-2022 Registered Dietitian for Nutritional Issues Elizabeth Rosenberger Elizabeth.A.Rosenberger@Dartmouth.EDU 603-646-1740 Find Us Address Class of 1953 Commons 6 Massachusetts Row Dartmouth College Hanover, NH 03755Come find us! Phone: 603-646-2271 HB: HB 6172 Email: Dartmouth.Dining@Dartmouth.edu More Contact Information Close Contact Us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback