Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU Dining myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Locations & Hours Select to follow link Hours of Operation Locations Campus GrubHub Dining Plans & Rates Select to follow link Dining Plans Terms & Important Dates Catering Nutrition & Allergens Select to follow link Nutrition Procedures Accommodations by Location Location Contact Information NetNutrition Additional Information Work With Us About Us Select to follow link Meet the Team Contact KU Dining COVID-19 Updates Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU Dining Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home KU Dining Partners Don't Go Hungry! Add The University of Kansas to your GrubHub app and open up endless dining possibilities; both on, and off campus! Your account can be directly linked to your meal plan giving you the ultimate flexibility in dining using your Dining Dollars. Why use your GrubHub App? Simple It's a quick & easy way to order and pay for your on/off-campus food from any mobile device. Time Instead of waiting in long lines at on-campus restaurants, order ahead through the app. Pay Easy payment with your Dining Dollars! Skip the Line! GrubHub campus pick-up is offered widely across our campus locations! Download the App! How to use Grubhub Campus Dining 1. Download the App on your mobile device. 2. Set-up your Grubhub account 3. In the settings menu, select Campus Dining and choose The University of Kansas 4. Add your KU ID number to directly link your meal plan to your Grubhub orders. 5. You're all set! Kick your feet back, and await your order. Enjoy! How does it work? $500 is automatically loaded onto your GrubHub account each semester through your KU ID. You can use these dollars both on, and off campus! Strong Hall 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 785-864-2700 facebook instagram twitter Dining Plans Catering Services Work With Us Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.