Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University University Dining Services Main Menu In this section Hours Locations Meal Plans Employment Nutrition Catering About Us Our TeamWe couldn't do it without them Vision and ProgramsMore than food service University Dining Services Meal Plans Meal Plans No Fees. Just Food. Our meal plans are among some of the most flexible in the nation. They allow you - the customer - to decide where, when and how often you want to eat. With no overhead or administrative fees, every dollar you spend on your meal plan goes towards food. Meal Plan RatesFor the 2021-2022 Academic Year Platinum Contracted Meal Plan $2,275 per semester $136 average weekly spending $340 maximum rollover Gold | Pete's Pick Contracted Meal Plan $2,005 per semester $120 average weekly spending $300 maximum rollover Silver Contracted Meal Plan $1,755 per semester $105 average weekly spending $265 maximum rollover Bronze* Contracted Meal Plan $1,550 per semester $93 average weekly spending $230 maximum rollover Copper Contracted Meal Plan $1,180 per semester $71 average weekly spending $175 maximum rollover Plan G Non-Contracted Meal Plan $100 Dining Dollar increments *Bronze is the minimum required meal plan for freshmen living on campus How to Use Your Meal Plan Your meal plan is loaded onto your student ID one week before classes begin. OSU meal plans work on a declining-balance system - think of it like a debit card. Each time you swipe your student ID, the exact amount you see at the cash register is deducted from your meal plan. There are no weekly spending limits - you can spend as much or as little as you want, whenever you want. Visit any of the 30 dining locations on campus Order what you want Swipe your Student ID and see the exact dollar amount deducted from your balance Check your remaining balance at the bottom of your receipt Dig in! CheckYour Meal Plan Balance To check your balance, log in with your OKEY credentials Benefits of Your Meal Plan Access Your meal plan gives you easy, à-la-carte access to all 30 campus dining concepts. Financial Literacy Practice managing a budget while using your meal plan on campus. Nutrition Your meal plan ensures you have access to adequate nutrition while in college. Frequently Asked Questions How do I sign up for a meal plan? You will select your meal plan level through the portal when you sign up for housing. Which meal plan should I pick? There is no right or wrong meal plan level. Freshmen must choose Bronze at a minimum, but you may select all the way up to Platinum. Think about how much you plan to eat on campus. Will you eat three meals a day, seven days a week on campus? Do you usually eat breakfast? Do you like to have a few snacks throughout the day? All of these are good questions to consider when selecting a meal plan. I picked a plan that is too high/too low - can I change it? Absolutely. You may make changes to your contracted meal plan through the first week of classes without penalty. Visit the meal plan office in 301 Student Union or email dining@okstate.edu. All changes must be in writing. Where can I use my meal plan? You can spend your meal plan anywhere you can buy food or drink on campus, excluding vending machines. Your meal plan is also valid at the athletic venues to purchase non-alcoholic concessions. Can I use my meal plan off campus? Although you can't spend your meal plan off campus, we have 30 dining locations across campus to choose from. Click here to explore your options. Do I get a separate card for my meal plan? Nope! Your meal plan is loaded on your Student ID one week before classes begin each semester. How many meals do I get per week? With our flexible meal plans, there are no weekly minimums or maximums. All of our dining concepts are à la carte, meaning you can spend as much or as little as you want, whenever you want. Can my parents see my meal plan balance? Due to the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, parents cannot access meal plan information without a signed FERPA on file. This process is completed through the Office of the Registrar. Where can I check my meal plan balance? You can easily check your meal plan balance at the bottom of every receipt you receive at our dining concepts. You may also check your balance here. Can I add more money to my meal plan if I run out? Yes! You can add increments of $100 to your meal plan at any time. Can I get my money back if I don't use it all? Each contracted meal plan has a "maximum rollover" amount. This is the maximum amount that will transfer to the next semester as long as you maintain a valid meal plan contract. Any remaining funds exceeding the maximum rollover amount will be forfeited. See the meal plan rates above to find the maximum rollover for your meal plan level. I joined Greek Life - can I get out of my meal plan? Freshmen members of Greek Life who do not live in a Greek house will be required to maintain a meal plan at the Bronze level or higher. If you are moving into a Greek house at the beginning of the academic year, you may cancel your meal plan without penalty. You may cancel your meal plan for a fee of $150 if you are moving into a Greek house in the spring semester. I joined Greek Life - can I still have a small meal plan? Of course! If you'd still like to maintain a small meal plan for use on campus, consider a non-contract Plan G meal plan. This meal plan works in increments of $100 and the money never expires. Have a question we didn't answer? Contact us! dining@okstate.edu | 405-744-4920 Important Meal Plan Dates For the 2021-2022 Academic Year June 11, 2021 | Last day to change plan without penalty (Summer) August 16, 2021 - May 6, 2022 | Meal plans active August 20, 2021 | Last day to change plan without penalty (Fall) January 14, 2022 | Last day to change plan without penalty (Spring) June 10, 2022 | Last day to change plan without penalty (Summer) More Information Meal Plan Policy Terms of Agreement University Dining Services COVID-19 Updates Back To Top Back To Top University Dining Services Part of theDivision of Student Affairs University Dining Services 076 Student Union Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 (map) (405) 744-4424 | dining@okstate.edu Follow US EventsWork for Us Instagram Facebook Twitter Oklahoma State University Campus & Parking MapsAll OSU InstitutionsCareers @ OSUHire OSU Grads© Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks MENUCLOSE ©