Skip To Main Content Iowa State University Dining Search the website Open Search Box Facebook Instagram Twitter Open Mobile Menu Facebook Instagram Twitter Search the website Open Search Box Meal Plans & Rates A fresh meal is just around the corner! Our meal plans are designed for your busy life. Our more than 20 locations all over campus make it easy to find a fresh, homemade meal when you need it. Whether you live in the halls or an apartment, we have a meal plan to fit your lifestyle. So go ahead, focus on class (and fun), we have the rest covered! Ready to make your selection? Click here. Want to read our meal plan brochure? Click Here First Year Living in a residence hall? Explore our plans designed to help you make the most out of your on-campus experience. Breakfast, lunch, dinner with your floor and snacks in between are taken care of with one of our four plans. Click on ‘Residence Halls’ to find the plan for you. Living in an apartment? We know some of you will do your own cooking and others need a bit more! Our apartment meal plans offer large and small options. Whether you need us for every meal, or just a few times a week you can choose one of our convenient meal plans. Guest? All of our locations are open to the public. In our cafés, convenience stores and restaurants, you pay for what you purchase. They’re great locations for snacks, meals, a homemade bakery treat or a cup of The Roasterie coffee. Our dining centers are all-you-care-to-dine. Think of them as your favorite buffet but without the tips or taxes. The pricing below is for people who are not on a meal plan. Students with a meal plan can use their Flex Meals or Dining Dollars to pay for guests. Adult Pricing: Conversations Dining, Seasons Marketplace, Union Drive Marketplace and Friley Windows: Breakfast: $10.80 Lunch and Dinner: $13.90 Children 9 and Under Pricing: Conversations Dining, Seasons Marketplace, Union Drive Marketplace and Friley Windows: Breakfast: $8.60 Lunch and Dinner: $10.20 Meal Plans & Rates FAQS First Year Residence Hall Student Returning Residence Hall Student Apartments & Off-Campus Frederiksen Court Dining Center Meals, Flex Meals, Dining Dollars, & GET & GO Explained Eligibility, Requirements, and Deadlines Usage and Balance Summer Rates Faculty & Staff Plan Close Video Player ISU Dining 212 Beyer Ct 1215 Friley Hall Ames, IA 50012 E. dining@iastate.edu P. 515-294-3856 Copyright © 1995-2022, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non‑discrimination Policy