Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Dining Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Menus Nutrition Allergies/Special Diets Sustainability Events JJ's Catering Dining Plans About Us Dining Halls Ferris Booth Commons JJ's Place John Jay Dining Hall Columbia Dining @ Faculty House Retail Locations Blue Java Café - Butler Library Blue Java Café/Café 212 - Lerner Hall Blue Java Café - Mudd Hall Blue Java Café - Uris Hall Lenfest Café Chef Mike's Sub Shop All Events Dining Plan Details & Comparison About Our Dining Plans First-Year Dining Plans Upperclass, GS, and Graduate Student Dining Plans Select a Plan Select/Review a First-Year Plan Select an Upperclass, GS or Graduate Student Plan Change Plan (January 12-27) Change Your Plan Flex Food Delivery with Flex FAQ About Us Our Pledge Food Nutrition People Sustainability Caring for Our Community Food Insecurity Community Outreach Media Video Library Staff Directory News Columbia Dining You are here: Home Nutrition Nutrition Nutrition Make healthy choices and enjoy wholesome foods at all our campus dining locations Contact Us Services to Help You Stay Healthy The Dining team can address questions and concerns regarding nutrition and dietary needs. There are a number of services available to ensure an easy and satisfying dining experience. Individual Consultations Individual consultations to discuss and assist with concerns including, but not limited to, food allergies and intolerances, vegetarian and vegan diets and weight management. Meal Planning Customized meal planning for students with food allergies and other restrictive dietary needs. Information and Tours Looking for more guidance in the dining hall? Reach out to the Dining team for an individual or group tour with your club, team, or floor. Eat Well Guides You can always find a balanced meal at John Jay, Ferris Booth, and JJ’s Place! Our Eat Well Guides show you where to find daily whole grains, fruits and veggies, lean proteins, and healthy fats to build a beautiful, delicious, and balanced meal! Events & Initiatives Many of Columbia Dining's special events and initiatives have a nutrition focus. Learn more by exploring the featured events below. National Nutrition Month National Nutrition Month is an annual nutrition education campaign sponsored by the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. At John Jay Dining Hall, a National Nutrition Month Dinner is held to showcase available nutrition services, spotlight healthy daily offerings, and encourage physical activity. Food Insecurity Columbia Dining partners with The Food Pantry at Columbia to bring awareness to hunger on campus and provide tools to students experiencing food insecurity. Our Executive Chef and Dining team hold an annual workshop featuring healthy budget conscious recipes and teach students how to stretch their dollars at the grocery store. Learn more about how Columbia Dining’s address food insecurity here. Yogurt Parfait Special Events The Dining team holds monthly tasting events at John Jay focusing on classic recipes with a healthy twist and trending foods. Stay tuned to our Facebook page for dates and details! Eat Healthy, Be Healthy The Dining team can help you learn how to eat healthy at Columbia and beyond campus, by suggesting tips for healthy options and featuring recipes that are good to eat and are good for you. Black Bean Brownies Brain Food Chickpea Veggie Burger Coconut Curry Lentils Fueling Up for a Workout edit video Topics: No results There are no videos with the provided filters. Columbia Dining Main Office515 West 114th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-4076 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close