Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Dining Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Menus Nutrition Allergies/Special Diets Sustainability Events JJ's Catering Dining Plans About Us Dining Halls Ferris Booth Commons JJ's Place John Jay Dining Hall Columbia Dining @ Faculty House Retail Locations Blue Java Café - Butler Library Blue Java Café/Café 212 - Lerner Hall Blue Java Café - Mudd Hall Blue Java Café - Uris Hall Lenfest Café Chef Mike's Sub Shop All Events Dining Plan Details & Comparison About Our Dining Plans First-Year Dining Plans Upperclass, GS, and Graduate Student Dining Plans Select a Plan Select/Review a First-Year Plan Select an Upperclass, GS or Graduate Student Plan Change Plan (January 12-27) Change Your Plan Flex Food Delivery with Flex FAQ About Us Our Pledge Food Nutrition People Sustainability Caring for Our Community Food Insecurity Community Outreach Media Video Library Staff Directory News Columbia Dining You are here: Home Sustainability Sustainability Sustainability Advocates of environmental and resource management Sustainable Columbia Sustainability Plan Sustainable Columbia Columbia Dining is a partner working to help achieve goals set by the University's Sustainability Plan. Learn more about how our efforts are helping to create a more Sustainable Columbia. Sustainable Purchasing Approximately 56% of all food served is purchased from vendors within 250 miles of the Morningside campus. Level 1 Green Restaurant We are Level 1 Green Restaurant Certified, meeting standards across water efficiency, waste reduction and recycling, sustainable goods, energy, reusable and disposable items, and chemical/pollution reduction. Food Waste & Composting John Jay Dining Hall composts 5,652 pounds of organics per day as a part of the DSNY Organic Collection Pilot. We were the first NYC campus to join the program. Our Sustainability Initiatives Sustainable practices drive our purchasing decisions, menu development, and physical operations. We order from local businesses and farms, provide a wide range of daily vegan and vegetarian options and prioritize recycling and reuse. Learn more: Local Purchasing Sustainable Purchasing Approximately 58% of all food served is purchased from vendors within 250 miles of the Morningside campus. Menus of Change Our culinary team has added more plant-based items as a features on our menus, as part of our membership in the Menus of Change University Research Collaborative. Reuse and Recycling Reuse & Recyling 100% post-consumer recycled or compostable materials are used in our dining locations. We make every effort to reduce, reuse, and recycle. Facility Efficiency Facility Efficiency We choose energy efficient equipment and follow processes that help to cut waste, like the InSinkErator that helps reduce food scraps sent to landfill by 85%. Food Waste & Composting Food Waste & Composting We aim to be a 0% waste organization. (We love food too much to waste it.) Sustainable Leaders Network Columbia Dining received a Gold Workspace Certification from Environmental Stewardship. As a member of the Sustainable Leaders Network, we aim to drive behavior change from the ground up. Green Restaurant Certified We are Level 1 Green Restaurant Certified in all of our residential and retail locations. STARS Ratings STARS Ratings Columbia University received a Gold rating from STARS for its sustainability efforts, in which Columbia Dining played a key role. Green Monday Small changes can make a big impact. Choosing a plant-based meal one day a week can lead to carbon, land, and water savings. Columbia Dining Main Office515 West 114th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-4076 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close