Skip to main content Main Menu Hours & Locations Dining Halls Cafes Shops STAMP Kirwan Food Court Golf Course Other Dining Support Services Online Services For Students For the Maryland Community For Visitors Employee Online Services Plans Student Dining Plans Faculty & Staff Dining Plans Calendar Nutrition & More Allergies Menus Sick Meals Catering Sustainability Projects Partners Practices Contact FAQs Leadership Team Student Engagement Team Maryland Dining #FeedTheTurtle Welcome to Maryland Dining! We operate dining halls, cafes, convenience shops, catering, concession stands and a restaurant here on campus. From vegan cuisine to comfort-food, we offer a wide variety of delicious, healthy selections made fresh. Our Values What's New in Dining May 2022 Look for Maryland Dining updates, like specials and events. For answers to specific questions check out FAQs . Updates For Students Get the full Maryland Dining experience during your time on campus! From dining plans to special diets to sick meals, we provide for all your dining needs. Learn more about services for students! For the Maryland Community Maryland Dining strives to provide for the campus community at the table and beyond. From sustainability initiatives to campus experiences, we strive to provide for those around us. Learn more about commitment to community programs and more! For Visitors Experience Maryland Dining when you visit the University of Maryland campus. Whether you’re touring campus, hosting an event or visiting a friend, we want you to get the full Maryland Dining experience during your time with us. Learn more about options for visitors! Info for New Terps Welcome to Maryland! We hope to make your time here as smooth as possible; check out these tips for first-year Terps navigating on-campus dining. Dining Guide Join the Conversation Have a comment or concern about Dining Services? We would love to hear what you're thinking. Let us know here - and while you're there, see what other Terps have to say. Check out the comment wall!. Comments Sustainability Initiatives Maryland Dining makes noteworthy sustainability impacts through a variety of programs. From sustainable sourcing to the Food Recovery Network, we make sustainable efforts every step of the way. Learn more about initiatives and partnerships. view more Dining by the Numbers 60,000 Pounds of food distributed by the Campus Pantry 43,178 Cookies baked at the Maryland Bakery View previous stat View next stat Recipes from Home Have a great family recipe you'd like to see served to your Terrapin? Submit your recipe and check out recipes we've used on campus over the years! Check it Out Before you Go Be sure to check us out on Twitter, Instagram, Facebook, and Discord. Stay connected for the latest updates in dining, including our daily specials and other events across campus! We look forward to seeing you at our table soon! Tweets by UMDdining Hours & Locations Plans Nutrition & More Catering Sustainability Online Services Contact UMD Dining Services 7093 Preinkert Dr, College Park, MD 20740 (301) 314-8069 · umfood@umd.edu Visit our Twitter Visit our Facebook Visit our Instagram UMD.edu Web Accessibility Privacy Notice Back to Top