Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Dining Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Menus Nutrition Allergies/Special Diets Sustainability Events JJ's Catering Dining Plans About Us Dining Halls Ferris Booth Commons JJ's Place John Jay Dining Hall Columbia Dining @ Faculty House Retail Locations Blue Java Café - Butler Library Blue Java Café/Café 212 - Lerner Hall Blue Java Café - Mudd Hall Blue Java Café - Uris Hall Lenfest Café Chef Mike's Sub Shop All Events Dining Plan Details & Comparison About Our Dining Plans First-Year Dining Plans Upperclass, GS, and Graduate Student Dining Plans Select a Plan Select/Review a First-Year Plan Select an Upperclass, GS or Graduate Student Plan Change Plan (January 12-27) Change Your Plan Flex Food Delivery with Flex FAQ About Us Our Pledge Food Nutrition People Sustainability Caring for Our Community Food Insecurity Community Outreach Media Video Library Staff Directory News Columbia Dining You are here: Home Dining Plans Dining Plan Details & Comparison Dining Plans Dining Plans Columbia Dining Plans Designed to provide options and flexibility to eat well at Columbia Select a Plan Now Change Dining Plans We understand the dynamics of student life One day you need to grab a quick bite on the way to class and the next you want to enjoy dinner with friends. We've create a variety of options to allow you to dine according to your lifestyle and schedule. The common thread, of course, is that you will always enjoy fresh, healthy and delicious food served in a welcoming environment. A Plan for Everyone There's a plan to suit almost every need, include 3 plans for First-Year students and 11 plans options for Upperclass students. Required for First-Year Students To help our new students make a smooth and healthy transition to campus living, First-Year students are required to enroll in a Dining Plan. A Great Value for Upperclass, GS, and Graduate Students Dining plans are convenient and a great value for Upperclass, GS, and Graduate students, but are not required. Rosie Fernandez is responsible for managing the selection and changing of Dining Plans. Rosie can answer questions or provide guidance and recommendations based on your individual needs. Use the Contact form to send a question to Rosie by email or call 212-854-4076. Choosing A Plan Signing up for a Dining Plan is easy, but that doesn't mean you should rush through the process. Take a little time to think about your eating habits, your schedule for the upcoming semester, and any special dietary needs you may have so that you make the best choice for you. search icon Review + Compare Review the Dining Plan options to see what's included and to compare various plans. check-square icon Consider Your Needs Think about how you typically work meals into your day. Will you need to eat off-campus often? Do you have special dietary needs? Take notes to refer to during sign-up. wpforms icon Sign Up for a Dining Plan Once you're ready, Click the appropriate button below to begin comparing plans. Dining Plan Highlights Below are key features of all our Dining Plans, providing you with options to match your lifestyle and eating habits. Meals Each plan includes a certain number of meals per week or per term for use at one of our three main dining halls, John Jay Dining Hall, Ferris Booth Commons, and JJ's Place. Dining Dollars and Flex Most plans include Dining Dollars, which can be used at any of our 12 locations on campus, and some include Flex, an account that you can add dollars to and access with your Columbia ID to purchase items from merchants on and off-campus. Special Dietary Needs We work hard to provide options for those with food allergies and other special dietary needs, including a selection of Halal and Kosher meals, and vegan and gluten free alternatives. 24x7 Service No matter what time it is, one of our dining locations is open to serve you, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week (excluding University holidays). Dining Dollars and Flex Dining Dollars and Flex are included in many of our Dining Plans, but did you know you can also purchase Dining Dollars and add money to Flex separately? Here's an overview of Dining Dollars and Flex that explains how they are different and their value to you. If you still have questions, check our FAQs page for everything related to Dining Plans! Who can use it? Dining Dollars Any enrolled Columbia University student. Flex Any enrolled student, faculty, or staff of Columbia University. How does it work? Dining Dollars A dollar-for-dollar, tax-free declining balance account accessed through Columbia University ID card. Flex A dollar-for-dollar declining balance account accessed through Columbia University ID card. Where can I use it? Dining Dollars At all 10 on-campus dining locations. Flex At all 10 on-campus dining locations, as well as at the University Bookstore, campus copy machines, vending machines. Plus Flex can be used to pay for food delivery via Grubhub. Is it required? Dining Dollars No, but it will make your life a lot easier! Flex No, but it will make your life a lot easier! When does it expire? Dining Dollars Upon graduation (it rolls over from year to year). Flex Upon graduation (it rolls over from year to year). Is it tax-free? Dining Dollars Yes Flex No How much does it cost? Dining Dollars It's up to you! Flex It's up to you! How do I get it? Dining Dollars Online at SSOL. Flex Online at SSOL. Which type of student are you? Make a selection below to review Dining Plans designed especially for you. First-Year Student You are beginning your first year at Columbia College or Engineering. Upperclass, General Studies, or Graduate Student You are an upperclass student in Columbia College or Engineering, a General Studies Student, or a Graduate Student. Columbia Dining Main Office515 West 114th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-4076 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close