Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Dining Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Menus Nutrition Allergies/Special Diets Sustainability Events JJ's Catering Dining Plans About Us Dining Halls Ferris Booth Commons JJ's Place John Jay Dining Hall Columbia Dining @ Faculty House Retail Locations Blue Java Café - Butler Library Blue Java Café/Café 212 - Lerner Hall Blue Java Café - Mudd Hall Blue Java Café - Uris Hall Lenfest Café Chef Mike's Sub Shop All Events Dining Plan Details & Comparison About Our Dining Plans First-Year Dining Plans Upperclass, GS, and Graduate Student Dining Plans Select a Plan Select/Review a First-Year Plan Select an Upperclass, GS or Graduate Student Plan Change Plan (January 12-27) Change Your Plan Flex Food Delivery with Flex FAQ About Us Our Pledge Food Nutrition People Sustainability Caring for Our Community Food Insecurity Community Outreach Media Video Library Staff Directory News Columbia Dining You are here: Home Sustainability Sustainable Purchasing Sustainable Purchasing Approximately 58% of all food served is purchased from vendors within 250 miles of the Morningside campus. We work with a New York City Greenmarket and area farms to choose local, fair trade, and organic foods whenever possible. Beverages Milk originates from Battenkill Valley Creamery in Salem, NY. Battenkill Valley Creamery guarantees their dairy products are fresh, local, and all natural and pledge to their customers that they do not use pesticides, insecticides, or artificial growth hormones. Coffee is fair trade, organic, shade grown, bird friendly, and roasted in Brooklyn by the Brooklyn Roasting Company. All Coca-Cola products are manufactured in the Bronx. Fruits and Vegetables Tomatoes are sourced by FreshPoint Connecticut and purchased from local farms such as James Desiderio in Buffalo, NY, Chrisaforo Farms in North Haven, CT, and Beckett Farms in Glastonbury, CT. Both options help to ensure freshness and reduce carbon emissions. FreshPoint partners with the Coalition of Immokalee Workers, a non-profit community-based workers organization that works to improve wages and working conditions for farm workers in the tomato supply chain. Tomatoes are also grown at Old Maid's Farm in South Glastonbury, CT, and used for salsa made by Onofrio’s of New Haven, CT. Apples and fresh apple cider are purchased from local farms located in New York State. Strawberries, grown at Hindinger Farm in Hamden, CT, are used for jam, also made by Onofrio’s of New Haven, CT. Suppliers provide seasonal and locally grown vegetables to the dining halls and retail outlets. Vegetables include green leaf, romaine, and Boston lettuce; cucumbers; red radishes; green, red and white cabbage; leeks; turnips; escarole; red, green, Serrano, jalapeno, and Italian peppers; red beets; carrots; portabella, shiitake, enoki, crimini, and button mushrooms; spaghetti, butternut, yellow, and zucchini squashes; pumpkin; eggplant; collard greens; spinach; red and white potatoes; Swiss chard; green beans; corn; parsnips; sweet onions; and green peas. Bakery and Condiments Bakery goods and grab-and-go sandwiches are purchased from local vendors in New York City’s five boroughs. Honey is purchased from Ballard’s Honey in Roxbury, NY, a Columbia Greenmarket vendor. Meats and Seafood Seafood purchases are determined by the Northeast guidelines of Monterey Bay Aquarium Seafood Watch. Dining buys from the “Best Choices” category, meaning the fish are plentiful and caught or farmed according to sustainability standards. All of our chicken and pork is hormone and antibiotic free and our tofu is GMO-free. COLUMBIA DINING PLANS Select a Plan Great food. Great service. Great people. Learn more about our plans and sign-up today. If you are a first-year student at Columbia College or SEAS, choose First-Year Plans below. If you are an Upperclass student at Columbia College or SEAS, a General Studies student, or a graduate student, choose Upperclass Plans below. First-Year Plans Upperclass Plans 212-854-4076 [email protected] Columbia Dining Main Office515 West 114th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-4076 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close