Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Dining Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Menus Nutrition Allergies/Special Diets Sustainability Events JJ's Catering Dining Plans About Us Dining Halls Ferris Booth Commons JJ's Place John Jay Dining Hall Columbia Dining @ Faculty House Retail Locations Blue Java Café - Butler Library Blue Java Café/Café 212 - Lerner Hall Blue Java Café - Mudd Hall Blue Java Café - Uris Hall Lenfest Café Chef Mike's Sub Shop All Events Dining Plan Details & Comparison About Our Dining Plans First-Year Dining Plans Upperclass, GS, and Graduate Student Dining Plans Select a Plan Select/Review a First-Year Plan Select an Upperclass, GS or Graduate Student Plan Change Plan (January 12-27) Change Your Plan Flex Food Delivery with Flex FAQ About Us Our Pledge Food Nutrition People Sustainability Caring for Our Community Food Insecurity Community Outreach Media Video Library Staff Directory News Columbia Dining You are here: Home About Us Caring for Our Community Community Outreach Community Outreach Student Community We're proud to support the efforts of the Columbia student community and provide donations for student group fundraisers and special events such as the Run for Hunger, CCI Hunger Dinner, the Child Rights Conference, Relay for Life, and various student council fundraising events. Local Community We firmly believe in supporting the community in which Columbia is a part. Our team maintains a strong relationship with Yes Solutions, a local organization dedicated to supporting neighborhood families in need. We also donate surplus fresh fruits and vegetables to neighborhood churches, homeless shelters, and soup kitchens or provide kitchen equipment to neighborhood churches, homeless shelters, and soup kitchens. Harlem Local Vendors Program Columbia Dining is a member of the Harlem Local Vendor Program (HLVP), designed to support Harlem food and product entrepreneurs. The HLVP is a partnership of the Columbia-Harlem Small Business Development Center and Harlem Park to Park. The program includes business education, product consultation, vendor fairs and more. As a result of its involvement with the program, Columbia Dining has purchased products from seven local vendors to carry in its residential and retail locations, including the Por La Gracia De Dios Tres Leches Café, Stylish Spoon, Pabade Bakery's Vegan Muffins, Janie Bakes' Pie Crust Cookies, Kamuni Creek, Clean Plate Co., Casey's Krunch's Granola On The Go, Mojo Desserts, Mama's One Sauce, Mama Margarita Salsa, Harlem Noir Cards, and additional offerings already in the works. Additionally, members of our leadership serves as a program participant and several entrepreneurs from the program. "This cookie is my future." Janie Deegan Janie's Life Changing Baked Goods Janie Deegan is a HLVP participant and a Blue Java Uris featured vendor. Read Janie's story and try the Pie Crust Cookie at Blue Java Uris. 212-854-4076 [email protected] COLUMBIA DINING PLANS Select a Plan Great food. Great service. Great people. Learn more about our plans and sign-up today. If you are a first-year student at Columbia College or SEAS, choose First-Year Plans below. If you are an Upperclass student at Columbia College or SEAS, a General Studies student, or a graduate student, choose Upperclass Plans below. First-Year Plans Upperclass Plans Columbia Dining Main Office515 West 114th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-4076 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close