Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Dining Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Menus Nutrition Allergies/Special Diets Sustainability Events JJ's Catering Dining Plans About Us Dining Halls Ferris Booth Commons JJ's Place John Jay Dining Hall Columbia Dining @ Faculty House Retail Locations Blue Java Café - Butler Library Blue Java Café/Café 212 - Lerner Hall Blue Java Café - Mudd Hall Blue Java Café - Uris Hall Lenfest Café Chef Mike's Sub Shop All Events Dining Plan Details & Comparison About Our Dining Plans First-Year Dining Plans Upperclass, GS, and Graduate Student Dining Plans Select a Plan Select/Review a First-Year Plan Select an Upperclass, GS or Graduate Student Plan Change Plan (January 12-27) Change Your Plan Flex Food Delivery with Flex FAQ About Us Our Pledge Food Nutrition People Sustainability Caring for Our Community Food Insecurity Community Outreach Media Video Library Staff Directory News Columbia Dining You are here: Home About Us About Us Get to Know Columbia Dining Here to make sure every meal we serve to the student community is delicious Submit Your Feedback Contact Us Our Team Yodher Miramendi Yodher joined Columbia Dining in early 2017 as Assistant Manager of JJ's, responsible for the evening shift. He comes with several years of hospitality experience including management of casual and fine dining restaurants in NYC. He also holds a Bachelor's Degree from Fairleigh Dickinson University, located in his current home state of New Jersey. Originally from Peru, Yodher enjoys South American cuisine and hopes to bring some of these new flavors to the JJ's menu. Beyond campus life, he dabbles in interior design and loves to travel. Yodher also loves interacting with people so stop by and say hola! Vicki Dunn Vicki joined Columbia University in 2007. Under her leadership, Columbia Dining has built a solid reputation as a high-quality, customer-oriented department. Vicki’s focus for Dining is providing total customer satisfaction and meeting the needs of the diverse Columbia population. Prior to joining Columbia, Vicki was the Senior Director of Marketing for Sodexo Campus Services. Vicki holds an Associate Degree in Operational Sciences from the Culinary Institute of America in Hyde Park, New York. In her free time, Vicki enjoys baking (brownies are her specialty), reading, and caring for her dogs. Sindia Feliz Sindia started with Columbia Dining in September 2021. She has more than 12 years of experience in the food service industry and began her career as a caterer, providing service for banquets, hotels, spas, and nursing homes. Most recently, she worked in management for Krispy Kreme on the manufacturing side. Sindia is excited to bring her leadership, listening, and people management skills to the Columbia Dining team. Her top priority is to create a warm and welcoming experience for students by engaging with them personally and learning about their dining needs. In her spare time, Sindia enjoys Latin food and loves to dance. Rosie Fernandez Rosie has worked in customer service for Dining since 1998. Known for her positive energy, smile and charisma, her responsibilities include reassuring parents that their children will have healthy and hearty meals while away from home. Most importantly, Rosie works to resolve questions or issues students may have concerning their dining accounts. In her spare time she enjoys spending time with her family and preparing healthy and hearty meals. Nicole Baez Nicole started at Columbia Dining in July 2021. She has worked in the food service industry for more than three years and has both in-restaurant and corporate experience. Previously, she worked for a senior officer at Heartland Brewery where she gained valuable insight into translating corporate expectations into excellent in-unit customer experiences. Nicole loves the way food brings people together and is excited to help Columbia Dining foster community among the students. Nicole is originally from the Washington Heights/Inwood neighborhood of Manhattan. She holds a bachelor’s degree from the New School. In her spare time, you can find her at her favorite restaurant, Trion Public House. Michael DeMartino Chef Mike is responsible for the overall operations and culinary experience at Columbia University. Born in Brooklyn and raised in Staten Island, he grew up in a home where good food was integral to daily life. He started cooking himself at an early age and later pursued his professional culinary degree at Johnson and Wales University for Culinary Arts in Providence, RI. His experience includes the Intercontinental Hotel in New York City, where he also traveled the hotel’s Asia network; Corporate Foods providing service to clients like Citibank, US Today, and Entertainment Weekly; and Fordham University where he served as the Dining Services Executive Chef for 18 years. Matthew Chang Matthew joined the Dining team as Chef Manager at Ferris Booth Commons in spring of 2019. His past work experience includes 7 years as Kitchen Manager for Panera Bread in addition to 7 years at OTG Management at John F. Kennedy International Airport. With a degree in culinary arts from the Culinary Institute of America and an early start as a restaurant bus boy, his passion for food runs deep. Originally from Taiwan, Matthew's specialty is Taiwanese cuisine and street food, which he hopes to introduce more of at Ferris Booth. After immigrating to the U.S. in 1998, Matthew settled in a diverse neighborhood in Queens and spends much of his free time fishing and volunteering with the Buddhist Tzu Chi Foundation, an international humanitarian organization. Marc Hector Marc started at Columbia Dining in September 2021. He has more than 30 years of experience in the food industry and loves the fast-paced environment that food service offers. Prior to Columbia, Marc worked as a shift supervisor at Madison Square Garden where honed his customer service skills. Marc looks forward to helping shape the dining experience at Columbia. Marc is originally from Ocho Rios, Jamaica. In his spare time, Marc loves to go to the beach, grill and host big, Jamaican barbeques. Marc holds a degree in culinary arts from the Art Institute of New York. Kerri Hoban Kerri Hoban joined the Dining team in fall 2021 as the Assistant Manager in John Jay Dining Hall. Kerri works the evening period to make sure all the food stations are ready for dinner, supports staff during service, and is there to help students. Kerri has extensive experience in food service and hospitality, most recently serving as a food service supervisor for a city hospital in the Bronx and the concession operations in Wollman Rink in Central Park. Kerri graduated from Monroe College with a degree in Hospitality Management. Born and raised in the Bronx, Kerri enjoys spending time with her grandchildren, watching horror movies, listening to music and playing pool. Kerri's favorite food is steak. Kareem Adams Kareem, also known as Ras, began his career at Columbia University in 2010 as a Second Cook and was soon promoted to First Cook. In 2016, he took on a leadership role as Chef Manager in John Jay. In 2018, he was then promoted to Campus Dining. Prior to joining the Columbia Dining team, Ras spent several years in corporate dining as a Restaurant Associate. His most recent position was at AllianceBernstein, an investment management and research firm. It’s no surprise that Ras loves to cook, Asian cuisine is his favorite to experiment with. He grew up in the Bronx and still calls it home. When he’s not whipping up new recipes, you can find him on the soccer pitch playing midfield. Joe Prete Joe has formally been in the food industry for 18 years – but unofficially for his entire life. He grew up in Astoria, Queens watching his father open and cook in Italian restaurants, sparking his interest in the industry. Joe started his journey as a dishwasher at a local mom & pop pork store where he used to work a few hours after school. From there, he experimented with food prep, serving, managing and designing culinary experiences across delis, restaurants and hotels. He is excited to take his passion to this prestigious university. His hobbies are creating the perfect sandwich, training his dog, watching the New York Rangers and spending time his my family. Joe started with Columbia Dining in September 2021. Jerome Charpentier Jerome Charpentier is the Executive Sous Chef for Catering and the Culinary Center. Jerome holds a BA in Culinary Arts from the Collège Edouard Herriot and brings notable culinary experience from his time in top New York City restaurants. He works Chef Matt and Chef Ras to lead our integrated culinary teams in the kitchen. Jasmine Crespo Jasmine joined the Dining team in 2014 as Assistant Manager at Ferris Booth. In this role she is focused on food quality, service and sanitation and is responsible for opening. Jasmine has a passion for good food and is enthusiastic about working at Columbia. Her previous professional experience includes a management role at Chipotle in Florida, work at a local NYC seminary, a line cook position and a temporary assignment as manager at John Jay. Jasmine holds a degree in Hospitality and Hotel Management from Monroe College and attributes her interest in hospitality to her mother, who also worked in the business. A native of the Bronx, she enjoys entertaining friends and family when she is not at Columbia and loves experimenting with food. Jafor Chowdhury Jafor has been thrilled to bring his corporate food service and hospitality experience to higher education, where he enjoys working with the diverse student body. Prior to Columbia, he spent 22 years with Sodexo at the Merrill Lynch World Financial Center location, where he worked as a waiter and cashier, then gained financial and technical support experience. Jafor has a diploma in Civil Engineering from his native country, Bangladesh, where he moved from over 25 years ago. He lives in the Bronx with his wife, 3 children and extended family. Hazel Clark Hazel Clark is the Assistant General Manager, Manhattanville Operations at the Commons and the Cafe. Hazel originally joined Columbia University in November 1984 as kitchen staff. After a few computer courses, Hazel became an accounts receivable administrator in John Jay, enabling her to draw from her prior accounting experience in Panama City. Later, she was promoted to manager, where she led the JJ’s Place opening team. Following her success, she was appointed to open Ferris Booth Commons, an experience she believes was her biggest opportunity at Columbia. She then went on to manage Blue Java Mudd, Lenfest Cafe, and Uris Deli. Hazel is the recipient of the Robert Leer Service Award, an honor given each year to a member of the faculty, administration, or staff who clearly demonstrates commitment to working with students. Hazel was born in the Republic of Panama, where she graduated from Gaston Faraudo, an accounting school in Panama City. Eathon Mopp Eathon joined the Columbia Dining team in December 2021 and serves as the Assistant Manager for upper campus retail locations, including Chef Mike's Sub Shop and Lenfest Cafe, plus the Blue Java cafe locations in Uris, Mudd Hall, Butler Library and Lerner Hall. Prior to joining the Columbia team, Eathon worked with retail clients, most recently with Trader Joe’s and Fairway Markets. Eathon is excited to be part of the Chef Mike’s Market launch and the opportunities it presents. A foodie - like the rest of the team - Eathon's favorite food is avocados. He can’t eat a meal without them! In his free time, Eathon plays soccer and video games. Donald Bartlett Donald joined Columbia University in 2009 and is Chef Manager for Uris Deli, Blue Java Mudd, Blue Java Uris, and Lenfest Cafe. He is a well-seasoned chef who truly enjoys the art of cooking. Donald began his career on the culinary team at the Park Ridge Marriott. Later, he served as Executive Chef for an Assisted Living Facility in Emerson NJ, until he became the Director of Dining for the Johnson Wood Company. An entrepreneur, Donald also opened a pizza café; he was a preferred off-premise caterer for television and movie sets; he developed a line of baked gourmet brownies for large supermarket chains; he launched a gift basket Internet business; and he packaged handmade fresh mozzarella for supermarkets and catering halls in the tri-state area. Donald earned his degree in Culinary Arts from Johnson and Wales University for Culinary Arts in Providence, RI. Christina Apollonio Christina joined the JJ's Place team in 2014. She is originally from Rochester, NY where she got her first taste of the food and beverage industry working the counter at a local burger joint, and has been hooked ever since. After moving to New York City to pursue her Bachelor’s degree at NYU, Christina worked as a floor supervisor at Georgetown Cupcake and later as an assistant restaurant manager at the Omni Berkshire Place. Christina’s top priority is to make sure every guest leaves happy, and she takes student feedback very seriously. She ensures the dining hall is clean, organized, offers variety, and above all, that all customers are satisfied. Christina is also excited to introduce new special events to the space. Outside of work, she enjoys trying new foods, making her own juices and thrift shopping. Christian McKenna Christian was born and raised in Queens, N.Y., and graduated from The Culinary Institute of America in 2015 with a Bachelor of Professional Studies degree in Culinary Arts Management. During his career, he has worked in restaurants, hotels, catering & events, and since 2017, at educational institutions. He enjoys traveling – with trips to both Europe and Asia – and camping. In his free time, Christian likes trying new restaurants and creating new dishes at home. Alexa Gandara Alexa recently joined Columbia Dining as our registered dietitian. She helps ensure that everyone can find healthy options at all Columbia Dining locations, and is available to consult with students one-on-one regarding healthier eating habits, navigating the dining halls if you have a food allergy, and any other nutritional concerns. Adebayo Otiti Adebayo joined the Columbia University team in August 2010. He spent 14 years with NYU Dining, where he most recently served as the Food Service Director. During his tenure at NYU, he spearheaded the Annual Grad Alley event with over 20,000 attendees. Adebayo attended New York City Technical College where he studied Hotel and Hospitality Management. He’s a proud father of four children—two are in high school, and the elder two are in college. Sort Dining Unit Dining Location Role Keyword filter: Filter Filter Filter Filter AllLetter Profiles, showing - Clear filtersFilterFilterFilterFilter no photo photo of edit edit Columbia Dining Main Office515 West 114th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-4076 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close