Skip to main content A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People News UCR Home Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search UC Riverside Dining Services Delicious | Nutritious | Sustainable Search Venues Column 1 Campus Dining HUB Plaza Dining Residential Dining The Market at Glen Mor Column 2 Scotty's Convenience Stores The Barn Dining Hours Menus Dining Plans Catering Column 1 Citrus Grove Catering CRATE by Citrus Grove Catering UCR Hospitality Services Citrus Gifts About Us Column 1 Career Opportunities Student Jobs Customer Feedback News Column 2 Nutrition Sustainability Ethical Coffee Food Insecurity Venues Campus Dining HUB Plaza Dining Residential Dining The Market at Glen Mor Scotty's Convenience Stores The Barn Dining Hours Menus Dining Plans Catering Citrus Grove Catering CRATE by Citrus Grove Catering UCR Hospitality Services Citrus Gifts About Us Career Opportunities Student Jobs Customer Feedback News Nutrition Sustainability Ethical Coffee Food Insecurity UCR Dining is Hiring! Visit our student careers page to apply for open positions. Apply Today! Previous Next Campus Community, We have just about made it through our first year of students/faculty/staff returning to campus in closer to pre-pandemic levels. As many of you know, Dining & Hospitality Services never left campus and continued to work in person throughout the pandemic. However, the last two years have been incredibly impactful on our department with many vacated positions, painful layoffs for many of those on our team, ever changing COVID protocols, managing a quarantine/isolation meal program for our students, large debt to recover from for our self-supporting division, and constantly adapting as the pandemic evolved. Through it all we have demonstrated resiliency and an unwavering commitment to serving our campus community. As we look ahead now to Fall of 2022, we continue to be anxious to re-open many of our shuttered restaurants; however, we still have many challenges ahead of us. Our department has many open critical staff positions we are actively recruiting to fill. Our department also typically employs about 800 student employees with close to 40% of those being returning student staff annually. Due to having very few student staff during the pandemic, we had to rehire our entire student workforce in Fall of 2021. For many of them this is their first job, and training takes time. The restaurant and hospitality industry continue to face staffing shortages across the nation, so please extend additional grace to those that are working---we need them and appreciate them. Finally, we are facing significant national and global supply chain issues. We sincerely apologize for any oddities, menu/item outages, or changes to the menu due to these very impactful supply chain issues. We are working hard with our suppliers to minimize impacts, but often times the shortages are out of their control as well. As we continue to face these challenges head on, one thing remains unchanged---we are here to serve our Highlanders and feel grateful to see so many smiling faces returning to campus! We look forward to continuing the momentum forward, and as we stabilize our staffing levels we will continue the re-opening and new opening of our restaurants, coffee shops, and convenience stores. Thank you for your support, and patience, as we re-build from the impacts of the pandemic. We look forward to seeing and serving you! With Gratitude, Dining & Hospitality Services UCR Opens a New Lounge at The Barn A new lounge called the Stable has opened at UC Riverside. Read more on The Press-Enterprise We Now Accept Purchase Orders As an added convenience to the campus community, the following locations will accept UCR departmental POs as a form of payment: The Habit, Panda Express, and Chronic Tacos. See more We're Cashless UCR dining is now cashless at all campus dining locations. Loyal E. Horton Dining Awards We won Silver for a new retail concept, Emerbee's, and we won Bronze for our catering special event, "Taste of Citrus Grove." These are our first two NACUFS Horton Awards! Read more on the NACUFS website Dining Gift Card Expirations Extended! August 2020, 2021 expirations may now be used through August 2022! Dining Hours Dining Hours Memorial Day Dining Hours View or Print Dining Hours Take Our Survey Create your own user feedback survey Maintain Your Campus Connection with UCR Citrus Gifts! Purchase on campus at The Market @ Glen Mor or HUB Scotty’s. Visit the UCR Citrus Gifts website to view our collection. Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR UCR Dining 3595 Canyon Crest Drive Riverside, CA 92507 tel: (951) 827-3456 email: diningservices@ucr.edu Follow US: UCR Dining on Facebook UCR Dining on Instagram Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel