Skip to main content Brown University Brown University Primary Navigation Dining Locations & Menus Meal Plans Choose & Manage Eat Well Green Dining Catering Learn More About Dig Deeper Connect Contact Us Menu Close Café Hours Supply Chain's Impact on Dining Services MyMeal About Your Food Menu Mail Contact Us Get Well Meals Faculty Club Café Hours Supply Chain's Impact on Dining Services MyMeal About Your Food Menu Mail Contact Us Get Well Meals Faculty Club Dining Halls Café Sharpe Refectory Sharpe Refectory Closed Andrews Commons Closed Verney-Woolley Closed Blue Room Closed Ivy Room Open Gourmet to Go Closed Josiah's Open Days Today Yesterday Today Tomorrow Friday, Jun 3rd Saturday, Jun 4th Sunday, Jun 5th Monday, Jun 6th Tuesday, Jun 7th Filters Select Your Dietary Preferences Show Clear Filters Apply Filters Sharpe Refectory SPECIAL HOURS Café Closed May 30 - Jun 4 Closed View/Print Weekly Menu Currently Closed Breakfast Served from 7:30 am - 11:00 am Lunch 11:00 am - 4:00 pm Dinner 4:00 pm - 7:30 pm Weekly Schedule Breakfast Mon-Sun, 7:30 am - 11:00 am Lunch Mon-Sun, 11:00 am - 4:00 pm Dinner Mon-Sun, 4:00 pm - 7:30 pm Affectionately known as the “Ratty,” the Sharpe Refectory is the home kitchen for our meal plan participants. Located on Wriston Quad, the Refectory is arguably the social center of campus, serving over 1,500 students per meal in continuous all-you-care-to-eat, buffet-style dining. Choose from a variety of quality entrees and sides crafted from scratch-made recipes, locally grown produce, quality meats from our in-house Butcher Shop, and Pinterest-worthy desserts from our in-house Bakeshop. Affectionately known as the “Ratty,” the Sharpe Refectory is the home kitchen for our meal plan participants. Located on Wriston Quad, the Refectory is arguably the social center of campus, serving over 1,500 students per meal in continuous all-you-care-to-eat, buffet-style dining. Choose from a variety of quality entrees and sides crafted from scratch-made recipes, locally grown produce, quality meats from our in-house Butcher Shop, and Pinterest-worthy desserts from our in-house Bakeshop. A Note to Our Guests Brown Dining Services, like many food service operators, has been impacted by the current challenges facing the food industry. Nationwide, the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted the food industry in many ways, such as increased labor shortages arising from new demands and restrictions on workers; changes in consumer expectations; closures of food-production facilities, and restricted food trade policies. These changes are resulting in considerable challenges to the food supply chain. Because of food distribution issues, Dining Services is increasingly compelled to substitute the food products we typically purchase for those that are not part of our menu planning. This is happening at unpredictable times and forces substitutions with little notice, requiring us to make menu changes and adjustments as needed. The unavoidable consequence is that the food we serve will not always match what appears on the online menu tool and the ingredients listed there. We recognize this has an impact on you, our guests, and we appreciate your understanding as we navigate these unprecedented times. If you have food allergies, we urge you to contact Dining Services. Please reach out to michelle_blais@brown.edu (Registered Dietitian). If you have any questions regarding an ingredient or recipe, please ask an onsite manager or make an alternative selection. We remain committed to providing high quality food and service to our guests, and we thank you for your patience and understanding as we deal with these national issues. MyMeal MyMeal is an online tool designed to help students make educated food choices in Brown’s dining halls. Students can view specific ingredients used in dishes, whether you are managing allergies or focusing on selecting more healthy options. View the site! Questions? Contact Brown Dining’s Dietitian Ask the Dietitian Name Email* What can we help with? Name This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Eat Right — For You Do you care about whether your food was grown locally or raised humanely? Or are you more interested in protein vs. carbs? Whatever your priorities, we can help you. We strive to cook delicious food that’s good for you, the animals, the workers, the community, and the Earth — because they’re all connected. We’re here to support you by giving the information you need to choose wisely. Visit our Wellness page for a feast of information about the roles our from-scratch cooking, nutritional approach, local sourcing, and other sustainability programs can play on your menu. Wellness Page Subscribe to Menu Mail Receive the daily menu in your inbox! Enter your email, choose your café(s ), and you'll start getting Menu Mail tomorrow! To change your settings, submit this form again with the same email address. Messages are not sent when cafés are closed. NOTE: Menu items may change just before service. Please check the website for the most current information. Email Pick all cafés, or choose as many as you like. All Cafés Sharpe Refectory Andrews Commons Verney-Woolley Blue Room Ivy Room Gourmet to Go Josiah’s Tell Us What You Think Common Questions I’ve been trying to eat a healthier diet. Will I be able to find a healthy food choice in my café? Can you tell me how many calories are in the foods in my café? How will you handle my concerns about a food allergy? Contact info Email – dining_services@brown.edu Phone – 401-863-3343 I WANT TO: Leave a Café CommentGet Catering InformationPlace an Order for My EventTalk to a DietitianFill Out a Satisfaction SurveyReport a Website Issue or Suggestion Friendliness of staff excellentvery goodgoodfairpoor Speed of Service excellentvery goodgoodfairpoor Quality of Food excellentvery goodgoodfairpoor Variety of Food excellentvery goodgoodfairpoor Overall Value excellentvery goodgoodfairpoor Name Email* Phone Location Andrews CommonsBlue RoomGourmet to GoIvy RoomJosiah'sSharpe RefectoryVerney-WoolleyWebsite Date you Visited the Café URL of Page You're Reporting Web Browser You're Using Desktop or Mobile? Comments or Suggestions: Visit the catering page to contact catering staff or access catering information. Visit the catering page to contact catering staff about placing an order. Phone This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. George Barboza Vice President of Dining Services george_barboza_jr@brown.edu Ty Paup Director of Culinary Operations ty_paup@brown.edu Meet the team Meal Options for Isolated Students Brown Dining provides meals for isolated students. Students with flu-like symptoms must first register on fluweb. Your Flu Buddy may then pickup your Food Kit. Pickup of “Food Kit” by Flu Buddy: Food Kits may be picked up at the cashier’s station in the Refectory Main Dining Hall (aka, “The Ratty”). A Food Kit is a 5-day supply of food. One kit is available per student. Pickup Hours of Operation: Monday – Saturday 8:00 am – 7:00 pm and Sunday 11:00 am – 7:00 pm. Register on Fluweb Faculty Club The Brown Faculty Club provides a year-round, private and attractive gathering place in the heart of the Brown University campus that is perfect for dining or for entertaining associates, friends, and family. The Club’s well-appointed, flexible interior provides suitable facilities for private parties, wedding receptions, banquets and departmental meetings. Lunch and dinner service is also offered. Learn more Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility Terms of Use & Privacy Policy / Privacy Request © 2022 Bon Appétit Management Company Connect: Social@Brown Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat