Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Dining Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Menus Nutrition Allergies/Special Diets Sustainability Events JJ's Catering Dining Plans About Us Dining Halls Ferris Booth Commons JJ's Place John Jay Dining Hall Columbia Dining @ Faculty House Retail Locations Blue Java Café - Butler Library Blue Java Café/Café 212 - Lerner Hall Blue Java Café - Mudd Hall Blue Java Café - Uris Hall Lenfest Café Chef Mike's Sub Shop All Events Dining Plan Details & Comparison About Our Dining Plans First-Year Dining Plans Upperclass, GS, and Graduate Student Dining Plans Select a Plan Select/Review a First-Year Plan Select an Upperclass, GS or Graduate Student Plan Change Plan (January 12-27) Change Your Plan Flex Food Delivery with Flex FAQ About Us Our Pledge Food Nutrition People Sustainability Caring for Our Community Food Insecurity Community Outreach Media Video Library Staff Directory News Columbia Dining You are here: Home About Us Caring for Our Community Food Insecurity Food Insecurity Columbia Dining is committed to supporting University and student efforts to address hunger amongst its student community and the stigma associated with food insecurity. Emergency Meal Fund Columbia Dining facilitates the Emergency Meal Fund, a no-questions-asked program offering 6 meals a term to undergraduate students (CC, SEAS, or GS) in need. Ask for a manager at JJ's Place, located in the lower level of John Jay Hall and open every day from Noon – 10 PM. Provide the manager with your UNI, CUID, and the number of meals needed. The manager will issue meal passes that can be used during the current term at one of our residential dining locations: John Jay, JJ’s Place, Ferris Booth Commons, Columbia Dining @ Faculty House, or Chef Mike's Sub Shop. EMF tickets cannot be used for Columbia Dining special events. Food Pantry Columbia Dining provides financial and buying support to the Columbia Food Pantry, a student-run operation in Lerner Hall dedicated to relieving hunger in the student community. In May 2019, Columbia Dining committed to an annual $5,000 donation – the equivalent of 1,000 uneaten meals – to the Food Pantry in support of the organization’s collaboration with Swipe Out Hunger. Columbia Dining also collaborates with The Food Pantry on nutrition education and budget friendly cooking events. Academic Break Schedule Columbia Dining operates during fall, Thanksgiving, and spring breaks to make sure students staying on campus have an affordable place to eat. This schedule is funded by the department’s operating budget, at no additional cost to students. 212-854-4076 [email protected] Columbia Dining Main Office515 West 114th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-4076 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close