Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Dining Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Menus Nutrition Allergies/Special Diets Sustainability Events JJ's Catering Dining Plans About Us Dining Halls Ferris Booth Commons JJ's Place John Jay Dining Hall Columbia Dining @ Faculty House Retail Locations Blue Java Café - Butler Library Blue Java Café/Café 212 - Lerner Hall Blue Java Café - Mudd Hall Blue Java Café - Uris Hall Lenfest Café Chef Mike's Sub Shop All Events Dining Plan Details & Comparison About Our Dining Plans First-Year Dining Plans Upperclass, GS, and Graduate Student Dining Plans Select a Plan Select/Review a First-Year Plan Select an Upperclass, GS or Graduate Student Plan Change Plan (January 12-27) Change Your Plan Flex Food Delivery with Flex FAQ About Us Our Pledge Food Nutrition People Sustainability Caring for Our Community Food Insecurity Community Outreach Media Video Library Staff Directory News Columbia Dining You are here: Home Food Waste & Composting Food Waste & Composting We aim to be a 0% waste organization. Batch Cooking We believe food waste is avoidable and unnecessary. The team makes food to order to avoid over-production and therefore, create less waste. If we do cook more food than is consumed, we are required by the Department of Health guidelines to throw away any food that has been prepared and displayed in our serveries. Uncooked items, such as fresh fruits and vegetables, are donated to local churches, food pantries, and soup kitchens to support the community and avoid waste. Composting All of our back-of-the-house (kitchen) food scraps are collected and composted and collected as part of DSNY organics composting program. Our front-of-house organic waste is also collected and composted by a private company. As part of our commitment to sustainability, we have used compostable paper plates, bowls, cups, and plastic cutlery since 2008. In John Jay Dining Hall, reusable china and flatware is utilized. In 2018, we transitioned to 100% compostable paper straws and plant based plastic cups for to-go cold beverages. COLUMBIA DINING PLANS Select a Plan Great food. Great service. Great people. Learn more about our plans and sign-up today. If you are a first-year student at Columbia College or SEAS, choose First-Year Plans below. If you are an Upperclass student at Columbia College or SEAS, a General Studies student, or a graduate student, choose Upperclass Plans below. First-Year Plans Upperclass Plans 212-854-4076 [email protected] Columbia Dining Main Office515 West 114th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-4076 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close