Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Dining Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Menus Nutrition Allergies/Special Diets Sustainability Events JJ's Catering Dining Plans About Us Dining Halls Ferris Booth Commons JJ's Place John Jay Dining Hall Columbia Dining @ Faculty House Retail Locations Blue Java Café - Butler Library Blue Java Café/Café 212 - Lerner Hall Blue Java Café - Mudd Hall Blue Java Café - Uris Hall Lenfest Café Chef Mike's Sub Shop All Events Dining Plan Details & Comparison About Our Dining Plans First-Year Dining Plans Upperclass, GS, and Graduate Student Dining Plans Select a Plan Select/Review a First-Year Plan Select an Upperclass, GS or Graduate Student Plan Change Plan (January 12-27) Change Your Plan Flex Food Delivery with Flex FAQ About Us Our Pledge Food Nutrition People Sustainability Caring for Our Community Food Insecurity Community Outreach Media Video Library Staff Directory News Columbia Dining You are here: Home Food Allergies & Special Diets Food Allergies & Special Diets Food Allergies & Special Diets Committed to ensuring students with food allergies have a safe and enjoyable dining experience Our commitment begins with our registered dietitian, Alexa Gandara, who consults with students individually to develop personalized food allergy management plans. Contact us to learn more. The stamps above are used across our locations to let you know what you can eat, and what to avoid! Our culinary team is trained in proper food allergy handling and our managers are certified by AllerTrain to manage food allergies. We also maintain our Food Allergy Research and Education (FARE) College Food Allergy profile and stay up-to-date with FARE news. Dine Safely with Us in 6 Steps In our commitment to transparency, we remind students that there is always a risk of food allergen cross contact. To dine safely follow the 6-step guide below. Reach out to the Dining team for guidance in safely navigating the dining hall. Always review allergen labels displayed at each station before choosing your meal. Never eat or drink foods that do not have food allergen information displayed. Need more information while choosing your meal in the dining hall? Ask for a manager to review the ingredients. Be aware of the risk of cross contact. John Jay, JJ’s Place & Ferris Booth have many self-serve areas where there is risk of food allergen cross contact. Request that our staff change their gloves, use a new pan, utensils, etc. when placing your order at cook-to-serve stations. Remember to carry your prescribed EpiPen or medication. Remember to let your friends know that you have a serious food allergy so that they can quickly find help in the event of a reaction. Accommodations Gluten Free Pizza Gluten Free All foods labeled “GF” are free from ingredients that contain gluten. To limit gluten cross contact, John Jay houses their own gluten free station. Peanut Butter Peanuts & Tree Nuts Items containing peanuts and tree nuts are offered at the Nut Zones at John Jay and Ferris Booth with the exception of almond milk offered in our dairy free milk fridges and occasional coconut ingredients used in cooking. Halal Menu items that contain only Halal ingredients are identified on our menus. In addition, John Jay houses a Halal station where students can always find a Halal meal. Kosher John Jay Dining Hall offers convenient to-go Kosher sandwiches, salads and snacks. For full-service Kosher dining, Columbia students can utilize their meal plans at Hewitt Dining Hall at Barnard College. Additional questions? Contact the Dining Team by email. “Knowing that there are food options every day that I can eat, despite having several food allergies, is extremely comforting. The services that Columbia Dining provides for students with allergies have been above and beyond my expectations -- it has significantly improved my Columbia experience. Thank you so much!!” “I've been incredibly satisfied with the services Columbia Dining has been providing. You often have all the things I ask for and you've been protecting me from cross contamination. The food is also very tasty. Thank you so much.” “I absolutely love my specialized dining plan! Columbia Dining has been making delicious food that is at the same time perfectly meeting my dietary needs and now I have a bright spot in every day when I get to go pick up my meal. It's so much more convenient than I'd expected and the chefs are all so friendly. Thanks again for helping me discover such a great solution to my dining problem.” Columbia Dining Main Office515 West 114th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-4076 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close