Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU Dining myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Locations & Hours Select to follow link Hours of Operation Locations Campus GrubHub Dining Plans & Rates Select to follow link Dining Plans Terms & Important Dates Catering Nutrition & Allergens Select to follow link Nutrition Procedures Accommodations by Location Location Contact Information NetNutrition Additional Information Work With Us About Us Select to follow link Meet the Team Contact KU Dining COVID-19 Updates Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU Dining Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home KU Catering Services Ready to Book? Contact our Event Services Team! Our team can help you with any questions you have on booking your special event! Contact Us! Events We appreciate the opportunity to work with you to plan a successful event. The menus in this guide represent our traditional offerings, but our skilled staff and chefs will also create custom menus and environments for your special occasions Catering Menu Student Events These buffets are available for lunch or dinner. Designed for the cost sensitive needs of student groups, they are available to everyone. All meals include water and your choice of lemonade or iced tea, dinner rolls and butter. Served with your choice of salad and dessert, listed below. Student Saver Menu Express Menu What is the Express Menu? The KU Catering Express Menu options are for the pop-up meetings, day of orders, and last-minute catering needs. This menu is for moments when you need great food at a simple price. The Express Menu is priced à la carte so you can customize your menu to fit any budget or need. Express Menu Weddings We appreciate the opportunity to work with you to plan a successful event. The menus in this guide represent our traditional offerings, but our skilled staff and chefs will also create custom menus and environments for your special occasions Wedding Guide Meet Our Catering Team Robert Cashman Executive Sous Chef View full profile Kinley Jackson Catering Manager View full profile Alex Jeffries Event Services Manager View full profile Cody Murray Event Services Coordinator View full profile Strong Hall 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 785-864-2700 facebook instagram twitter Dining Plans Catering Services Work With Us Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.