Skip to main content A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People News UCR Home Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search UC Riverside Dining Services Delicious | Nutritious | Sustainable Search Venues Column 1 Campus Dining HUB Plaza Dining Residential Dining The Market at Glen Mor Column 2 Scotty's Convenience Stores The Barn Dining Hours Menus Dining Plans Catering Column 1 Citrus Grove Catering CRATE by Citrus Grove Catering UCR Hospitality Services Citrus Gifts About Us Column 1 Career Opportunities Student Jobs Customer Feedback News Column 2 Nutrition Sustainability Ethical Coffee Food Insecurity Venues Campus Dining HUB Plaza Dining Residential Dining The Market at Glen Mor Scotty's Convenience Stores The Barn Dining Hours Menus Dining Plans Catering Citrus Grove Catering CRATE by Citrus Grove Catering UCR Hospitality Services Citrus Gifts About Us Career Opportunities Student Jobs Customer Feedback News Nutrition Sustainability Ethical Coffee Food Insecurity Breadcrumb Catering Services Catering Services Catering Services Dining Outdoors Delicious, Handcrafted Sandwiches Fresh Ingredients Previous Next UCR Dining Services Pandemic Impact Continues Campus Community, We have just about made it through our first year of students/faculty/staff returning to campus in closer to pre-pandemic levels. As many of you know, Dining & Hospitality Services never left campus and continued to work in person throughout the pandemic. However, the last two years have been incredibly impactful on our department with many vacated positions, painful layoffs for many of those on our team, ever-changing COVID protocols, managing a quarantine/isolation meal program for our students, large debt to recover from for our self-supporting division, and constantly adapting as the pandemic evolved. Through it all we have demonstrated resiliency and an unwavering commitment to serving our campus community. As we look ahead now to Fall of 2022, we continue to be anxious to re-open many of our shuttered restaurants; however, we still have many challenges ahead of us. Our department has many open critical staff positions we are actively recruiting to fill. Our department also typically employs about 800 student employees with close to 40% of those being returning student staff annually. Due to having very few student staff during the pandemic, we had to rehire our entire student workforce in Fall of 2021. For many of them, this is their first job, and training takes time. The restaurant and hospitality industry continue to face staffing shortages across the nation, so please extend additional grace to those that are working---we need them and appreciate them. Finally, we are facing significant national and global supply chain issues. We sincerely apologize for any oddities, menu/item outages, or changes to the menu due to these very impactful supply chain issues. We are working hard with our suppliers to minimize impacts, but oftentimes the shortages are out of their control as well. As we continue to face these challenges head-on, one thing remains unchanged---we are here to serve our Highlanders and feel grateful to see so many smiling faces returning to campus! We look forward to continuing the momentum forward, and as we stabilize our staffing levels we will continue the re-opening and new opening of our restaurants, coffee shops, and convenience stores. Thank you for your support, and patience, as we re-build from the impacts of the pandemic. We look forward to seeing and serving you! With Gratitude, Dining & Hospitality Services UCR Catering Services Our four different catering service options allow you to select from a full-range of culinary choices and catering services to fit almost any budget. Our experienced & professional Catering Team Members are prepared to offer you the personal attention required in all aspects of your gathering. It is our goal to provide the caliber of food and attention to detail that insures the success of every event planned at the University of California, Riverside. Hospitality Services Citrus Grove Catering Crate Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR UCR Dining 3595 Canyon Crest Drive Riverside, CA 92507 tel: (951) 827-3456 email: diningservices@ucr.edu Follow US: UCR Dining on Facebook UCR Dining on Instagram Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel