Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Dining Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Menus Nutrition Allergies/Special Diets Sustainability Events JJ's Catering Dining Plans About Us Dining Halls Ferris Booth Commons JJ's Place John Jay Dining Hall Columbia Dining @ Faculty House Retail Locations Blue Java Café - Butler Library Blue Java Café/Café 212 - Lerner Hall Blue Java Café - Mudd Hall Blue Java Café - Uris Hall Lenfest Café Chef Mike's Sub Shop All Events Dining Plan Details & Comparison About Our Dining Plans First-Year Dining Plans Upperclass, GS, and Graduate Student Dining Plans Select a Plan Select/Review a First-Year Plan Select an Upperclass, GS or Graduate Student Plan Change Plan (January 12-27) Change Your Plan Flex Food Delivery with Flex FAQ About Us Our Pledge Food Nutrition People Sustainability Caring for Our Community Food Insecurity Community Outreach Media Video Library Staff Directory News Columbia Dining You are here: Home Dining Plans Dining Plan Details & Comparison Upperclass Dining Plans Upperclass Dining Plans Upperclass Dining Plans Convenient options and a great value for students on-the-go Select a Plan Now Upperclass, General Studies, and Graduate students have demanding class schedules and often the challenge of balancing classwork with equally busy personal lives. With a Columbia Dining Plan, you'll have both delicious and healthy options, even when you're on the run. Upperclass Plan Highlights Plans are not required for Upperclass, General Studies or Graduate students, but they're a great value. cutlery icon Flexible Meal Options Plans include meals per week or per term. Meals per term allows you to ration your meal balance, in case you don't eat on campus enough to use weekly meals before they expire. Plans with meals by week also include a number of floater meals, in case you run out of meals during the week. Many plans include guest meals for when family and friends come to visit. dollar icon Dining Dollars* Most plans include Dining Dollars, which can be used just like cash at any of our 10 dining locations. Dining Dollars roll over year-to-year. They expire upon your graduation. Dining Dollars are tax free. credit-card-alt icon Flex* Some plans include Flex in addition to or instead of Dining Dollars: Flex allows you put money into an account that you can spend using your University ID card at all Columbia Dining locations, as well a number of other merchants on- and off-campus. *Dining Dollars and Flex are not currently accepted at residential dining locations due to the New York City Key to NYC Executive Order. Upperclass Plan Summary AY 21-22 Dining Plan Plan A / Weekly Designed for: Students who will eat primarily on-campus and want the highest number of meals per week. # Meals Each Week Per Term 14 meals per week Dining Dollars Per Term 200 Flex Dollars 0 Cost/Term (Plan sign-up is for the entire year) $2,725 Dining Plan Plan A / Term Designed for: Students who will eat primarily on-campus but would prefer more flexibility of when they use their meals. # Meals Each Week Per Term 210 Meals per term Dining Dollars Per Term 200 Flex Dollars 0 Cost/Term (Plan sign-up is for the entire year) $2,678 Dining Plan Plan A / Meals Only Designed for: Students who will eat primarily on-campus. # Meals Each Week Per Term 210 Meals per term Dining Dollars Per Term 0 Flex Dollars 0 Cost/Term (Plan sign-up is for the entire year) $2,478 Dining Plan Plan B / Dining Dollars Designed for: Students who will eat primarily on-campus and need a comprehensive plan like Plan A, but with fewer meals. # Meals Each Week Per Term 175 Meals and 6 Guest Meals per term Dining Dollars Per Term 200 Flex Dollars 0 Cost/Term (Plan sign-up is for the entire year) $2,478 Dining Plan Plan B / Flex Designed for: Students who will eat primarily on campus and want a larger number of meals, but want Flex for use at on and off-campus merchants. # Meals Each Week Per Term 175 Meals and 6 Guest Meals per term Dining Dollars Per Term 0 Flex Dollars 200 Cost/Term (Plan sign-up is for the entire year) $2,478 Dining Plan Plan C Designed for: Students who will use Columbia Dining for most meals, but will eat off-campus or have facilities within their residence to also cook meals. # Meals Each Week Per Term 100 Meals and 4 Guest Meals per term Dining Dollars Per Term 125 Flex Dollars 0 Cost/Term (Plan sign-up is for the entire year) $1,543 Dining Plan Plan C / Plus Designed for: Just like Plan C, Plan C/ Plus is for students who will use Columbia Dining for most meals, but will eat off-campus or have facilities within their residence to also cook meals. This plan provides a slight increase in the number of meals over Plan C, plus the flexibility of having both Dining Dollars and Flex. # Meals Each Week Per Term 150 Meals and 4 Guest Meals per term Dining Dollars Per Term 75 Flex Dollars 75 Cost/Term (Plan sign-up is for the entire year) $2,161 Dining Plan Plan D Designed for: Students who will occasionally eat at Columbia Dining but will primarily eat elsewhere. This per-term plan offers the fewest number of meals. # Meals Each Week Per Term 75 Meals and 2 Guest Meals per term Dining Dollars Per Term 75 Flex Dollars 0 Cost/Term (Plan sign-up is for the entire year) $1,159 Dining Plan Plan EZ1 Designed for: For students who will eat primarily on-campus and who want to take the guesswork out of selecting a dining plan. Plan EZ1 includes a large number of meals per week plus floating meals and Dining Dollars. # Meals Each Week Per Term 19 Meals per week, 15 Floating Meals & 6 Guest Meals per term Dining Dollars Per Term 75 Flex Dollars 0 Cost/Term (Plan sign-up is for the entire year) $3,110 Dining Plan Plan EZ2 Designed for: Similar to plan EZ1 but with fewer meals per week and more Dining Dollars.. # Meals Each Week Per Term 15 Meals per week, 10 Floating Meals & 6 Guest Meals per term Dining Dollars Per Term 125 Flex Dollars 0 Cost/Term (Plan sign-up is for the entire year) $3,090 Dining Plan Plan EZ3 Designed for: Similar to Plan EZ1, Plan EZ3 includes a large number of meals per week supplemented with a combination of Dining Dollars and Flex. # Meals Each Week Per Term 19 Meals per week, 15 Floating Meals & 6 Guest Meals per term Dining Dollars Per Term 25 Flex Dollars 50 Cost/Term (Plan sign-up is for the entire year) $3,110 Upperclass Plan Summary AY 22-23 Plan Plan A / Weekly Designed for Students who will eat primarily on-campus and want the highest number of meals per week. # Meals Each Week Per Term 14 meals per week, 15 floating meals per term & 6 complimentary meals per term Dining Dollars 100 Flex Dollars 100 Cost per Term (Plan sign-up is for the entire year) $2,813 Plan Plan A / Term Designed for Students who will eat primarily on-campus but would prefer more flexibility of when they use their meals. # Meals Each Week Per Term 210 meals per term & 6 complimentary meals per term Dining Dollars 100 Flex Dollars 100 Cost per Term (Plan sign-up is for the entire year) $2,765 Plan Plan A / MealsOnly Designed for Students who will eat primarily on-campus. # Meals Each Week Per Term 210 meals per term & 6 complimentary meals per term Dining Dollars 0 Flex Dollars 0 Cost per Term (Plan sign-up is for the entire year) $2,565 Plan Plan B / Plus Designed for Students who will eat primarily on-campus and need a comprehensive plan like Plan A, but with fewer meals. # Meals Each Week Per Term 175 meals per term & 6 complimentary meals per term Dining Dollars 100 Flex Dollars 100 Cost per Term (Plan sign-up is for the entire year) $2,558 Plan Plan B / Flex Designed for Students who will eat primarily on-campus and want a large number of meals plus Flex for use at on and off-campus merchants. # Meals Each Week Per Term 175 meals per term & 6 complimentary meals per term Dining Dollars 0 Flex Dollars 200 Cost per Term (Plan sign-up is for the entire year) $2,558 Plan Plan C Designed for Students who will use Columbia Dining for most meals, but will eat off-campus or have facilities within their residence to also cook meals. # Meals Each Week Per Term 100 meals per term & 4 complimentary meals per term Dining Dollars 50 Flex Dollars 75 Cost per Term (Plan sign-up is for the entire year) $1,593 Plan Plan C / Plus Designed for Just like Plan C, Plan C/ Plus is for students who will use Columbia Dining for most meals, but will eat off-campus or have facilities within their residence to also cook meals. This plan provides a slight increase in the number of meals over Plan C, plus the flexibility of having both Dining Dollars and Flex. # Meals Each Week Per Term 150 meals per term & 4 complimentary meals per term Dining Dollars 75 Flex Dollars 75 Cost per Term (Plan sign-up is for the entire year) $2,231 Plan Plan D Designed for Students who will occasionally eat at Columbia Dining but will primarily eat elsewhere. This per-term plan offers the fewest number of meals. # Meals Each Week Per Term 75 meals per term & 2 complimentary meals per term Dining Dollars 75 Flex Dollars 0 Cost per Term (Plan sign-up is for the entire year) $1,197 Plan Plan EZ1 Designed for For students who will eat primarily on-campus and who want to take the guesswork out of selecting a dining plan. Plan EZ1 includes a large number of meals per week plus floating meals and Dining Dollars. # Meals Each Week Per Term 19 meals per week,15 floating meals per term & 6 complimentary meals per term Dining Dollars 75 Flex Dollars 0 Cost per Term (Plan sign-up is for the entire year) $3,299 Plan Plan EZ2 Designed for Similar to plan EZ1 but with fewer meals per week and more Dining Dollars.. # Meals Each Week Per Term 15 meals per week, 10 floating meals per term & 6 complimentary meals per term Dining Dollars 50 Flex Dollars 75 Cost per Term (Plan sign-up is for the entire year) $3,194 Plan Plan EZ3 Designed for Similar to Plan EZ1, Plan EZ3 includes a large number of meals per week supplemented with a combination of Dining Dollars and Flex. # Meals Each Week Per Term 19 meals per week, 15 floating meals & 6 complimentary meals per term Dining Dollars 25 Flex Dollars 50 Cost per Term (Plan sign-up is for the entire year) $3,299 Select or Change a Plan Upperclass, General Studies, and Graduate students can select a Dining Plan by clicking the Select Plan button and completing the sign-up form. Please note: Prices provided here are per term, but the purchase of a Dining Plan is for the full Academic Year. Cancellations are not permitted. Any Upperclass student wishing to purchase a First-Year Dining Plan should contact Rosie Fernandez at 212-854-4076. The Dining Plan change period for Spring term 2022 is Wednesday, January 12 through Thursday, January 27. Keep an eye on our website for more important Dining Plan information. You can also review your plan selection on our new Dining Plan Selection site. Columbia Dining Main Office515 West 114th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-4076 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close