Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Dining Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Menus Nutrition Allergies/Special Diets Sustainability Events JJ's Catering Dining Plans About Us Dining Halls Ferris Booth Commons JJ's Place John Jay Dining Hall Columbia Dining @ Faculty House Retail Locations Blue Java Café - Butler Library Blue Java Café/Café 212 - Lerner Hall Blue Java Café - Mudd Hall Blue Java Café - Uris Hall Lenfest Café Chef Mike's Sub Shop All Events Dining Plan Details & Comparison About Our Dining Plans First-Year Dining Plans Upperclass, GS, and Graduate Student Dining Plans Select a Plan Select/Review a First-Year Plan Select an Upperclass, GS or Graduate Student Plan Change Plan (January 12-27) Change Your Plan Flex Food Delivery with Flex FAQ About Us Our Pledge Food Nutrition People Sustainability Caring for Our Community Food Insecurity Community Outreach Media Video Library Staff Directory News Columbia Dining You are here: Home Dining Plans Flex Flex Flex is a dollar-for-dollar declining balance account that Columbia students, faculty and staff can add funds to as they wish. Flex allows you to use your Columbia University ID to pay for goods and services at all 10 Dining locations as well as a number of other on and off-campus merchants. Who can use it? All enrolled students, faculty, and staff of Columbia University. Where can it be used? At 10 on-campus dining locations, including John Jay Dining Hall, Ferris Booth Commons, and JJ's Place, as well as the University bookstore, campus vending machines, and the Hartley Hospitality Desk. Flex can also be used for purchases at many off-campus locations, with more to come. Flex can also be used on Grubhub to order food for delivery. Please note that alcoholic beverages, tobacco, and gift cards cannot be purchased through Flex. How long does it take for the transaction to occur when using it off-campus? A typical transaction takes 30 to 45 seconds to complete. We have heard from you that this is longer than you had hoped, so we are exploring ways to expedite the process. When does it expire? Your Flex account rolls over from year to year, but expires upon graduation. Is it tax-free? No, taxes will be applied to all purchases. How do I sign up or add money onto my account? Students will automatically have the Flex account on their ID cards when they arrive at Columbia. Columbia students may add money onto their accounts through SSOL. How can I check my Flex balance? Your Flex account can be accessed through SSOL. Once logged in, navigate to Columbia card, then cardholder transactions, and then select Flex account balance. How can I travel to the off-campus locations? The Columbia Evening Shuttle (powered by Via) provides transportation within a set coverage area according to the schedule on the Transportation website. Follow the instructions to get a promo code, download the Via app, and start booking free evening rides. Questions, Comments, or Feedback on the Flex Program In order to constantly improve this program, we need feedback from you. Please send any questions, comments, or suggestions you may have to [email protected] Accepted Flex Locations Flex is accepted at several local businesses including grocery stores, restaurants, health and drug stores, school supply/home furnishings stores, and Student Advantages. View the list of participating locations like these great vendors here! Please note: The participating merchants are not monitored for the quality of service by Columbia. The list of participating merchants is provided as a convenience. 212-854-4076 [email protected] COLUMBIA DINING PLANS Select a Plan Great food. Great service. Great people. Learn more about our plans and sign-up today. If you are a first-year student at Columbia College or SEAS, choose First-Year Plans below. If you are an Upperclass student at Columbia College or SEAS, a General Studies student, or a graduate student, choose Upperclass Plans below. First-Year Plans Upperclass Plans 212-854-4076 [email protected] Columbia Dining Main Office515 West 114th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-4076 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close