Skip to main content Online Directory Name, Phone, Email and More Student, Faculty, and Staff Directory This tool lists CSU students, faculty and staff. For other searches, see the sidebar. Results appear as you type To do a new search, just backspace and/or type something else in the box Alternate Access to this Search is Available type your search into this box: Enter Search String: Help Using a comma: Use a comma to look up "Lastname, Firstname." Using a space: Use a space to specify that you are looking for "Firstname Lastname." Nicknames: Use a nickname in place of first name. "Lastname, Nickname" and "Nickname Lastname" will both work, as long as the person has their nickname registered in eID. Preferred First Names: see 'Nicknames,' above. Don't Know the Spelling: Just type the first portion(s) of the name. For example, you can type "Ody" to find Odysseus. You can do this with the first, last, or both names. Last Name Only: A last name all by itself also works. Note: with less-common last names, this is helpful. More-common last names, though, may return too many results to be helpful. First Name Only: Because last-name-only searches are allowed, first-name-only ones are not. Middle Names: Ignore middle names. To search for "Charles Emerson Winchester," just type "Charles Winchester." Middle Initial: Omit the middle initial. Only use last name, and optionally first name/nickname. Hyphenated last names: Search only the first part of the compound last name. For "Olivia Newton-John," just type "Olivia Newton." Complex last names: Names with multiple spaces, such as "de la Hoya," will be returned normally. What about privacy? In compliance with the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), students have the option of removing themselves from the directory. To remove your e-mail address, use eID Modify. To remove your address, phone, and name, use Change My Directory Preferences in RAMweb. More about public information What if your listing is incorrect? The information found in these listings is obtained from a number of database systems on campus. Students Students are able to make updates to some of their personal information found in the directory online. Go to RAMweb to change your address or telephone number (using 'Change My Address/Telephone') or your email (using 'Change my Email Address'). To publish or change your Web site address, use EIDModify. Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff must update titles, office locations, and phone numbers through their human resource representative. Only the following items may be updated through eID: Preferred first name First.Last email preference Publication of a Web site address Feedback! Chances are if data is missing from your results, or is incorrect, taking the steps outlined in the above section will correct the problem. However, if you have suggestions related to the functionality or behavior of this tool, we would love to hear from you. CSU's General Phone Number The University's general phone number is (970) 491-1111, and is staffed during business hours. We can help you navigate the university's many colleges, departments, units, and organizations. Directory Tools Name Search Reverse Phone Other Searches (CSU Homepage) CSU A-Z Search CSU Ask a Question! © 2022 Colorado State University ACNS Apply to CSU Contact CSU Disclaimer Equal Opportunity Privacy Statement