Skip to main content University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Log In Search Search Form Search Submit Close Directory Menu Search Log In Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Search Welcome to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Directory Search People Find contact information for faculty, staff and students. Search by: First name Last name Both first and last name Last 3 or more digits of telephone Search Departments & Units Find departments and units by entering a full or partial name. Information available: Contact information and location on campus Complete list of employees Organizational hierarchy A printer-friendly version of the Departments & Units Directory is available to university users only. Please be aware this is a very large document and may take some time to fully load. Skip filters Filter Results By Affiliation (Expand) By Department (Expand) Have a correction? If you'd like to correct your own entry, contact your departmental HR liaison. For corrections to another person's contact or department/unit information, use the form below. Your Name: Required Your Email: Required What is your correction? Required About the Directory Directory Help Developer Documentation Information obtained from this directory may not be used to provide addresses for mailings to students, faculty or staff. Any solicitation of business, information, contributions or other response from individuals listed in this publication by mail, telephone or other means is forbidden. This application is a product of the Digital Experience Group at Nebraska. DXG is a part of University Communication & Marketing. This website is protected against malicious content robots and abusive web browsers. If you experience an issue or receive an error/blocked message while browsing, please immediately report the problem to the ITS Help Center. Related Links Web Developer Network Digital Experience Group University Communication Information Technology Services Campus Links Directory Employment Events Libraries Maps News Office of the Chancellor Report an Incident Policies & Reports Accessibility Statement Emergency Planning and Preparedness Institutional Equity and Compliance Notice of Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Security and Fire Safety Report Student Information Disclosures UNL web framework and quality assurance provided by the Web Developer Network · QA Test University of Nebraska–Lincoln Established 1869 · Copyright 2022 Some parts of this site work best with JavaScript enabled.