Skip to main content OSU A&M System Online Directory Toggle navigation myOKSTATE Directory Calendar Quicklinks Search OKState Directory Home Campus Contacts Emergency Contacts Reverse Lookup Printed Directory FAQ OSU A&M System Online Directory Toggle navigation OSU A&M System Online Directory Directory Home Campus Contacts Emergency Contacts Reverse Lookup Printed Directory FAQ Directory Home Campus Contacts Emergency Contacts Reverse Lookup Printed Directory FAQ Frequently Asked Questions Employee FAQ I am an OSU employee and want to keep my information from showing in the online directory. How do I accomplish this? It is important that you be accessible to OSU departments and the public. Through O-Key, you have the resource to change your contact information to a general office number and location. If there are legal or security reasons why your name should not appear in the directory, please see OSU Human Resources for changes. How do I change my Phone number that is listed in the Online Directory Employees can change their Work phone number that is displayed in the Online Directory, by visiting the O-Key Account Services website and updating the information on the "Contact Info" page, which is available on the left hand menu bar. How do I change my Work Address that is listed in the Online Directory? Employees can change their Work address that is displayed in the Online Directory, by visiting the O-Key Account Services website and updating the information on the "Contact Info" page, which is available on the left hand menu bar. How do I change my Title that is listed in the Online Directory? Titles are taken from the Human Resources System, which is the authoritative source of employee data. The Titles are maintained by Personnel Services. Any requests for changes in titles should be made to the HRS Department through their Departmental HRS liaison. I just graduated from OSU and now I am a new full-time Employee. Why is my information incomplete? Students and student-employees have information listed in the O-Key system that has been obtained from the SIS databases. Address information is included in the data feeds received from the SIS Databases. Employees have information listed in the O-Key system that has been obtained from the HRS database. Address information is not included in the data feeds received from the HRS Database. The individual employee will need to update their Work Address information by visiting the O-Key Account Services website. Student FAQ How do I change my Phone number that is listed in the Online Directory? Student phone number information is obtained from the Student Information System that the Student is currently associated with. The local, billing, and permanent addresses and phones are updated into the O-Key Account Services application and the student has the ability to publish or not publish the information in the Online Directory. If the information is incorrect, the student needs to update their local address and phone information in the Student Information System, allow that information to be updated in the O-Key system, then select the phone in O-Key as their primary phone. How do I change my Address that is listed in the Online Directory? Student address information is obtained from the Student Information System that the Student is currently associated with. The local, billing, and permanent addresses and phones are updated into the O-Key Account Services application and the student has the ability in their O-Key Account to publish the information in the Online Directory. If the information is incorrect, the student needs to update their local address and phone information in the Student Information System, allow that information to be updated in the O-Key system, then select the address in O-Key as their primary address. I'm a student and I don't want my information shown in the O-Directory. How do I stop it from being published? The student should visit their Registrar office to request that their information be kept private. For students that have marked their address/phone information private in the SIS system and O-Key. Any address and phone information for students that is indicated as private in the O-Key account services application will not be updated into the Online Directory. Name, affiliation, and email address will be published for the student. Oklahoma State University © - Oklahoma State University | All Rights Reserved