Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Blackboard Enroll & Pay KU Directory Online Directory Home Advanced Search Departments Help Manage Personal Accounts Login IMPORTANT: This service requires the use of JavaScript to function. Unless you enable JavaScript within your browser, you will not be able to proceed effectively. Frequently Asked Questions Q: How can I find contact information for someone at the KU Medical Center? KUMC maintains the KUMC Directory Search. Q: Can I change how my name appears? Yes, instructions are in the Change Legal and Preferred Name knowledge base article. The online directory is comprised of information from both HR/Pay (Human Resources/Payroll) and Enroll & Pay (the Student Information System). Deference to your primary affiliation with the University determines what name is used here so: If the affiliation on the details page for your record indicates Faculty, Staff or Member your affiliation information comes from HR/Pay. If the affiliation says Student your name details come from Enroll & Pay. NOTE: If you know that you have more than one affiliation with the University (Graduate Assistants for example), we recommend that you update your name details in both systems (HR/Pay and Enroll & Pay). Q: My title is not correct. How do I change it? The title information for employees comes from HR/Pay. For those with multiple jobs (mostly students), a title is assigned to each job held. The directory search results will display one title per person. The title used is based on established HR/Pay criteria. If the employee holds multiple jobs, all titles should show on the user details. Q: The department listed for me or others is not consistent. Can this be fixed? The department listed for an employee is linked to their HR/Pay job(s). A person may be associated with multiple jobs (mostly students). The department name used on the search results is based on established HR/Pay criteria. When someone has more than one job, the additional jobs and departments will be listed with the user details. NOTE: Employees and affiliates can update their office location and some directory information in HR/Pay: KU Directory Position/Job Info. Basic People Search Users may search for partial first and/or last names. The the best matches will be returned. Advanced People Search Users may search for people with a combination of the following: First Name Middle Initial Last Name Email Address If information is entered into more than one field, all of them must match. Users may search for partial names/emails and the search will find the best match. Department Search Faculty/Staff directory information for a selected Department. Person Details Depending on a person's affiliation and the presence of the data on record, different details will be displayed. Name Title Affiliation Department Address Email Address Phone Number For students only name, affiliation and email will be shown. If the student has a department, because of on campus employment, that will also be shown on the record. For faculty/staff, the affiliation, email, and department are also shown. In addition, faculty and staff may also have titles, addresses, and phone numbers. Department Details This page lists the faculty/staff directory information for the Department selected on the Departments page. Contact Information Technology| itcsc@ku.edu| 785-864-8080 This directory is a public record. It is a violation of Kansas State Law to knowingly give, sell or receive names and/or addresses from a public record for the purposes of selling or offering for sale any property or service to persons listed therein. Contact KU Lawrence, KS | Maps Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. The following persons have been designated to handle inquiries regarding the nondiscrimination policies and are the Title IX coordinators for their respective campuses: Director of the Office of Institutional Opportunity & Access, IOA@ku.edu, Room 1082, Dole Human Development Center, 1000 Sunnyside Avenue, Lawrence, KS 66045, 785-864-6414, 711 TTY (for the Lawrence, Edwards, Parsons, Yoder, and Topeka campuses); Director, Equal Opportunity Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-8011, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses).