Colorado State University Student Disability Center Toggle navigation Skip to content Home About Us About Us What We Do Meet Our Team History 40th Anniversary Celebration Student Diversity Programs & Services Accommodations The Accommodations Process Types of Accommodations Policies and Procedures Accommodations for Employees Resources Campus Resources Community Resources Field Placement & Career Accommodations and Resources Financial Aid Inclusive Language Disability Legislation History Community Disability Dialogues Podcast Get Involved Delta Alpha Pi Honor Society Connect With Us Search for: WELCOME TO THE STUDENT DISABILITY CENTER! Accommodations and Support Towards Learning and Academic Success Returning SDC Students Request FormReport an Access Barrier Connect With Us! The Student Disability Center main office is open Monday - Friday 7:45 a.m. - 4:45 p.m. The Alternative Testing Center is open Monday - Friday 8 a.m - 4:45 p.m. Visit our Connect with Us page for contact information, fax, directions, and other information. Information & Resources The links below provide information and resources for prospective, new, and current students, parents, and faculty. Go to Schedule an Exam Schedule an Exam If you are approved to take your exams in the Alternative Testing Center, schedule your exams here. Go to Faculty: Upload an Exam Faculty: Upload an Exam Upload your exam to the Alternative Testing Center at this link. Go to Request an Interpreter Request an Interpreter Request an ASL interpreter for class, campus events and activities. Go to Student Accommodation Handbook Student Accommodation Handbook Information for new & current students including; rights & responsibilities, expectations, resources, and tools.. Go to PARENT & FAMILY INFO PARENT & FAMILY INFO Welcome to the Ramily! Tips, expectations, and tools for families of SDC Rams. Go to Faculty Accommodation Handbook Faculty Accommodation Handbook Faculty Accommodation Hand Book: faculty rights & responsibilities, resources, and FAQs. Recent Updates and Events We Are Hiring Accommodation Specialist Position The Student Disability Center at Colorado State University is searching to fill two Accommodation Specialist positions. Accommodation Specialists are responsible for determining appropriate accommodations and other support for students with disabilities. Other support includes, but is not limited to, referrals to campus resources, academic coaching, and assisting students with developing problem-solving strategies. This position acts Read more about We Are Hiring[…] Welcome to the Spring 2022 Semester Hello, Welcome to the spring 2022 semester. We wanted to provide some reminders about receiving and utilizing your accommodations this semester. Returning SDC Students If you are a returning SDC student taking classes this semester, and want to use your accommodations, please remember to submit an Returning SDC Students: Accommodation Letter Request Form. You need Read more about Welcome to the Spring 2022 Semester[…] Chronic Health Conditions Support Group The SU Health Network and Student Disability Center are collaborating to host a twice-monthly support group for students with chronic health conditions. Time, Dates, and Location 1:00pm – 2:30 pm 2nd and 4th Wednesday of each month Zoom meeting: Meeting ID: 994 7131 4851 Passcode: 550607 Hosted by Helen Bowden, Ph.D. & Mel Lafferty Helen Read more about Chronic Health Conditions Support Group[…] Mask Exemption Information All students, faculty, and staff are required to wear masks that cover their mouth and nose while indoors on campuses. The Pandemic Preparedness Team has approved gaiters as an alternative to masks. Face shields, bandanas and scarves are not an appropriate alternative to a mask. Mask with vents are not permitted. Students who are unable Read more about Mask Exemption Information[…] Sending you fierce, fierce love: Trans Day of Remembrance 2020 *Trigger warning: murder, grief, loss, transphobia Fierce love means feeling our grief while staying big, staying whole. Let us mourn the dead, keen or wail, sit in silence or belt it out in song, however grief works for you. Let us feel our hearts break and grow, and grasp the sadness. Let us fill our Read more about Sending you fierce, fierce love: Trans Day of Remembrance 2020[…] Remembering Trans Lives, Uplifting Trans Voices Tomorrow, November 20th, 2020, is Trans Day of Remembrance. This day is observed annually as a day to celebrate the lives of those ended due to anti-trans violence. Yesterday, during a program for Trans Awareness Week hosted by the Pride Resource Center, a group of individuals zoom bombed folks in the event spewing racial and Read more about Remembering Trans Lives, Uplifting Trans Voices[…] Celebrating Our Veterans To Our CSU Veterans, Today, we honor you and your service. In our office we have the honor and privilege to work with many student veterans from all branches of the military, as well as their family members. We strive to provide equal access and support to student veterans with disabilities and/or service-related injuries. We recognize veterans as valued members of our diverse community and we are Read more about Celebrating Our Veterans[…] To our students from SDPS & AAC: To our students: In light of recent conversations regarding Dr. Abdullah’s Keynote at the Diversity Symposium, and rooted in our collective missions to serve marginalized students at CSU, we felt compelled to address the unintended impact this is having on our students. Doing intersectional social justice work is complicated and layered. The unfortunate divisive nature Read more about To our students from SDPS & AAC:[…] Your Vote Counts! Accessible Electronic Ballots for CO Residents As we draw closer to the November general election the staff of the Student Disability Center wanted to take some time to share some important information with you about how the State of Colorado has enhanced access to voting for people with disabilities. Please note this information only applies to individuals registered to vote in Read more about Your Vote Counts! Accessible Electronic Ballots for CO Residents[…] New Fall 2020 Accommodation & FAQs Info Hi SDC students, families, and community members, In June, we sent out a Needs Assessment survey asking our students about their questions, concerns, and needs for returning to campus this fall semester and received over 180 responses. We then set out to answer your questions and developed the Fall 2020 Accommodations & Frequently Asked Questions Read more about New Fall 2020 Accommodation & FAQs Info[…] Previous Next CSU Land Acknowledgement https://youtu.be/oS65_Ei6SOw Colorado State University’s land acknowledgment is a statement crafted by a variety of Indigenous faculty and staff, as well as other officials at CSU. TILT Building, room 121 sdc_csu@colostate.edu (970) 491-6385 Facebook Twitter Instagram Zerif Lite powered by WordPress Site Map | Apply to CSU | Contact CSU | Search CSU | Disclaimer | Equal Opportunity | Privacy Statement | © Colorado State University