Discovery: Research at Princeton Findings, feature articles, books and awards from Princeton University researchers Search Menu Audio version About Dean’s welcome Annual Research Report Briefs Between living bodies and objects Lasting impacts from early-life stress Reaching for the stars A NOBEL YEAR – Princeton scholars and alumni received an unprecedented five Nobel Prizes Focus Preventing the next pandemic When cars no longer rule Mystery on the moon Features Cancer connection Race to the bottom Climate in crisis Age of intolerance? Books Cosmology’s Century: An Inside History of Our Modern Understanding of the Universe Tolstoy Together: 85 Days of War and Peace with Yiyun Li Risk on the Table: Food Production, Health, and the Environment Deep Life: The Hunt for the Hidden Biology of Earth, Mars, and Beyond Pushing Cool: Big Tobacco, Racial Marketing, and the Untold Story of the Menthol Cigarette Magical Habits Past issues Discovery 2020-21 Dean’s welcome Annual Research Report Briefs Conversation spreads droplets more than six feet indoors Magic Grant sparks interactive map of treasures Public-private partnerships propel fusion research Bacterial anti-infective defense systems could aid humans Princeton to help lead new quantum science center New “recycler” protein kicks cancer to the curb Antarctic sea ice retreat spurs plankton blooms Focus Princeton COVID-19 research Not JUST data Tempest in a laptop Features Forecasting the next COVID-19 Race and policing in America Of lava lamps and living cells Deemed unﬁt for freedom Books Degenerative Realism: Novel and Nation in Twenty- First-Century France Life Magazine and the Power of Photography Einstein in Bohemia The Little Book of Cosmology Statistical Foundations of Data Science Deaths of Despair and the Future of Capitalism Discovery 2019-2020 Dean’s Introduction Briefs Princeton appoints first vice dean for innovation Nobel Prize awarded for discoveries in cosmology Motion-capture technology assists in neuroscience studies Deep learning detects mutations behind autism People adapt to societal diversity AI accelerates fusion energy research Finding the Lost Generation News How wetlands contribute to climate change A small number of wells produce large emissions Popping the ideological bubbles of social media users Mallika Randeria captures images of the quantum world Focus on undergraduate research ‘Fever’ and its meanings in English literature: Annabel Barry Exploring free speech and corporate power: Sydney Jordan Fracking and public health: Benjamin Jacobson News Features Deborah Vischak reveals the dynamics of ancient Egypt Features Quantum computing opens new realms of possibilities The Torture Letters: Laurence Ralph explores Chicago’s dark history Fragile Fragments: Marina Rustow unpacks daily life in medieval Egypt Origin Story: Rewriting human history through our DNA Books BREATHE: A Letter to My Sons Polarization: What Everyone Needs to Know The Prosthetic Tongue: Printing Technology and the Rise of the French Language The Second Kind of Impossible: The Extraordinary Quest for a New Form of Matter Cervantes’ Persiles and the Travails of Romance Ornamentalism Faculty Awards Annual Research Report Discovery 2018-2019 Dean’s introduction Briefs Crowdsourced brain mapping Incubator for startups opens near campus New supercomputer bolsters research Mental health declining among disadvantaged adults News Campus as Lab: Tracking campus ecology Eviction Lab examines the intersection of poverty and housing An overdue spotlight on an avant-garde playwright When driverless ride-hailing services come to a curb near you Turning up the heat on the search for better plastics Finding meaning among the junk News Features Bold and cold: A new faculty member and a new microscope explore life’s essential molecules Breathing life into the Indian Ocean by predicting ‘dead zones’ Treasure in ancient trash Going quantum to unlock plants’ secrets Engine of cosmic evolution: Eve Ostriker looks under the hood Features From Math to Meaning. Artificial intelligence blends algorithms and applications Nature’s Nation. How American art shaped our environmental perspectives Beyond Einstein: Physicists find surprising connections in the cosmos Fact-checking Immigration: Professor Leah Boustan uses big data to explore myths about the past Books The Chinese Must Go: Violence, Exclusion, and the Making of the Alien in America The Dancing Lares and the Serpent in the Garden: Religion at the Roman Street Corner The Discrete Charm of the Machine: Why the World Became Digital Islam in Pakistan: A History Small Wars, Big Data: The Information Revolution in Modern Conflict Street Players: Black Pulp Fiction and the Making of a Literary Underground Faculty Honors Selected Faculty Honors Four Princeton faculty members win Guggenheim Fellowships Tera Hunter earns awards for scholarship on slave marriage Gillian Knapp receives presidential award for STEM mentorship Paul Muldoon receives Her Majesty’s Gold Medal for Poetry Clifford Brangwynne selected as Howard Hughes Medical Institute Investigator Engineering professors named fellows of National Academy of Inventors Annual report Discovery 2017 Dean’s Welcome Briefs A challenge to help kids New arts complex opens New journal highlights student research Self-powered system makes smart windows smarter Probing the genetic basis for dog-human relationships News Better decision-making for the planet How cancer stem cells evade the immune system Historian and neuroscientist team up for podcast Egyptian translation highlights the beauty of hieroglyphs Discovery provides a path to safe, clean, plentiful energy Professor reflects on growing up undocumented and the power of books News Features Money matters: An economist on the Fed, the banks and the future Jane Cox on LEDs, lighting design and the role of light in storytelling John Pardon on math’s power to distract and divert Diamonds’ flaws hold promise for new technologies Lights, camera, action – of genes in development Features Going green: What we can learn from a little alga Coming home to document a rapidly changing China Princeton project explores past ties to slavery Bound in wedlock: Professor of history explores slavery’s shackles on black families Let it flow: The ideas, the creativity, the findings, the impacts, the benefits to society Books At Home in the World: Women Writers and Public Life, from Austen to the Present Designing San Francisco: Art, Land and Urban Renewal in the City by the Bay New World A-Coming: Black Religion and Racial Identity During the Great Migration Understanding the Digital World: What You Need to Know about Computers, the Internet, Privacy and Security Unscripted America: Indigenous Languages and the Origins of a Literary Nation The Little Book of Black Holes Faculty Honors Faculty Honors 2017-2018 Emily Carter awarded Langmuir Prize in Chemical Physics Peter and Rosemary Grant receive Royal Medal in Biology Historian of religion Elaine Pagels awarded National Humanities Medal Eight win Guggenheim Fellowships Tracy K. Smith named U.S. Poet Laureate Charles Fefferman awarded 2017 Wolf Prize in Mathematics Annual Report Discovery 2016 Dean’s Welcome Briefs F. Duncan Haldane receives Nobel Prize in Physics Princeton part of $40 million Simons Observatory Princeton Research Day highlights student and early-career work Students explore sustainable building with bamboo News Researcher probes the secret life of electrons Exploring collective interactions of matter and antimatter In cells, self-destructive behavior suggests strategy for fighting cancer Cuban literature and culture are focus of Planet/Cuba Exploring the emergence of Cuban consumerism Bias in the machine: Internet algorithms reinforce harmful stereotypes The literature of madness and how it shaped modern psychiatry News Features Big answers from small creatures Atom catcher: With lasers and magnets, Waseem Bakr traps atoms for study under the microscope Students create exotic state of matter Behind the curtain: Scandal, tragedy, art and politics at the Bolshoi Features Bright future: Princeton researchers unlock the potential of light to perform previously impossible feats Of swords, stars and superconductors CITIES: Resilient • Adaptable • Livable • Smart Better living through behavioral science Race for profits Books Welcome to the Universe: An Astrophysical Tour Bitcoin and Cryptocurrency Technologies: A Comprehensive Introduction Postcolonial Modernism: Art and Decolonization in Twentieth-Century Nigeria Ghetto: The Invention of a Place, the History of an Idea The Euro and the Battle of Ideas The China Challenge: Shaping the Choices of a Rising Power Faculty Honors All Faculty Honors ROBERTO CAR receives American Chemistry Society national award JANE COX receives the Ruth Morley Design Award from the League of Professional Theatre Women PAUL CHIRIK receives Presidential Green Chemistry Challenge Award GUGGENHEIM FELLOWSHIPS awarded MARINA RUSTOW, historian of the medieval Middle East, wins MacArthur Fellowship SIMON LEVIN wins National Medal of Science for unraveling ecological complexity Annual Report Discovery 2015 Dean’s Welcome Briefs Princeton-Fung Global Forum focuses on global health Elusive particles found Energy and environment center opens its doors Measles may weaken immune system up to three years Son-o-MERMAID takes to the waters News Unconscious bias: Research helps break down barriers Listening in on bacterial communications New chemistry aids drug development Baby steps: Inside the developing brain Taming the network: Finding relationships in complex data sets Hero explores Vietnam War experiences Life among strangers: Exile in the Middle Ages Energy boost: Study sheds light on mitochondrial disease Student identifies difference between the dinosaur sexes Nobel Prize in economics goes to Angus Deaton Imaging system tracks brain activity of a freely moving worm News Features Cosmic background: 51 years ago, an accidental discovery sparked a big bang in astrophysics The Hub: A new center opens its doors … to student entrepreneurship Wild birds: A trip to the market reveals species imperiled The Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory: The quest for clean energy continues Features Bioengineering: Unlocking the secrets of human health Engineering health solutions for all Computer chip for point-of-care diagnosis Tiny delivery capsules for new drugs Beautiful minds Ashes, images and the survival of democracy Janet Currie investigates the building blocks of children’s success Books Poetic Trespass: Writing Between Hebrew and Arabic in Israel/Palestine Sailing the Water’s Edge: The Domestic Politics of American Foreign Policy Beyond Greek: The Beginnings of Latin Literature The Cosmic Web: Mysterious Architecture of the Universe Sound Rising from the Paper: Nineteenth-Century Martial Arts Fiction and the Chinese Acoustic Imagination Equal Recognition: The Moral Foundations of Minority Rights Faculty Honors Faculty Honors 2015-2016 JHUMPA LAHIRI awarded National Humanities Medal MANJUL BHARGAVA awarded Fields Medal in mathematics ROBERT KEOHANE receives James Madison Award in American political science JEREMIAH OSTRIKER and LYMAN PAGE receive Gruber Cosmology Prize BONNIE BASSLER receives Shaw Prize in life science and medicine DAVID TANK receives Brain Prize for advance in microscopy Annual Report Discovery 2014 Dean’s Welcome 2014 Briefs 2014 New mineral: Steinhardtite A farewell to arms? New technique could aid nuclear disarmament Captured on video: Virus-sized particle trying to enter cell Laser device may end pin pricks, improve health for diabetics Star formation, black holes focus of new research Princeton-born play makes off-Broadway debut News 2014 No more mirrors: a new way of making molecules for tracking disease Light-splitting crystals from inexpensive ingredients New technology enables computing with the wave of a hand Entrepreneurship at Princeton: An interview with Mung Chiang Focus on undergraduate research: Power grid solutions in Nigeria Math and music spark student’s research interests Emotional map illuminates an iconic rock song How to train your worm to explore the circuits involved in learning Study casts doubt on fairness of U.S. democracy News Features 2014 Wetlands provide solutions for agricultural runoff The City Lost and Found: Exhibition examines creative responses to urban changes in ’60s, ’70s America Striking resemblance: A physical law may govern very different biological activities Africa’s poison ‘apple’ provides common ground for elephants and livestock Features 2014 RESILIENT SHORES: After Sandy, climate scientists and architects explore how to co-exist with rising tides Poetry in Silico: Bringing digital tools to the study of poetry Computer visions: A selection of research projects in Computer Science COMPUTER SCIENCE: Armchair victory: Computers that recognize everyday objects COMPUTER SCIENCE: Tools for the artist in all of us COMPUTER SCIENCE: Fierce, Fiercer, Fiercest: Software enables rapid creations COMPUTER SCIENCE: Internet traffic moves smoothly with Pyretic COMPUTER SCIENCE: Security check: A strategy for verifying software could prevent bugs A RISKY PROPOSITION: Has global interdependence made us vulnerable? Books 2014 Chigusa and the Art of Tea House of Debt: How they (and you) caused the great recession, and how we can prevent it from happening again Shell Structures for Architecture: Form Finding and Optimization The First Civil Right: How Liberals Built Prison America Evening News: Optics, Astronomy, and Journalism in Early Modern Europe Stalin: Volume I: Paradoxes of Power, 1878 – 1928 Awards 2014 Faculty Honors 2014-2015 FOUR PROFESSORS Receive Presidential Science Awards SIMON LEVIN Receives Tyler Prize for Environmental Achievement YING-SHIH YU Receives Inaugural Tang Prize in Sinology DANIEL KAHNEMAN Receives Presidential Medal of Freedom JILL DOLAN Receives Distinguished Scholar Award for Theater Research PETER SARNAK Receives Wolf Prize in Mathematics Annual Report Discovery 2013 Dean’s Welcome Briefs Planck mission brings universe into sharp focus First Princeton-Fung Global Forum held in Shanghai Big hair brings to life a 17th-century satire Princeton role in federal BRAIN initiative Immigration policy is ripe for reform Quantum computing moves forward Princeton establishes strategic partnerships with three universities Fragile families, fragile children Globalization raises new ethical questions Small RNAs fight cancer’s spread News Italian Master Drawings: Exhibition goes beneath the surface Site-specific shades offer sun protection Far from random, evolution follows a predictable pattern The rising cost of health care: Students examine policy solutions Explain me something: How we learn what not to say Collective behavior could help animals survive a changing environment Found in translation: Scholar locates source of 18th-century Quran Telescopes take the universe’s temperature Manuscripts spark dialogue on authorship The social network: Program combats bullying Race and incarceration rates: Student researcher explores solutions Green roofs’ energy savings hinge on climate Features Secrets of the Southern Ocean The Planet Hunters Inventions Bridge the Gap between lab and marketplace Activism Shapes Africa Scholar The Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory: Blazing a path to fusion energy Books Kripke by John Burgess Meme by Susan Wheeler 360 Sound: The Columbia Records Story by Sean Wilentz After the Music Stopped: The financial crisis, the response, and the work ahead by Alan Blinder Small-town American: Finding community, shaping the future by Robert Wuthnow Afterlives of Confinement: Spatial transition in post-dictatorship Latin America by Susana Draper Faculty Honors All Faculty Honors William G. Bowen and Natalie Davis receive National Humanities Medal David Botstein wins Breakthrough Prize in Life Sciences Mung Chiang wins National Science Foundation Alan T. Waterman Award Jeremiah Ostriker named White House Champion of Change Three win Guggenheim Fellowships American Mathematical Society awards Steele Prizes to Yakov Sinai, Philip Holmes A. M. Homes wins Women’s Prize for Fiction Alexander Polyakov wins Fundamental Physics Prize Annual Report Annual Report Discovery 2012 Discovery 2011 Discovery 2008 Blog Post navigation ← Lights, camera, action – of genes in development Diamonds’ flaws hold promise for new technologies → Let it flow: The ideas, the creativity, the findings, the impacts, the benefits to society Posted on November 27, 2017 by lmonnens By Yasemin Saplakoglu THE RESEARCHERS in Princeton’s Complex Fluids laboratory are sometimes inspired by a cup of coffee or a permanent marker. Such everyday items may seem like odd subjects of inquiry in a lab known for its cutting- edge research, but in fact the coffee — a latte actually — acts as a model system to study pattern formation in liquids, which could lead to applications in food science, and the permanent markers may suggest ways to transfer patterns of micro-fabricated electronics from one surface to another. Download this article as a PDF These seemingly unconnected experiments are tied together by the study of fluids and how they move and change in space and over time. At the head of the lab is Howard Stone, a professor in the School of Engineering and Applied Science, whose mentorship of graduate students and postdoctoral researchers has led to a multitude of papers on topics that have the potential to address societal problems, from coping with climate change to purifying water using the technology that adds fizz to soda. “I encourage the members of my lab to do things that excite them, things they’re very curious about,” said Stone, Princeton’s Donald R. Dixon ’69 and Elizabeth W. Dixon Professor and chair of the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering. “It is a little different than how other groups sometimes run, and in part that’s because I’m not focused on trying to solve only one problem. Instead I am serious about seeking new understanding as well as potential applications.” Stone’s lab attracts students and postdoctoral researchers from around the world, with backgrounds ranging from chemistry and math to physics and engineering. These scholars combine their talents with a lot of energy, laboratory camaraderie and a spirit of exploration, turning creativity into results that have the potential to make a difference in areas such as health and the environment. Using gelatin to study fracking Ching-Yao Lai recalls the first time she heard the term “fracking” as a newly arrived graduate student from Taiwan five years ago. “I had absolutely no idea what that was,” she said. She soon became immersed in studying hydraulic fracturing, which involves injecting high-pressure liquids into underground rock to generate fractures that allow oil and gas to come to the surface. But the liquid can also bring contaminants — such as brine, naturally occurring radioactive material and metals — into contact with underground drinking water sources. “It’s very important to know how fast a fracture grows and how far it can go,” Lai said. To study this, she uses a substance that bears little overt resemblance to rock: a block of gelatin. Gelatin mimics the brittle and elastic properties of rocks, and it is convenient in other ways. It is trans- parent, so Lai and her co-investigators can see what happens to the liquid and where it goes. A block of gelatin mimics the brittle and elastic properties of rocks, making it a convenient model for graduate student Ching-Yao Lai to use when studying how fluids spread underground during hydraulic fracturing for the extraction of gas and oil. PHOTO BY SAMEER A. KHAN/FOTOBUDDY To model fracking in the cube of gelatin, the researchers poke cracks in the springy solid to represent the fissures and faults in the Earth. Then they push mineral oil through the cracks and, while shining a green light on the block to illuminate the spread of the oil, take photos for later measurements of the size and extent of the cracks. With this experimental system, Lai and colleagues are exploring what happens to liquid injected into the gelatin. Some of the questions are why not all of the injected liquid comes back to the surface, and how much fluid gets trapped in various types of fractures. One of their next areas of study involves an entirely different type of liquid — foam. Lai is exploring whether foam could be use in place of today’s high-pressure liquids. Foam uses 90 percent less water and may be less likely to travel to groundwater sources. Tangled fibers for wound healing At the next lab bench over, Janine Nunes holds a vial of tiny polymer fibers that could someday become wound-healing bandages or provide scaffolding for repairing damaged tissues in the body. Nunes is developing liquids that solidify into small fibers. These fibers could be injected into a damaged part of the body where they then tangle to provide a scaffold on which cells can regrow. Janine Nunes, an associate research scholar, develops liquids that solidify into fibers for applications in wound healing. Such a liquid could be injected into the body, where it could solidify into a scaffold on which cells can regrow. PHOTO BY SAMEER A. KHAN/FOTOBUDDY Nunes, an associate research scholar, makes the slender fibers using a device that works sort of like a pasta maker and that fits in the palm of her hand. She injects a polymer liquid into a slender pipe. Then, by sending pulses of ultraviolet light into the device, she converts the light-sensitive liquid into a hair-thin, solid fiber. By changing the duration of light pulses, Nunes can control the shapes of the fibers. She and Antonio Perazzo, a postdoctoral research associate, found that longer fibers are more likely to entangle, creating a semisolid gel, while the shorter fibers stay suspended in the liquid. The microfluidic device produces one fiber at a time, but the team plans to improve the process to churn out many fibers at once. She is also exploring what would happen if she mixes in ingredients that make the gel degradable, to make tissue scaffolding or internal bandages that can biodegrade when they are no longer needed. Arctic ice bridges Outside the glass doors of the lab, postdoctoral research associate Bhargav Rallabandi sits across from a white-board filled with geometrical figures and equations, the evidence of a day in the life of a theorist. Rallabandi’s latest project is a theoretical model of the formation of Arctic ice bridges. Ice bridges form when chunks of ice, flowing through a narrow strait between two bodies of land, form a clog. The bridges can prevent ice from flowing south and melting due to warmer temperatures, and may also enable polar bears to reach their hunting grounds. Using pen and paper, and later, computer simulations, Rallabandi calculated the critical thickness, wind speed and ice compactness necessary for ice bridges to form. The team found that the formation of ice bridges can be understood as a balance between wind stresses that drive motion and frictional stresses in the ice that resist motion. These frictional stresses arise from the motion of ice floes relative to each other and to the land boundaries of the strait. The results were published earlier this year in the journal Physical Review Letters. “This gives you a way to think about what factors we need to measure in the Arctic to predict ice bridge formation,” Rallabandi said. Now that he figured out how ice bridges form, he plans to tackle the other side of the question: How do they break up? Barista science Graduate student Nan Xue studies how two fluids — in this case, coffee and milk — settle into layers. The results could have applications for food science or improving personal care products. PHOTO BY SAMEER A. KHAN/FOTOBUDDY When Nan Xue joined the lab as a new graduate student last year, the first thing he did was buy a coffee machine, and it wasn’t to stay awake. He needed to brew a lot of the stuff for his studies on how two liquids — in this case, coffee and milk — can settle into layers. What he finds could have applications for food science or improving personal care products. The idea for the study originated with the observation that pouring hot coffee into warm milk leads to the formation of layers that are progressively darker from the top of the cup to the bottom. “In the beginning, we thought maybe this was something related to the oil particles in the milk or the foam,” said Xue. “That was totally wrong.” Coffee is less dense than milk, so, in the absence of stirring, it normally floats atop the milk. Making a latte, however, involves pouring hot coffee into a cup of warm milk, forcing coffee to the bottom where it slowly separates into regions of different coffee-to-milk ratios. The liquid at the exterior of the cup is slightly cooler than the liquid in the interior, and cooler liquids are denser, so this liquid sinks until it is stopped by a section of denser coffee-milk. Over several minutes, these processes lead to the formation of layers. Xue found that a large factor dictating the layering was speed. When he poured the coffee quickly into the milk, the layers formed, but when he poured slowly, no layering occurred. Xue and his colleagues developed a model system to show how the layers form, and they are now exploring the effects of volume, speed and density differences on the pattern formations. The team has also created a material that gels to form a solid containing these layers. Writing on water The layered lattes are not the only example of an every-day observation that became a research question. Sepideh Khodaparast, a postdoctoral research associate, was working with bacteria when she noticed something curious. Khodaparast was studying the slimy bacterial films that adhere to surfaces and can contaminate medical tubing, stents and implants. In her primary research, she investigates how the interfaces between air and water, such as those that occur in bubbles, can be harnessed to remove pathogenic bacterial cells from different surfaces. She has found that bubbles are highly effective at preventing the formation of more mature layers of bacteria. One day she was trying to remove bacteria from a glass surface, which was labeled with permanent marker ink, when she observed that, under the right conditions, dipping the slides in water caused the ink to slip off the slides and onto the surface of the water with the words intact. Under the right conditions, dipping slides in water caused permanent ink to slip off the slides and into the water. PHOTO BY SAMEER A. KHAN/FOTOBUDDY With further investigation, Khodaparast and François Boulogne, a former postdoctoral researcher who is now at Paris Saclay University in France, found that when they quickly dipped the glass into a tub of water, the words did not peel off. But if they did it slowly, the words slid off and floated on the water. “This mechanism could be useful for removing water-resistant stains and transferring thin elastic films, patterned with micro-fabricated electronics, from one surface to another,” Khodaparast said. In the laboratory led by Howard Stone, a professor in the School of Engineering and Applied Science, the flow of creativity among the postdoctoral researchers, graduate students and undergraduates leads to findings with the potential to benefit society. PHOTO BY SAMEER A. KHAN/FOTOBUDDY The broad range of inquiry in the lab has produced numerous technologies with the potential to benefit society. Early this year, the group published a study showing that carbon dioxide gas — the substance that gives soda its fizz — can remove contaminating particles from water, suggesting a low-cost, low-energy water treatment system. “You could potentially use this to clean water from a pond or river that has bacteria and dirt particles,” said Sangwoo Shin, who performed the research as a postdoctoral researcher in the laboratory and is now an assistant professor of mechanical engineering at the University of Hawaii at Manoa. The study was published earlier this year in Nature Communications. By bringing together talent from around the globe in the form of postdoctoral fellows, graduate students and undergraduates, and letting the ideas flow, Stone and the Complex Fluids Group are making new discoveries while also probing deeply to understand fundamentals. As mentor to this diverse team of early-career scientists and engineers, Stone is modest when it comes to taking credit for their accomplishments. Instead, he said, “I am incredibly lucky to work with such smart, talented, hard-working and kind people.” Share this: Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Reddit Print Email Posted in 2017-18, Engineering, Faculty member, Features 2017, Graduate Student, Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, Postdoctoral Researcher | Tagged coffee, fluid dynamics, fracking, wound healing Post navigation ← Lights, camera, action – of genes in development Diamonds’ flaws hold promise for new technologies → Follow Us Most read Egyptian translation highlights the beauty of hieroglyphs How to train your worm to explore the circuits involved in learning Collective behavior could help animals survive a changing environment Let it flow: The ideas, the creativity, the findings, the impacts, the benefits to society Browse by category Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Engineering Undergraduate Research Take our readership survey Discovery: Research at Princeton 2021-22 PDF version Tablet version Request a print copy Sign up for our monthly email newsletter Read more news Follow us Discovery: Research at Princeton is produced by the Office of the Dean for Research Office of the Dean for Research New South 5th Floor Princeton, New Jersey 08544 T 609-258-5500 F 609-258-5599 dfr@princeton.edu Browse by discipline, department, funding agency, student status, and other categories. Browse by discipline, department, funding agency, student status, and other categories. Select Category 2012 (45) 2013 (36) 2014-15 (42) 2015-16 (39) 2016-17 (32) 2017-18 (34) 2018-19 (34) 2020 (28) 2021 (22) 2022 (19) Alumni (11) Annual Report 2012 (1) Annual Report 2013 (1) Annual Report 2014 (1) Annual Report 2017 (1) Annual Report 2018 (1) Annual Report 2019 (1) Annual Report 2020 (1) Annual Report 2022 (1) Architecture (2) Awards 2012 (8) Awards 2014 (6) Awards 2016 (6) Awards 2017 (5) Awards 2018 (7) Awards 2019-20 (2) Awards 2022 (2) Blog (23) Books 2012 (7) Books 2013 (6) Books 2014 (6) Books 2015 (6) Books 2016 (6) Books 2017 (6) Books 2018 (6) Books 2020 (6) Books 2021 (6) Books 2022 (6) Briefs 2013 (12) Briefs 2014 (6) Briefs 2015 (5) Briefs 2016 (4) Briefs 2017 (5) Briefs 2018 (4) Briefs 2020 (7) Briefs 2021 (7) Briefs 2022 (4) Campus a Lab (1) COVID-19 (7) Credits 2012 (1) Engineering (63) Andlinger Center for Energy and the Environment (11) Chemical and Biological Engineering (14) Civil and Environmental Engineering (11) Computer Science (15) Electrical Engineering (12) Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering (12) Mid-Infrared Technologies for Health and the Environment (MIRTHE) (1) Operational Research and Finance Engineering (4) Princeton Urban Imagination Center (1) School of Engineering and Applied Sciences (1) Entrepreneurship (4) Faculty Honors 2013 (8) Faculty Honors 2015 (6) Faculty Honors 2016 (1) Faculty Honors 2017 (6) Faculty Honors 2018 (7) Faculty Honors 2020 (2) Faculty Honors 2022 (1) Features 2013 (5) Features 2014 (4) Features 2014-1 (5) Features 2015 (4) Features 2016 (5) Features 2017 (5) Features 2018 (4) Features 2020 (4) Features 2020-21 (1) Features 2021 (4) Features 2022 (4) Focus 2022 (3) Funding (93) American Cancer Society (2) Blavatnik National Awards for Young Scientists (1) Burroughs Wellcome Fund (2) David and Lucile Packard Foundation (3) Eric and Wendy Schmidt Transformative Technology Fund (2) Fannie and John Hertz Foundation (1) Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation (7) Howard Hughes Medical Institute (8) MacArthur Foundation (2) NASA (5) National Endowment for the Humanities (1) National Institutes of Health (33) National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (2) National Science Foundation (51) Rutgers Cancer Institute of New Jersey (3) Simons Foundation (4) U. S. Army Research Office (3) U. S. Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) (2) U. S. Department of Energy (20) U. S. Office of Naval Research (5) U.S. Air Force Office of Scientific Research (2) Water Research Foundation (1) Humanities (96) African American Studies (9) Anthropology (1) Art and Archaeology (7) Art Museum (5) Center for African American Studies (3) Classics (4) Comparative Literature (7) Council of the Humanities (3) Creative Writing (9) Department of Music (2) East Asian Studies (5) English (9) French & Italian (2) History (21) Lewis Center for the Arts (20) Music (4) Near Eastern Studies (4) Philosophy (7) Program in American Studies (2) Program in Dance (3) Program in Gender and Sexuality Studies (1) Program in Medieval Studies (1) Program in Theater (3) Religion (5) School of Architecture (5) Spanish and Portuguese (2) Visual Arts (2) Innovation (2) Institute for Advanced Study (1) International (16) Council for International Teaching and Research (1) Princeton Institute for International and Regional Studies (4) Ludwig Institute for Cancer (1) National Endowment for the Arts (1) Natural Sciences (132) Astrophysical Sciences (12) Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences (1) Chemistry (16) Ecology and Evolutionary Biology (14) Geosciences (7) High Meadows Environmental Institute (2) Lewis-Sigler Institute for Integrative Genomics (17) Mathematics (7) Molecular Biology (26) Physics (32) Princeton Environmental Institute (PEI) (4) Princeton Neuroscience Institute (9) Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory (10) Program in Applied and Computational Mathematics (2) Psychology (7) New Jersey Health Foundation (1) News 2012 (20) News 2013 (12) News 2014 (13) News 2015 (10) News 2016 (5) News 2017 (6) News 2018 (6) News 2020 (8) News Features 2014 (4) News Features 2015 (4) News Features 2016 (4) News Features 2017 (5) News Features 2018 (5) News Features 2020 (1) News Features 2021 (3) Person (146) Faculty member (110) Graduate Student (39) Postdoctoral Researcher (26) PPPL Staff researcher (1) Staff researcher (5) Undergraduate (36) 2020 (1) Princeton Center for Complex Materials (2) Princeton Institute for Computational Science and Engineering (3) Social Sciences (45) Bendheim Center for Finance (2) Economics (15) Mamdouha S. Bobst Center for Peace and Justice (1) Politics (6) Princeton University School of Public and International Affairs (3) Sociology (6) Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs (23) Center for the Study of Democratic Politics (1) Demography of Aging Center (1) The Princeton Institute for the Science and Technology of Materials (PRISM) (3) Theater (1) Uncategorized (1) Undergraduate 2020 (3) University Library (2) Copyright © 2022 Discovery: Research at Princeton All Rights Reserved. Catch Kathmandu by Catch Themes Scroll Up Loading Comments... You must be logged in to post a comment. Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel Post was not sent - check your email addresses! Email check failed, please try again Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.