Skip to main content The Ohio State University Help BuckeyeLink Map Find People Webmail Search Ohio State Logo link to homepage Search the site Open site search Go to site search Site Navigation Menu About Discovery Themes Initiative Provost's Lecturer Program Focus Areas Brain Injury Food and AgriCultural Transformation (InFACT) Foods for Health Global Arts + Humanities Infectious Diseases Materials & Manufacturing for Sustainability Sustainable and Resilient Economy Translational Data Analytics News & Announcements News Careers Open Positions Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Discover Columbus Resources Faculty Resources Discovery Themes Discovery at Ohio State Accelerating Discovery, Solving Complex Problems Discovery at Ohio State is the way in which we connect diverse ideas and people across disciplines and communities. It's the way that our outstanding faculty, devoted university campuses, and engaged partners connect to form and scale teams that translate knowledge into solutions. It is a passion to ask questions yet to be asked and tackle problems yet to be solved. The Discovery Themes Initiative embodies this attitude. Building on the full strength of Ohio State's teaching and research, with the support of the Office of Research, we are further expanding our capacity to address complex problems at a pace and scale few others can match. Chronic Brain Injury Advancing the prevention, detection, and treatment of brain injuries to relieve the human and economic burdens they cause. Learn More Foods for Health Integrating food, nutrition and metabolomics for a healthier future. Learn More Food and AgriCultural Transformation (InFACT) New thought for sustainable systems to produce and distribute food as we confront climate change, shrinking resources and a growing population. Learn More Global Arts + Humanities Breaking down barriers to meaningful collaboration and creating an inclusive culture that empowers faculty, staff and students to foster social change Learn More Infectious Diseases Toward a world free from the threat of infectious diseases. Learn More Materials and Manufacturing for Sustainability New materials and manufacturing innovation accelerating global sustainability. Learn More Sustainable and Resilient Economy Integration of science, engineering, humanities and the arts to enable a global transition to an equitable and prosperous society. Learn More Translational Data Analytics Connecting complex data sets to advance education, business, and communities. Learn More Address Office of Academic Affairs 203 Bricker Hall 190 North Oval Mall Columbus, OH 43210 Phone 614-292-5881 Fax 614-292-3658 Email Discovery@osu.edu Accessibility Donate Privacy Statement © 2022. The Ohio State University If you have a disability and experience difficulty accessing this content, contact the Discovery Themes digital accessibility coordinator at admin-oaadac@osu.edu.