Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Distance@FSU Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home Programs Why FSU? Admissions & Tuition Admissions Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Student Support FSU Distance Campus Student Guide to Learning Online Tips for Learning Online New Student Checklist Frequently Asked Questions Veterans & Active-Duty Military Proctored Testing About Us Office of Distance Learning State Authorization & Licensure Complaint Resolution University Policies Contact Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Distance@FSU Toggle navigation Home Programs Why FSU? Admissions & Tuition Admissions Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Student Support FSU Distance Campus Student Guide to Learning Online Tips for Learning Online New Student Checklist Frequently Asked Questions Veterans & Active-Duty Military Proctored Testing About Us Office of Distance Learning State Authorization & Licensure Complaint Resolution University Policies Contact Home Financial Aid & Scholarships Admissions Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Aid & Scholarships Wondering how you'll pay? From grants and work-study programs to loans and scholarships, FSU can help you identify the resources that will get your future online. The FSU Office of Financial Aid is your go-to source for financial aid at FSU, but below you'll find a few resources to get you started. Getting Started If you haven't filled out this year's FAFSA (Free Application for Federal Student Aid) form, do that first. It's a required first step for most types of aid. Grants FSU participates in grant programs at the institutional, state, and federal level. A need-based form of aid, grants don't need to be repaid. Award amounts vary and can sometimes depend on the availability of funds. Grants are awarded to eligible students. Visit the FSU Office of Financial Aid website for a current list of grants and eligibility requirements. Work-Study For students who demonstrate financial need, federal work-study programs help students earn money to help pay for school. Work-study jobs are often, though not always, on campus and are funded by the federal government and universities. More information on work-study programs can be found on the FSU Office of Financial Aid website. Loans Available to eligible students, federal Stafford loans are a form of aid that must be repaid. The loans are guaranteed by the federal government who also sets the interest rate and assesses a loan fee. FSU encourages students to borrow only what is necessary to pay for educational expenses. See the FSU Office of Financial Aid website for more information on loans. Scholarships Scholarships are awarded based on a wide range of qualifications and don't have to be repaid, making them a great way to help fund your education. Visit the FSU Office of Financial Aid website to search scholarship opportunities that fit your qualifications. title-inside title-centered 2 OFFICE OF DISTANCE LEARNING Florida State University Suite C-3500 University Center 296 Champions Way P.O. Box 3062550 Tallahassee, Florida 32306-2550 MAIN: 850-644-4635 ODL TECHNICAL SUPPORT (CANVAS): 850-644-8004 ASSESSMENT & TESTING: 850-644-3017 MORE LINKS: State Authorization & Licensure Complaint Resolution Accessibility WEBSITE ADMINISTRATOR: distance@fsu.edu Facebook Twitter © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media