Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Distance@FSU Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home Programs Why FSU? Admissions & Tuition Admissions Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Student Support FSU Distance Campus Student Guide to Learning Online Tips for Learning Online New Student Checklist Frequently Asked Questions Veterans & Active-Duty Military Proctored Testing About Us Office of Distance Learning State Authorization & Licensure Complaint Resolution University Policies Contact Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Distance@FSU Toggle navigation Home Programs Why FSU? Admissions & Tuition Admissions Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Student Support FSU Distance Campus Student Guide to Learning Online Tips for Learning Online New Student Checklist Frequently Asked Questions Veterans & Active-Duty Military Proctored Testing About Us Office of Distance Learning State Authorization & Licensure Complaint Resolution University Policies Contact Home Veterans & Active-Duty Military FSU Distance Campus Student Guide to Learning Online Tips for Learning Online New Student Checklist Frequently Asked Questions Veterans & Active-Duty Military Veterans & Active-Duty Military Rated "Best for Vets" in U.S. News and World Report, FSU's online programs provide active and former service members flexible, convenient options for pursuing a degree or certificate. FSU accepts tuition assistance from every branch of the military and extends out-of-state tuition waivers to eligible veterans and their dependents. See the Student Veterans Center website for more information on FSU's services for veterans and active-duty military. Frequently Asked Questions Does FSU honor VA educational benefits for online degree programs and courses? Yes, VA educational benefits may be applied to FSU's online programs. In addition, FSU accepts tuition assistance from every branch of the military. How do I pursue an online degree from FSU? 1) First, review our online degree programs to see if one is right for you. If a program is classified as fully online, you can earn an FSU degree without ever stepping foot on campus. Next, review the FSU Student Veterans Center's Application Checklist and submit the appropriate forms. Can I complete my Associates Degree online? Before online undergraduate students can enroll at FSU, they need to have completed 60 or more semester hours of transferable credit (as determined by the Office of Admissions). This prerequisite coursework can be completed entirely online through Florida Shines. Will I have proctored exams? Proctored exams are at the discretion of the instructor. If your class requires proctored testing, your instructor will provide information in the course syllabus. There are three types of proctored testing: on-campus testing arranged by the instructor, off-campus testing at an approved facility, and off-campus testing via online service provider. Students residing at a distance will need to use off-campus options. These usually involve a fee that is set by the facility providing the service. For more information about proctored testing, see the Proctored Testing page. Does my VA educational benefit cover distance learning fees? Distance learning fees, along with standard tuition and other fees that may apply, are covered by Post 9/11 VA educational benefits up to the percentage that the veteran (or parent of a veteran dependent) is deemed eligible by the VA. Eligibility is based on the length of time the service member spent on active-duty since September 11, 2001. Please contact FSU’s Student Veterans Center for more information. If I am active military, can I be considered an in-state student? In most cases, residency is determined by where the applicant is living a full year prior to their application date. However, Florida residency is also granted to: 1) active-duty members of the Armed Services of the United States and their spouses/dependent children residing or stationed in Florida; 2) active drilling members of the Florida National Guard; 3) military personnel and their spouses/dependent children not stationed in Florida whose home of record or state of legal residence certificate (DD Form 2058) is Florida; and 4) active-duty members of the Armed Services of the United States and their spouses/dependent children attending a public community college or university within 50 miles of the military establishment where they are stationed, if the military establishment is within a county contiguous to Florida. Does FSU accept the Yellow Ribbon program? Yes. Veterans enrolled in FSU distance learning degree programs but not living in Florida may qualify for the federal Yellow Ribbon program, which reduces the tuition to the in-state rate. Contact FSU's Student Veterans Center for more information. title-inside title-centered 2 OFFICE OF DISTANCE LEARNING Florida State University Suite C-3500 University Center 296 Champions Way P.O. Box 3062550 Tallahassee, Florida 32306-2550 MAIN: 850-644-4635 ODL TECHNICAL SUPPORT (CANVAS): 850-644-8004 ASSESSMENT & TESTING: 850-644-3017 MORE LINKS: State Authorization & Licensure Complaint Resolution Accessibility WEBSITE ADMINISTRATOR: distance@fsu.edu Facebook Twitter © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media