Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Distance@FSU Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home Programs Why FSU? Admissions & Tuition Admissions Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Student Support FSU Distance Campus Student Guide to Learning Online Tips for Learning Online New Student Checklist Frequently Asked Questions Veterans & Active-Duty Military Proctored Testing About Us Office of Distance Learning State Authorization & Licensure Complaint Resolution University Policies Contact Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Distance@FSU Toggle navigation Home Programs Why FSU? Admissions & Tuition Admissions Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Student Support FSU Distance Campus Student Guide to Learning Online Tips for Learning Online New Student Checklist Frequently Asked Questions Veterans & Active-Duty Military Proctored Testing About Us Office of Distance Learning State Authorization & Licensure Complaint Resolution University Policies Contact Home New Student Checklist FSU Distance Campus Student Guide to Learning Online Tips for Learning Online New Student Checklist Frequently Asked Questions Veterans & Active-Duty Military New Student Checklist Wondering what happens once you're admitted? Make a successful transition to online learning by following a few important steps: Activate your FSUID Your FSUID is the username you need to access most of FSU's online systems and resources and is assigned to you automatically. Your first step as a new student is to activate your FSUID. Once activated, an FSU email account will be created for you. Contact the ITS Service Desk for help. Get your FSU ID card Use the FSUCard online photo submission system to request your FSUCard. Be sure to follow all instructions provided and make your submission at least two weeks prior to the start of the semester. This will ensure you receive your FSUCard before classes begin. Sign into myFSU Your portal to all FSU's web systems, myFSU includes access to the student information system. There you can manage everything from academics to financial aid. Sign in by navigating to my.fsu.edu and entering your FSUID and password. Contact the ITS Service Desk for help. Download the myFSU mobile app The myFSU mobile app provides convenient access to campus news, alerts, course catalog, faculty and staff directory, and more. Download the app at www.fsu.edu/mobileapps and take care of your important day-to-day tasks, right from the app. Review technical requirements Make sure your computer and internet connection are what you need to learn online: Hardware: laptop or desktop computer with at least 4 GB of memory, 128 GB of storage, headphones, microphone, speakers, webcam, printer with scanner (recommended), additional hardware as requested by your instructor Operating System: Mac OS 10.7 or newer, Windows 7 or newer Internet: a reliable, high-speed internet connection like DSL, cable, or WiFi (see speed recommendations below) Software: latest version of Mozilla Firefox or Google Chrome, virus protection software, Microsoft Office 365 (free to enrolled students), Noles File Transfer (NiFTy) for sending files too large for email (free to enrolled students), other software as required by your instructor The FCC recommends a minimum internet download speed of 5-25 megabits per second (Mbps) for online learning. If the internet connection is shared among multiple users, more than the minimum will be needed (check your internet speed). Get set up in Canvas Canvas makes online learning possible at FSU. It is a secure place where you can access your syllabi, course materials, assignments, tests, discussion boards, course messages, and course calendars. Sign in by navigating to my.fsu.edu and entering your FSUID and password. From there, select the Canvas icon on the left side of the page: Download the Canvas Student mobile app (iOS or Android). Learn more about Canvas by reading our Getting Started: Student Edition guide. Then, take the Canvas Student Orientation Course. It's short and super valuable! If you need help with Canvas, contact ODL Technical Support. They can also help you with applications included in Canvas, like Turnitin, Kaltura, and iClicker. Register for your course(s) Once your FSUID has been activated and your course registration window opens, you can register for your courses. Before you register Review policies, announcements, and registration guides on the Registrar's website. Contact your advisor prior to registration if you have any questions about your program’s required courses or the registration process. Find out when your registration window opens. Registration opens first to seniors, then juniors, and so on. Go to the Registration Guides webpage and select the Enrollment Appointments for the applicable semester to confirm your registration dates. Once your registration window opens Once the registration window opens, you can search for and enroll in classes using myFSU Student Central. From your computer or mobile device, log into myFSU and navigate to Student Central. See the myFSU How To webpage for help. If a course you want to take is full If a course you want to take is full, contact the department or instructor offering the course and ask if additional seats can be added. You can also return to register during the drop/add window. Drop/add is an open enrollment period where all students can modify their schedules. Sometimes seats open as other students drop the course. Review and order required materials Find out what your course requires in the way of materials, like textbooks. Visit the FSU Bookstore to search by course code. You'll see a list of all required materials, including rental and ebook options where available. Explore key resources Browse the FSU Distance Campus to get acquainted with the many resources and support services offered FSU distance students. Review university policies and procedures Distance learning students have to comply with all university policies and procedures. Review the University Policies webpage to make sure you've read and understood what's required of you as an FSU distance student. title-inside title-centered 2 OFFICE OF DISTANCE LEARNING Florida State University Suite C-3500 University Center 296 Champions Way P.O. Box 3062550 Tallahassee, Florida 32306-2550 MAIN: 850-644-4635 ODL TECHNICAL SUPPORT (CANVAS): 850-644-8004 ASSESSMENT & TESTING: 850-644-3017 MORE LINKS: State Authorization & Licensure Complaint Resolution Accessibility WEBSITE ADMINISTRATOR: distance@fsu.edu Facebook Twitter © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media