Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Distance@FSU Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home Programs Why FSU? Admissions & Tuition Admissions Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Student Support FSU Distance Campus Student Guide to Learning Online Tips for Learning Online New Student Checklist Frequently Asked Questions Veterans & Active-Duty Military Proctored Testing About Us Office of Distance Learning State Authorization & Licensure Complaint Resolution University Policies Contact Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Distance@FSU Toggle navigation Home Programs Why FSU? Admissions & Tuition Admissions Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Student Support FSU Distance Campus Student Guide to Learning Online Tips for Learning Online New Student Checklist Frequently Asked Questions Veterans & Active-Duty Military Proctored Testing About Us Office of Distance Learning State Authorization & Licensure Complaint Resolution University Policies Contact Home University Policies Office of Distance Learning State Authorization & Licensure Complaint Resolution University Policies University Policies Distance learning students, like their on-campus counterparts, are expected to respect and follow university policies. A few policies are especially applicable to distance learning students and are previewed below. When reading through the policies, be sure to follow the links provided for a full explanation of the policy. Mandatory First Class Meeting Attendance Enrolled students are required to attend the first day of class. For distance students, attending means making contact with the instructor as specified by the instructor at the start of the term. The policy applies to all classes in which a student is registered, and the university drops any student who doesn’t attend the first class meeting. Read More > Withdrawal The deadline to withdraw officially from the university without grade liability is the end of the 7th week of the semester. If you cancel your registration and weren’t enrolled for the preceding semester (non-enrollment for two consecutive terms), you need to apply for readmission. Read More > Academic Honor Policy FSU's statement on Values and Moral Standards may be found in the FSU Student Handbook and addresses academic integrity through responsible freedom. The Academic Honor Policy is an integral part of the FSU academic environment and outlines the university's expectations for a student’s academic work, the procedures for resolving alleged violations of those expectations, and the rights and responsibilities of students and faculty throughout the process. Read More > Student Conduct Code FSU’s Student Conduct Code applies the principles found in the statement on Values and Moral Standards. It operates as a vehicle for informing students about their rights and responsibilities and reinforces the development of ethical standards that make responsible freedom possible. Read More > Network Access and Use The Network Access and Use policy is designed to protect the ability of FSU’s community to access and utilize FSU networks. FSU defines and enforces standards for connecting computers, servers, and other devices to the university's network. Read More > Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act FSU respects your right to privacy. Your written consent is required in order for the university to disclose or publish any information that personally identifies you or is part of your academic record. Exceptions may be made for officials of the university, law enforcement agencies, and portions of student records for which a waiver was signed by the student. Read More > Financial Responsibility As a student, you're responsible for paying tuition and fees. If you withdraw from a class or classes, you may not be eligible for a full or partial refund depending on when during the semester you withdraw and what circumstances precipitated the withdrawal. Please be sure to read the university’s full policy for details. Read More > Cancellation of Schedule for Non-Payment of Tuition Students are expected to pay all tuition and fees by the published deadline for each semester they enroll. The university cancels schedules for students who fail to pay (or make arrangements to pay) tuition and fees by the end of the fee payment deadline. In certain circumstances, students can appeal and have their schedule reinstated. Read More > State Employee Tuition Waiver FSU accepts state employee waivers for most distance learning courses. Waivers can’t be used for courses that are funded entirely by student fees (as opposed to courses that receive state funding). An Office of Distance Learning program specialist can answer questions regarding how a course is funded. Read More > Florida Residency for Tuition Purposes To know if you qualify for in-state tuition, you’ll need to determine your residency status. A Florida resident, for tuition purposes, is a U.S. citizen who has (or a dependent whose parent or legal guardian has) established and maintained legal residency in Florida for at least 12 months preceding the first day of classes of the term for which residency is sought. Read More > Liberal Studies Requirements Distance learning students who have transferred to FSU without an Associate Arts (AA) degree or with an AA from a non-Florida institution may find it necessary to complete additional courses toward the Liberal Studies requirements, which include the state of Florida's foreign language admission and civic literacy requirements. Read More > Undergraduate & Graduate Academic Policies Students should be aware of undergraduate and graduate academic policies regarding course loads, transcripts, proof of enrollment, registration, the grading system, and transfer credit. Academic policies are detailed in the Undergraduate Bulletin and Graduate Bulletin, which can be found on the Registrar’s website. Read Undergraduate Policy > Read Graduate Policy > Graduation A graduation check is required of all students once they reach 100 hours. Graduation checks are conducted through both the Registrar's Office and the academic dean's office. Students need to apply for a graduation check at both offices to avoid a stop placed on future registration. Exemptions apply to students who have already requested a graduation check and who have prior bachelor's, master's or doctoral degrees. Read More > title-inside title-centered 2 OFFICE OF DISTANCE LEARNING Florida State University Suite C-3500 University Center 296 Champions Way P.O. Box 3062550 Tallahassee, Florida 32306-2550 MAIN: 850-644-4635 ODL TECHNICAL SUPPORT (CANVAS): 850-644-8004 ASSESSMENT & TESTING: 850-644-3017 MORE LINKS: State Authorization & Licensure Complaint Resolution Accessibility WEBSITE ADMINISTRATOR: distance@fsu.edu Facebook Twitter © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media