Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Distance@FSU Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home Programs Why FSU? Admissions & Tuition Admissions Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Student Support FSU Distance Campus Student Guide to Learning Online Tips for Learning Online New Student Checklist Frequently Asked Questions Veterans & Active-Duty Military Proctored Testing About Us Office of Distance Learning State Authorization & Licensure Complaint Resolution University Policies Contact Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Distance@FSU Toggle navigation Home Programs Why FSU? Admissions & Tuition Admissions Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Student Support FSU Distance Campus Student Guide to Learning Online Tips for Learning Online New Student Checklist Frequently Asked Questions Veterans & Active-Duty Military Proctored Testing About Us Office of Distance Learning State Authorization & Licensure Complaint Resolution University Policies Contact Home FSU Distance Campus FSU Distance Campus Student Guide to Learning Online Tips for Learning Online New Student Checklist Frequently Asked Questions Veterans & Active-Duty Military FSU Distance Campus Whether you’re in Tallahassee or miles away, FSU’s distance campus has everything you need to be a successful online learner. Explore the many ways FSU can support and supplement your online experience: Academic Center for Excellence (ACE) Search resources to help you develop the skills and habits of a successful learner, from graphic organizers and study skills tools to time management, note making, and test preparation tips. Admissions Review admissions requirements and deadlines, start your application, or check the status of your application. Career Center Explore careers in a virtual advising session, participate in a mock interview by Skype or phone, attend a virtual career fair, network with alumni and recruiters, search jobs, and interact with a career liaison in your field of study. Counseling & Psychological Services (formerly the University Counseling Center) Explore mental health resources, conduct your own mental health screening, and access our 24-hour crisis hotline. Distance Library Services Access library services designed specifically for FSU’s distance students, including interlibrary loans, affordable textbook information, and online tutorials. Financial Aid Get help applying for financial aid, calculating attendance costs, reporting scholarships, and accepting work-study awards or loans. FSU Bookstore Buy or rent textbooks, order merchandise, and take advantage of special education pricing on software, computers, laptops, and accessories. Items ship to all states and most U.S. territories. FSUCard Get your FSUCard with all its benefits, including access to free, proctored testing at FSU’s main campus Testing Center, student discounts with participating merchants and businesses, and entry to FSU events. FSU Testing Center Register to take a proctored exam at the main campus facility, at an approved facility near where you live, or online with our online proctoring service. ITS Service Desk Get help with technology essentials like FSUID setup, webmail, and myFSU – by phone, email, or online chat sessions. LinkedIn Learning Choose from 13,000+ online videos to help you learn and practice new skills. myFSU Once enrolled, manage your academic life online, from registering for classes and setting up delegated access to managing your student account and financial aid. Office of Accessibility Services (formerly known as the Student Disability Resource Center) Apply for and manage accommodations, request eligibility letters, or schedule accommodated testing. Office of Distance Learning (ODL) Learn more about the office behind Distance@FSU and its services to students, faculty, and staff. ODL Technical Support Get help with Canvas, the learning management system FSU uses to deliver and manage course content. Search articles on all things Canvas, or submit a ticket to our help desk for personalized assistance. Reading Writing Center-Online (RWC-Online) Make an appointment for an online tutoring session with one of our reading and writing experts. Show your writing, ask questions, and discuss ways to improve your work. Registrar View academic calendars and bulletins, order transcripts, and get information on registering for classes. Student Business Services Look up tuition and fees and get information about student accounts, Florida Prepaid services, and waivers. Student Resilience Project Learn to manage stress in healthy ways and increase your sense of belonging with FSU's online, research-informed toolkit. Student Veterans Center Access services for student veterans, service members, and their dependents - including how to apply and how to request benefits and out-of-state tuition waivers. Virtual Computer Lab (myFSUVLab) Access more than 30 specialty programs and apps 24/7 via any web browser - including Microsoft Office, Adobe products, data and statistical analysis programs, and LinkedIn Learning tutorials. title-inside title-centered 2 OFFICE OF DISTANCE LEARNING Florida State University Suite C-3500 University Center 296 Champions Way P.O. Box 3062550 Tallahassee, Florida 32306-2550 MAIN: 850-644-4635 ODL TECHNICAL SUPPORT (CANVAS): 850-644-8004 ASSESSMENT & TESTING: 850-644-3017 MORE LINKS: State Authorization & Licensure Complaint Resolution Accessibility WEBSITE ADMINISTRATOR: distance@fsu.edu Facebook Twitter © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media