Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Distance@FSU Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home Programs Why FSU? Admissions & Tuition Admissions Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Student Support FSU Distance Campus Student Guide to Learning Online Tips for Learning Online New Student Checklist Frequently Asked Questions Veterans & Active-Duty Military Proctored Testing About Us Office of Distance Learning State Authorization & Licensure Complaint Resolution University Policies Contact Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Distance@FSU Toggle navigation Home Programs Why FSU? Admissions & Tuition Admissions Tuition Financial Aid & Scholarships Student Support FSU Distance Campus Student Guide to Learning Online Tips for Learning Online New Student Checklist Frequently Asked Questions Veterans & Active-Duty Military Proctored Testing About Us Office of Distance Learning State Authorization & Licensure Complaint Resolution University Policies Contact Home Why FSU? Why FSU? Students enrolled in fully online programs at FSU earn the same degree as their on-campus counterparts. Student-centered Learning at a Top Research Institution A comprehensive, graduate research university, FSU ranks 18th among public universities by U.S. News & World Report and is in the top 10 nationally for National Science Foundation grant awards. In addition to a rigorous academic reputation, FSU is committed to a student-centered education. FSU boasts the best four-year graduation rate of any public university in Florida and is the number-two producer of Fulbright Scholars in the nation. Students enrolled in fully online programs at FSU earn the same degree as their on-campus counterparts. Courses Taught by Expert and Award-winning Faculty FSU’s award-winning faculty attract nearly $200 million a year in research dollars. They include Pulitzer Prize winners, Fulbright Scholars, Nobel Laureates, and Guggenheim and National Endowment for the Humanities fellows. When you enroll in an online program at FSU, you learn from the same renowned faculty who teach FSU’s on-campus courses. When you enroll in an online program at FSU, you’ll be learning from the same renowned faculty who teach FSU’s on-campus courses. A Focus on Connection While online students may not interact with their peers and instructors exactly the way their on-campus counterparts do, they can create connections and build a successful learning community. At FSU, colleges and departments strive to foster connections that engage and support students in their online experience. Some organize study groups by geographic location, some livestream events, others host real-time forums for asking questions and interacting with peers, and some require a campus visit designed to create vital connections between students. Regardless of your distance, FSU is ready to support your learning and help you succeed. Student Support FSU’s online students have access to a broad range of resources and specialized services to make learning online more convenient. Academic advising Career advising Academic tutoring Skill building and time management assistance Library services Online mentoring Online readiness and orientation programs Systems to identify and support at-risk online students Student disability support and resources Veterans services Technical support Virtual computer lab with access to 30+ software applications Encrypted cloud-based storage and backup for up to 5 TB of files Software courses and tutorials Flexible Delivery Methods To leverage the best of online learning, FSU’s colleges and departments offer synchronous and asynchronous learning formats, as well as a mix of both. Synchronous learning provides students a chance to engage with course content and peers in real time, helping foster connections important to online student success. Asynchronous learning, because it can be done no matter the time, provides convenience and flexibility, especially for students balancing work or family commitments alongside classes. FSU extends out-of-state tuition waivers to eligible veterans and their dependents. A Military and Veteran-friendly Education Rated “Best for Vets” in Military Times and U.S. News and World Report, FSU’s online programs provide active and former service members flexible, convenient options for pursuing a degree or certificate. FSU accepts tuition assistance from every branch of the military and extends out-of-state tuition waivers to eligible veterans and their dependents. See our Veterans and Active Duty Military page for more. title-inside title-centered 2 OFFICE OF DISTANCE LEARNING Florida State University Suite C-3500 University Center 296 Champions Way P.O. Box 3062550 Tallahassee, Florida 32306-2550 MAIN: 850-644-4635 ODL TECHNICAL SUPPORT (CANVAS): 850-644-8004 ASSESSMENT & TESTING: 850-644-3017 MORE LINKS: State Authorization & Licensure Complaint Resolution Accessibility WEBSITE ADMINISTRATOR: distance@fsu.edu Facebook Twitter © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media