Skip to Content Diversity and Inclusion Open Close primary navigation Search Search AboutExpand Collapse section Mission and Vision Statement Core Values and Guiding Principles Campus Demographics History of Inclusion Committees and Workgroups ServicesExpand Collapse section Accessibility Services Educational Training and Programming 119 Euclid Affinity Groups ResourcesExpand Collapse section Resource Center Inclusion Policies Diversity and Inclusion Commitments Land Acknowledgment Statement DACA/Undocumented Students AcademicsExpand Collapse section Degree Programs Schools and Colleges News Events Contact Search Search Home Resources Resource Center Featured Content Checklist for Planning Inclusive Events at Syracuse University Link Syracuse University is an inclusive community. Our varied services not only accommodate individuals with… Read More » Making Your Presentations Inclusive: Big Responsibilities and Little Tricks for Accessibility Link The “Making Your Presentations Inclusive” training, provided by the accommodation specialist and ADA coordinator… Read More » Therapist Checklist Link A guide created by one of our Barnes Center counselors to help you select… Read More » Blogs Judaism Fundamentals Link A primer for those who want to understand some fundamental underpinnings of the Jewish faith and culture. Read More » Make Sure Your Event is Accessible Link Tips to ensure that disabled people can participate in campus activities and the classroom Syracuse University is renowned… Read More » Understanding Basic Principles of Islam Link There are approximately 1.8 billion Muslims on the planet; on our campus alone many of our students identify… Read More » Videos Kimberlé Crenshaw: ‘Intersectional Feminism’ Link Creator of Intersectionality theory Kimberlé Crenshaw defines and discusses the impact of… Read More » Our Take: How to be Anti-Racist Link Being anti-racist requires you to actively work to dismantle racism. Find out… Read More » Who are the Haudenosaunee? Link Syracuse University sits on the ancestral lands of the Haudanosaunee. Find out… Read More » Guides and How-tos Checklist for Planning Inclusive Events at Syracuse University Link Syracuse University is an inclusive community. Our varied services not only… Read More » Therapist Checklist Link A guide created by one of our Barnes Center counselors to… Read More » Equity, Diversity, Accessibility, and Inclusion resources at the Syracuse Libraries Link Presented by the Syracuse University Libraries diversity and inclusion team presents… Read More » Articles and Stories University Makes Changes to Enhance Muslim Student Experience Link Learn the changes the University has made to enhance the experience of our… Read More » Mix It Up Program: Bringing International and Domestic Students Together Link The Mix It Up Program uses dialogue on trending topics to make international… Read More » SU Narratio Scholarship Brings Refugee Stories of Local Community Members to Life Link A&S’ Brice Nordquist oversees the Narratio Fellowship for local refugees who are transitioning… Read More » Learn more about: Bias, Racism, and Prejudice Black, Indigenous, People-of-Color (BIPOC) Disability and Accessibility LGBTQIA+ Religion © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy