Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search UC Riverside Office of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Welcome People People@UCR Equity Advisors Committees Contact Us Resources Resources for Students, Staff, Faculty & Alumni Climate Resources Learning Resources Training Resources Policies and Guidelines Complaint Resolution History of UCR DEI Efforts Affinity Groups All Affinity Groups Black Faculty and Staff Association Disability Network Latina/Chicana Staff & Faculty Group LGBTQ+ Out List Get Involved Get Involved with DEI Chancellor’s Making Excellence Inclusive Certificate Program Contact Your place for support, friendship and belonging Learn More About Native American Student Programs Helping Dreamers reach their educational goals. Undocumented Student Programs Student success starts with a strong community. Find yours here. Learn more about African Student Programs A connection to your past and your future. Learn more about Asian Pacific Student Programs Providing support, education, and advocacy regarding sexual orientation and gender identity for 25 years Learn more about the LGBT Resource Center The first of its kind in the country – welcome to your home away from home Learn More about the Middle Eastern Student Center We Listen. We Support. We Empower. Learn more about the Women's Resource Center For over 45 years we have provided a safe space to celebrate, connect, inspire and give back to the community. ¡Todos Somos Highlanders! Learn more about Chicano Student Programs Previous Next University of California COVID-19 Guidelines and Policies × Mission Statement The Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion is committed to the urgent, sustained, and comprehensive work of creating a campus climate of mutual respect and communal vision at the University of California, Riverside. This work belongs to every member of our community and includes ensuring greater representation of individuals from all backgrounds in every part of the university and keeping fairness and accessibility in higher education at the heart of our policies and procedures. We value a deep, collective understanding that an institutional and personal commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion is a true commitment to meaningful, lifelong learning. We're proud that folks from all backgrounds choose to live, learn, and work here together. Student Diversity Statistics Faculty Diversity Statistics Staff Diversity Statistics 56.6% of UCR undergraduates are the first in their family to attend college 50.6% of UCR undergraduates are eligible to receive Pell Grants No. 1 in the country for social mobility - U.S. News & World Report 2020, 2021 & 2022 UCR Land Acknowledgement We at UCR would like to respectfully acknowledge and recognize our responsibility to the original and current caretakers of this land, water and air: the Cahuilla [ka-wee-ahh], Tongva [tong-va], Luiseño [loo-say-ngo], and Serrano [se-ran-oh] peoples and all of their ancestors and descendants, past, present and future. Today this meeting place is home to many Indigenous peoples from all over the world, including UCR faculty, students, and staff, and we are grateful to have the opportunity to live and work on these homelands. Our students make a difference around the world. Help them get there. Give here to help UCR students study abroad Featured Initiatives Black Faculty and Staff Association More Information Underground Scholars Initiative More Information CINC & Cahuilla Language More Information Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 Campus Return Office of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion 3144 Hinderaker Hall University of California, Riverside Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-7061 Email: tasha.hudson@ucr.edu Find Us Follow Us on Instagram: Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel