Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity Think and Do The Extraordinary Support the Unit About Staff Contact Giving Diversity at NC State Assessment Model Reports and Surveys Community African American Cultural Center GLBT Center Multicultural Student Affairs Women’s Center Committees Connections Interfaith Prayer and Meditation Spaces Student Employment Inclusive Excellence Cultural Competence Toolkit DEI Training Requirement The Credential Inclusive Excellence Certificate Program IDI at NC State Opportunities for Faculty and Staff Opportunities for Students Programs and Initiatives Resources Equal Opportunity Accessibility, Adjustment, Accommodation Discrimination and Harassment EEO and Hiring Practices File a Report Policies Pregnancy and Parenting Title IX Video Tutorials: How to Access EOE Services Safe at NC State Get Help File a Report Complainant Resources Respondent Resources Bias Impact Response News & Events News Toward Inclusive Practices (TIPs) Signature Events Calendar Religious and Cultural Holidays Subscribe and Archives Think and Do The Extraordinary Support the Unit About Community Inclusive Excellence Equal Opportunity Safe at NC State News & Events Full Site Navigation About Staff Contact Giving Diversity at NC State Assessment Model Reports and Surveys Community African American Cultural Center GLBT Center Multicultural Student Affairs Women’s Center Committees Connections Interfaith Prayer and Meditation Spaces Student Employment Inclusive Excellence Cultural Competence Toolkit DEI Training Requirement The Credential Inclusive Excellence Certificate Program IDI at NC State Opportunities for Faculty and Staff Opportunities for Students Programs and Initiatives Resources Advocacy Opportunities Articles Associations and Networks Books DIY/DEI Curated Resources Guidance on Support Spaces Inclusive Pedagogy and Teaching Resources Building a Trauma-Informed Practice in the Classroom and Beyond Interactive Resources and Websites Media On-Campus Resources Podcasts Speaking and Writing About Diversity Virtual Event Recordings Equal Opportunity Accessibility, Adjustment, Accommodation Discrimination and Harassment EEO and Hiring Practices File a Report Policies Pregnancy and Parenting Title IX Video Tutorials: How to Access EOE Services Safe at NC State Get Help File a Report Complainant Resources Respondent Resources Bias Impact Response News & Events News Toward Inclusive Practices (TIPs) Signature Events Calendar Religious and Cultural Holidays Subscribe and Archives Giving Through your generous support, we work to create a more open and welcoming NC State for all. Your Gift Matters Support OIED Help the Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity work towards creating a well-rounded campus. $ Give Now OIED helps foster an inclusive, accessible and diverse university through a broad array of programs, services and events, but we do not do our work alone. We depend on friends and allies, locally, nationally and globally. You can contribute to a variety of special funds for OIED. These include: the Diversity and Equity Fund (right), African American Cultural Center, GLBT Center, Multicultural Affairs and the Women’s Center. You can also support our mission by volunteering in one of our centers or for one of our initiatives. Give by payroll deduction: NC State Employees may use the Payroll Deduction Form. Impact Stories More Suddenly, Sharp Focus on the Work of Ibram X. Kendi Many in NC State’s campus community had never heard of Ibram X. Kendi before he came to speak at NC State’s 2020 Martin Luther King Jr. Campus Commemoration in Stewart Theatre in January. Continue reading Alum Tyler Allen Reflects on His Time with Multicultural Student Affairs NC State’s Black Alumni Society commemorated 40 years since its founding with an anniversary gala during NC State’s 2019 Red and White Week. Continue reading COVID-19’s Unique Impacts on Survivors of Interpersonal Violence While the Women’s Center continues to support an increased number of survivors during the pandemic, we are also in need of your support so that we can provide the critical emergency funding survivors need. Continue reading How You Make a Difference More Info Learn more about OIED and diversity around campus by subscribing to our Diversity Digest digital newsletter. Subscribe When you give to OIED, you impact the entire campus community. Your partnership gives us the ability to facilitate efforts to ensure equity and opportunity, increase awareness of diversity issues through education, and strengthen relationships across diverse groups. Here are just a few goals your gift helps accomplish. Through giving, we can: cultivate a community in which individuals demonstrate respect toward one another; Connect with Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn facilitate campus efforts to increase participation, retention, and success of students, faculty, and staff from historically underrepresented groups; ensure that NC State is an equitable and inclusive environment, one that is free from prohibited discrimination and harassment; provide effective awareness and enrichment programming to the NC State community; and provide a unified, campus-wide approach to ensure that students, faculty and staff learn and work within a campus defined by the best practices in equity, diversity, and inclusion. Give to the African American Cultural Center Give to the GLBT Center Give to Multicultural Student Affairs Give to the Women's Center 40% Increase We’ve seen great growth in the number of Building Future Faculty applicants, hosted by thirty-three campus departments. Get in Touch We’re committed to partnering with you to achieve diversity and equity goals benefiting the entire NC State community. Get to know us a little better; we’re happy to work together and answer your questions. Subscribe to our newsletter Meet our team Contact us 702 Participants This past year, our National Coalition Building Institute team members facilitated twenty-seven workshops for 702 participants. Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity Winslow Hall, Campus Box 7530 Raleigh, NC 27695-7530 Staff Directory Annual Report Contact Us Website Feedback Giving Accessibility Privacy Policies Request Faculty and Staff Training Request Student Training Campus Map © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.