Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University Diversity & Multicultural Affairs Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About People/Contact Diversity in Providence Partnerships Campus Climate Survey History Our Programs Brown Advocates for Social Change and Equity (BASCE) MEDSTEP Diversity Fellowship Program Our Community Faculty Medical Students Trainees Pre-Med & Pre-Health Students Medical Student Initiatives News & Events Search Diversity & Multicultural Affairs News & Events A compilation of important information and resources to keep you informed and help you get involved. News & Events A compilation of important information and resources to keep you informed and help you get involved. Diversity in Medicine Virtual Residency Recruitment Fair The Office of Diversity and Multicultural Affairs in The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University is hosting a Diversity in Medicine Virtual Residency Recruitment Fair for fourth-year medical students on Saturday, August 7, 2021 from 10am-2pm. Visit the recruitment fair's website to see the list of participating programs. Virtual Residency Recruitment Fair https://www.youtube.com/embed/9J-SnxmJAeo The Warren Alpert Medical School Chapter of the Student National Medical Association (SNMA), in collaboration with the Lifestyle Medicine Interest Group, is hosting an (HGI). Higher Ground International is a local NGO that provides resources and enrichment services to elderly West African immigrant and refugee community members. During the COVID-19 pandemic, their Rukiya Center has been packaging and distributing food for eligible families in need as part of their “Sweetie Care” African Elders Enrichment Program. If you would like to participate individually, you can register here. Registration for this event will end November 11th. Sign up now! You can also donate to our fundraiser in place of, or in addition to, your race registration. Brown's SNMA and LMIG also invite your department to become an official sponsor of the event and further support our fundraising efforts for Higher Ground International. By making any one of the following donations, you will reserve a space on the back of our event t-shirt for your department’s name. Department Sponsorship Options: Platinum Sponsor: $1,000 Gold Sponsor: $500 Silver Sponsor: $300 Bronze Sponsor: $200 Department Sponsorship Instructions: If your department is interested in becoming an official sponsor for the SNMA/LMIG Virtual 5K event, please send an email to snma5kevent@gmail.com. Payment Methods: Cash/Venmo: @SNMA_AMS Check made payable to the ‘Student National Medical Association’ Donate via Eventbrite: https://www.eventbrite.com/e/run-for-black-lives- snmalmig-virtual-5k-race-tickets-125381438257?aff=erelexpmlt The SNMA “See Us” campaign Over the past few months, our SNMA chapter has participated in the Student National Medical Association's #SeeUs campaign, a campaign which "aims to give imagery behind the fact that racism is a public health issue in the United States." Our chapter gathered 36 Black medical students to reflect on this current moment in history, where unprecedented public health crises and mass movements have collided to shed light on all of the darkness spurred by centuries of systemic racism and white supremacy in the United States. In light of our own historic collective activism here at Brown, we decided to share all of these reflections with the larger Brown community in a special edition newsletter! News October 30, 2020 Diversity & Multicultural Affairs Medicine@Brown: Skin Deep June 22, 2020 Diversity & Multicultural Affairs Partners in Health Carla Moreira MD’08 RES’10 works to build healthier communities. May 22, 2020 News from Brown Newly graduated Brown doctor finds hope, humanity in inclusive community of students Sheyla Medina, who graduated early from the Warren Alpert Medical School, will emphasize the intersection between medicine and humanism in a Virtual Degree Conferral ceremony address on May 24. May 17, 2020 Diversity & Multicultural Affairs Mentorship Program connects faculty, trainees, and medical students The MEDSTEP program spreads the responsibility—and the love—of mentorship. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About People/Contact Diversity in Providence Partnerships Campus Climate Survey History Our Programs Brown Advocates for Social Change and Equity (BASCE) MEDSTEP Diversity Fellowship Program Our Community Faculty Medical Students Trainees Pre-Med & Pre-Health Students Medical Student Initiatives News & Events Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search News & Events Open details for News & Events Bookmark this Page