Skip to Content Diversity and Inclusion Open Close primary navigation Search Search AboutExpand Collapse section Mission and Vision Statement Core Values and Guiding Principles Campus Demographics History of Inclusion Committees and Workgroups ServicesExpand Collapse section Accessibility Services Educational Training and Programming 119 Euclid Affinity Groups ResourcesExpand Collapse section Resource Center Inclusion Policies Diversity and Inclusion Commitments Land Acknowledgment Statement DACA/Undocumented Students AcademicsExpand Collapse section Degree Programs Schools and Colleges News Events Contact Search Search Home Academics Schools and Colleges Schools and Colleges Syracuse University is known for forging new academic pathways that span schools, colleges, departments, and disciplines. The University has pioneered the teaching and study of civil rights, women’s liberation, environmentalism, gay liberation, disability rights, and Native American rights, to name a few reform movements. Via more than a dozen schools and colleges, undergraduate and graduate students can explore a variety of academic opportunities and create a highly-personalized course of study based on personal interests and career goals. School of Architecture Link Syracuse Architecture offers a professional education that is disciplinary and rooted in humanistic tradition. College of Arts and Sciences Link The founding college of Syracuse University remains at the center of undergraduate learning. School of Education Link The School of Education is a national leader in enhancing educational practice. A pioneer in the inclusion movement, the School continues that tradition through its work to improve urban education. College of Engineering and Computer Science Link The Syracuse University College of Engineering and Computer Science educates engineers and computer scientists and creates new knowledge and technologies. Graduate School Link The school oversees SU’s academic policy, graduate degree, and certificate program modification and development, and the professional development programs for graduate study at Syracuse University. David B. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics Link The David B. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics prepares students through scholarship, practice, civic engagement, advocacy, and entrepreneurial endeavors to promote the health and well-being of individuals of all ages, their families, and their communities within the framework of social justice principles. School of Information Studies Link The nation’s Original Information School, the nationally ranked iSchool continues to be a leading center for innovative programs and research. College of Law Link As part of a leading research university, the law curriculum combines a balanced commitment to scholarship, teaching, and research. Interdisciplinary programs at the College of Law partner our offerings with other schools and colleges to create innovative initiatives that cross academic barriers—thus our students gain both a sound doctrinal legal education and practical hands-on experience in the real world. The Martin J. Whitman School of Management Link The Whitman School develops entrepreneurial managers who will become leaders in an era of global competitiveness. Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs Link Nationally ranked, the Maxwell School advances citizenship, scholarship and leadership around the world. S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications Link One of the nation’s premiere schools of mass communication, Newhouse embraces virtually every known form of information dissemination. College of Visual and Performing Arts Link The center of cultural life on campus, VPA supports the creative process and professional development. University College Link Offers SU degree and certificate programs to part-time students. Flexible course formats, supportive academic advisors, and financial aid options meet the needs of adult students. Summer at Syracuse Link Part-time, full-time, and visiting students can take a variety of classes in flexible formats. People of all ages can enroll in programs to improve academic success, jump start a college career, or pursue artistic and athletic interests. More from this Section Degree Programs © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy