Multicultural Engagement Center We Are Change Search site: MEC About Our Founder Programs & Services Education MEC Course Workshop Series Agencies Afrikan American Affairs (AAA Fb page) Asian Desi Pacific Islander American Collective (ADPAC Fb page) Latinx Community Affairs (LCA Fb page) Native American and Indigenous Collective (NAIC Fb page) Queer & Trans People of Color Agency (QTPOCA Fb page) Students for Equity and Diversity (SED Fb page) Graduations Spring 2022 Black Graduation GraduAsian Latinx Graduation Contact Us Calendar & Events We Read more Welcome to the MEC! MEC Cultural Graduation Celebrations The Multicultural Engagement Center (MEC) is excited to offer our Spring 2022 cultural graduation celebrations in person. Black Graduation GraduAsian Latinx Grad Please visit the links above for important deadlines, registration, locations and other information. News and Events Feed We post all our event info on Instagram (and repost to Facebook and Twitter). Yesterday was so special. We celebrated over 800 g Congratulations to the @gscatut for another amazin Each year, we celebrate over 700 graduates from th Just a little note of encouragement from the MEC. Take a study break with MEC agency @naic_ut today! Check out these events happening this week with ME Posted @withregram • @ut_monarch 📢 Join us fo Today! April 18th in WCP 1.102 at 6 pm join MEC Ag Thank you to everyone who was able to come to the We’re SO excited for the QT Picnic hosted by MEC Registration ends soon for our cultural graduation Join MEC Agency @utlatinx next week for an educati Become an MEC Agency Officer within our Student Le Our final day in NOLA was nothing short of inspiri Cultural Immersion Experience: The Leadership Exch Cultural Immersion Experience: Leadership Exchange Get ready!! ✈️ The MEC is heading to New Orlea @tx_nphc and @utoutpost are hosting a food and clo Early registration for the Spring 2022 Latinx Grad Load More... Follow on Instagram Who We Are The Multicultural Engagement Center (MEC) is a student resource office which is a part of Student Diversity Initiatives, a unit within the Division of Diversity and Community Engagement, that supports a culturally diverse campus and helps cultivate a positive campus climate. The MEC houses six student-run agencies, provides leadership development opportunities, presents peer-facilitated social justice and education trainings, offers a number of support services to student organizations, and hosts community outreach programs such as culturally relevant campus tours and student panels. For many students, the MEC is a great place to access resources and for others, it is a home away from home. Our History Originally named the Minority Information Center, the MEC was established by students in 1988 as an agency of Student Government (SG) to support Black and Latino students. During the early 1990s, the Center expanded its bylaws to include Native American and Asian American students. In 1998, the Center became part of the Office of Student Affairs and two full-time staff members were hired to oversee the office’s operations. In addition to administrative changes, the Center added a new agency, Students for Equity & Diversity and changed its name to the Multicultural Information Center to better reflect the expanded mission, which included resources for students who were not considered to be “minorities.” In 2007, the Center became part of the Division of Diversity and Community Engagement which was created under the direction of President William Powers to foster a more inclusive climate on campus. In 2009, the Center added a new student agency, Queer People of Color and Allies. In January 2011, the Center relocated to its current space in the newly built Student Activity Center in the heart of campus. Along with the move, the Center adopted a new name, the Multicultural Engagement Center, to better reflect its evolving mission. The MEC continues to serve as a resource for students of color at The University of Texas at Austin as well as empowers them to be the agents of social change. Student Support Services and Resources Students can call Student Emergency Services at 512-471-5017 with emergency food needs or fill out this request form (requires UT EID to access): https://bit.ly/2vGpg8m UT Counseling and Mental Health Center’s Crisis Line (512-471-2255) will continue to operate 24/7; during regular business hours (M-F, 8-5), students seeking CMHC services or who are experiencing a crisis should call 512-471-3515 and choose option 3. To get more information about applying to the GSC Crisis Fund, email gsc@austin.utexas.edu. Dean Reagins-Lilly’s resource list: https://studentaffairs.utexas.edu/working-through-these-remote-days-ah College Student Resources for Covid-19 COVID-19 Updates UT Austin has made modifications to university operations to help slow the spread of COVID-19 through the rest of the spring semester. Staff are available for virtual one on one meetings. Please view the Contact Us page to set up an appt via Calendly. During regular business hours (M-F, 8:30-5), MEC staff can also be reached via email. Follow Us Support MEC Please consider making a donation to the MEC. Thank you. Donate Now HornsLink © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Emergency Information | Site Policies | Web Accessibility Policy | Web Privacy Policy Multicultural Engagement Center MEC About Our Founder Programs & Services Education MEC Course Workshop Series Agencies Afrikan American Affairs (AAA Fb page) Asian Desi Pacific Islander American Collective (ADPAC Fb page) Latinx Community Affairs (LCA Fb page) Native American and Indigenous Collective (NAIC Fb page) Queer & Trans People of Color Agency (QTPOCA Fb page) Students for Equity and Diversity (SED Fb page) Graduations Spring 2022 Black Graduation GraduAsian Latinx Graduation Contact Us ×