Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Academic Affairs & Diversity Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Initiatives Diversity Heritage Months Resources Documents About the Office LDEO Demographics NSF ADVANCE Anti-Racism and Race Talk Avoiding Implicit Bias DEIA Committee Diversity Seminar Gender & Diversity Hour Harassment Awareness JEDI Award LGBTQ Awareness Postdoctoral Seminar Diversity URGE Women in Science Work Environment Survey Black History Month LGBTQ Pride Month Search Committees Scientific Staff Postdoctoral Affairs Avoiding Implicit Bias Code of Conduct Title IX and EOAA Academic Affairs & Diversity You are here: Home Resources Title IX and EOAA at Lamont and Columbia Title IX and EOAA at Lamont and Columbia Lamont-Doherty is committed to providing a working environment free from discrimination, harassment, and gender-based misconduct, and to fostering a nurturing and vibrant community founded upon the fundamental dignity and worth of all of its members. Consistent with this commitment and with applicable laws, Columbia has implemented policies and programs that seek to ensure that its employment and educational decisions are based on individual merit and not on bias or stereotypes. The University does not tolerate discrimination, harassment or gender-based misconduct in any form and it provides faculty, staff and students who believe that they have been the subject of discrimination, harassment or gender-based misconduct with mechanisms for seeking redress. Sexual Respect at Columbia: Learn more about Columbia’s Commitment to Sexual Respect To Report an Emergency: Dial 911 or call Public Safety at any of the following numbers: Lamont Campus: 845-359-2900 Morningside: 212-854-5555 Medical Campus: 212-305-7979 Emergency info for Lamont Campus: You may also dial 555 from any campus phone to reach Campus Security. To contact 911, you can either dial 911 or 9-911 from a campus phone. If you choose to dial 911 you might experience a slight delay (approximately 5-7 seconds of complete silence) as your call gets transferred – do not hang up. Columbia University’s Process for Reporting and Investigating Harassment and Misconduct: Lamont is expected to follow CU polices, channels, and procedures for investigating and adjudicating matters pertaining to discrimination, harassment, and any other form of misconduct. Scientists, faculty, staff, students, and administrators, who believe they have been subjected to discrimination, harassment, or any other form of misconduct, including gender-based misconduct, should avail of the channels and procedures listed below: Reporting Obligations: All faculty/ staff/ employees are under obligation to report any instance of harassment/ discrimination/ misconduct brought to their attention by any member of the Columbia community Students are not mandatory reporters unless they are Teaching Assistants (TAs) or Orientation Leaders, but reporting is highly encouraged Where to File a Complaint: The following offices are available to the Lamont community Office of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action (EOAA): For complaints about any kind of discrimination, misconduct, and/or harassment in the workplace. Gender Based Misconduct (GBM) Office: For gender-based misconduct involving students. Title IX Coordinator: To report any gender misconduct - assault, harassment, discrimination, etc. Columbia Compliance Hotline: To report any kind of unethical, illegal, or suspicious behavior, including harassment and discrimination. Reports can be made anonymously. Ombuds Office: For any workplace concerns or grievances. Note that the Ombuds Office does not have the authority to enforce action. How to File a Report: For Students: You can file a report with the Gender Based Misconduct (GBM) Office Note that GBM is not a confidential resource. If you would like confidential resources, you can avail of the following: Sexual Violence Response (Confidential) Counseling Services (Confidential) Ombuds Office (Confidential) For faculty, researchers, and staff: You can file a report with the EOAA Office. Note that if your student or any other member of the Lamont/Columbia community shares any incident(s) of harassment you are required to report it. The reporting guidelines are outlined on the EOAA website listed above. In addition, on the Lamont Campus, you can also report an incident to Lamont’s Title IX Liaisons: Kuheli Dutt (Lamont Directorate) – [email protected] Victoria Nazario (Lamont Finance & Administration) – [email protected] Note: These are not confidential resources - Lamont is required to follow CU Title IX policies and procedures. Download the Title IX at Lamont Flyer Title IX Training: Title IX trainings are now online, managed by the EOAA Office. However, additional Title IX trainings for certain groups (such as summer internships) can be made available upon request. These are conducted by the Title IX Office. If you would like to request a Title IX training for your group, contact [email protected] EOAA Annual Reports: Annual reports from the EOAA Office, outlining harassment and misconduct complaints received, can be found here. These reports provide data on a wide range of complaints received, such as race/ethnicity, sexual misconduct, gender, disability, age, national origin, retaliation, religion, failure to report, and others. Policies for the Lamont and Columbia Community: Essential Policies for the Columbia Community Gender Based Misconduct Policy for Students Non Discrimination Statement and Policy Employee Policy on Discrimination, Harassment, Sexual Assault, Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, and Stalking Anti-Retaliation Policy Consensual Romantic and Sexual Relationship Policy Office of Academic Affairs & Diversity61 Route 9W, 218 Monell Bldg. · Palisades, NY 10964 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close