Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University Diversity & Multicultural Affairs Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About People/Contact Diversity in Providence Partnerships Campus Climate Survey History Our Programs Brown Advocates for Social Change and Equity (BASCE) MEDSTEP Diversity Fellowship Program Our Community Faculty Medical Students Trainees Pre-Med & Pre-Health Students Medical Student Initiatives News & Events Search Diversity & Multicultural Affairs Pre-Med & Pre-Health Students A number of programs at Brown provide high school and undergraduate students with the opportunity to explore careers in medicine. Sub Navigation In This Section Faculty Medical Students Trainees Pre-Med & Pre-Health Students Medical Student Initiatives Pre-Med & Pre-Health Students A number of programs at Brown provide high school and undergraduate students with the opportunity to explore careers in medicine. High School Students Pathways to Medicine Program Pathways is a student mentorship program that links local high school students in Rhode Island with professional student mentors from the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University and our partner schools in an effort to enrich, inspire, and educate. Alpert Medical School students, Bryant Physician Assistant students, Johnson and Wales Physician Assistant students, URI Pharmacy students, and URI Nursing students will be participating as mentors for the 2018/2019 year. Pathways: The Pipeline Mentorship Program featured in News from Brown! Meet the Cadaver Meet the Cadaver is coordinated and hosted annually in December by the student leaders of the Warren Alpert Medical School at Brown University’s Student National Medical Association (SNMA) chapter and the Pathways to Medicine, Pipeline Mentoring program. During this event, high school students have the unique opportunity to interface with students from a variety of health care backgrounds to learn about human health and see what life is like for a student on the way to becoming a health professional. For more information on Meet the Cadaver, watch the Meet the Cadaver [Brown University] video. Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Summer Enrichment Program The Summer Enrichment Program exposes high school students from economically disadvantaged and historically underrepresented backgrounds to career possibilities in basic and translational scientific research in pathology. Students are placed in an immersive work environment within individual research labs where they can interact directly with junior and senior scientists. Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Summer Enrichment Program Undergraduate Students The Leadership Alliance Summer Research Early Identification Program (SR-EIP) MD-PhD Track The Leadership Alliance Physician-Scientist track of the Brown University SR-EIP is a collaborative initiative with the Office of Diversity and Multicultural Affairs in the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. The summer enrichment program provides rising Junior and Senior undergraduate students with a fully paid nine week internship with an MD/PhD Faculty Mentor. After being accepted into the program, students are matched with a laboratory of interest in their preferred research area noted in their SR-EIP application. Placement ultimately depends on the availability of faculty mentors and the appropriateness of the lab for a summer researcher. Accepted students receive a competitive stipend, a single room in an apartment in a Brown residence hall, and reimbursement for round-trip travel to Brown University. Students work closely with a faculty advisor on the university's main campus or in one of the hospitals affiliated with the Alpert Medical School. Participants work full-time in their research environment receiving practical training in academic research under the guidance of their faculty mentor. Additionally, participants attend weekly study group sessions, dinner meetings, and discussion groups allowing students to learn more about research collaborations and the graduate school experience. All students are required to complete a research proposal, create a poster to present at a university-wide undergraduate conference, and prepare a poster or an oral presentation of their summer research project to be presented at the annual Leadership Alliance National Symposium. Students participating in the MD/PhD track are given opportunities to participate in clinical shadowing experiences with physicians in the Providence community. Examples of previous participating specialties include Internal Medicine, Psychiatry, Pediatrics, Pulmonology, and Emergency Medicine. In addition, students participate in weekly MD didactic sessions offering them experiences and exposure to medical education and clinical medicine. Weekly sessions coordinated during the summer introduced students to the medical school application process, clinical skills related to performing a physical examination and interview with a standardized patient, an overview of the anatomy lab, and discussion panels with MD/PhD Faculty and current medical students. How to Apply The Leadership Alliance application instructions provide the SR-EIP eligibility and application requirements as well as Frequently Asked Questions. The application deadline is February 1, 2020. Interested students must ensure their entire SR-EIP Online Application is received by the deadline. Notifications Begin March 1, 2020 Apply Now View the SR-EIP Brochure "On the Horizon: Applying to Medical School" “On the Horizon: Applying to Medical School” is hosted by the Student National Medical Association (SNMA) in collaboration with the Office of Diversity and Multicultural Affairs (ODMA) and the Latino Medical Students Association (LMSA) at The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. Pre-medical students from all Rhode Island and Massachusetts area colleges are invited for a half-day of presentations and workshops. Underrepresented undergraduate students will be provided with pertinent information about applying to medical school. Workshops will include information about studying for the MCAT, financing applications and medical school, the admissions process, self-care and wellness. There will also be an optional walk-through of the AMCAS application. The 2020 On the Horizon event details should be made available in March 2020. Professional Development & Event Opportunities Event Information Date 17th Annual NASPA Latinx Student Leadership Conference Friday, March 27, 2020- Saturday, March 28, 2020 Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About People/Contact Diversity in Providence Partnerships Campus Climate Survey History Our Programs Brown Advocates for Social Change and Equity (BASCE) MEDSTEP Diversity Fellowship Program Our Community Faculty Medical Students Trainees Pre-Med & Pre-Health Students Medical Student Initiatives News & Events Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Pre-Med & Pre-Health Students Open details for Pre-Med & Pre-Health Students Bookmark this Page