Skip to main content Search: Go Search context Search Filters: This Site Cornell Utility Navigation Giving Leadership Report an Incident Search Cornell University Diversity and Inclusion Main Navigation Our Story Institutional Initiatives 2017-2018 Recommendations Our Historic Commitment News Events Belonging at Cornell Belonging at Cornell News Sense of Belonging Fairness Net Promoter Score Turnover Rates Proportionate Hiring Rate Survey Results Survey Results (Accessible Alternative) Innovation Grants Belonging at Cornell News Archive Our Community Anti-Racism Resources DEI Celebration Resources Student & Post Doc Faculty Resources Staff Resources LGBTQ Staff & Faculty Trans Inclusion at Cornell Trans Inclusion Recommended Practices Gender Inclusive Pronouns Alumni, Parents & Friends Our Commitments Diversity Leadership at Cornell About PADE DIB Inclusive Excellence Network Inclusive Excellence Podcast Episode Archive Inclusive Excellence Summit Inclusive Excellence Academy Upcoming Seminars List of Previous Seminars Bias Reporting at Cornell For Students For Faculty/Staff Equal Opportunity & Affirmative Action Disability Access Accessible Red Runner Transportation Workplace Accommodations Gender Equity & Title IX Restroom & Facilities Guidelines Supplier Diversity More in this section Our Commitments Diversity Leadership at Cornell About PADE DIB Inclusive Excellence Network Inclusive Excellence Podcast Episode Archive Inclusive Excellence Summit Inclusive Excellence Academy Upcoming Seminars List of Previous Seminars Bias Reporting at Cornell For Students For Faculty/Staff Equal Opportunity & Affirmative Action Disability Access Accessible Red Runner Transportation Workplace Accommodations Gender Equity & Title IX Restroom & Facilities Guidelines Supplier Diversity Home Our Commitments Diversity Leadership at Cornell Diversity Leadership at Cornell The institutional leadership structure to support diversity consists of three leaders tapped to represent faculty, staff, and students, respectively, and are known as the Presidential Advisors on Diversity and Equity (PADE). The new leadership team is chaired by Vice Provost for Academic Affairs Avery August who represents faculty. He is joined by Associate Vice President of Inclusion and Belonging Sonia Rucker representing staff and Robert W. and Elizabeth C. Staley Dean of Students Marla Love representing undergraduate, graduate and professional students. Project Leader, Victoria White in the Office of the President works closely with the PADE to help progress the Belonging at Cornell framework. The charge of the Presidential Advisors on Diversity and Equity: Provide strategic direction, guidance, and recommendations to the President's senior staff, the Provost's council and the Dean's council, through attending regularly scheduled meetings (at least one meeting per semester with both the cabinet and the council), and additional meetings as deemed necessary by the cabinet, council and the PADE. Advise the President and her cabinet on institutional university-wide goals and activities and metrics. Evaluate, assess and modify current Towards New Destinations framework, including determining whether re-branding is necessary and whether/how to incorporate a top-down element with the bottom-up approach and oversee same. Drive diversity communications on the diversity website, and partner across the university in diversity outreach on other outlets as well as on crises and incident response communications. Convene and create a sense of community across various university-wide groups. Create a linkage across the college and school diversity leads. College and Unit Leadership Each of Cornell's colleges and many organizational units have assigned Belonging at Cornell leads with diversity offices and professionals who regularly inform and collaborate with the PADE. For more information visit college-maintained websites. Some colleges and units maintain their own diversity councils. Diversity council resources are maintained by the university diversity leadership to support the work of college/unit leaders. Cornell University Diversity and Inclusion Contact Report an Incident Cornell University ©2022 University Privacy Web Accessibility Assistance