Skip to main content Search: Go Search context Search Filters: This Site Cornell Utility Navigation Giving Leadership Report an Incident Search Cornell University Diversity and Inclusion Main Navigation Our Story Institutional Initiatives 2017-2018 Recommendations Our Historic Commitment News Events Belonging at Cornell Belonging at Cornell News Sense of Belonging Fairness Net Promoter Score Turnover Rates Proportionate Hiring Rate Survey Results Survey Results (Accessible Alternative) Innovation Grants Belonging at Cornell News Archive Our Community Anti-Racism Resources DEI Celebration Resources Student & Post Doc Faculty Resources Staff Resources LGBTQ Staff & Faculty Trans Inclusion at Cornell Trans Inclusion Recommended Practices Gender Inclusive Pronouns Alumni, Parents & Friends Our Commitments Diversity Leadership at Cornell About PADE DIB Inclusive Excellence Network Inclusive Excellence Podcast Episode Archive Inclusive Excellence Summit Inclusive Excellence Academy Upcoming Seminars List of Previous Seminars Bias Reporting at Cornell For Students For Faculty/Staff Equal Opportunity & Affirmative Action Disability Access Accessible Red Runner Transportation Workplace Accommodations Gender Equity & Title IX Restroom & Facilities Guidelines Supplier Diversity More in this section Our Commitments Diversity Leadership at Cornell About PADE DIB Inclusive Excellence Network Inclusive Excellence Podcast Episode Archive Inclusive Excellence Summit Inclusive Excellence Academy Upcoming Seminars List of Previous Seminars Bias Reporting at Cornell For Students For Faculty/Staff Equal Opportunity & Affirmative Action Disability Access Accessible Red Runner Transportation Workplace Accommodations Gender Equity & Title IX Restroom & Facilities Guidelines Supplier Diversity Home Our Commitments Bias Reporting at Cornell For Faculty/Staff For Faculty/Staff Download an accessible format of the bias tracking flow chart. Resources Threatening Communications and External Harassment—Resources for Chairs, Deans and Directors Threatening Communications and External Harassment: Resources for Faculty and Staff Frequently Asked Questions Expand All What is a bias-related incident? A bias incident is action taken that one could reasonably and prudently conclude is motivated, in whole or in part, by the alleged offender’s bias against an actual or perceived aspect of diversity, including, but not limited to, age, ancestry or ethnicity, color, creed, disability, gender, gender identity or expression, height, immigration or citizenship status, marital status, national origin, race, religion, religious practice, sexual orientation, socioeconomic status, or weight. Why should I report a bias-related incident? A diverse community includes everyone and is the foundation for the meaningful exploration and exchange of ideas. Since its founding, Cornell University has encouraged a culture that provides for the full participation of all members of our campus community—this keeps us at the leading edge in education and in our fields and practices. The University is committed to fostering a safe, respectful, and inclusive living, learning, and working environment for the entire University community. As community members, it is important to recognize our shared responsibility to each other, and to take steps to mitigate and prevent bias incidents and acts of hate or intolerance. The bias-related incident reporting system is one step toward promoting that we, as an institution, live out these values. The reporting system allows for you to safely and anonymously report an incident you may have experienced or witnessed, receive support, and explore options for resolution. Throughout the academic year, the Office of Institutional Equity and Title IX (OIETIX) engages those involved in the bias reporting process—including the Bias Assessment and Review Team (BART) members and the constituent assemblies—to gather feedback, to propose structural and procedural changes to the Reporting Bias System, and to make recommendations on programs, policies, and ongoing educational interventions. What are some examples of bias-related incidents? Examples of bias incidents include: defacement and vandalism use of oral or written racial epithets racially-themed parties ridiculing a person's language or accent insulting a person's traditional manner of dress hate messages and symbols language and imagery objectifying a person based on race or gender ridiculing a person's gender expression Supervisor makes derogatory comments The examples listed above do not fully encompass the many ways in which bias-related incidents may occur. NOTE: Advocacy of differing political viewpoints, expression of personal preferences, interpersonal disputes, and academic-based disputes generally do not constitute bias incidents. Who can report? Everyone. Reporting bias and the resulting efforts to understand and prevent bias activity are a matter of taking part in a caring community. Anyone who directly witnesses or experiences bias activity on the Cornell campus or in an area that impacts the Cornell community should intervene in the moment as appropriate (e.g., contact Cornell Police at 911, if a crime is in progress, or interrupt the behavior in as much as the observer feels skilled and safe), and be sure to also report the incident as soon as possible. How can I report a bias incident? To report an incident, individuals can use one of the following methods: By submitting an incident report online at https://www.biasconcerns.cornell.edu/ By visiting the Bias Reporting at Cornell page By contacting the Cornell University Police Department (CUPD) at (607) 255-1111 or 911 for emergency assistance. Can I report anonymously? Yes, you have the option to report anonymously. However, you will also have the option to identify yourself if you would like to be contacted directly. Please note that in preserving your anonymity, we are limited in the conversations we can have and the actions we can take. Are all reports confidential? Information such as names of the individual parties involved are typically confidential. If a bias incident report alleges conduct that is criminal in nature, or is otherwise illegal or in violation of University policy, we are required to report it to Cornell police and/or the appropriate University official for review and action. One of our functions is to make recommendations on programs, policies, and ongoing educational interventions, and thus the general nature of reported incidents may be publicly discussed. The Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act (Clery Act) requires universities to annually disclose crime statistics, including bias-related hate crimes. This information can be found in the Annual Security Report: https://www.cupolice.cornell.edu/campus-watch/annual-security-report/ What will happen after I submit my report? A flow chart can be found in the image above. For all reports containing contact information, a member of the OIETIX team will contact you to confirm the report was received and schedule a meeting to discuss your desired outcome and explain the actions that will be taken to address the issues raised in your report. Actions will generally be educational in nature and can include an accountability and coaching conversation with the involved faculty or staff person and/or the person’s supervisor, manager, department chair or HR representative; conflict coaching; or mediation. If you choose to remain anonymous, the incident will be documented and used to consider future community education and programming. The accused may be contacted depending on the nature and extent of information provided in the report. All reported incidents are included in the Annual Report on bias activity. The reports will be presented as aggregated de-identified data. Will my report result in an investigation of the matter? Actions will generally be educational in nature and can include an accountability and coaching conversation with the involved faculty or staff person and/or the person’s supervisor, manager, department chair or HR representative; conflict coaching; or mediation. What policies at Cornell University address bias related incidents? Please review Cornell Policy 6.4 - Prohibited Bias, Discrimination, Harassment, and Sexual and Related Misconduct for more information. What is the difference between discrimination and bias-related incidents? Unlawful discrimination refers to specific conduct prohibited by law that unfairly treats people differently because of their characteristic or perceived characteristics that the law deems to be unrelated to merit. An example of unlawful discrimination would be to deny membership into a group because a person is Muslim. Bias is a preconceived negative opinion or attitude about a group of people who possess common physical characteristic or cultural experiences. An example of a bias incident, would be writing racist or homophobic graffiti on the door. Unlawful discrimination often results from bias. Bias-related incidents, however, do not always result in unfair treatment that violates nondiscrimination laws. Cornell University Diversity and Inclusion Contact Report an Incident Cornell University ©2022 University Privacy Web Accessibility Assistance