Skip to main content Search: Go Search context Search Filters: This Site Cornell Utility Navigation Giving Leadership Report an Incident Search Cornell University Diversity and Inclusion Main Navigation Our Story Institutional Initiatives 2017-2018 Recommendations Our Historic Commitment News Events Belonging at Cornell Belonging at Cornell News Sense of Belonging Fairness Net Promoter Score Turnover Rates Proportionate Hiring Rate Survey Results Survey Results (Accessible Alternative) Innovation Grants Belonging at Cornell News Archive Our Community Anti-Racism Resources DEI Celebration Resources Student & Post Doc Faculty Resources Staff Resources LGBTQ Staff & Faculty Trans Inclusion at Cornell Trans Inclusion Recommended Practices Gender Inclusive Pronouns Alumni, Parents & Friends Our Commitments Diversity Leadership at Cornell About PADE DIB Inclusive Excellence Network Inclusive Excellence Podcast Episode Archive Inclusive Excellence Summit Inclusive Excellence Academy Upcoming Seminars List of Previous Seminars Bias Reporting at Cornell For Students For Faculty/Staff Equal Opportunity & Affirmative Action Disability Access Accessible Red Runner Transportation Workplace Accommodations Gender Equity & Title IX Restroom & Facilities Guidelines Supplier Diversity More in this section Belonging at Cornell Belonging at Cornell News Sense of Belonging Fairness Net Promoter Score Turnover Rates Proportionate Hiring Rate Survey Results Survey Results (Accessible Alternative) Innovation Grants Belonging at Cornell News Archive Home Belonging at Cornell Turnover Rates Turnover Rates About the metric The turnover rate is the measurement of the number of individuals who leave an organization during a specified time period, typically one year. Turnover is costly. And with all of the recent evidence highlighting the positive impact that a diverse workforce has on an organization, it is even more costly when there is high turnover of individuals from marginalized backgrounds. Retaining individuals, including those from marginalized or traditionally underrepresented backgrounds, is crucial to running a successful organization. It is imperative that organizations focus on recruiting the best talent, knowing that the highest-quality talent comes from a diversity of backgrounds and experiences. It is also crucial to focus on methods to keep successful employees after they start. The key to retaining qualified, diverse employees is to create an environment where people can be who they are, that values their unique talents and perspectives, and makes them want to stay. Organizations that foster inclusive environments and cater to different work and learning styles tend to keep their talented people. Why turnover rates matter at Cornell University? Cornell University’s faculty and staff innovate, collaborate, and create – all crucial to the university’s success. Though a certain amount of turnover is healthy and to be expected, high or unusual turnover rates can sometimes indicate a climate concern. When faculty and staff leave Cornell University at atypically high rates, it can cause low morale and low productivity. We also lose a significant amount of knowledge and talent. Our goal is to take positive steps to reduce turnover rates so faculty and staff are contributing as long as possible and are not leaving because of their experience. This will impact our future success. Actions and Initiatives Conduct stay interviews. Try to identify and reinforce the reasons that keep faculty and staff at the university. Exit Interviews. Use exit interviews to identify potential causes of turnover. Be proactive with personalized retention plans. Create a personalized retention plan that works best for that individual. Provide an inclusive acclimation experience. Welcome new hires and transfers; provide them with a mentor, and help them build their internal network. Take steps to minimize unconscious bias. Focus on how to minimize biases when it comes to work assignments, performance appraisals, and promotions. Resources and Readings How Does Diversity Impact Employee Retention? https://smallbusiness.chron.com/diversity-impact-employee-retention-48670.html The Effect of Diversity on Turnover: A Large Case Study https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/10.1177/001979390605900402 The relation between organizational diversity and employees’ turnover behavior https://journals.aom.org/doi/10.5465/AMBPP.2017.17658abstract Executive Survey Finds a Lack of Focus on Diversity and Inclusion Key Factor in Employee Turnover https://www.kornferry.com/press/executive-survey-finds-a-lack-of-focus-on-diversity-and-inclusion-key-factor-in-employee-turnover Cornell University Diversity and Inclusion Contact Report an Incident Cornell University ©2022 University Privacy Web Accessibility Assistance