Dynamics of Diversity Courses from the Division of Diversity and Community Engagment Courses Instructors Courses Here on the Forty Acres, we value diverse people, ideas and scholarship. Our diversity makes UT Austin a fascinating place to work. With nearly 52,000 students and more than 15,000 employees, our campus is a hub for ideas and research that make a difference around the world. As employees in this dynamic, diverse environment, it is helpful to understand the perspectives of colleagues and students from different cultures and backgrounds, with differing abilities and viewpoints. That same understanding is useful in hiring and recruiting and getting the most from your work relationships. The Division of Diversity and Community Engagement and Human Resources have collaborated to offer a Diversity Education Certificate through UT Learn Courses. UT Austin employees will be able to learn more about managing diverse teams and working with students, staff and faculty from all backgrounds as well as how campus climate, Title IX, and implicit bias can affect our culture at work. Join us for one or two or all of the courses listed below. Most will be offered at least twice during the academic year. See all DDCE courses at UT Learn by logging in with UT EID. Embracing Diversity in the Workplace This course offers an introduction to courageous conversations through a structured discussion that encourages even participation and listening to maximize learners’ reflection. By teaching participants to receive others’ perspectives rather than respond, this course creates a space for understanding and healing. Instructor: Dr. Devin Walker Duration: 2 hours Registration: UT Learn (login w UT EID) Strategies for an Equitable Workplace This diversity and inclusion course uses the unique experiences of real people to explore key concepts such as identity, bias, privilege, and communication. By gaining a better appreciation for our shared experiences of difference, our shared expectations of respect, and our shared need to belong and feel appreciated, employees are encouraged to identify how they can create more respectful and inclusive workplaces. Instructors: Marquita Booker, William Nutt, Galen Eagle Bull Duration: 2 hours Registration: UT Learn (login w UT EID) Campus Climate (It ain’t the weather.) Campus climate is not about the weather, though it is about our campus environment and in some ways, it serves as a temperature check regarding experiences within our university community. Considering demographics, and beyond, campus climate is the reflection and manifestation of diversity on campus. In this interactive session, participants will learn about the key elements of campus climate and how an inclusive campus climate can result in enhanced developmental outcomes for students, staff, and faculty. Instructor: Dr. Betty Jeanne Taylor, Brandelyn Flunder Learning Objectives: Identify key elements that shape a university’s campus climate; Recognize bias incidents that can negatively impact individual/group experiences and overall campus climate; Gain insight into own responsibility and role in developing an inclusive campus climate. Duration: 2 hours Registration: UT Learn (login w UT EID) Recognizing and Interrupting Implicit Bias in the Workplace Workplace bias is not a new phenomenon. We all have biases. When influenced by implicit or unconscious bias, decisions made at work can have major impacts on every aspect of our organizations, from whom we hire and promote to whose emails we respond to and whom we mentor, for example. Biases threaten our organizational culture and diversity, which can impact our organizational health and effectiveness long term. Instructors: Binta Brown Learning Objectives: In this 90-minute training, through instruction, interactive exercises and discussion, you will learn: What is implicit bias Why it matters to understand its impact How to take actionable steps to recognize and interrupt these biases. Duration: 2 hours Registration: UT Learn (login w UT EID) Title IX Basics (2020) Join us for Title IX Basics – a comprehensive overview of Title IX at UT Austin. We will discuss Title IX, SB212, UT’s sexual misconduct policy, mandatory reporting duties for employees and dive into strategies for prevention, intervention and support around Title IX related incidents. Interactive case scenarios will help us to apply this knowledge to situations we may face in the workplace. This training is ideal for responsible employees who desire instructor-led training. Instructor: Brelynn Thomas Duration: 2 hours Registration: UT Learn (login w UT EID) Access and Inclusion – Disability in Context and the Workplace This course is designed to familiarize participants with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and provide them with the knowledge, tools, and skills to work more effectively and confidently with people with disabilities. The first part of the course will focus on developing a foundational understanding of disability and accessibility; the second half will focus more on disability in the workplace and reasonable accommodations. The course is designed to facilitate open conversation and provide an engaging learning environment through interactive activities, case examples, and discussion. Instructors: Dr. Jennifer Maedgen, Stephanie Myers, Kelli Bradley, Emily Shryock Duration: 3 hours Registration: UT Learn (login w UT EID) LGBTQIA+ 101: Definitions & Concepts OR Allyship Toolkit Part 1 In this intersectional workshop, learn and practice a series of vocabulary tools for your knowledge of LGBTQIA+ people in classrooms, offices, and conversations. Learn and practice describing the differences between sexual orientation, assigned sex, gender identity, gender expression, and romantic orientation; you will reflect on your own identities. Practice identifying – and enacting bystander intervention in – microaggressions around sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, and romantic orientation. Set your intention for inclusive language (including pronouns) for your communities and learn about existing and necessary campus resources for LGBTQIA+ people. Instructor: Quỳnh-Hương Nguyen Duration: 2 hours Registration: LGBTQIA+ 101: Definitions & Concepts: UT Learn (login w UT EID) Allyship Toolkit Part 1: UT Learn (login w UT EID) Identifying and Interrupting Sexism in Classrooms and Workplaces Workshop participants will learn about and practice identifying how sexism affects each of us and how to interrupt sexism. We will discuss what sexism is, how—in large and small ways—it diminishes women’s and femme people’s quality of life, and how different women and femme people experience sexism differently. We will talk about how sexism affects people of all genders through social expectations about gender roles and gender expression. This interactive workshop also engages participants in describing how racism, homophobia, and transphobia, and other forms of discrimination amplify and are interconnected with sexism, and then offers practice interrupting moments of intersectional sexism in your daily life. Instructor: Liz Elsen, Shavonne Coleman Duration: 2 hours Registration: UT Learn (login w UT EID) Race and Racism in the U.S.: Our Legacy This course will cover the origins and continued functioning of our unique racial identities in the structural inequities of our nation’s past and present. Instructor: Dr. Ted Gordon Duration: 2 hours Registration: UT Learn (login w UT EID) Community Engagement Beyond the 40 Acres: Become an Active Citizen As the public flagship of Texas, UT-Austin is called upon to undertake public service and to create mutually beneficial relationships with the communities around it. The course will enable students to better understand the ways that they might engage with the communities around the campus and to commit to being an active citizen regardless of their job context or role. This course provides an overview of the history of community engagement in the university setting, as well as a focus on the historic relationship between UT-Austin and the city around the campus. Instructors: Amory Krueger, Anabella Tarango, Dr. Suchitra Gururaj Duration: 2 hours Registration: UT Learn (login w UT EID) Mental Health in the Workplace This course will concentrate on the issues and key components integral to creating and maintaining a mentally healthy work environment. We will explore what employees bring with them to the workplace and what the workplace does to employees from a mental health perspective. Instructors: Dr. Octavio Martinez and Dr. Ryan Sutton Duration: 2 hours Registration: UT Learn (login w UT EID) Diversity Statement As The University of Texas at Austin strives to meet its mission of unlocking potential and preparing future leaders of the state, it embraces diversity in many forms. The university is dedicated to attracting highly-qualified students, faculty and staff with a wide range of backgrounds, ideas and viewpoints. This includes those from all races and ethnicities; first-generation college students; women; and others who have been historically underrepresented on campus. As a university with a past history of denying equitable access to qualified students, UT recognizes the profound benefits of creating an inclusive environment in which students can learn from one another. All students are better prepared to succeed in an increasingly diverse state and interconnected society when they receive the educational benefits of learning on a diverse campus. 21st Century Leadership Dynamics of Diversity is designed to lead to greater understanding not only of those with different backgrounds but with different viewpoints. Request Custom Training for Teams We would be happy to customize courses to meet the particular needs of your team or office, depending on instructor availability. Please fill out this questionnaire to get the conversation started. Thank you. Eligibility all UT Austin faculty and staff managers and supervisors interested in facilitating a collaborative workplace employees interested in creating an inclusive office culture Format case-based study sessions real-world dilemmas collaborative discussions Commitment 11 classes 2-3 hours a month a total of 23 hours © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Emergency Information | Site Policies | Web Accessibility Policy | Web Privacy Policy Dynamics of Diversity Courses Instructors ×