Skip to Content Diversity and Inclusion Open Close primary navigation Search Search AboutExpand Collapse section Mission and Vision Statement Core Values and Guiding Principles Campus Demographics History of Inclusion Committees and Workgroups ServicesExpand Collapse section Accessibility Services Educational Training and Programming 119 Euclid Affinity Groups ResourcesExpand Collapse section Resource Center Inclusion Policies Diversity and Inclusion Commitments Land Acknowledgment Statement DACA/Undocumented Students AcademicsExpand Collapse section Degree Programs Schools and Colleges News Events Contact Search Search Home Services Educational Training and Programming Educational Training and Programming A critical component of creating an inclusive environment is awareness of the issues that enhance or impede inclusivity. The following educational sessions are offered from across campus for students, staff, or faculty. Student Workshops: Link Enacting Equity Mindedness Link Presented by the Office of Diversity and Inclusion, participants will learn the difference between equality and equity, how to build capacity, and explore a personal commitment to infuse equity-mindedness into individual and organization practice. February 2 March 1 March 30 Micro(aggressions) Feel a Little Macro Link The Office of Diversity and Inclusion will work with attendees to examine the different types of, common occurrences, minimization methods, and ways to respond to microaggressions whether as a target and/or as a bystander. February 8 April 12 Critical and Brave Conversations Link The Office of Diversity and Inclusion will help participants address the realities of having DEIA conversations and examine methods to have these conversations with each other and your sphere of influence. April 19 Safe Zone Link Safe Zone is a campus-wide program provided by the LGBTQ Resource Center committed to making Syracuse University safer, more welcoming, and an inclusive environment for members of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer (LGBTQ+) community. January 27 February 23 March 29 April 25 Trans 101 Link The Trans 101 workshop builds off of the LGBTQ Resource Center’s LGBTQ+ 101 and Safe Zone workshops to offer a training specifically focused on transgender issues. February 3 March 4 April 6 May 3 Managing Implicit Bias Link In this workshop, students will learn: the difference between implicit and explicit bias, how they work, and how they manifest in our daily lives. Students will engage in activities that help them uncover some of their own implicit biases as well as receive tips for managing them. January 26 January 27 January 31 February 1 February 2 February 3 February 7 February 9 February 11 Staff Workshops Link Micro(aggressions) Feel A Little Macro Link The Office of Diversity and Inclusion will work with attendees to examine the different types of, common occurrences, minimization methods, and ways to respond to microaggressions whether as a target and/or as a bystander. February 9 March 16 April 13 Enacting Equity-Mindedness Link Presented by the Office of Diversity and Inclusion, participants will learn the difference between equality and equity, how to build capacity, and explore a personal commitment to infuse equity-mindedness into individual and organization practice. February 1 March 2 Critical and Brave Conversations Link The Office of Diversity and Inclusion will help participants address the realities of having DEIA conversations and examine methods to have these conversations with each other and your sphere of influence. February 16 March 29 April 20 Moving from Cultural Competency to Cultural Proficiency Link The Office of Diversity and Inclusion will help participants learn the five essential elements of cultural proficiency, examine the cultural proficiency continuum, and explore methods to move from cultural competency to cultural proficiency. March 9 April 6 Power & Privilege Link This workshop will explore the dynamics of power & privilege in its various forms (who has it, how it works for them, and how the misuse of power and privilege become oppression). Methods will be shared on how to use power and privilege for individuals, in support for others, and to cultivate advocacy towards a path of becoming an accomplice. (Prerequisite: Participants must attend the following workshops – ODI Workshops: Enacting Equity-Mindedness, Micro(aggressions) Feel A Little Macro, and Critical and Brave Conversations). May 4 May 11 Safe Zone Link Safe Zone is a campus-wide program provided by the LGBTQ Resource Center committed to making Syracuse University safer, more welcoming, and an inclusive environment for members of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer (LGBTQ+) community. January 27 February 23 March 29 April 25 Trans 101 Link The Trans 101 workshop builds off of the LGBTQ Resource Center’s LGBTQ+ 101 and Safe Zone workshops to offer a training specifically focused on transgender issues. February 3 March 4 April 6 May 3 Building Awareness and Confidence in Using Pronouns and Preferred Names Link This workshop will provide an overview and primer on the role of pronouns and preferred names as part of LGBTQ inclusion and cultural sensitivity. Learn more about why they are important, in a safe workshop space with open dialogue. January 6 Faculty Workshops: Link DEIA Building Blocks: Parts 1, 2, & 3 Link This three-part workshop series is designed to support participants’ exploration of a) the role that socialization and identity play in how we view ourselves and others, b) the relationship between bias, stereotype, prejudice and discrimination and c) ways to identify and disrupt various forms of microaggression that arise in educational contexts. Graduate School March 8 March 23 Transforming Hot Moments into Learning Opportunities: Parts 1, 2, & 3 Link The THM workshops illustrate how hot moments create inequity and communicate less than full inclusion of all students in the learning space. Faculty will develop a set of skills at the intrapersonal, interpersonal, and whole group level to frame the intimate conversations that happen in classrooms when discussing race, class, gender, nationality, ethnicity, religion, ability, sexual and gender identity. They will learn nine skills to transform hot moments into learning experiences that center the well-being of their students. School of Architecture April 1 April 15 April 29 College of Engineering & Computer Science January 14 February 25 Graduate School March 7 April 7 Maxwell School of Citizenship & Public Affairs January 28 February 11 High Leverage Teaching Practices in DEIA Contexts: Parts 1, 2, & 3 Link This professional development opportunity focuses on High Leverage Teaching Practices (HLTP) as a set of instructional strategies that provide clarity and expectations for the teacher and support learning and accountability in the students (McLeskey & Brownell, 2015). Across the three interactive workshops, presenters will identify 22 HLTP within four domains, Collaboration, Assessment, Social/Emotional/Behavioral and Instruction. Case studies will be used to encourage attendees’ application of the HLTPs within real-world classroom situations. Falk College of Sport & Human Dynamics January 25 February 1 February 8 College of Law January 24 January 31 February 7 Whitman School of Management January 20 March 3 Creating Culturally Responsive Classrooms: Parts 1, 2, & 3 Link The CCRC workshops support faculty in intentional development of culturally responsive instructional materials and practices that will support all students, but have been shown to be particularly effective in supporting international students in transitioning into the cultural worldview within American classrooms. Faculty will learn strategies to increase student participation and to provide meaningful student feedback. In doing so, faculty will expand their abilities to consider how students’ culture, worldview, and diverse backgrounds influence their classroom experiences. College of Visual and Performing Arts February 11 March 11 April 8 Whitman School of Management February 4 February 25 March 4 Safe Zone Link Safe Zone is a campus-wide program provided by the LGBTQ Resource Center committed to making Syracuse University safer, more welcoming, and an inclusive environment for members of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer (LGBTQ+) community. January 27 February 23 March 29 April 25 Trans 101 Link The Trans 101 workshop builds off of the LGBTQ Resource Center’s LGBTQ+ 101 and Safe Zone workshops to offer a training specifically focused on transgender issues. February 3 March 4 April 6 May 3 Building Awareness and Confidence in Using Pronouns and Preferred Names Link This workshop will provide an overview and primer on the role of pronouns and preferred names as part of LGBTQ inclusion and cultural sensitivity. Learn more about why they are important, in a safe workshop space with open dialogue. January 6 Navigating Challenges of Diversity in the Classroom Link This workshop in the Certificate in University Teaching seminar series offers an opportunity to work through true-to-life scenarios related to teaching, diversity, and inclusion. In small groups, participants will role-play reactions to case studies using a framework designed to build equity literacy. Participants apply the framework to various contexts, familiarizing themselves with its steps in preparation for applying it in their teaching practices. January 27 To request customized educational sessions, please complete our Training and Programs Request form. For questions, please contact diversity@syr.edu More from this Section Accessibility Services How to Establish an Affinity Group 119 Euclid © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy