Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Site Home Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity News Think and Do The Extraordinary Support the Unit Back to OIED Vice Provost Features People Subscribe Think and Do The Extraordinary Support the Unit Back to OIED Vice Provost Features People Subscribe Search Menu for full site navigation Full Site Navigation Call for Nominations: Chancellor’s Creating Community Awards January 6, 2022 | OIED Staff The Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity will virtually host the annual Recognizing Excellence in Diversity (RED) Event, presenting the Chancellor’s Creating Community Awards in six categories on Wednesday, April 20, 2022. The awards recognize outstanding faculty, staff, colleges, students and student organizations that have made exceptional efforts and contributions in the areas of equity, diversity and inclusion during the course of the academic year. The NC State award recipients receive university-wide recognition, a recipient plaque and a monetary award up to $500. The award categories are listed below: Outstanding Faculty The Chancellor’s Creating Community Award for Outstanding Faculty recognizes individuals who demonstrate excellence in the incorporation of diversity, equity and inclusion in teaching, research, service and collaboration. Outstanding Staff The Chancellor’s Creating Community Award for Outstanding Staff recognizes individuals who demonstrate excellence in the incorporation of diversity, equity and inclusion beyond their administrative role. Outstanding Student The Chancellor’s Creating Community Award for Outstanding Student recognizes a student who has incorporated diversity, equity and inclusion efforts beyond their classroom coursework. Outstanding Student Organization The Chancellor’s Creating Community Award for Outstanding Student recognizes a student organization that has incorporated diversity, equity and inclusion efforts to achieve their organization’s goals. Outstanding College, Organization or Unit The Chancellor’s Creating Community Awards also recognize a college, organization or unit that demonstrates a consistent pattern of commitment to the recruitment, retention and promotion of individuals of underrepresented populations. Alumni Legacy Award The Alumni Legacy Award recognizes alumni who have demonstrated a deep and abiding commitment to social justice, diversity, equity and inclusion and who exemplify NC State’s values of community, diversity, respect and social responsibility in their broader community and/or daily deportment. Watch last year’s event on our YouTube channel. Please note that OIED staff are not eligible to be nominated for a Chancellor’s Creating Community Award. Please nominate a colleague, friend, student organization or on-campus unit via the nomination form. Applications are due March 7, 2021. We look forward to reading your nominations. If you have questions, contact OIED’s Inclusive Excellence and Strategic Practice unit at inclusive-excellence@ncsu.edu. Share facebook twitter linked in email Filed Under Diversity Digest, Events, Feature, Home Page, Inclusive Excellence, News, Newswire, OIED News Tags call for nominations, Chancellor's Creating Community Awards, monetary award, Recognizing Excellence in Diversity, RED Event Other Top News In Response to the Buffalo Shootings Executive Vice Chancellor and Provost Warwick Arden and Vice Provost Sheri Schwab respond to the Buffalo shootings TIP: GLBT Advocate Program Workshops and Events GLBT Advocate Program Workshops and Events. View the Archive Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity Winslow Hall, Campus Box 7530 Raleigh, NC 27695-7530 Staff Directory Annual Report Contact Us Website Feedback Giving Accessibility Privacy Policies Request Faculty and Staff Training Request Student Training Campus Map © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.