Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Division of Institutional Diversity Main Menu In this section About us Departments Make a gift Contact Us Home Hispanic/Latinx Student Resources Hispanic/Latinx Student Resources OSU serves Hispanic/Latinx Students OSU is home to a thriving Hispanic community. Our campus supports Hispanic culture by creating an atmosphere that fosters the development of social and educational opportunities for Hispanic students at OSU. With our Hispanic Student Association, we are committed to developing social and educational opportunities for students at OSU and promoting friendship and understanding among all people. OSU Hispanic/Latinx Highlights OSU is among the Top 100 Degree Producers for Latino and biracial/multiracial graduates (2014-2019) 69% increase increase in enrollment for Hispanic students from Fall 2008 to Fall 2018 141% increase in bachelor’s degrees earned by Hispanic students from 2010 to 2016 113% increase in graduate degrees granted to Hispanic students from 2009 - 2016 Hispanic/Latinx Student Organizations OSU supports opportunities that enhance the Hispanic/Latinx tradition through campus organizations, including the Hispanic Student Association (HSA), Latin American Student Association (LASA) and Multicultural Greek Council (MGC). These organizations promote friendship and unity within the Cowboy family. OSU hosts several campus traditions to honor Hispanic/Latinx culture, including the Mr. and Miss Hispanic/Latinx OSU Scholarship Pageant, Dia de los Muertos, Flor de Canto and Fiestas de las Americas. The pageant and the Hispanic Student Association celebrate all facets of Hispanic culture and have created an atmosphere that values diversity while promoting community. OSU Opens Doors and Inspires Students First-generation OSU Alum, Casandra Salinas grew up on a small ranch in the rural Mexican town of Atolinga. Her father died in 2010, and the California-born Salinas ended up in Oklahoma City with her aunt. Despite attending three different high schools and a slew of other challenges, Salinas maintained a 4.0 GPA. At OSU, Salina’s involvement in HSA pushed her to apply for the Alliance for Minority Participation program (OK-LSAMP). Through OK-LSAMP, she started her research project on cystic fibrosis. The program opens students’ eyes to possibilities and opportunities available at OSU and all Oklahoma Alliance institutions. The National Science Foundation recently awarded a $3.9 million grant to the program, ensuring that the Oklahoma alliance will be able to continue preparing underrepresented scholars to enter STEM fields and engage in research around the world. Read more Programs and Resources Hispanic Student Association Hispanic Student Association Latin American Student Association Latin American Student Association Minority Women's Association Minority Women's Association Latino Business Student Organization Latino Business Student Organization Multicultural Greek Council Multicultural Greek Council Sigma Delta Pi Sigma Delta Pi Society for the Advancement of Chicanos/Hispanics & Native Americans in Science SACNAS Latin American Graduate Student Association Spanish Club Spanish Club Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers Oklahoma Louis Stokes Alliance for Minority Participation (OK-LSAMP) Oklahoma Louis Stokes Alliance for Minority Participation (OK-LSAMP) Latin Dancing and Cultural Club Latin Dancing and Cultural Club Minority Association of Pre-Health/Pre-Medical Students Minority Association of Pre-Health/Pre-Medical Students Minorities in Agriculture, Natural Resources and Related Science Minorities in Agriculture, Natural Resources and Related Science International Student Organization International Student Organization “OSU has driven me to dream big and know that anything is possible when you set your mind to it.” - Samuel Alvarado Garcia, a biology and psychology major from Enid, Oklahoma, an Oklahoma State University 2019-2020 Outstanding Senior. Oklahoma State University Getting InvolvedPursue your passions and interests through 500+ campus organizations and activities on campus. Miss Hispanic Latino OSU during the 2019 Homecoming Parade.Gary Lawson OSU encourages diversity on its campus and among its students.Phil Shockley Hispanic and Latino students at OSU celebrate Dia De Los Muertos 2019.Avery Fulton Kassandra Goana and Richardo Jesus Cortez crowned the Mr. & Miss Hispanic/Latinx 2020 at OSU.Avery Fulton One of the contestants during the 2020 Mr. and Miss Hispanic/Latinx pageant at OSU.Avery Fulton Junior Day 2019 at OSU.Avery Fulton Students during the 2016 Fall commencement.Gary Lawson Omar Ibarra, member of the Hispanic Student Association at OSU.Phil Shockley Gary Lawson Hispanic Students Association Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers Students participate in Greek yard show for Multicultural Greek Council and National Pan-Hellenic Council. ROTC students enjoy time together on campus. Students participate in OK-LSAMP Symposium on campus. Mr. and Ms. International OSU 2020 pose together. Maria Sol Ramirez Saenz is a Geography graduate student from Mexico, and Ashish Pampana is a Civil Engineering graduate student from India. Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©