Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Diversity & Inclusion Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home About Us Staff EDI President’s Council Strategic Plan Resources Anti-Racism Resources Resources for Students Resources for Faculty & Staff Tallahassee Community Resources Monthly Observances and Celebrations Diversity in Athletics Supplier Diversity Program Seminole Tribe of Florida Report a Situation Get Involved Affinity Groups Mini-Grant Program Programs & Organizations D&I Internship D&I Student Ambassadors Campus & Community Events Coffee Chats Lunch and Learns Training Learning Opportunities D&I Certificate National Coalition Building Institute Allies and Safe Zones Request a Training Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Dashboard News Calendar Make a Suggestion Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Diversity & Inclusion Toggle navigation Home About Us Staff EDI President’s Council Strategic Plan Resources Anti-Racism Resources Resources for Students Resources for Faculty & Staff Tallahassee Community Resources Monthly Observances and Celebrations Diversity in Athletics Supplier Diversity Program Seminole Tribe of Florida Report a Situation Get Involved Affinity Groups Mini-Grant Program Programs & Organizations D&I Internship D&I Student Ambassadors Campus & Community Events Coffee Chats Lunch and Learns Training Learning Opportunities D&I Certificate National Coalition Building Institute Allies and Safe Zones Request a Training Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Dashboard News Calendar Make a Suggestion Home Staff Home About Us Resources Get Involved Training Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Dashboard News Calendar Make a Suggestion Staff EDI President’s Council Strategic Plan D&I in the Community D&I In the News Asian Pacific American Heritage Month 2022 Dr. Maxine Montgomery named 2022-2023 Robert O. Lawton Distinguished Professor Quicklinks Make a Report Strategic Plan Anti-Racism Resources Staff title-inside title-centered 2 Renisha Gibbs Associate Vice President for Human Resources / Finance and Administration Chief of Staff rgibbs@fsu.edu Renisha Gibbs serves as the Associate Vice President for Human Resources and the Finance and Administration Chief of Staff. In these roles, Renisha is responsible for university-wide planning and administration of the Human Resources function for faculty and staff and provides leadership to the Division of Finance and Administration as Chief of Staff. In addition, Renisha serves as a key consultant to faculty, staff and students, as appropriate, throughout all levels of the University's community and represents the University's interests in community activities, regulatory agencies and professional associations. Renisha has held several positions of increased responsibilities within FSU Human Resources, most recently serving as a Director in Human Resources leading the Equal Opportunity and Compliance, Employee and Labor Relations, and Facilities Human Resources functional units. Prior to FSU, she held several positions within human resources at the Florida Department of Highway Safety. Her concentration areas include Employee and Labor Relations, Performance Management, Equal Employment Opportunity, and Legal Compliance. Renisha, an FSU alumna, earned her Bachelor of Science degree in Sociology and her Master of Science Degree in Human Resource Management from Troy University. Additionally, Renisha holds several nationally recognized professional certifications, including designation as a Senior Professional in Human Resources (SPHR) from the Human Resources Certification Institute and as a Certified Affirmative Action Professional (CAAP) from the American Association for Access, Equity and Diversity. Further, she has been certified in Campus Title IX Administration and as a Florida Public Sector Labor Relations Professional. Michelle Brown Douglas Director, HR - Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Office / FSU Chief Diversity Officer mbdouglas@fsu.edu Michelle Brown Douglas serves as the Director of the FSU Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (EDI) office and the Chief Diversity Officer for the university. Her office has oversight and responsibility for Equal Opportunity and Compliance (EOC), Diversity and Inclusion, Training and Organizational Development, and the employee Ombuds Program. A native of Pompano Beach, Florida, Michelle earned a bachelor's degree in History and African American Studies as a student-athlete at the University of Minnesota - Twin Cities, as well as a master's degree in History from Florida State University. Michelle began her Higher Education career as an instructor in the History and African American Studies departments at Morehouse College. After 5 years in the classroom, she transitioned into the role of higher education personnel management and has been engaged in various roles for more than 20 years across three states. Michelle has served as the Assistant Director of the Diversity & Inclusion office at Buffalo State College in the SUNY system, as Director of Human Resource Services at Marshall University in Huntington, West Virginia, followed by her journey to the Florida State HR team in 2014. Michelle holds certifications from the American Association for Access, Equity, and Diversity. Her areas of specialization include Equal Employment Opportunity, Employee and Labor Relations, Diversity & Inclusion, and Training and HR Legal Compliance. She is also a member of CUPA, the American Association for Access, Equity and Diversity, and the National Association of Diversity Officers in Higher Education (NADOHE). Annie Grier Senior Coordinator for Diversity & Inclusion agrier@fsu.edu Annie Grier (she/her/Ms) is a macro social worker advancing inclusion, diversity, equity, anti-racism, accessibility and sustainability (IDEAAS) in practice, research and education. She is the Senior Coordinator for Diversity & Inclusion at Florida State University and an adjunct professor at Fordham University in the Master of Social Work program, where she instructs on working with organizations & communities and integrating practice with research & evaluation. Ms. Grier is an ambassador for the Network for Social Work Management and a field supervisor for several social work schools across the country. Prior to working in diversity and inclusion, she spent 8 years doing criminal justice research and 7 years developing programs within the criminal justice system in North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Missouri and Florida. She holds a Bachelor of Arts in psychology and communications from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and a Master of Social Work, specializing in research, from the Brown School at Washington University in St. Louis. Raja Benton Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Specialist rbenton2@fsu.edu Raja Benton is a bilingual, mezzo social worker and serves as the Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Specialist for the EDI Office. In this role, she contributes to the advancement of diversity as well as equitable and inclusive practices at FSU through the development and facilitation of training and programming. Prior to joining the Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Office at Florida State, Raja lived and worked for four years in Colombia, South America, where she focused on teaching and administration of international education programs in English and Spanish. She also trained employees from various countries on topics related to language and intercultural communication and built an economic empowerment project in collaboration with multiple indigenous communities. Before moving abroad, Raja worked in Human Resources in the technology industry with responsibilities including high-volume recruitment and employee engagement. A Florida State alumna and current graduate student, Raja holds a Bachelor of Social Work and is completing the final year of her Master of Social Work at Florida State University, with a clinical concentration. For questions or comments, please contact us at diversity@fsu.edu © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media