Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University Diversity & Multicultural Affairs Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About People/Contact Diversity in Providence Partnerships Campus Climate Survey History Our Programs Brown Advocates for Social Change and Equity (BASCE) MEDSTEP Diversity Fellowship Program Our Community Faculty Medical Students Trainees Pre-Med & Pre-Health Students Medical Student Initiatives News & Events Search Diversity & Multicultural Affairs ODMA Fellowship The Office of Diversity and Multicultural Affairs (ODMA) Fellows Program is an opportunity for a medical student to develop skills in leadership, collaboration, and program development through the creation of initiatives that support the mission of the ODMA. Breadcrumb Home Our Community Medical Students Sub Navigation In This Section Brown Advocates for Social Change and Equity (BASCE) MEDSTEP Diversity Fellowship Program ODMA Fellowship The Office of Diversity and Multicultural Affairs (ODMA) Fellows Program is an opportunity for a medical student to develop skills in leadership, collaboration, and program development through the creation of initiatives that support the mission of the ODMA. The ODMA Fellow is a rising third or fourth year medical student who works with the ODMA and is supported by a year-long stipend. The Fellow works closely with the ODMA under the guidance of the Associate Dean for Diversity and Multicultural Affairs. Existing programs such as the Brown Advocates for Social Change and Equity (BASCE) fellowship and the TEAM tutoring program for first-year, low-income, students of color, and first-generation medical students are coordinated primarily by the ODMA Fellow. Current Fellow Idara Ndon MD'23 Idara is originally from the Bay Area, California and is proud to be one of four children of Nigerian immigrants. She graduated from Brown University in 2016 with a Bachelor of Science in Neuroscience. While at Brown, Idara enjoyed cultivating a sense of mentorship, support, and community in various spaces; Idara served as an academic and social peer advisor. She also connected with high school students in the community and ignited interest and excitement for STEM through preparing students for neuroscience competitions. Outside of these roles, you could find Idara singing with her acapella family, Shades of Brown- a multiracial and multi-ethnic acapella group. Prior to starting medical school, Idara worked at the Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard. She enjoyed playing a role in developing the Center of Mendelian Genomics and the Rare Genomes Project in their initial stages. When she wasn’t working or busy applying to medical school, you could find Idara recharging in the arts of music and fashion, dancing, or solo traveling through various countries (mainly eating her way through). Currently, Idara is an MD candidate in the class of 2023 at Alpert Medical School. Here, you can find her advocating for minority communities, practicing trauma-informed care, and working to make medicine as an institution more inclusive. Idara is very excited to join the ODMA team as the Diversity Fellow for the 2021-2022 year and can’t wait to see what the year will bring. Previous Fellows Gisel Bello MD'22 2020-2021 ODMA Diversity Fellow Gisel is a New York City native, raised in the housing projects of Harlem, daughter of Dominican immigrant parents, and a proud first-generation graduate. She earned her bachelor’s degree in biological sciences from the University of Rhode Island in 2013 and returned in 2016 for an informal post-baccalaureate in biochemistry. While at URI she founded "Seeds of Success", a student-run organization committed to helping underrepresented students in the College of the Environment and Life Sciences attain a holistic educational experience during their time at the University. She currently is an MD candidate, class of 2022, at the Warren Alpert School of Medicine at Brown University. There, she continues to support underrepresented students through leadership positions in the Student National Medical Association and the Latino Medical Student Association. Before attending medical school, Gisel worked as a clinical research assistant, as a medical scribe in the emergency department, and was the interim coordinator for the Coastal and Environmental Fellows Program at URI. Additionally, she traveled abroad on medical missions to the Dominican Republic, Guatemala, and Honduras to help provide medical services to rural communities. She continues to support underserved communities as a board member of the Women’s Clinic at Clinica Esperanza in Providence. Gisel is devoted to women's reproductive health, health disparities in underserved communities, and global health. She is honored to have been selected as the ODMA Fellow for the 2020-2021 year and is looking forward to joining ODMA in supporting our student body here at AMS. Angela Zhang, MD'21 2019-2020 ODMA Diversity Fellow Originally from Seattle, WA, Angela graduated from Duke University with a self-designed major, Mass Media & Cross-Cultural Perception, which explored the ways media shape us, with an emphasis on the experience of immigrant families. She lived in Baltimore before AMS, doing research in Parkinson's and becoming involved in Asian Pacific Islander American (APIA) activism. At Alpert, her interests have included refugee/immigrant health, the health impacts of climate change, sexual health/reproductive justice, and API advocacy and allyship. In her future career, Angela hopes to continue to advocate with underserved communities and to produce responsible health journalism that normalizes stigmatized topics. Radhika Rajan MD'20 2018-2019 ODMA Diversity Fellow Radhika grew up in Queens, NY and Gainesville, FL. She came to AMS by way of the PLME program at Brown, where she concentrated in Anthropology and worked at the Sarah Doyle Women’s Center and the Brown Center for Students of Color. At Alpert, her interests included reproductive justice, narrative medicine and creating an inclusive curriculum and learning environment. "It's important to realize that diversity and inclusion is every department and office's problem and opportunity to create change," she says. "The work that the ODMA does across the various hospital systems holds a lot more weight if it is done in conjunction or with the explicit support of the greater medical school administration." Ry Garcia-Sampson '12 MPH'15 MD'19 2017-2018 ODMA Diversity Fellow Ry Garcia-Sampson '12 MPH'15 MD'19 created Brown Advocates for Social Change and Equity (BASCE), a yearlong fellowship for medical students, residents and faculty members. Growing up in a rural border town in Texas, Garcia-Sampson learned at an early age how disparities in health care can affect individuals in a community. “When I was young, my mother had several organ transplants. I had a lot of exposure to the medical field from that standpoint and saw how discrimination made it difficult for some people to navigate the health care system. In part, it was what inspired me to become a physician.” Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About People/Contact Diversity in Providence Partnerships Campus Climate Survey History Our Programs Brown Advocates for Social Change and Equity (BASCE) MEDSTEP Diversity Fellowship Program Our Community Faculty Medical Students Trainees Pre-Med & Pre-Health Students Medical Student Initiatives News & Events Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search ODMA Fellowship Open details for ODMA Fellowship Bookmark this Page