Skip To Content Skip To Navigation University of Notre Dame Office of the President Diversity and Inclusion Menu SearchSearch Home Together at Notre Dame Messages from the President Initiatives Inclusive Campus Survey Policies and Reporting Train and Learn Our Stories Student Stories Faculty Stories Staff Stories Archives President's Executive Diversity Council Walk the Walk Week 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 “…we are together a richly woven, colorful fabric, and every person, each with their own background, talents and gifts, is a thread in the larger design…” – Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C., President The University of Notre Dame promotes a spirit of diversity and inclusion through academic inquiry, and programs and opportunities that reflect our foundational belief in the dignity of all men and women. We invite you to explore the stories and activities that bring life to this important aspect of Notre Dame. Notre Dame Principles of Diversity and Inclusion Notre Dame Board of Trustees’ Task Force Report on Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Stories The Rev. Canon Hugh Page appointed inaugural VP for institutional transformation and advisor to the president Published: April 27, 2022 Dennis Brown The Rev. Canon Hugh R. Page Jr., vice president and associate provost at the University of Notre Dame, will become the University’s first vice president for institutional transformation and advisor to the president, Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C., Notre Dame’s president, announced today. Read More Posted In: Staff Stories and Faculty Stories Political motivation often comes down to personal assessment of other races’ deservingness Published: March 30, 2022 Colleen Sharkey While maybe not racially prejudiced, a broad swath of American citizens nonetheless do and say things that racists do, according to a new study. Read More Posted In: Staff Stories and Faculty Stories Inaugural Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Case Competition to culminate on April 1 Published: March 30, 2022 Carol Elliott The competition, hosted by the Mendoza College of Business, takes place in Mendoza’s Jordan Auditorium and is free and open to the public. Read More Posted In: Student Stories, Student/Alumni Stories, and Staff Stories New global affairs major now available to Notre Dame undergraduates Published: March 24, 2022 Keough School of Global Affairs University of Notre Dame students can now declare a full academic major in global affairs and earn an undergraduate degree from the Keough School of Global Affairs. The new global affairs major enables students to learn how interdisciplinary, policy-oriented research and scholarship can drive constructive change.… Read More Posted In: Student Stories Inaugural Diversity, Equity and Inclusion case competition winners address wealth gap Published: April 11, 2022 Chloe McCotter The winning team’s case focused on making educational opportunities more accessible to Indiana residents. Read More Posted In: Student Stories and Faculty Stories Environmental activist Sharon Lavigne to receive Notre Dame’s 2022 Laetare Medal Published: March 30, 2022 Carrie Gates Sharon Lavigne, an environmental justice activist, will receive the University of Notre Dame’s 2022 Laetare Medal — the oldest and most prestigious honor given to American Catholics — at Notre Dame’s 177th University Commencement Ceremony on May 15 (Sunday). Read More Posted In: Student/Alumni Stories, Staff Stories, and Faculty Stories New pathway for DNA transfer discovered in tumor microenvironment Published: March 30, 2022 Deanna Csomo Ferrell University of Notre Dame researchers have discovered another way tumor cells transfer genetic material to other cells in their microenvironment, causing cancer to spread. Read More Posted In: Faculty Stories QuestBridge Scholars partnership provides unique route to Notre Dame Published: March 24, 2022 Chloe McCotter Since 2007, the University of Notre Dame has partnered with QuestBridge National College Match, a college admission and scholarship process that allows high-achieving, low-income students to be admitted with full four-year scholarships to college partners. Read More Posted In: Student Stories and Student/Alumni Stories University Statement on Diversity and Inclusion "In our commitment to diversity, we hope to reflect a global Church that is richly diverse ethnically and culturally, yet bound together in a family extending across the whole of the earth." – Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C., President Read Full Statement Features Notre Dame observes Black History Month with campus events Published: February 01, 2022 Erin Blasko The University of Notre Dame is celebrating Black History Month throughout February with a number of events. Read More Posted In: Student Stories, Student/Alumni Stories, Staff Stories, and Faculty Stories University librarian named Association of Research Libraries president Published: October 07, 2021 Tara O'Leary K. Matthew Dames, the Edward H. Arnold University Librarian at the University of Notre Dame, launched his term as the 61st president of the Association of Research Libraries on Thursday (Oct. 7). Read More Posted In: Staff Stories and Faculty Stories A Message from Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C. regarding Notre Dame Board of Trustees’ Task Force Report on Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Published: August 16, 2021 president.nd.edu Nearly a year ago I wrote a letter to the Notre Dame community announcing the creation of a Trustee Task Force on diversity, equity, and inclusion. The Task Force was appointed by the Chair of our Board, Jack Brennan, with my encouragement and full support. It was chaired by Byron Spruell, a member of the Board, and it included accomplished leaders from... Read More Posted In: Student Stories, Student/Alumni Stories, Staff Stories, and Faculty Stories Spirit of Inclusion "Consciously create an environment of mutual respect, hospitality and warmth in which none are strangers and all may flourish." – Notre Dame Spirit of Inclusion Statement Read Full Statement Home Together at Notre Dame Initiatives Policies and Reporting Train and Learn Our Stories President's Executive Diversity Council Walk the Walk Week Copyright © 2022 University of Notre Dame Diversity and Inclusion Notre Dame, IN 46556 Accessibility Information