Skip to main content Search: Go Search context Search Filters: This Site Cornell Utility Navigation Giving Leadership Report an Incident Search Cornell University Diversity and Inclusion Main Navigation Our Story Institutional Initiatives 2017-2018 Recommendations Our Historic Commitment News Events Belonging at Cornell Belonging at Cornell News Sense of Belonging Fairness Net Promoter Score Turnover Rates Proportionate Hiring Rate Survey Results Survey Results (Accessible Alternative) Innovation Grants Belonging at Cornell News Archive Our Community Anti-Racism Resources DEI Celebration Resources Student & Post Doc Faculty Resources Staff Resources LGBTQ Staff & Faculty Trans Inclusion at Cornell Trans Inclusion Recommended Practices Gender Inclusive Pronouns Alumni, Parents & Friends Our Commitments Diversity Leadership at Cornell About PADE DIB Inclusive Excellence Network Inclusive Excellence Podcast Episode Archive Inclusive Excellence Summit Inclusive Excellence Academy Upcoming Seminars List of Previous Seminars Bias Reporting at Cornell For Students For Faculty/Staff Equal Opportunity & Affirmative Action Disability Access Accessible Red Runner Transportation Workplace Accommodations Gender Equity & Title IX Restroom & Facilities Guidelines Supplier Diversity More in this section Our Commitments Diversity Leadership at Cornell About PADE DIB Inclusive Excellence Network Inclusive Excellence Podcast Episode Archive Inclusive Excellence Summit Inclusive Excellence Academy Upcoming Seminars List of Previous Seminars Bias Reporting at Cornell For Students For Faculty/Staff Equal Opportunity & Affirmative Action Disability Access Accessible Red Runner Transportation Workplace Accommodations Gender Equity & Title IX Restroom & Facilities Guidelines Supplier Diversity Home Inclusive Excellence Podcast Episode Archive Episode Archive From left to right: former co-host Anthony Sis, current host Toral Patel, with former co-hosts Sherron Brown and Cornell Woodson Click on drop-down menu below to access the description, show notes, and transcripts for all episodes of the Inclusive Excellence Podcast. You can also find the description and detailed show notes wherever you access your podcasts. Expand All Season 3 Episode 16: Season 3 Trailer Anthony Sis and Toral Patel return as hosts of the podcast with a special preview of what's to come on season three. Download Transcript Episode 17: Welcoming Polyamory On this episode, Anthony and Toral explore the topic of polyamory in the workplace with a special guest named Amanda. Download Transcript Episode 18: Weighing In on Body Size, Part I Anthony and Toral have a very brave and vulnerable conversation on the topic of body size with special guest Mia Ferraina (she/her/hers), Career Coach at Cornell Career Services. Download Transcript Episode 19: Weighing In on Body Size, Part II Anthony and Toral wrap up the conversation on body size with special guest Mia Ferraina (she/her/hers), Career Coach at Cornell Career Services. Download Transcript Episode 20: Quarantine Edition Toral and Anthony are back and creating new episodes in quarantine. Download Transcript Episode 21: Decades Apart- A Conversation on the Impact of Code-Switching This month's episode explores the complexities of code-switching and how it affects us at work and beyond. Code-switching is a well-documented term that highlights the common practice of switching languages and forms of expression in our everyday actions. We’ll be having a conversation with a very special guest- one that you’re all familiar with... Download Transcript Episode 22: Expecting during a Pandemic On this month's show, we explore what it means to be expecting a child during a global pandemic with Derrick Barrett (he/him/his), department business administrator in the Department of Microbiology. Download Transcript Episode 23: Blackness at Cornell, Part I On this episode, we launch a special series called “Blackness at Cornell" with staff member Jeremy Stewart. Download Transcript Episode 24: Blackness at Cornell, Part II On this episode, we continue the special series called “Blackness at Cornell" with staff member Anthony Bellamy. Download Transcript Episode 25: Blackness at Cornell, Part III On this episode, we continue the special series called “Blackness at Cornell" with faculty member Dr. Peggy Odom-Reed. Download Transcript Episode 26: Appreciations and Updates Co-hosts Toral Patel and Anthony Sis provide some updates and send appreciations to the most recent guests and listeners of the show. Download Transcript Episode 27: “We are not a monolith”- On Xenophobia, Racism, and Asian American Identity This month, Toral and Anthony have an honest conversation with Financial Analyst and Employee Assembly Chair Hei Hei Depew (she/her/hers) about xenophobia and racism towards Asians and Asian Americans that has increased due to the presence of Covid-19. They talk about bias, leadership, the bamboo ceiling, the model minority myth, and how to demonstrate allyship towards the community during these challenging times. Download Transcript Episode 28: A Special Bonus Episode On this special bonus episode, Toral and Anthony answer a question that Financial Analyst and Employee Assembly Chair Hei Hei Depew (she/her/hers)asked during her interview on the podcast. Download Transcript Episode 29: A Focus on Wellbeing for Working Families, Caregivers, and Teams Toral and Anthony have an amazing, intimate, and vulnerable conversation on wellbeing with a focus on families and caregivers with Michelle Artibee (she/her/hers), Director of Workforce Wellbeing. Download Transcript Episode 30: Making Meaning of Religion, Faith, and Spirituality On this show, we talk about the differences and similarities between religion, faith, and spirituality, and how we make meaning of all three terms with Oliver Goodrich (he/him/his), Associate Dean of Spirituality and Meaning-Making and Director of Cornell United Religious Work (CURW). Download Transcript Episode 31: Social Change through the Lens of Religion, Faith, and Spirituality We continue our conversation with Oliver Goodrich (he/him/his), Associate Dean of Spirituality and Meaning-Making and Director of Cornell United Religious Work (CURW). We go in-depth on how religion, faith, and spirituality can be a part of the problem- and solution- in addressing current social issues such as racism, fundamentalism, and Covid-19. Download Transcript Episode 32: Her Journey and Passion to Create a Culture of Belonging with Mary Opperman On the season three finale, we have an intimate conversation where we get to learn more about Mary Opperman (she/her/hers), Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer at Cornell University. Download Transcript Season 2 Episode 5: What’s Going On? A Hair Affair Sherron Brown kicks off a new season of the Inclusive Excellence Podcast with a new co-host, Anthony Sis, and a new segment called "What Going On?" This week, Sherron and Anthony talk about hair discrimination and their experiences related to this topic. Download Transcript Episode 6: More of What’s Going On? A Hair Affair Sherron Brown and Anthony Sis introduce a new segment called "More of What Going On?" with special guest Trisica Munroe (she/her/hers), program manager for feminist, gender, and sexuality studies and LGBTQ studies. This week, Sherron, Trisica, and Anthony continue to talk about hair discrimination in the workplace and their experiences related to this topic. Download Transcript Episode 7: What’s Going On? Veterans at Work Sherron Brown and Anthony Sis kick off the month of July by providing a brief recap of the Inclusive Excellence Summit back on June 11. This week, Sherron and Anthony talk about the benefits of working with veterans, as well as provide ways to support them here at Cornell. Download Transcript Episode 8: More of What’s Going On? Veterans at Work This week, Sherron and Anthony continue talking about the strengths and advantages that veterans bring to the workplace with two special guests: Craig Wiggers (he/him/his) and Amber Alpizar (she/her/hers). Craig is the Director of Administration in the Department of Physics in the College of Arts and Sciences. He served in the U.S Marine Corps. for 25 years. Amber is the Human Resources Director for Alumni Affairs and Development. She served 10 years in the U.S. Army Reserves. Download Transcript Episode 9: What’s Going On? Working Across Generations On this episode, Sherron Brown and Anthony Sis participate in a lively conversation around how to engage multiple generations in the workplace. Sherron and Anthony bond over many cultural and historical events and share their suggestions on how people and teams at Cornell can look across difference when it comes to working in a multigenerational workplace. Download Transcript Episode 10: More of What’s Going On? Working Across Generations On this episode, Sherron Brown and Anthony Sis participate in a lively conversation around how to engage multiple generations in the workplace with two special guests. The guests on this episode are Dane Cruz (he/him/his), Director of the Cornell Interactive Theatre Ensemble and Clayton Covington (he/him/they/them), Research Aide for the Bronfenbrenner Center for Translational Research. Download Transcript Episode 11: Beyond Borders- Where Culture Meets the Workplace Sherron Brown and Anthony Sis engage in a conversation about some of the challenges faced by international populations, as well as the benefits of hiring and working with them here at Cornell. They also share some responses to two "Question of the Day" prompts that were asked at Staff Development Day back in August 2019. Be sure to listen to the end for a special announcement as well! Download Transcript Episode 12: Do You Have An Accent?- Perspectives on Engaging the International Workforce Sherron Brown and Anthony Sis are excited to continue the conversation on supporting and engaging the international workforce with two special guests, Lily Rice and Pilar Thompson. Lily Rice (she/her/hers)is the Assistant Director of Student Services in the College for Architecture, Art and Planning. Pilar Thompson (she/her/hers) is the Associate Director of International Affairs & Professional Programs in the College of Veterinary Medicine. Download Transcript Episode 13: I, Imposter On this episode, Anthony Sis introduces their new co-host, Toral Patel (she/her/hers) to the podcast. Anthony and Toral then engage in an honest conversation on the topic of imposter syndrome and how they've experienced it in both their personal lives and professional settings. Download Transcript Episode 14: “Am I Good Enough?” Overcoming the Imposter Within Toral and Anthony continue talking about imposter syndrome and how to overcome it with two special guests: Jennifer Majka and Jessica Krom. Jennifer (she/her/hers) is the Director of Diversity and Inclusion for the Charles H. Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management and the Cornell SC Johnson College of Business. Jessica (she/her/hers) is the Associate Director of Diversity and Inclusion at the Johnson Graduate School of Management. Download Transcript Episode 15: From Law to Belonging- A Conversation with Angela Winfield On the season finale of the podcast, Anthony and Toral have a candid conversation with Angela Winfield (she/her/hers), Associate Vice President for Inclusion and Workforce Diversity. She shares some information about her upbringing and her journey into diversity and inclusion (D&I) work. She also shares some valuable information regarding upcoming D&I initiatives for Cornell staff to look out for in the next few months. Download Transcript Season 1 Episode 1: The Pilot The first episode of the Inclusive Excellence Podcast with former co-hosts Cornell Woodson and Sherron Brown. Download Transcript Episode 2: Inclusive Excellence Network A discussion of the series of programs known as the Inclusive Excellence Network. Download Transcript Episode 3: Transitioning and Gender Affirmation Introduction the Cornell University Guide to Transitioning and Gender Affirmation in the Workplace - Guests Christopher Lujan and Luca Maurer. Download Transcript Episode 4: Does Diversity Include White People? Introducing Sarah Jefferis, Visiting Lecturer in the Department of English in the College of Arts and Sciences and Mike Bishop, Director of Student Leadership in the Office of Engagement Initiatives on a conversation regarding white privilege. Download Transcript Cornell University Diversity and Inclusion Contact Report an Incident Cornell University ©2022 University Privacy Web Accessibility Assistance