Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity Think and Do The Extraordinary Support the Unit About Staff Contact Giving Diversity at NC State Assessment Model Reports and Surveys Community African American Cultural Center GLBT Center Multicultural Student Affairs Women’s Center Committees Connections Interfaith Prayer and Meditation Spaces Student Employment Inclusive Excellence Cultural Competence Toolkit DEI Training Requirement The Credential Inclusive Excellence Certificate Program IDI at NC State Opportunities for Faculty and Staff Opportunities for Students Programs and Initiatives Resources Equal Opportunity Accessibility, Adjustment, Accommodation Discrimination and Harassment EEO and Hiring Practices File a Report Policies Pregnancy and Parenting Title IX Video Tutorials: How to Access EOE Services Safe at NC State Get Help File a Report Complainant Resources Respondent Resources Bias Impact Response News & Events News Toward Inclusive Practices (TIPs) Signature Events Calendar Religious and Cultural Holidays Subscribe and Archives Think and Do The Extraordinary Support the Unit About Community Inclusive Excellence Equal Opportunity Safe at NC State News & Events Full Site Navigation About Staff Contact Giving Diversity at NC State Assessment Model Reports and Surveys Community African American Cultural Center GLBT Center Multicultural Student Affairs Women’s Center Committees Connections Interfaith Prayer and Meditation Spaces Student Employment Inclusive Excellence Cultural Competence Toolkit DEI Training Requirement The Credential Inclusive Excellence Certificate Program IDI at NC State Opportunities for Faculty and Staff Opportunities for Students Programs and Initiatives Resources Advocacy Opportunities Articles Associations and Networks Books DIY/DEI Curated Resources Guidance on Support Spaces Inclusive Pedagogy and Teaching Resources Building a Trauma-Informed Practice in the Classroom and Beyond Interactive Resources and Websites Media On-Campus Resources Podcasts Speaking and Writing About Diversity Virtual Event Recordings Equal Opportunity Accessibility, Adjustment, Accommodation Discrimination and Harassment EEO and Hiring Practices File a Report Policies Pregnancy and Parenting Title IX Video Tutorials: How to Access EOE Services Safe at NC State Get Help File a Report Complainant Resources Respondent Resources Bias Impact Response News & Events News Toward Inclusive Practices (TIPs) Signature Events Calendar Religious and Cultural Holidays Subscribe and Archives Fostering an inclusive campus community of students, faculty and staff who value and inspire personal, academic and professional excellence. Learn more In Response to the Buffalo Shootings In Response to the Buffalo Shootings On behalf of NC State University, we write to acknowledge the deep sadness, fear and burden being carried by many today arising from the horrible, racially-motivated shooting that killed 10 people this weekend at the Tops Friendly Supermarket in Buffalo, NY. We extend our heartfelt sympathy for all those affected by this horrible shooting - particularly Black and Brown colleagues, students, friends and families, and all those whose personal experiences make this particularly difficult. Read more Our NC State value of 'respect' conveys the hope and expectation that your unique expression of yourself will be valued, and likewise that you are called upon to value the same in others. Sheri Schwab, J.D., M.Ed. '97 Vice Provost for Institutional Equity and Diversity Diversity Digest Sign up for updates Email Connect On Social Media Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn OIED NewsMore News In Response to the Buffalo Shootings Executive Vice Chancellor and Provost Warwick Arden and Vice Provost Sheri Schwab respond to the Buffalo shootings #GivingPack means GLBT Center Community-Building After four years of involvement with the GLBT Center and multiple student organizations, Ward is the outgoing president of Bi/Pan. What the Women’s Center Means to Me Kayla Clark and Amanda Sheehan talk about their experiences in the NC State Women's Center. Women’s Center Welcomes New Interpersonal Violence Response Coordinator Alexis Jackson (she/her) joined the Wolfpack community as NC State’s interpersonal violence response coordinator. Program Evaluation and Education Research Internships Center Equity The Digest interviewed Callie Edwards, Ph.D., associate director of the PEER Group at the Friday Institute for Educational Innovation. What the African American Cultural Center Means to Me Kristin Russell is a graduate student who has worked in the African American Cultural Center since January 2021. @NCStateOIED April 18 #Wolfpack🐺 Join us to celebrate outstanding efforts in the areas of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at NC State on… twitter.com/i/web/status/1… Resources We invite you to explore the following links on our website and visit Diversity at NC State for a high-level overview of the university’s philosophy of what diversity and inclusion mean to us. COVID-19 Updates from OIED Community Education and Training Resources to Improve Our Racial Climate Equal Opportunity and Equity News and Events Need to Know Safe at NC State We are committed to eliminating discrimination and harassment, sexual harassment, sexual violence and interpersonal violence. We comply fully with federal and state laws and UNC System and campus policies that prohibit such acts within our campus community. If you are affected, find resources and/or file a report. Learn more Programs and Initiatives NC State builds strength from the variety of perspectives and experiences of our community. Explore our programs and initiatives to learn how you can get involved. Engage with the stories of faculty, staff and students and the diverse communities we serve. Learn about diversity initiatives for faculty, staff and students. Learn more Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity Winslow Hall, Campus Box 7530 Raleigh, NC 27695-7530 Staff Directory Annual Report Contact Us Website Feedback Giving Accessibility Privacy Policies Request Faculty and Staff Training Request Student Training Campus Map © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.