Skip to Content Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Indiana University Indiana University IU Together We Commit When Words Become Action Indiana University believes every individual deserves the chance to do their best work. Each of us, in ways big and small, has an opportunity to make a difference—to learn and to grow as part of our personal journey. Which is why we are happy to support a new student-driven diversity, equity, and inclusion initiative built on the foundation of an educational and inspirational pledge. Together We Commit is designed by students for students and asks members of this community to commit to making IU a more equitable, diverse, and inclusive community for all. I COMMIT... To be aware of the bias in my language and actions. To never make assumptions about the race, sexuality, gender, country of origin, religious belief/faith practices, ability, or socioeconomic status of those I meet. To understand and acknowledge the race, sexuality, gender, religion, age, education, ability, or socioeconomic advantages I have and use them to uplift others. To take the appropriate steps to report bias, hate, and intolerance. To never be content, to learn and grow wherever I can. To be better than I was yesterday. Sign the Pledge #TogetherWeCommit Members of the IU Community Who Have Voluntarily Taken The Pledge Note: your name will show up on the pledge wall seven days after signing. Get Involved Diversity Education Indiana University offers various educational opportunities across its campuses for staff, faculty, and students to foster a diverse and inclusive world. Involve Yourself Culture Centers No matter who you are—if you’ve landed here, you are a part of Indiana University’s richly diverse community. Involve Yourself Anti-Racism at Indiana University As the world changes, it requires us to continually reevaluate how we live up to the principles of diversity, equity, and inclusion. Involve Yourself LinkedIn Learning Use this LinkedIn learning path to see ways you can commit to a lifelong journey of self-improvement and allyship. Involve Yourself Social Media Tools You took the pledge and are now ready to share with others. Below you will find Zoom backgrounds and screen savers that can be used on your digital platforms. In addition, please visit our social media pages to access Instagram gifs. Remember to connect with others by using #TogetherWeCommit. Coming soon... Together We Commit resources Learn more about diversity Accessibility | Privacy Notice | Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Indiana University