Skip to content Women In STEM MENU Search Women in STEM (WiSTEM) Women in STEM (WiSTEM) WiSTEM History Staff K-12 Programs Girl Day TxGCP High School Camps CEO Day Camps CREATEatUT Residential Camp WEatUT Residential Camp Summer Engineering Experience (SEE) Virtual Camp Summer Learning Academy (SLA) Virtual Summer Camp Undergraduate Students Living Learning Community Support Squad Leadership Ecosystem Student Organizations Summer Externship Program Career Connections Canvas How to Get Involved Volunteer Partners Women in STEM (WiSTEM) Closing the STEM gender gap by creating an inspired & diverse community of confident STEM leaders About WiSTEM Staff Donate Partners About WiSTEM Women in STEM (WiSTEM) is closing the STEM gender gap by creating an inspired and diverse community of confident STEM leaders. Sitting within the UT Austin Division of Diversity and Community Engagement (DDCE) administrative unit, WiSTEM leads exemplary and nationally recognized pre-college and undergraduate student STEM programs with a longstanding history such as the WEatUT and CREATEatUT summer camps, Girl Day at UT Austin, and the Living Learning Community that inspire, connect, and support students in STEM majors across campus and beyond. WiSTEM’s university-wide outreach, recruiting and retention STEM programs for pre-college and undergraduate STEM students are designed to increase STEM identity, self-efficacy, and a sense of belonging and lead to increased undergraduate retention/persistence, graduation rates, advancement to graduate school, and persistence in the STEM workforce. WiSTEM History Staff WiSTEM has four full-time staff. Student peer coaches, mentors, and program assistants also support WiSTEM programming efforts. Staff Donate WiSTEM is made possible by the generous support of corporate, community, campus, and alumni partners. Contact WiSTEM for corporate partner information and ways to engage in programming and with our pre-college and undergraduate STEM students. Tricia Berry, Executive Director Donate Now Partners Women in STEM (WiSTEM) is closing the STEM gender gap by creating an inspired and diverse community of confident STEM leaders. WiSTEM leads exemplary pre-college and current UT student programs with a longstanding history such as the WEatUT and CREATEatUT summer camps, Girl Day at UT Austin, and the Living Learning Community to inspire, connect, and support students in STEM majors across campus. In collaboration with the Cockrell School of Engineering, College of Natural Sciences, Jackson School of Geoscience, School of Information, and other campus, community, and corporate partners, WiSTEM is excited to partner with YOU and other STEM role models as we create our community, expand our reach, and close the gender gap. Join us! Partners K-12 Programs Undergraduate Students Graduate Students How to Get Involved © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Emergency Information | Site Policies | Web Accessibility Policy | Web Privacy Policy