Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Site Home Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity News Think and Do The Extraordinary Support the Unit Back to OIED Vice Provost Features People Subscribe Think and Do The Extraordinary Support the Unit Back to OIED Vice Provost Features People Subscribe Search Menu for full site navigation Full Site Navigation Chancellor’s Creating Community Awards Jan 6, 2022 | Diversity Digest Call for Nominations: Chancellor’s Creating Community Awards The annual Chancellor’s Creating Community Awards recognize outstanding contributions in DEI across the university. Apr 24, 2021 | Diversity Digest Chancellor’s Creating Community Awards Honor Outstanding Efforts The annual Recognizing Excellence in Diversity Event presented the Chancellor's Creating Community Awards in six categories. Jan 29, 2021 | Diversity Digest Nominations Open for Chancellor’s Creating Community Awards Nominate an outstanding individual or group for the 2021 Chancellors' Creating Community Awards. May 1, 2020 | Diversity Digest Chancellor’s Creating Community Awards Go Virtual The annual Chancellor's Creating Community Awards honor outstanding faculty, staff, colleges, students and student organizations that have made exceptional efforts and contributions in the areas of equity, diversity and inclusion. Feb 7, 2020 | Diversity Digest Chancellor’s Creating Community Awards to Add Alumni Recognition To recognize the contributions of NC State alumni in diversity and inclusion, the Alumni Legacy Award has been added to the Chancellor's Creating Community Awards. Jul 19, 2019 Year in Review: Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity Ever wonder about all the programs and initiatives offered by the Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity (OIED)? Wonder no more. May 2, 2019 Chancellor’s Creating Community Awards Honor Six Recipients The Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity announced six recipients of this year’s Chancellor’s Creating Community Awards on April 23, 2019 in the Ballroom of Talley Student Union. May 2, 2019 Recognizing Excellence in Diversity Event Brings Community Together Two Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity year-end ceremonies merged into one large gala event for the first time this year, enabling the NC State community to celebrate many accomplishments in inclusive excellence at one time, in one place. Mar 8, 2019 Chancellor’s Creating Community Award Nominations Open The Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity and the University Diversity Advisory Committee invite you to submit nominations for the 13th annual Chancellor’s Creating Community Awards. May 15, 2018 Diversity Trailblazers Honored at Chancellor’s Creating Community Awards Chancellor Woodson and Interim Vice Provost for Institutional Equity and Diversity Sheri Schwab introduced this year's program at the annual Chancellor's Creating Community Awards in the Piedmont-Mountains Ballroom of Talley Student Union on Thursday, April 26, 2018, affirming NC State's strong commitment to the principles and work of diversity, equity and inclusion at NC State. Older Posts View the Archive Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity Winslow Hall, Campus Box 7530 Raleigh, NC 27695-7530 Staff Directory Annual Report Contact Us Website Feedback Giving Accessibility Privacy Policies Request Faculty and Staff Training Request Student Training Campus Map © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.