Skip to Content Diversity and Inclusion Open Close primary navigation Search Search AboutExpand Collapse section Mission and Vision Statement Core Values and Guiding Principles Campus Demographics History of Inclusion Committees and Workgroups ServicesExpand Collapse section Accessibility Services Educational Training and Programming 119 Euclid Affinity Groups ResourcesExpand Collapse section Resource Center Inclusion Policies Diversity and Inclusion Commitments Land Acknowledgment Statement DACA/Undocumented Students AcademicsExpand Collapse section Degree Programs Schools and Colleges News Events Contact Search Search Home 2021 Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Accessibility (DEIA) Strategic Plan 2021 Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Accessibility (DEIA) Strategic Plan Overview Link In 2019, the Board of Trustees commissioned the gathering of data and research that would inform its first five-year diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility (DEIA) strategic plan. The research study included: facilitated listening and dialogue sessions; a campus climate pulse survey; a diversity, equity, and inclusion inventory of all schools, colleges, and many of the units across campus; and an institutional diversity, equity, and inclusion benchmark study. Led by the Office of Diversity and Inclusion and a taskforce of campus community members (see full list below), the draft of the strategic plan was completed in June 2021 and included insights and data gathered that helped inform the development of its goals, objectives, and strategies. Designed to include monitoring criteria and in collaboration with campus leaders and stakeholders, the goal of developing a DEIA five-year strategic plan is to continue strengthening our ability to create an environment that is inclusive and excellent for all. The plan will be implemented upon approval and endorsement by Chancellor Kent Syverud and the Executive Team. The Plan Engagement Process Link An interim leadership team advanced the DEIA strategic plan and encouraged students, faculty, staff, and alumni to review the plan draft the plan draft and provide feedback on the following questions: How should the work within the plan be prioritized and why? How will I hold myself accountable to the priorities I think are most important? How should we (the university) integrate and coordinate DEIA work across the full institution? What else would you like to tell us related to the DEIA strategic plan? Feedback was submitted to the interim leadership team for distribution to the university’s next diversity and inclusion leader for review and implementation. Read the DEIA Strategic Plan [PDF] Read the DEIA Strategic Plan [Accessible Word Document] DEIA Strategic Plan Taskforce Link Established in January 2021, the DEIA Strategic Plan Taskforce was selected due to its expertise and commitment to DEIA. The taskforce partnered with the Office of Diversity and Inclusion to lead the efforts of the plan development process. The taskforce completed the DEIA strategic plan draft in June 2021. Its membership included the following: Keith A. Alford, Taskforce Chair, Former Chief Diversity and Inclusion Officer, Professor, School of Social Work Philip Arnold, Chair, Religion Department, College of Arts and Sciences Davine Bey, Director of Talent Management, Office of Human Resources Eboni Britt, Executive Director of Strategic Communications, Office of Diversity and Inclusion Jorge A. Castillo, Director, LGBTQ Resource Center Shiu-Kai Chin, Task Force Co-chair, Professor, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of Engineering and Computer Science Diane Crawford, Executive Director of Institutional Culture, Whitman School of Management Meredith Davis, Associate Vice President of Student Engagement, Student Experience Martha Diede, Director, Center for Teaching and Learning Excellence, Office of the Associate Provost for Faculty Affairs Jerry Edmonds, Senior Assistant Provost, Academic Affairs Jean Gallipeau, Comptroller, Comptroller’s Office Wei Gao, Associate Director of Operations and Outreach, Center for International Services Maurice Harris, Dean, Undergraduate Admissions Taylor John, Student, Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs Regina Jones, Assistant Director, Multicultural Affairs Brian Konkol, Dean, Hendricks Chapel Melissa Luke, Provost Faculty Fellow, Associate Dean for Research and Dean’s Professor, School of Education Andrew Sky Lieberman, Student, Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs LaShan Lovelace, Former Director of Diversity and Inclusion, Office of Diversity and Inclusion Diane Lyden Murphy, Task Force Co-chair, Dean, David B. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics Gladys McCormick, Jay and Debe Moskowitz Endowed Chair in Mexico-U.S. Relations, and Director of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion, Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs Robert Murrett, Professor of Practice, Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs Seth Ovadia, Associate Director, Institutional Research Paula Possenti-Perez, Director, Center for Disability Resources Mackenzie Proud, Graduate Student, Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs LaVonda Reed, Former Associate Provost for Faculty Affairs, Office of the Associate Provost for Faculty Affairs, and Professor of Law Karin Ruhlandt, Dean, Distinguished Professor, College of Arts and Sciences Jeffrey Stoecker, Vice President and Chief Communications Officer Grace Terry, Assistant Director of Young Alumni and Student Engagement, Office of Alumni Engagement Stephen Vassallo, Associate Vice President, Institutional Research Diane R. Wiener, Research Professor and Associate Director of Interdisciplinary Programs and Outreach, Burton Blatt Institute Salatha Willis, Associate Director of Diversity and Inclusion, Athletics Peter Willner, Strategic Partnerships Manager, El-Hindi Center for Dialogue, InterFaith Works of CNY Contact Us Link For more information, please email Eboni Britt from the Office of Diversity and Inclusion at DEIAPlan@syr.edu. © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy