Skip to content Information and resources related to COVID-19 Protect Texas Together Division of Diversity and Community Engagement MENU GIVE Search About DDCE K-12 Education Longhorn Center for School Partnerships AdviseTX Dual Enrollment Initiatives Neighborhood Longhorns Program UT Youth Engagement Centers University of Texas Elementary School UT-University Charter School Student Success Fearless Leadership Institute First-Gen Equity Global Leadership and Social Impact Heman Sweatt Center for Black Males Inclusive Innovation and Entrepreneurship Latina/x and Indigenous Leadership Institute Longhorn Center for Academic Equity Gateway Scholars McNair Scholars Longhorn Link Program Project MALES RGV Familia XP3 Inclusive Campus Business Affairs Campus Climate Disability Resources Dynamics of Diversity Certificate Courses Gender and Sexuality Center Multicultural Engagement Center Inclusive Campus Support President’s Advisory Committee on LGBTQIA+ Initiatives Services for Students with Disabilities Student Org Co-Sponsorship Program Office for Inclusion and Equity University Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan University Resource Groups Women in STEM (WiSTEM) Community Engagement Center for Community Engagement The Project UT Volunteers Hogg Foundation for Mental Health Longhorns for Equity, Access, and Diversity Initiative Partnerships and Sponsorships Texas Grant Resource Center University Interscholastic League Youth Protection Program Home Inclusive Campus Support Inclusive Campus Support About Inclusive Campus Support As part of the Division of Diversity and Community Engagement (DDCE), Inclusive Campus Support provides an online anonymous tool for university community members to share their campus climate experiences that are concerning or helpful. Peer support is provided through consult without referral (unless required by law such as Title IX) and through sharing university/community resources. Categorized general information regarding submitted experiences is shared with the university community to expand transparency and to inform education and practices for development of a more inclusive campus climate. Share Your Campus Climate Experience A “campus climate experience” can be any situation associated with UT-Austin that occurs and impacts a member of the university community – students, staff, faculty, alumni, or visitors. An experience may be something that an individual finds concerning, making the campus climate less inclusive or something that an individual finds helpful, making the campus climate more inclusive. Some examples (but not limited to): an interpersonal interaction in a class or program, on campus, or online; written communications such as a comment, email, flyer, or graffiti; or something that physically or otherwise enables or hinders access to the university. Campus Climate Experience FAQ Request Consult/Support Provide your contact information using this form to be contacted by a staff member from Inclusive Campus Support who can assist with questions regarding campus climate experiences (see above) and can provide support including information about university/community resources. Consult/Support FAQ Contact Phone: 512-232-1600 Email: inclusivecampus@utexas.edu Staff Betty Jeanne Taylor, Ph.D. (she/her), Assistant Vice President, Division of Diversity and Community Engagement; Assistant Professor of Practice, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Shawntal Brown, M.A. (she/her/hers), Senior Outreach Program Coordinator, Division of Diversity and Community Engagement Delando Crooks, M.Ed. (He/Him/His), Inclusive Campus Support Coordinator, Division of Diversity and Community Engagement; Doctoral Candidate, Educational Leadership and Policy Lakshita Motwani (she/her), Senior Student Associate, Division of Diversity and Community Engagement; B.S. Candidate, Public Health Experience Form Data The following table reflects information from campus climate experience forms received by Inclusive Campus Support. This information is shared in an effort to provide transparency regarding campus climate experiences impacting the university community. What is Campus Climate? Campus Climate is defined as: a measure (real or perceived) of the campus environment as it relates to interpersonal, academic, and professional interactions (Hurtado, 1992); a four-dimensional framework based upon an institution’s historical legacy, structural diversity, psychological climate, and behavioral climate (Hurtado et al., 1999); the current patterns of beliefs and behaviors emerging from participant views of organizational phenomena (Peterson and Spencer 1990); the institutional characteristics that affect the behavior, academic, and professional performance of the members in the campus community (Wells, 2000). Background In December 2020, the Division of Diversity and Community Engagement was charged with the objective to seek alternative ways to foster discourse about issues related to campus climate. DDCE identified critical steps to achieve this objective, including: immediate support mechanisms, communication, outreach, university community input, and data analysis to inform development of recommendations for a new approach. The following recommendations for alternative ways to foster discourse about campus climate issues were provided by the DDCE planning team after working group analysis of themes that emerged from survey and focus group data provided by students, staff, faculty, and community members. The planning team and working group recognized a gap that resulted from the discontinuation of the CCRT and the need for the university community to be able to share their campus climate experiences with a university entity, separate from existing employee or student issue-specific offices, as well as the need for educational information about university policies and support resources, transparency in communication about positive and negative campus climate experiences, and focus on providing a system of care without referral (unless required by law such as Title IX, etc.), investigation, adjudication, or discipline. Therefore, the planning team recommended the following to be implemented: an accessible online anonymous mechanism for sharing both positive and negative campus climate experiences which generate qualitative and quantitative data, to be categorized generally and shared publicly through transparent communications; consult without referral (unless required by law such as Title IX, etc.), investigation, adjudication, or discipline; peer support; educational information regarding university policies, university/community resources and support services, and examples for improving campus climate; information regarding programs and spaces that encourage university community conversations regarding campus climate topics. Share Your Campus Climate Experience FAQ What is a campus climate experience? A “campus climate experience” can be any situation associated with UT-Austin that occurs and impacts a member of the university community – students, staff, faculty, alumni, or visitors. An experience may be something that an individual finds concerning, making the campus climate less inclusive or something that an individual finds helpful, making the campus climate more inclusive. Some examples (but not limited to): an interpersonal interaction in a class or program, on campus, or online; written communications such as a comment, email, flyer, or graffiti; or something that physically or otherwise enables or hinders access to the university. Why should I submit an experience? The University of Texas at Austin is committed to hearing campus climate experiences that impact our university community and to providing support. Your assistance in bringing these experiences to our attention will enhance our ability to categorically identify and share what kind of campus climate experiences people are having and to provide support and information for development of an inclusive campus climate. How do I submit a campus climate experience? Campus climate experiences can be submitted at any time via the online form. Experiences may be submitted by various individuals, including (but not limited to): a person directly impacted, an individual who witnesses something experienced by another, or any third party who was informed of something experienced by another but was not present at the time of its occurrence. What will happen to my form? Inclusive Campus Support (ICS) will publish a general categorized report based on the experience form submissions, which will be available on the ICS website. No identifiable information will be shared. The purpose of this report is to increase transparency and to inform practices for the development of an inclusive campus climate. Is it possible to remain anonymous? All experience forms are submitted anonymously. If you wish to reach out for support, you can contact us at 512-232-1600. You can also submit a request for consult/support online. Note that this office does not refer (unless required by law), investigate, or discipline. We provide consult, peer support, educational materials and information about campus resources. Will my experience form submission be kept confidential? Experience forms are always anonymous and do not provide an opportunity to include your contact information or the names of others. The data submitted is not confidential and will be collected and included in a regular report to campus. Request Consult/Support FAQ What is a campus climate experience? A “campus climate experience” can be any situation associated with UT-Austin that occurs and impacts a member of the university community – students, staff, faculty, alumni, or visitors. An experience may be something that an individual finds concerning, making the campus climate less inclusive or something that an individual finds helpful, making the campus climate more inclusive. Some examples (but not limited to): an interpersonal interaction in a class or program, on campus, or online; written communications such as a comment, email, flyer, or graffiti; or something that physically or otherwise enables or hinders access to the university. Why should I request a consult? The University of Texas at Austin is committed to providing peer support through consult without referral (unless required by law such as Title IX) and through sharing university/community resources. How do I submit a request for consult/support? A request for consult/support can be submitted at any time via the online form. Provide your contact information using this form to be contacted by a staff member (faculty, staff, student) from Inclusive Campus Support who can assist with questions regarding campus climate experiences. What will happen to my request for consult/support form? Once request for consult form is submitted online, Inclusive Campus Support (ICS) staff members will follow intake procedures to contact the individual who submitted the form within two business days. No identifiable information will be shared. Note that this office does not refer (unless required by law), investigate, or discipline. We provide consult, peer support, educational materials and information about campus resources. Will my request for consult/support be kept confidential? Yes, to the extent possible no identifiable information will be shared. Please be aware that we may have a legal obligation to respond institutionally to situations that may threaten the safety of the UT Austin community or as required by law, such as Title IX. Campus Climate Share Your Campus Climate Experience Campus Climate Experience FAQ Request Consult/Support Consult/Support FAQ Support Resources Inclusive Campus Support: Fall 2021 Semester Summary 110 Inner Campus Drive Austin, Texas, 78712 512-471-3212 Subscribe Sign up for our mailing list to get newsletters and event invitations. Subscribe About Us Office of the Vice President Executive Staff Human Resources On Brand DEI Action Plan ACCESS Magazine Land Acknowledgement © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Emergency Information | Site Policies | Web Accessibility Policy | Web Privacy Policy