Skip to main content Search: Go Search context Search Filters: This Site Cornell Utility Navigation Giving Leadership Report an Incident Search Cornell University Diversity and Inclusion Main Navigation Our Story Institutional Initiatives 2017-2018 Recommendations Our Historic Commitment News Events Belonging at Cornell Belonging at Cornell News Sense of Belonging Fairness Net Promoter Score Turnover Rates Proportionate Hiring Rate Survey Results Survey Results (Accessible Alternative) Innovation Grants Belonging at Cornell News Archive Our Community Anti-Racism Resources DEI Celebration Resources Student & Post Doc Faculty Resources Staff Resources LGBTQ Staff & Faculty Trans Inclusion at Cornell Trans Inclusion Recommended Practices Gender Inclusive Pronouns Alumni, Parents & Friends Our Commitments Diversity Leadership at Cornell About PADE DIB Inclusive Excellence Network Inclusive Excellence Podcast Episode Archive Inclusive Excellence Summit Inclusive Excellence Academy Upcoming Seminars List of Previous Seminars Bias Reporting at Cornell For Students For Faculty/Staff Equal Opportunity & Affirmative Action Disability Access Accessible Red Runner Transportation Workplace Accommodations Gender Equity & Title IX Restroom & Facilities Guidelines Supplier Diversity More in this section Our Community Anti-Racism Resources DEI Celebration Resources Student & Post Doc Faculty Resources Staff Resources LGBTQ Staff & Faculty Trans Inclusion at Cornell Trans Inclusion Recommended Practices Gender Inclusive Pronouns Alumni, Parents & Friends Home Our Community Staff Resources LGBTQ Staff & Faculty LGBTQ Staff & Faculty Faculty and staff are involved with the LGBTQ+ community in a variety of ways. Join the LGBT Colleague Network, attend one of many events offered to the larger Cornell community, or explore the many academic and social offerings for the LGBTQ+ community at Cornell. Faculty and staff can also collaborate with the Department of Inclusion and Workforce Diversity to organize speakers, panels, and other events across campus to assist with creating an even more inclusive campus community. Please connect with us and share your experiences and thoughts about LGBTQ+ life at Cornell. Cornell LGBTQ+ Resource Guide for Faculty & Staff Academically LGBTQ Cornell has a number of different resources for people interested in the study of human sexuality and gender. Within our Feminist, Gender, and Sexuality Studies (FGSS), we have a program in Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Studies. Within our libraries, we have a world renowned Human Sexuality Collection, which seeks to preserve and make accessible primary sources that document historical shifts in the social construction of sexuality, with a focus on U.S. lesbian and gay history and the politics of pornography. LGBTQ Colleague Network Group The Cornell University Colleague Network Groups (CNGs) are university sponsored employee resource groups for traditionally underrepresented minorities and allies of those groups. The CNGs provide a professional support system that can extend beyond the workplace. Each CNG advocates for a specific demographic within the Cornell faculty and staff community to improve the recruitment and retention efforts as well as the climate for the community as a whole. The CNGs enhance the Cornell culture by providing feedback and programs to develop an environment that fully engages and cultivates all of the faculty and staff of Cornell University. The mission of the Cornell University LGBTQ Colleague Network Group is to raise awareness about the workplace issues faced by LGBTQ faculty and staff; provide networking opportunities for LGBTQ faculty and staff; and to support the recruitment and retention efforts of LGBTQ faculty and staff at Cornell University. In addition, the LGBTQ CNG serves as a resource network for all members of the Cornell community. For more information about the LGBTQ Colleague Network Group, please contact the Department of Inclusion and Belonging, inclusion@cornell.edu. Social Programming: First Fridays of Ithaca First Fridays of Ithaca is a monthly social networking event for local, diverse professionals. First Fridays is a great opportunity to network, socialize with colleagues in a relaxed setting and meet new colleagues. First Friday events have been held worldwide on the first Friday of every month since the late 1980s. Come and join this global phenomenon of professional camaraderie right here in Ithaca. Contact Cassandre Joseph at (607) 255-3976 or firstfridaysofithaca@cornell.edu to join the mailing list or for more information. Trans* Resources at Cornell Cornell University is committed to creating a safe and respectful campus for all members of our community including those of all gender identities. This page provides general guidelines for specific areas of campus life related to gender identity & gender expression. Incorporating LGBTQ+ Issues in the Classroom Please review the following documents regarding the incorporation of LGBTQ+ issues in the classroom environment. For more information, please contact inclusion@cornell.edu. • LGBTQ Issues in Your Curriculum • LGBTQ Assessment for the Classroom Cornell University Diversity and Inclusion Contact Report an Incident Cornell University ©2022 University Privacy Web Accessibility Assistance