Neighborhood Longhorns Program Hook 'Em On Education About NLP Schools Staff & Advisory Board Parents & Students Texas Premier Football Camp Volunteer Donate BEVO Fan Club The History of BEVO BEVO’s Celebrity Golf Tournament Supporters Contact Us Site Interest Form March 8, 2022 Thank you, Longhorn Family! Deprecated: wp_make_content_images_responsive is deprecated since version 5.5.0! Use wp_filter_content_tags() instead. in /code/wp-includes/functions.php on line 5323 Thank you to Texas Athletics for giving the opportunity for so many in our community to attend the Women’s Basketball game on Saturday, March 5. We had families so excited to be there, and it took me back to when the Neighborhood Longhorns Program first began. It was about opportunity…and… read more January 12, 2022 The Tournament is Back! Save the date for BEVO’s Celebrity Golf Tournament benefiting the Neighborhood Longhorns Program! We are so pleased to host our fundraising event again in 2022 after a two-year hiatus. The tribute dinner will be held on Thursday, June 9, and the golf tournament will take place on Monday, June 13.… read more July 21, 2020 Silver Spurs & BEVO XV to match donations to the Neighborhood Longhorns Program The Neighborhood Longhorns Program (NLP) is grateful to current and former members of The University of Texas Silver Spurs, who have announced their commitment to match up to $150,000 in donations received by August 31, 2020 to support the program. This generous gift enables NLP to continue serving economically disadvantaged… read more March 27, 2020 NLP COVID-19 Update To help slow the spread of COVID-19, UT Austin has made modifications to university operations for the remainder of the spring semester. Neighborhood Longhorns Program staff are working remotely until further notice. We will respond to emails and phone messages on a regular basis. In accordance with current mandates, the… read more September 3, 2019 Join Our Community of Tutors and Mentors You don’t have to be a legend to be a hero to a child, volunteering as little as an hour a week can make a big impact. You can make a difference by joining our community of tutors and mentors, because children that receive these benefits over a period of… read more 1 2 3 … 9 Next Page » Get Involved Volunteer Donate Changing Lives One Kid at a Time Download the PDF to read more. Mission The Neighborhood Longhorns Program is the premier educational outreach program for the University of Texas at Austin offering economically disadvantaged 2nd through 8th graders the opportunity to envision attending college through incentives and scholarships. This is achieved through the involvement of UT students, volunteers and staff that provide tutoring and mentoring in participating Central Texas schools. NLP In The News Joining the Herd Mark Your Calendars: 40 for Forty starts Sept. 15 Something to Cheer About Follow NLP © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Emergency Information | Site Policies | Web Accessibility Policy | Web Privacy Policy Neighborhood Longhorns Program About NLP Schools Staff & Advisory Board Parents & Students Texas Premier Football Camp Volunteer Donate BEVO Fan Club BEVO’s Celebrity Golf Tournament Supporters Contact Us Site Interest Form ×