Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity Think and Do The Extraordinary Support the Unit About Staff Contact Giving Diversity at NC State Assessment Model Reports and Surveys Community African American Cultural Center GLBT Center Multicultural Student Affairs Women’s Center Committees Connections Interfaith Prayer and Meditation Spaces Student Employment Inclusive Excellence Cultural Competence Toolkit DEI Training Requirement The Credential Inclusive Excellence Certificate Program IDI at NC State Opportunities for Faculty and Staff Opportunities for Students Programs and Initiatives Resources Equal Opportunity Accessibility, Adjustment, Accommodation Discrimination and Harassment EEO and Hiring Practices File a Report Policies Pregnancy and Parenting Title IX Video Tutorials: How to Access EOE Services Safe at NC State Get Help File a Report Complainant Resources Respondent Resources Bias Impact Response News & Events News Toward Inclusive Practices (TIPs) Signature Events Calendar Religious and Cultural Holidays Subscribe and Archives Think and Do The Extraordinary Support the Unit About Community Inclusive Excellence Equal Opportunity Safe at NC State News & Events Full Site Navigation About Staff Contact Giving Diversity at NC State Assessment Model Reports and Surveys Community African American Cultural Center GLBT Center Multicultural Student Affairs Women’s Center Committees Connections Interfaith Prayer and Meditation Spaces Student Employment Inclusive Excellence Cultural Competence Toolkit DEI Training Requirement The Credential Inclusive Excellence Certificate Program IDI at NC State Opportunities for Faculty and Staff Opportunities for Students Programs and Initiatives Resources Advocacy Opportunities Articles Associations and Networks Books DIY/DEI Curated Resources Guidance on Support Spaces Inclusive Pedagogy and Teaching Resources Building a Trauma-Informed Practice in the Classroom and Beyond Interactive Resources and Websites Media On-Campus Resources Podcasts Speaking and Writing About Diversity Virtual Event Recordings Equal Opportunity Accessibility, Adjustment, Accommodation Discrimination and Harassment EEO and Hiring Practices File a Report Policies Pregnancy and Parenting Title IX Video Tutorials: How to Access EOE Services Safe at NC State Get Help File a Report Complainant Resources Respondent Resources Bias Impact Response News & Events News Toward Inclusive Practices (TIPs) Signature Events Calendar Religious and Cultural Holidays Subscribe and Archives File a Report When you file a report, we can use all of our available resources to ensure the best possible outcome for your case, or provide as much support as possible if you decide not to file. Reporting Options NC State strives to ensure that students, faculty, staff and visitors are safe and not subject to further discrimination, harassment or retaliation. Should you experience or witness discrimination, harassment or retaliation, you have the option to file a report with NC State University and/or NC State Police. Filing a report helps to inform the university of concerning behavior and conduct impacting our community and permits outreach to those directly affected to promote their safety and well-being. Review Resources for Reporting Concerns. You have the option to file an anonymous report or a confidential report. You can also choose a report that will lead to either a university investigation or a criminal investigation. Your options include but are not limited to the following. File with the Equal Opportunity and Equity unit of OIED See the flowcharts for employees and students as respondents for reports filed under NC State POL 04.25.05 – Equal Opportunity, Non-Discrimination and Affirmative Action Policy. Students as Respondents Employees as Respondents See the flowcharts for employees and students as respondents for reports filed under NC State POL 04.25.07 – Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy. Students as Respondents Employees as Respondents File a report with the Equal Opportunity and Equity unit of OIED and/or Title IX coordinator. File a Report with OIED File with NC State Police You are not required to file a report to law enforcement; however, if you believe a crime has occurred, you are encouraged to report the incident. If you wish, Equal Opportunity and Equity can provide assistance in reporting to the police. File with NC State Police Not Sure Where to Report? For assistance in knowing where to report a concern, you can contact Equal Opportunity and Equity at 919.513.0574. Community members are also welcome to consider the following. Please note that reporting to these departments may not be confidential. If it is an emergency, call 911. If you have experienced an incident of harassment that may be a crime under state criminal law, such as a physical assault, sexual assault, relationship violence or stalking, you can report the concern to NC State Police. If you have experienced or witnessed discrimination, harassment or retaliation, you can report the concern to the Equal Opportunity and Equity. If you have concerns for an employee’s behavior or conduct in association with their position at NC State, report to Employee Relations. If you have concerns for a student’s behavior or conduct, report to the Office for Student Conduct. If you experience or witness an incident of bias that may be neither a crime nor a Title IX violation, report to the Bias Impact Response Team. Reporting Anonymously You may make an anonymous report to Equal Opportunity and Equity and/or NC State Police by using the buttons above and not disclosing your name or identifying information. However, please note that NC State’s ability to respond or take further action may be impacted by the level of information available about the incident or the individuals involved. Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity Winslow Hall, Campus Box 7530 Raleigh, NC 27695-7530 Staff Directory Annual Report Contact Us Website Feedback Giving Accessibility Privacy Policies Request Faculty and Staff Training Request Student Training Campus Map © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.