Skip to primary navigation Skip to content Skip to primary sidebar Services for Students with Disabilities Making UT Austin Accessible About About Disabilities Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) Autism Blind & Visual Disabilities Brain Injuries Deaf & Hard of Hearing Learning Disabilities (LD) Medical Disabilities Physical Disabilities Psychological Disabilities Temporary Disabilities Our Services Policies & Procedures The Law Confidentiality Grievance Procedures Maintenance of Records Reactivation of Files Student Rights and Responsibilities Register to vote at SSD! Newsletters Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us D&A Data Future UT Students Making the Transition to UT How to Register with D&A Documentation Guidelines Accommodations and Services Housing and Dining Accommodations Placement Exams Resources for Parents Current UT Students How to Register with D&A Accommodations and Services Using Accommodations at UT Using Testing Accommodations Assistive Technology Course Load Reduction and Medical Withdrawal Online Learning Housing and Dining Accommodations Scholarships Faculty/Staff The Law Rights and Responsibilities of Students and Faculty The Basics: Providing Accommodations Working with Students with Disabilities Creating an Accessible Classroom Frequently Asked Questions D&A Appreciation Awards Deaf/HH CART and Typewell Sign Language Interpreter Services Captioning Videos Forms & Documents Outreach Student Volunteer Notetakers disABILITY Advocate Program Disability Advocacy Student Coalition Resource Library Outreach Presentations Campus Resources Community Resources Employment and Internship Resources Advocacy and Support Student Stories Making Campus Inclusive, Accessible and Welcoming Di Read more May 26, 2022 Welcome to Disability and Access! Deprecated: wp_make_content_images_responsive is deprecated since version 5.5.0! Use wp_filter_content_tags() instead. in /code/wp-includes/functions.php on line 5323 Disability and Access (D&A) ensures students with disabilities have equal access to their academic experiences at the University of Texas at Austin by determining eligibility and approving reasonable accommodations. We also engage in outreach across campus in order to make campus a more inclusive, accessible and welcoming environment for people… read more April 21, 2022 Name Change Alert: SSD Becomes Disability and Access (D&A) Services for Students with Disabilities (SSD) becomes Disability & Access (D&A) Services for Students with Disabilities is excited to be changing our name to Disability & Access! This new name better reflects the scope of work that we do to promote and celebrate disability as part of our campus diversity… read more May 19, 2022 2022-2023 Faculty Advisory Committee Recruitment Disability and Access (the new name of Services for Students with Disabilities) is seeking instructors to serve on the 2022-2023 Faculty Advisory Committee. The Faculty Advisory Committee provides a way for D&A staff to receive direct input from UT instructors in order to: 1) understand questions and concerns from instructors… read more May 3, 2022 SSD Insider May 2022 The Spring 2022 semester is almost over but before you finish classes we have some important reminders and exciting opportunities to share with you! Disability Graduation We are so excited to be hosting Disability Graduation to celebrate our graduates! Disability Graduation will consist of a reception on May 18th and… read more May 2, 2022 Submit your Nominations for SSD Spring 2022 Appreciation Awards! It’s time to nominate faculty and staff for SSD’s Spring 2022 Faculty/Staff Appreciation Awards! Every semester SSD asks students to nominate faculty or staff at UT who have made sure students with disabilities have access to, and are included in, all… read more https://diversity.utexas.edu/disability/2022/05/5726/ April 25, 2022 Disability Graduation 2022 You’re Invited to Disability Graduation 2022! Join SSD and campus partners for UT’s Disability Graduation! We are excited to honor our graduates with disabilities and celebrate their accomplishment of earning a degree from UT! We know students with disabilities have often faced barriers during their time at UT and Disability… read more April 5, 2022 Priority Registration for Summer and Fall 2022 Important Information about Priority Registration Priority registration to register for Summer and Fall 2022 classes will be on Monday, April 18th from 2 pm to midnight Below are the action steps undergraduate students should take to use priority registration: 1) Clear all advising and other bars prior to April… read more Page 1 Page 2 Page 3 … Page 39 Next Page » Primary Sidebar Search this website Contact Us Call: 512-471-6259 Email: ssd@austin.utexas.edu Schedule: Drop In/Office Hours Visit our Contact Us page for more info. SSD Online Accommodation Letter Request Form: Online Form. SSD Student Portal: Login online. SSD Instructor Portal: Login online. Volunteer NoteTaker Sign Up: application. Course Load Reduction / Medical Withdrawal For more information please visit the CLR/MW page Campus Accessibility Updates Click here for the latest news about disruptions to campus accessibility. Disability-Related Opportunities Looking for scholarships, internships, research opportunities specifically for students with disabilities? Check out our list here! Request A Presentation Please visit our outreach presentation page and click the link at the bottom to fill out the form. Subscribe By Email Sign up for SSD’s monthly newsletter, The Advocate, here: The Advocate sign up . This newsletter is for our campus and community partners who want to stay up to date on disability news and events at UT! SSD News from DDCE Central Celebrating Disability Awareness Month Welcome Back! Meet SSD Coordinator Jamie Coughlin Pharmacy Senior Receives Lois Ford LaBauve Scholarship Celebrating Our 2021 Graduates: Caroline Graves Meet Lois Ford LaBauve Scholarship Recipient Ellie Gilchrist © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Emergency Information | Site Policies | Web Accessibility Policy | Web Privacy Policy Services for Students with Disabilities About About Disabilities Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) Autism Blind & Visual Disabilities Brain Injuries Deaf & Hard of Hearing Learning Disabilities (LD) Medical Disabilities Physical Disabilities Psychological Disabilities Temporary Disabilities Our Services Policies & Procedures The Law Confidentiality Grievance Procedures Maintenance of Records Reactivation of Files Student Rights and Responsibilities Register to vote at SSD! Newsletters Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us D&A Data Future UT Students Making the Transition to UT How to Register with D&A Documentation Guidelines Accommodations and Services Housing and Dining Accommodations Placement Exams Resources for Parents Current UT Students How to Register with D&A Accommodations and Services Using Accommodations at UT Using Testing Accommodations Assistive Technology Course Load Reduction and Medical Withdrawal Online Learning Housing and Dining Accommodations Scholarships Faculty/Staff The Law Rights and Responsibilities of Students and Faculty The Basics: Providing Accommodations Working with Students with Disabilities Creating an Accessible Classroom Frequently Asked Questions D&A Appreciation Awards Deaf/HH CART and Typewell Sign Language Interpreter Services Captioning Videos Forms & Documents Outreach Student Volunteer Notetakers disABILITY Advocate Program Disability Advocacy Student Coalition Resource Library Outreach Presentations Campus Resources Community Resources Employment and Internship Resources Advocacy and Support Student Stories ×