Skip to Content Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Indiana University Indiana University IU Menu About Data, Reports, and Plans Diversity Assessment Contact us about our Programs Recommend a Student to IU Request Funding from OVPDEMA Post-evaluation form Distinguished Inclusive Excellence Award Heritage Anniversaries Upcoming Events Sponsorships Anti-Racism Anti-Racist News Resources Anti-Racist Dashboard Diversity Education Inclusive Campus Environment Toolkit Awareness Prevention Training Response Resources Quick Links Previous Workshops 2022 Social Justice Conference 2021 Social Justice Conference Cultural Involvement Women's History Month Academic Support Scholar Opportunities Academic Scholar Program OVPDEMA Scholarships Other Scholarships FAQ Community Engagement Indiana Latino Expo Resources Career Resources Events Campus Resources External Resources OVPDEMA Resources News & Events Student Stories Featured Stories News Diversity at IU Newsletters Diversity and Inclusion Diversity Insights Events Semester in Review 2020 - Spring 2019 - Fall Contact Meet the Vice President Chief Diversity Officers OVPDEMA Program Directors OVPDEMA Central Administration Give Office of the Vice President for Diversity, Equity, and Multicultural Affairs Home About Data, Reports, and Plans Diversity Assessment Contact us about our Programs Recommend a Student to IU Request Funding from OVPDEMA Post-evaluation form Distinguished Inclusive Excellence Award Heritage Anti-Racism Anti-Racist News Resources Anti-Racist Dashboard Diversity Education Inclusive Campus Environment Toolkit Previous Workshops Cultural Involvement Women's History Month Academic Support Scholar Opportunities Academic Scholar Program OVPDEMA Scholarships Other Scholarships FAQ Community Engagement Indiana Latino Expo Career Resources Events Campus Resources External Resources OVPDEMA Resources News & Events Contact Give News Indiana University Bloomington Celebrates Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month Neal-Marshall Co-hosted Amazing Grace Film Screening with Black Film Center and Archive IU Celebrates Women's History Month Across All Campuses Bias Incidents Jordan Avenue to be Renamed in Honor of Eagleson FamilyView more news Diversity by the Numbers See firsthand the progress that OVPDEMA has made at Indiana University in our 2018-2019 annual report. Explore the story of diversity and inclusion at IU through university-wide data, executive summaries and the stories of the students, faculty, and staff making a difference on all of our campuses. View the report Anti-Racist Dashboard The Anti-Racist Agenda and EAB 360 Degree Student Audit Dashboard displays the results of all four phases organized by campus. Data included in this dashboard is meant to 1) advance the IU Anti-Racists Agenda and 2) measure success and identify gaps in equity across IU’s student-facing operations. View the report Indiana University National HIV Conference Join us for the Indiana University National HIV Conference, Stepping Into the 5th Decade-Evolving Our Response to HIV, on June 8-11, 2022, in Indianapolis, Indiana. Presented by Indiana University's Office of the Vice President for Diversity, Equity, and Multicultural Affairs, the conference brings together professionals in higher education, nonprofit organizations, biomedical research, health fields, and pharmaceutical companies along with key constituents and consumers engaged in HIV/AIDS prevention, research, and care. Learn More On Illuminating On Illuminating: Light and Truth on Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion, is a new bi-weekly podcast produced by the Indiana University Office of the Vice President for Diversity, Equity, and Multicultural Affairs. Each show features conversations with university faculty, staff, students, and public and business leaders passionate about sharing their experiences and innovative strategies to build communities where all are valued and belong. In addition, each episode strives to provide listeners with learned techniques to apply in their communities. Listen Today Gerry Gunnings Stroman Distinguished Inclusive Excellence Award This award recognizes individuals who actively promote diversity and inclusive excellence, dedicating themselves to making Indiana University a diverse, multicultural academic community that serves as a model for higher education, the state of Indiana, and society at large. View Award Recipients Diversity Assessments Indiana University engaged independent consulting firm Halualani & Associates to conduct diversity assessments for each of IU’s campuses. Along with graduation and retention reports, the firm made recommendations for subsequent action steps each campus as IU continues to strive for inclusive excellence. Learn more about OVPDEMA Would you like to learn more about OVPDEMA, its scholarship, academic, cultural, or community programs, or any university campus? Please submit your information here and we will send you materials. Acknowledging Native Space Indiana University wishes to acknowledge and honor the indigenous communities native to this region, and recognize that Indiana University – Bloomington was built on indigenous homelands and resources. Indiana University recognizes the Miami, Delaware, Potawatomi, and Shawnee people as past, present, and future caretakers of this land. We are proud to support Native students in their pursuit of community and success at Indiana University. Visit the First Nations Educational and Cultural Center Excelling in Diversity The 2021 Higher Education Excellence in Diversity Awardees have been announced! The IU Bloomington and IUPUI campuses received the award, as they have a number of times before. It is the only national award honoring U.S. colleges and universities that demonstrate a strong commitment to diversity and inclusion through their innovative programs and outreach; hiring practices for faculty and staff; and student recruitment, retention, and completion. In addition, for the fourth year, IU Bloomington has also been named a Diversity Champion, INSIGHT Into Diversity’s highest distinction. Learn more about the award A Welcoming Campus Campus Pride, a national nonprofit network of student leaders and campus groups devoted to improving college life for lesbian, bisexual, gay, transgender, and queer students across the U.S., named IU Bloomington in its 2021 list of top LBGTQ-friendly colleges, an accolade the campus received for the eighth time. Read more about the ranking Resources and Services for Inclusive Campus Environments We invite university and community members to explore our inclusive campus environments tool kit, an assembly of resources and services designed to educate and support in developing and sustaining living, learning, and working environments that are welcoming and inclusive for all. IU Student Incident Reporting System Indiana University does not tolerate acts of hate, harassment, discrimination, acts of retaliation or any other acts that are counter-productive to a safe, civil, and welcoming community―and neither should you. Kevin Phan "For this research study, I’m looking at LGBTQ+ and Asian American men and the intersectionality between those two." Read Kevin’s story María González-Díaz "If you come from Latinx backgrounds and feel lost or whatever, you can go there [La Casa] to reclaim yourself and find people with whom you can relate." Read María’s story Johnnie Allen Jr. "A lot of what I’ll be doing there is programming, specifically awareness of certain illnesses or health topics, and different things concerning different people like Black, Asian and Pacific Islander people, or LGBTQ+."Read Johnnie's story Get culturally involved Explore scholar opportunities Diversity and multiculturalism show the true strength of a campus. In order to tackle broader issues facing us, we must bring together and reconcile our differences, and tap into the wealth of our diversity.Mark Jallayu, IU Southeast Student Government Association President Events Jun 08 Indiana University National HIV Conference All day JW Marriott Indianapolis, 10 S West St, Indianapolis, IN 46204 - Jun 09 Indiana University National HIV Conference All day JW Marriott Indianapolis, 10 S West St, Indianapolis, IN 46204 - Jun 10 Indiana University National HIV Conference All day JW Marriott Indianapolis, 10 S West St, Indianapolis, IN 46204 - Jun 11 Indiana University National HIV Conference Starts at 12 a.m. JW Marriott Indianapolis, 10 S West St, Indianapolis, IN 46204 - Jun 16 A Framework to Build a High-Performing Diversity, Inclusion, Belonging, and Equity Culture Starts at 12 p.m. View more OVPDEMA events Tweets by @IU_OVPDEMA Office of the Vice President for Diversity, Equity, and Multicultural Affairs resources and social media channels Diversity Store Twitter Facebook Instagram Accessibility | Privacy Notice | Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Indiana University