Skip to main content Office of Diversity and Inclusion Navigation Initiatives Workshops Students Faculty & Staff HSI More AboutNewsResourcesFormsContact Committed to Inclusive Excellence. Office of Diversity and Inclusion Our Motto is Simple: Diversity Includes All of Us—All the Time The Office of Diversity and Inclusion strives to make diversity and inclusion visible and critical elements that indelibly permeate the life and values of the UCF community. We offer education, training and support services, facilitation of cross-campus collaboration, and enterprise-wide leadership to the campus and our community to build an inclusive culture for all students, faculty and staff. Learn more about ODI Diversity Training Workshops Training Courses We offer a variety of workshops covering inclusion topics across multiple disciplines. In addition, you can earn a variety of certificates, including UCF Inclusion Champion. Consultations and Presentations We do more than just in-house workshops, we can come to your classroom too. Online Workshops We’re online too! Use your UCF ID to log on and take the Performance Standards for UCF’s Cultural Competencies online modules. News & Updates Check out more Diversity and Inclusion updates Diversity Week 2021 UCF Diversity Week is a celebration of our diverse community and an opportunity to explore topics across the broad range of human identity, experience, and… ODI Land Acknowledgement Statement Office of Diversity and Inclusion Land Acknowledgement Greetings in Seminole Creek Istonko! (pronounced “iss-tone-koh”) Greetings in Miccosukee Chehuntamo! (pronounced “chee-hun-tah-moh”) The Office of Diversity and… UCF Fifty-Second Student Body Senate Proclamation 52-19 Proclamation 52-19 Transgender Visibility Day NADOHE Stands in Solidarity with the Asian, Asian American, and Pacific Islander American Community Women’s History Month: List of Programs Women’s History Month: List of Programs Land Acknowledgement Statement The Office of Diversity and Inclusion recognizes the land of indigenous people many of whom lost their lives to genocide and were forced to leave their land, the land held by the Ais, Apalachee, Calusa, Timucua and Tocobago tribes. Read the Land Acknowledgement Statement ODI Events & Calendars Upcoming Workshops UNITY STAR: Understanding Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DIV 008) UNITY STAR: Setting Boundaries in the Workplace: You Can Do this! (DIV 589) UNITY STAR: Intent vs. Impact (DIV 585) UNITY STAR: Religious, Secular, and Spiritual Literacy for Beginners (DIV 442) Please note: Pre-registration is REQUIRED no later than three days prior to the start of the workshop. Event Calendar Unity Star Schedule Global Holidays and Observances Want to add a holiday or observance? Click here to submit your request. Campus Partners Office of Institutional Equity Title IX, ADA and Equal Employment Services… To promote and support equity in the workplace and academic environment, with the goal of UCF meeting its true growth and education potential through diversity and equity. Learn More Social Justice & Advocacy Multicultural Student Center, LGBTQ+ Services, and inclusive programs and resources for all students. Learn More Multicultural Academic Support Services The mission of MASS is to maximize student success by assisting Multicultural and First-Generation College Students in their transition to UCF and by connecting with the University community and our partners to promote and facilitate academic support services and programs. Learn More Contact Us Email: diverse@ucf.edu Phone: (407) 823-6479 Physical Address Office of Diversity and Inclusion Barbara Ying Center 12701 Scholarship Drive Building 81 Orlando, FL 32816 Mailing Address Office of Diversity and Inclusion P.O. Box 160031 Orlando, FL 32816 More Resources Resources Contact Let's Get Social Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube University of Central Florida Facebook Twitter Social YouTube Instagram About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida