Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Diversity & Inclusion Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home About Us Staff EDI President’s Council Strategic Plan Resources Anti-Racism Resources Resources for Students Resources for Faculty & Staff Tallahassee Community Resources Monthly Observances and Celebrations Diversity in Athletics Supplier Diversity Program Seminole Tribe of Florida Report a Situation Get Involved Affinity Groups Mini-Grant Program Programs & Organizations D&I Internship D&I Student Ambassadors Campus & Community Events Coffee Chats Lunch and Learns Training Learning Opportunities D&I Certificate National Coalition Building Institute Allies and Safe Zones Request a Training Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Dashboard News Calendar Make a Suggestion Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Diversity & Inclusion Toggle navigation Home About Us Staff EDI President’s Council Strategic Plan Resources Anti-Racism Resources Resources for Students Resources for Faculty & Staff Tallahassee Community Resources Monthly Observances and Celebrations Diversity in Athletics Supplier Diversity Program Seminole Tribe of Florida Report a Situation Get Involved Affinity Groups Mini-Grant Program Programs & Organizations D&I Internship D&I Student Ambassadors Campus & Community Events Coffee Chats Lunch and Learns Training Learning Opportunities D&I Certificate National Coalition Building Institute Allies and Safe Zones Request a Training Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Dashboard News Calendar Make a Suggestion Home D&I Internship Home About Us Resources Get Involved Training Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Dashboard News Calendar Make a Suggestion Affinity Groups Mini-Grant Program Programs & Organizations D&I Internship D&I Student Ambassadors Campus & Community Events Coffee Chats Lunch and Learns D&I in the Community D&I In the News Asian Pacific American Heritage Month 2022 Dr. Maxine Montgomery named 2022-2023 Robert O. Lawton Distinguished Professor Quicklinks Make a Report Strategic Plan Anti-Racism Resources D&I Internship Across the nation, institutions of higher education are struggling to build meaningful community from an increasingly diverse student body. With programs like Unconquered Scholars, FSU is redefining what inclusion can mean on college campuses—which has led to our being named one of only 14 "Diversity Champion" universities nationally by INSIGHT Into Diversity magazine. Our approach starts with a belief that diversity is about more than a particular head count: it must reflect the quality and depth of interactions. By valuing, celebrating and leveraging the differences and similarities within our community, we create a fertile environment for problem-solving—one that is more inventive and compassionate. We’re proud that our cohesive community has become a signature of the FSU experience. But we can, and we will, do more. This position serves as support to the EDI office by assisting in the planning, development, and delivery of diversity and inclusion projects and communication. Assists with the planning of related meetings, workshops, training, and special events; prepares and distributes meeting materials. Assists with the preparation of reports and the compilation of materials related to Diversity & Inclusion projects; attend meetings as requested; participate in assigned trainings and self-directed activities to enhance learning and further demonstrate mastery of the student’s respective field. Patrice Duff Diversity and Inclusion Intern My name is Patrice Duff and my pronouns are Mrs., she, and her. I am a proud wife of 20 years, mother to 3 awesome young ladies, and a US Army Veteran. I received my BSW from the University of North Carolina - Charlotte and will soon be completing my MSW at Winthrop University in Rock Hill, SC. In addition to my time in the service, I also have experience in Mental Health Counseling, Event Coordinating, Group Facilitation, and as a Medical Research Coordinator. In my personal time, I enjoy traveling, listening to music, trying new foods, and meeting new people. I look forward to working with you and learning from you. Kirsten Watson Diversity and Inclusion Intern I take an interest in diversity and inclusion work due to it setting the tone of the work setting. Social Workers are met with varying problems, people and personality daily and embracing only makes them better at what they do. Diversity and inclusion setting supports employee well-beings which in terms will provide good work. I want to be able to create a welcoming environment in any type of setting to continue to do the work that social workers do so individuals don’t have to actively mask or downplay their differences to fit in and be successful. Jasmine Walker Diversity and Inclusion Intern As a person with the mindset of pushing for a continual progression for diversity and inclusion, this work has always interested me. I am interested in this line of work because it aims to further create an environment for equal opportunity in all parts of the workplace. This placement will assist in my professional career path by covering a multitude of different characteristics within organizations such as recognizing, creating, implementing, and spearheading plans to promote inclusion and diversity. If you are interested in applying to the D&I Internship, please contact Annie Grier at agrier@fsu.edu. Internship/Field Placement Opportunity (121 KB) Internship / Field Placement Opportunity title-inside title-centered 2 For questions or comments, please contact us at diversity@fsu.edu © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media