Skip to main content Search: Go Search context Search Filters: This Site Cornell Utility Navigation Giving Leadership Report an Incident Search Cornell University Diversity and Inclusion Main Navigation Our Story Institutional Initiatives 2017-2018 Recommendations Our Historic Commitment News Events Belonging at Cornell Belonging at Cornell News Sense of Belonging Fairness Net Promoter Score Turnover Rates Proportionate Hiring Rate Survey Results Survey Results (Accessible Alternative) Innovation Grants Belonging at Cornell News Archive Our Community Anti-Racism Resources DEI Celebration Resources Student & Post Doc Faculty Resources Staff Resources LGBTQ Staff & Faculty Trans Inclusion at Cornell Trans Inclusion Recommended Practices Gender Inclusive Pronouns Alumni, Parents & Friends Our Commitments Diversity Leadership at Cornell About PADE DIB Inclusive Excellence Network Inclusive Excellence Podcast Episode Archive Inclusive Excellence Summit Inclusive Excellence Academy Upcoming Seminars List of Previous Seminars Bias Reporting at Cornell For Students For Faculty/Staff Equal Opportunity & Affirmative Action Disability Access Accessible Red Runner Transportation Workplace Accommodations Gender Equity & Title IX Restroom & Facilities Guidelines Supplier Diversity More in this section Belonging at Cornell Belonging at Cornell News Sense of Belonging Fairness Net Promoter Score Turnover Rates Proportionate Hiring Rate Survey Results Survey Results (Accessible Alternative) Innovation Grants Belonging at Cornell News Archive Home Belonging at Cornell Belonging at Cornell Innovation Grants Belonging at Cornell Innovation Grants Request for 2022 Grant Proposals (Faculty/Staff) Due Date: June 6, 2022 Please submit questions or comments to pade@cornell.edu We are happy to announce that the Presidential Advisors on Diversity & Equity (PADE) invite proposals to support Belonging at Cornell. Belonging at Cornell is a framework designed to continue the progress towards making Cornell a more diverse and inclusive environment. Its mission is to focus our collective efforts on creating a campus community where individuals from diverse backgrounds and life experiences can both contribute and thrive. Priority will be given to proposals that align with clearly stated institution-wide objectives of improving the experience for students, faculty and staff; specifically, to foster a sense of belonging, promote fair treatment, and support an increased willingness to recommend Cornell as a great place to be, along with workforce composition and retention metrics. Exciting and innovative proposals that include cross-college/unit collaboration and promise to drive sustained impact to the Cornell community are encouraged. Proposals must: Feature a program that enhances the experience of students, faculty and/or staff Include at least two Cornell community members (preferably from different campus organizations, colleges or units) who will serve as leads on the project Be endorsed by the Belonging at Cornell diversity leads for associated colleges/units Offer an innovative approach that highlights Cornell’s distinctive strengths and/or addresses gaps in existing programs, whether the project is newly created or related to existing activities Be inclusive of, or directly addressing, concerns of one or more underrepresented and/or marginalized populations on one or more of Cornell’s campuses Be able to demonstrate tangible progress within a one-year timeframe If the program is ongoing or continuing, the proposal must outline a plan for sustainability including funding streams. The PADE will allot two grants each up to the amount of $15,000 for the Fall 2022 semester. All Cornell staff and faculty are eligible to apply. A separate RFP will be announced for student projects during Fall 2022. Additional terms: Funding will be awarded in September 2022. Priority will be given to units that have not received a grant in the past. To maximize use of these resources, funding should not be used to hire additional staff and should not pay for internal people’s time. Funding is not intended to support academic research. Proposals should identify and fill gaps in current offerings. Awardees must submit a mid-term progress report and a final report to the Presidential Advisors on Diversity and Equity at the end of the funding period. Proposals for multi-year funding will be considered. However, requested funds should decrease over the period as the program moves toward sustainability or planned completion. Faculty and/or staff members interested in submitting a proposal should prepare a document no more than five pages in length that includes: 1) A description of the overall project; 2) The goals of the project, including short-term and long-term impacts highlighting one or more of the Belonging at Cornell metrics the project will influence; 3) Program execution and evaluation strategy; 4) Plans for long-term financial sustainability; 5) Budget and budget justification; 6) Names, titles and college/unit affiliation of program leaders and team members involved. 7) A separate statement or email indicating endorsement from the relevant BaC lead(s). Proposals must be submitted to pade@cornell.edu by June 6, 2022. The Belonging at Cornell grant committee, made up of diversity leads from the colleges/units, will evaluate all proposals according to the predetermined rubric and make recommendations to the PADE. Final selections will be announced in August. Past Grants Awarded Three Belonging at Cornell (BaC) Innovation grants were awarded in Spring 2020. These grants supported a range of projects that align with university objectives of improving the Cornell experience for students, faculty, and staff, and supporting the environment of Cornell as a great place to study and work: Summit on Entrepreneurship and Equity, Sustainability, and Social Justice Story Circles: Intercultural Understanding Workshops Any Person, Many Stories: Histories of Exclusion and Inclusion at Cornell Cornell University Diversity and Inclusion Contact Report an Incident Cornell University ©2022 University Privacy Web Accessibility Assistance