Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Division of Institutional Diversity Main Menu In this section About us Departments Make a gift Contact Us Home Departments The Office of Multicultural Affairs LGBTQ Resources LGBTQ Resources and Programs Welcome The Office of Multicultural Affairs (OMA) programs, events, initiatives and student organizations centered around the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer and questioning (LGBTQ) student experience focus on campus involvement, leadership and professional development, cultural immersions, personal development, mentorship and civic engagement. The various programs also support students' academic success through scholarship opportunities and educational resources. Through these forums, we enrich students' collegiate experience in academic, social and cultural environments. For more information, email the Coordinator of Women's and LGBTQ Affairs. EMAIL LGBTQ+ Allyship Tips and tricks to better support the LGBTQ+ community on our campus Allyship Chosen Names & Pronouns Further information regarding chosen names and pronouns on campus Learn More Here All-Gender Restrooms All-Gender restrooms, to be used by anyone, are specifically advocated for to provide a secure and comfortable space for those who are transgender or do not fit the gender binary, those with disabilities whose attendant is of another gender identity, and parents with children of the opposite sex to support inclusive environments. Restrooms List Support Groups Fostering Trans & Non-Binary Resilience Led by Dannie Klooster Date: Fridays 3-4PM A therapy group for transgender, non-binary, and gender expansive students to build community, freely explore gender identiy, and build upon their skills in fostering self-worth, creating meaningful relationships, self-advocating, and more. Contact: Call (405) 744-5458 or email dannie.klooster@okstate.edu. Friends Like Me LGBTQ+ Support Group Date: Wednesdays 6:30PM-7:30PM A group for queer people by queer people Contact: Call (405) 744-6980 or email counselingclinic@okstate.edu. Community Listserv Want to stay up to date on LGBTQ-related programming? Have academic research seeking LGBTQ voices? Sign Up The Trans Trunk The Trans Trunk is an ongoing project to better aid the transgender community of Oklahoma State University. This project functions as a free clothing closet, similar to a food bank, but aimed at the lack of necessary clothing for transgender students. More Information Campus Organizations & Programs Organizations and programs for the LGBTQ community on campus Oklahoma State Queers and Allies Student organization focused on LGBTQ issues Feminist Collective Student organization focused on feminist issues, with heavy emphasis on LGBTQ inclusion and community Employee Queers and Allies League Organization for LGBTQ faculty, staff, and graduate students. Gender, Women's, and Sexuality Studies Gender, Women's, and Sexuality Studies offers a minor, academic support and research, and opportunities to collaborate with community and campus partners who are intrigued by how gender shapes the world Regional Resources PFLAG The PFLAG Chapter Network--with over 400 chapters across the country--provides confidential peer support, education, and advocacy to LGBTQ+ people, their parents and families, and allies. PFLAG Stillwater Payne County Pride Pride organization for the Stillwater region (Payne County) Payne County Pride Freedom Oklahoma Oklahoma City-based legislative and advocacy organization focused on LGBTQ issues Freedom Oklahoma Oklahomans for Equality LGBTQ community center in Tulsa with health care, advocacy, support groups, and programming Oklahomans for Equality Big 12 LGBTQIA and Allies Summit Annual conference for Big 12 universities focused on LGBTQIA topics Big 12 LGBTQIA and Allies Summit The Office of Multicultural Affairs LGBTQ Resources The OMA Team Office of Multicultural Affairs Oklahoma State University 240 Student Union Stillwater, OK 74078 (map) (405) 744-5481 | Contact Us Follow Us! OSU Calendar Facebook Twitter Instagram Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©