Skip to main content Search: Go Search context Search Filters: This Site Cornell Utility Navigation Giving Leadership Report an Incident Search Cornell University Diversity and Inclusion Main Navigation Our Story Institutional Initiatives 2017-2018 Recommendations Our Historic Commitment News Events Belonging at Cornell Belonging at Cornell News Sense of Belonging Fairness Net Promoter Score Turnover Rates Proportionate Hiring Rate Survey Results Survey Results (Accessible Alternative) Innovation Grants Belonging at Cornell News Archive Our Community Anti-Racism Resources DEI Celebration Resources Student & Post Doc Faculty Resources Staff Resources LGBTQ Staff & Faculty Trans Inclusion at Cornell Trans Inclusion Recommended Practices Gender Inclusive Pronouns Alumni, Parents & Friends Our Commitments Diversity Leadership at Cornell About PADE DIB Inclusive Excellence Network Inclusive Excellence Podcast Episode Archive Inclusive Excellence Summit Inclusive Excellence Academy Upcoming Seminars List of Previous Seminars Bias Reporting at Cornell For Students For Faculty/Staff Equal Opportunity & Affirmative Action Disability Access Accessible Red Runner Transportation Workplace Accommodations Gender Equity & Title IX Restroom & Facilities Guidelines Supplier Diversity More in this section Our Community Anti-Racism Resources DEI Celebration Resources Student & Post Doc Faculty Resources Staff Resources LGBTQ Staff & Faculty Trans Inclusion at Cornell Trans Inclusion Recommended Practices Gender Inclusive Pronouns Alumni, Parents & Friends Home Our Community Staff Resources LGBTQ Staff & Faculty Transgender Inclusion at Cornell Transgender Inclusion at Cornell Cornell University is committed to creating a safe and respectful campus for all members of our community including those of all gender identities and expression. We are pleased to provide the Cornell University Transgender Guide to Transitioning & Gender Affirmation in the Workplace, which provides guidance on updating personal information in university systems, offering on/off campus resources, as well as suggested steps for working with your supervisor and colleagues. The following information provides a glimpse into some of the information provided in the guide. If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact Anthony Sis in the Department of Inclusion and Workforce Diversity at aes445@cornell.edu or (607) 255-5740. Non-Discrimination Policy Cornell University’s official non-discrimination policy includes the protection of "sex, sexual orientation, gender identity and expression." Understanding Gender Inclusive Pronouns Please check out our quick guide on "how-to" utilize Gender Inclusive Pronouns. Trans Terminology Guide Check out the Terminology Guide to learn more about the Trans community. On-Campus Gender Friendly Restrooms In keeping with the University’s policy of nondiscrimination and the commitment to inclusion, the University allows students, staff, faculty, and visitors to use the restroom or facility that corresponds to their gender identity*. In addition, the University maintains a number of universal restrooms across campus to address restroom facility access not necessarily related to gender identity, such as access for parents with children and for other attendants/caregivers. These facilities are all-gender, accessible spaces, which may include amenities for families such as baby changing stations. *Gender identity refers to an individual’s internal sense of gender. A person’s gender identity may be different from or the same as the person’s sex assigned at birth. On-Campus Health Services The Faculty and Staff Assistance Program provides confidential counseling and consultation services to Cornell Employees. Visit their website to make an appointment. Transgender Health Insurance Plans To learn more about your benefits, please make an appointment with someone in the HR Services & Transition Center. They are located in the East Hill Office Building, Suite 130 (395 Pine Tree Road). You can also contact them via phone at (607) 255 – 3936 or via email at benefits@cornell.edu Off-Campus Resources Planned Parenthood of the Southern Finger Lakes Located in downtown Ithaca ( 620 W Seneca St, Ithaca, NY 14850 ), Planned Parenthood of the Southern Finger Lakes has hormone therapy and preventive health services for transgender people. This is not a campus service, but a service provided in the local community. There is a fee for this service but if finances are a concern these can be discussed before one's first appointment. A person may become a new patient if they are seeking transgender related health care for the first time — or, if they are already being seen by a medical provider in their home community or their previous town that is providing transgender related health services to them, they may transfer their care and their records to this office so that they have a local provider here. You can reach them at (607) 273-1513 to request an appointment or request additional information. The Planned Parenthood website also includes an awesome new booklet that has information on every process for changing your name and information as a transgender person! Planned Parenthood of the Southern Finger Lakes Transgender Overview Planned Parenthood of the Southern Finger Lakes Transgender Healthcare, Booklet, and Forms Voice and Communication Modification Program One of the only programs like it in the country, the Voice and Communication Modification Program at Ithaca College focuses on developing voice, articulation, non-verbal communication, language, voice-related quality of life, and self-perception. It's open to both male to female and female to male transgender people. Community members have to pay a nominal fee and must sign up in advance to be a part of this group. Information and Brochure about the Voice and Communication Modification Program Transgender Support Group Cornell's LGBT Center, Ithaca College's LGBT Center, and Out for Health jointly support a transgender support group for people in the Ithaca area. You can find more information here or by contacting Cornell's LGBT Center at lgbtrc@cornell.edu. Tompkins County Human Rights Commission Offers telephone or in-office consultation regarding questions of rights, disputes, alleged violation of anti-discrimination laws which provide protection in the areas of employment, housing, credit, public accommodation, and public, non-sectarian educational institutions. Legal Name and Gender Marker Changes The LGBT Center at Ithaca College also partnered with Out for Health, Planned Parenthood of the Southern Finger Lakes LGBT Health & Wellness initiative, to create an awesome new booklet that has information on every process for changing your name and gender marker on important identity documents. To learn more about the policies and procedures, please visit Know-How Booklet and Forms. Cornell University Diversity and Inclusion Contact Report an Incident Cornell University ©2022 University Privacy Web Accessibility Assistance