Longhorn Center for School Partnerships Providing College-readiness Services for Underrepresented Students Neighborhood Longhorns UT Youth Engagement Centers Austin Dallas Houston San Antonio Rio Grande Valley Advise TX Dual Enrollment Initiatives Chembridge MathBridge WritingBridge Advise TX Eleven of the sixteen advisors gathered in front of the UT Tower, Jan. 2022. Mission Advise TX is funded by the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board (THECB), the College Advising Corps and the school districts we serve. It works to increase the number of first-generation, low-income, and/or underrepresented students who apply, enter and complete college. Advise TX places recent college graduates as full-time college advisers in some of America’s underserved high schools. Advise TX provides the support that Texas high-need students require to navigate the complex processes of college admissions, matriculation and financial aid. The University of Texas at Austin chapter has 16 advisers serving Central Texas, Dallas, El Paso and the Rio Grande Valley. Program Overview The University of Texas at Austin Advise TX College Advising Corps is part of the National College Advising Corps, the nation’s largest nonprofit college access program. The National College Advising Corps consists of a consortium of currently 30 partner institutions in 17 states (including The University of Texas at Austin) around the country who have committed to recruit and train talented, enthusiastic recent college graduates to serve as college advisers within designated high schools in 17 states. Our program started in 2010 when The University of Texas at Austin’s Institute for Public School Initiatives placed fifteen recent UT Austin graduates into service. The Institute received a grant from the THECB to expand the program to 120 advisers in 2011. Within the state of Texas, there are currently College Advising Corps chapters at The University of Texas at Austin, Texas A&M University, Texas Christian University and Trinity University. The following attributes distinguish the Advise TX model: Advise TX is a near-peer model. Advisers are close in age to the students that they serve. Advise TX works in partnership with colleges and universities across the state, drawing on their infrastructure and resources. Advise TX advisers serve the whole school, rather than a cohort of particular students, to foster a school-wide college-going culture. Advise TX participates in a national external evaluation to quantitatively measure outcomes and qualitative results. Advise TX focuses on best-fit colleges, encouraging students to attend schools that will serve them well both academically and socially. UT Austin Program Elements Near-Peer Mentoring: Advise TX advisers come from all fields of study and are chosen for qualities that enable them to easily develop peer and role-model relationships with the students they advise. As recent college graduates of UT Austin, they understand the current complexities of the college application process. Many advisers are first-generation and minority students themselves, reflecting the characteristics of the students whom they advise. Intensive Training: UT Austin recruits Advise TX advisers and intensively trains them for three to four weeks. Advisers gain the knowledge and skills necessary to guide their students, foster a college-going culture and become advocates in their communities. Advisers become knowledgeable about all education options, including certificate programs, associate degrees, and baccalaureates. Training includes campus visits to colleges and universities throughout the state. Whole School Service: Advise TX fosters a college-going culture within schools by serving any student at any grade level. Advisers collaborate with teachers and administrators to supplement, not replace, existing high school counseling staff. Advisers use innovative approaches to connect with students and host events and workshops at their campus. Best-Fit Advising: Advisers are not recruiters for UT. They help high school students choose and enroll in the postsecondary option that is the best fit for their skills and interests–one where they will be most likely to succeed and complete a degree or meaningful credential–whether at a university, community college or technical college. Advisers help students weigh factors such as institutional characteristics, academic requirements, costs, financial aid and possible careers within a chosen field of study. Advisers encourage students to apply to three or more institutions so that they will have many options to choose from. Rigorous Data Collection: Advisers document their students’ progress in the College Advising Corps’ custom database, GRACE. This database contains detailed profiles on individual students, recording interactions with their adviser, FAFSA completion, college applications and more. GRACE also generates school-wide reports to inform advisers and administrators of their school’s progress. About the UT Austin Chapter The UT Austin chapter began in 2010-11 with 15 advisers serving in Houston, San Antonio, and the Rio Grande Valley. The UT Austin expanded its program in 2011-2012 with 64 advisers serving in Central Texas, Corpus Christi, Dallas, El Paso, Houston, San Antonio and the Rio Grande Valley. With the addition of the four university chapters, UT Austin currently serves in 17 high schools in the following regions: Central Texas, El Paso, Dallas and the Rio Grande Valley. Meet the UT Austin 2021-2022 Advise TX Advisers We are in 9 different school districts in 4 regions of Texas serving 17 high schools. Marshala Wilkins – Akins HS (Central Texas) “I want to give students hope, a safe space, support, and inspiration to believe in themselves and achieve their dreams!” Victoria Garcia – Navarro HS (Central Texas) “I advise because I believe in accessible education.” Kierra Jones-Jackson – Travis HS (Central Texas) “I advise because it gives me the opportunity to help students of color start their journey to a successful future. As a first-generation college student, I know first-hand the struggles that students of color face, and I am so glad to provide support and guidance especially during such uncertain times.” Dasjah Martinez – Del Valle HS (Central Texas) “I advise because all students need someone to believe in them” Benjamin Berg – San Marcos HS (Central Texas) “I advise because I want to lift up my community.” Quanae Miller – Lancaster HS (Dallas) “I advise because everyone needs an enthusiastic support system.” Tiffany Anderson – DeSoto HS (Dallas) “I advise because I want to build a college-going culture in my community.” Samantha Diwa – El Dorado HS (El Paso) “I advise because every student should be supported with endless opportunities and encouragement on their journey to discover themselves, their passions, and their full potential.” Jeremy Jaramillo – Socorro HS (El Paso) “I advise because the importance of education of students and oneself is vital for growth” Daisy Arzamendi – PSJA Southwest HS (Rio Grande Valley) “I advise because… every student deserves to follow their passion, and with passion comes success.” Patrick Camino – PSJA North HS (Rio Grande Valley) “I advise because I want all students to achieve higher than what they believed they could.” Kenya Salinas – PSJA HS (Rio Grande Valley) “I advise because I want to guide my students towards greatness!” Rayna Villarreal – Juarez-Lincoln HS (Rio Grande Valley) “I advise because we all want someone in our corner” Gilbert Berrones – La Joya HS (Rio Grande Valley) “I advise because I want to fuel the spark in students’ eyes that will ignite a bright future full of endless possibilities, I know they are capable of” Crisol Ortuno – Palmview HS (Rio Grande Valley) “I advise to be the support and guidance I needed during difficult times.” Reuel Cuellar – Vanguard Academy (Rio Grande Valley) “I advise because I want all students to be prepared for and achieve higher education and increase their personal development.” Find Out More About Advise TX Cheryl Sawyer Program Director (Central Texas, El Paso, Dallas and the Rio Grande Valley) cheryls@austin.utexas.edu See our list of contacts for specific programs. Advise TX News Two Advise TX Advisers Selected for National Fellowship November 29, 2021 Advise TX Adviser Receives Top CAC Award March 10, 2021 Annual Report © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Emergency Information | Site Policies | Web Accessibility Policy | Web Privacy Policy Longhorn Center for School Partnerships Neighborhood Longhorns UT Youth Engagement Centers Austin Dallas Houston San Antonio Rio Grande Valley Advise TX Dual Enrollment Initiatives Chembridge MathBridge WritingBridge ×