Skip to content You Belong Here MENU Search Home Resources Students sitting at table outside talking You Belong Here Our Plan for an Equitable and Inclusive Campus Strategic Direction You Belong Here presents a three-year roadmap for equity, inclusion and belonging at The University of Texas at Austin. Recruiting, attracting and retaining a culturally diverse faculty, staff and student body on campus is at the core of our plan. We need a wide range of identities, perspectives and experiences in our classrooms, on our campus and in our leadership. That means ensuring equity of access and experience for undergraduates, graduate students, staff and faculty who come from all around the globe. You Belong Here (PDF) Read the Glossary Read the FAQs Vice President Smith Introduces Our Plan “Join us as we bring this plan to reality, creating a UT culture where everyone feels empowered to engage in the life of the university, where our ideas and opinions may be challenged, but our values, experiences, and identities will be respected.” – LaToya Smith, Vice President for Diversity and Community Engagement Aspiration Empower our students, staff and faculty to individually thrive and to collectively build an inclusive, equitable campus community that embraces diversity of backgrounds and ideas and makes a positive impact on our campus, the state of Texas and beyond. Five Pillars of Our Strategic Direction View the aspiration statement and five pillars with objectives as a printable one-page chart. Representation Build a more diverse talented community of students, staff and faculty Representation: Read Plan Equity Promote equitable access to education, experiences, research and career development opportunities Equity: Read Plan Inclusion Create an authentic, inclusive, accessible campus Inclusion: Read Plan Belonging Build and support a culture of belonging Belonging: Read Plan Transparency Collaborate across campus to increase transparency of and access to DEI efforts at UT Austin Transparency: Read Plan Change Starts Here: UT’s 10-Year Strategic Plan to Increase Impact Change Starts Here is our 10-year strategic plan to increase the university’s positive impact on the world. It’s organized around three ideas that have always made UT special: our people, our place and our pursuits. This last category — pursuits — we have further divided into three parts: 1. Experience — how can we ensure a UT education is life-changing for students and that working here is a first-in-class experience for faculty and staff? 2. Education — what does a college student need to learn today and what is the best way to teach that? And 3. Research — what are the most pressing needs of our age, and how can we better harness our intellectual power to meet this moment? Change Starts Here “Belonging is making sure that every single Longhorn on this campus feels that they truly do belong here.” – Alexis George, Working Committee Member “I hope for a campus community that is inclusive and accessible in ways that bring the best people here.” – Grayson Hunt, Working Committee Member “What is important to me about DEI work is trying to build a culture that respects the dignity of everyone.” – Richard Flores, Steering Committee Member How We Got Here In 2021, President Jay Hartzell charged Dr. LaToya Smith, Chief Diversity Officer and Vice President of the DDCE, to reinvigorate our vision of diversity and inclusion on campus. Dr. Smith assembled two teams composed of students, faculty and staff alongside key members of university leadership to define our strategic direction and identify the five key pillars that support this work. Committee members reviewed more than 400 previous suggestions made by 18 organizations from across campus over the past two years, including incorporating the priorities and action items from the Office of the Executive Vice President and Provost’s Faculty Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Plan. The committee engaged the community through more than 50 focus groups with staff, faculty, students and alumni. Inaddition, they drew upon a fact base of quantitative data, metrics and benchmarks, which included more than 20 internal sources, as well as benchmark data from peer institutions in Texas and across the nation. In May 2022, the strategic direction, You Belong Here, was rolled out. In Fall 2022, the Operational Plan, including detailed goals and metrics, will be released. 1,500+ Feedback Committee members reviewed feedback from dozens of surveys and reports from the past five years that include representation from students, staff and faculty across the campus. 1,000+ Socialization Dr. Smith met with dozens of groups to gather feedback and ideas about the scope of the plan and how to make it truly representative of our campus community. 50 Focus Groups Beginning in 2021, the working committee spoke with community members at length to gather feedback and inform the plan’s direction. Read more about the background Refer to more resources See who is on the governance team Submit feedback about the plan © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Emergency Information | Site Policies | Web Accessibility Policy | Web Privacy Policy