Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Division of Institutional Diversity Main Menu In this section About us Departments Make a gift Contact Us Home Native American Student Resources Native American Student Resources OSU serves Native Americans OSU is home to a thriving Native American campus community with student organizations in engineering, science and the arts. OSU is the most successful land-grant institution in the nation for Native American students. As a land-grant institution, OSU is committed to providing a high-quality education for all and proudly supports the success of all its students. OSU serves Oklahoma, the nation and the world for a brighter tomorrow. OSU Native American HighlightsOSU is one of the most successful universities in the nation for graduating Native American students at all levels #1 ranked land-grant institution for Native American students earning a bachelor's degree, three years in a row. 9 Morris K. Udall scholarship recipients in the last five years 30+ tribal nation affiliations represented by Native American students at OSU Tribal Leaders The Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma's $350,000 scholarship gift makes it the largest tribal donor for Branding Success: The Campaign for Oklahoma State University. Through the Pickens Legacy Scholarship match, the total impact will be a $1.05 million boost for students. The Cherokee Nation and OSU Medicine have announced the establishment of the nation’s first tribally affiliated medical school in Tahlequah, Oklahoma, set to open in 2020. “We admire and support OSU Center for Health Sciences’ efforts to populate rural Oklahoma with doctors from rural Oklahoma. That mission will create healthier families and communities in northeast Oklahoma and improve the lives of Cherokees for the next seven generations,” said Bill John Baker, Principal Chief of the Cherokee Nation. OSU appreciates the support of these tribal nations. Together, we are committed to helping today's students become tomorrow's tribal leaders. Center for Soverign Nations Sovereignty. Students. Partnerships. Created as a result of President Hargis’ vision for focused service to sovereign tribal nations in Oklahoma, the Center for Sovereign Nations was made possible through the joint investment of OSU and the Chickasaw Nation, with the ongoing invitation to other tribal nations to join as financial partners. Center for Soverign Nations Programs and Resources Native American Student Association Native American Student Association American Indian Sciences and Engineering Society American Indian Science and Engineering Society Alpha Pi Omega Sorority, Inc. Alpha Pi Omega Minority Women's Association Minority Women's Association Oklahoma Louis Stokes Alliance for Minority Participation (OK-LSAMP) Oklahoma Louis Stokes Alliance for Minority Participation (OK-LSAMP) American Indians into Psychology American Indians into Psychology American Indian Alumni Society American Indian Alumni Society Minorities in Agriculture, Natural Resources and Related Science Minorities in Agriculture, Natural Resources and Related Science Multicultural Greek Council Multicultural Greek Council Society for the Advancement of Chicanos/Hispanics & Native Americans in Science SACNAS "I would never give up growing up Cheyenne. But we need knowledge and training for today's world. That's what OSU, my proving ground, gave me - the skills to succeed in mainstream America." - Dr. Henrietta Mann English, M.A. 1970, Oklahoma State University Getting InvolvedPursue your passions and interests through 500+ campus organizations and activities on campus. OSU celebrates Native American Culture Night.Avery Fulton OSU celebrates Native American Heritage Month.Avery Fulton Miss American Indian during 2019 Homecoming Parade.Gary Lawson Native American Art with artist Harvey Pratt, OSU almunus.Phil Shockley OSU celebrates the Center for Sovereign Nations' fourth birthday celebration.Gary Lawson OSU celebrates the Center for Sovereign Nations' fourth birthday celebration.Gary Lawson OSU celebrates the Center for Sovereign Nations' fourth birthday celebration.Gary Lawson Native American Art with artist Harvey Pratt, OSU almunus.Phil Shockley Honorees of the Native American Student Association at OSU.Gary Lawson Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©