Skip to main content University of Wisconsin–Madison UW Crest Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Creating Community at UW–Madison Search Menu open menu close Home Inclusion Resources Diversity Forum Diversity Inventory Issues & Accountability News & Events About Support Staff Directory Diversity is a source of strength, creativity, and innovation for UW–Madison. We value the contributions of each person and respect the profound ways their identity, culture, background, experience, status, abilities, and opinion enrich the university community. We commit ourselves to the pursuit of excellence in teaching, research, outreach, and diversity as inextricably linked goals. The University of Wisconsin–Madison fulfills its public mission by creating a welcoming and inclusive community for people from every background — people who as students, faculty, and staff serve Wisconsin and the world. Honoring UW's First Black Graduates Give to the Raimey-Noland fund, established to make the UW a more welcoming and diverse community. Learn about the Raimey-Noland campaign Outstanding Women of Color Awards Join us in congratulating UW–Madison's 2021-22 Outstanding Women of Color Awards honorees. Learn More News & Events Top Stories STEM Runway program helps L&S students from underrepresented groups find their science path and thriveMay 25, 2022 Video: Alumni, students celebrate grand opening of Divine Nine Garden PlazaMay 10, 2022 Students’ feelings on campus climate broadly positive, survey finds, though gaps persistMay 9, 2022 Four UW community members to receive Women of Distinction Leadership AwardApril 18, 2022 Upcoming Events June June 16 CARE for Inclusion and Equity in Learning EnvironmentsTeaching & Mentoring PD, offered by Delta and CIRTL2:00 PM, Online October October 8 Harvest Folk FestivalAll day More events More More news and events Our Shared Future The University of Wisconsin–Madison rests in the ancestral land of the Ho-Chunk Nation, the People of the Big Voice, who have called this place Teejop (day-JOPE) for time immemorial. We as a university community continue to create and build upon our partnerships with the 12 First Nations of Wisconsin. As a state university we respect the inherent sovereignty and unique legal status, as affirmed and set forth in state and federal law, of the First Nations of Wisconsin. Learn more Site footer content University logo that links to main university website Division of Diversity, Equity & Educational Achievement Scholarship & Service Programs Leadership & Staff Reports & Policies Accessibility at UW–Madison Report an Issue DDEEA Newsletter Contact Us 109 Bascom Hall 500 Lincoln Drive Madison, WI 53706 Map map marker Email: chiefdiversityofficer@cdo.wisc.edu Phone: 608-265-5228 facebook twitter instagram youtube Feedback, questions or accessibility issues: webmaster@cdo.wisc.edu. This site was built using the UW Theme | Privacy Notice | © 2022 Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System.