Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Division of Institutional Diversity Main Menu In this section About us Departments Make a gift Contact Us You are part of the Cowboy Family You are welcome here We are committed to achieving excellence with inclusivity At Oklahoma State University, we place great value on the differences of our people. Diversity in action should empower individuals to think and act in ways that embrace and promote a more inclusive world. We identify diversity as a quality of life issue, as well as an important economic driver for the prosperity and well-being of the state, nation, and world. DIVERSITY HIGHLIGHTS 111%INCREASE The number of students of color earning a bachelor's degree since 2010 25National awards and recognitions for university commitment to diversity and inclusion Diversity at OSU OSU is committed to excellence in diversity and inclusion Our Mission OSU is dedicated to cultivating and enriching the competitive advantages that diversity and inclusion provides all members of the University community. DEI Task Force The task force's ultimate goal is to help foster an environment where OSU students, faculty, staff all have equal opportunities to find success. DEI Directory A directory of a groups, councils, committees, associations, taskforces, etc. related to diversity, equity and inclusion across OSU. Student Resources From scholarship opportunities, community resources and employment opportunities, OSU has the resources to help you succeed. Native American Student Resources OSU is the most successful land-grant institution in the nation for Native American students. OSU’s Center for Sovereign Nations builds partnerships between OSU and tribal nations. African American Student Resources OSU is home to several African American student organizations which provide students the opportunity to lead, provide community service and promote cultural unity. Asian American Student Resources The Asian American Student Association's main purpose at Oklahoma State University is to spread and promote diversity through events and networking opportunities. Hispanic/Latinx Student Resources OSU hosts several campus traditions to honor Hispanic/Latinx culture and to foster the development of social and educational opportunities for Hispanic students on campus. LGBTQ+ Students OSU provides support for LGBTQ individuals, develops avenues for social cohesion, and addresses important national and local issues that affect the LGBTQ community as a whole. Women's Resources OSU provides scholarships, support for curricular development, and opportunities for its female students. With the help of faculty, staff, and collaborating student organizations, OSU also hosts several events geared to support and celebrate women’s programs. Student Veterans The Office of Student Veteran Success at Oklahoma State University is here to aid active duty military, reservists, National Guardsmen, veterans and their families to be successful on campus. Academic Colleges Resources Our diversity, equity and inclusion efforts expand to multiple areas within our academic colleges. International Student Services The office of International Students and Scholars assists the university and its international community, facilitates the education and personal development of international students and scholars and assists with culture exchange and enrichment at OSU in Stillwater. Student Accessibility Services Committed to providing an inclusive environment that supports attainment of academic goals to professional goals for persons of all abilities. Academic support services can include classroom/testing accommodations, accessible textbooks, access to/assistance with assistive technology and other services. First-Generation Student Resources The Division of Institutional Diversity equips first-generation students with numerous resources for academic excellence. Events and Programs Promoting awareness and education The Office of Institutional Diversity hosts events and programs to enrich, enlighten and engage all members of the OSU community and advance OSU's commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion. Learn More Community Advancing Conversations Diversity Hall of Fame Diversity and Inclusion Workshops In support of OSU’s efforts for a more diverse and inclusive campus, all OSU students and employees are encouraged to complete the Fostering and Promoting a Culture of Diversity & Inclusion at OSU module. More Information Take the course Workshop Module FAQs Faculty and Staff Resources We are committed to achieving excellence with inclusion OSU Institutional Diversity is here to serve all who are apart of the Cowboy family. Our goal is to not only allow our students to be involved in various organizations, but those who work at OSU as well. Faculty and Staff Associations NEWS VIEW ALL CEAT Celebrates The Legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Feb 7 The College of Engineering, Architecture and Technology (CEAT) celebrated Martin Luther King Jr. by participating in several activities and events held in the community and at Oklahoma State University. Celebration planned to honor the late Earl and Bernice Mitchell Feb 1 Members of the Stillwater and OSU communities are planning a celebration to honor the late Earl and Bernice Mitchell for their impact, both academically at OSU and through their civic contributions. Stillwater and OSU unite to celebrate the legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. Jan 11 For the second consecutive year, Oklahoma State University is joining with Stillwater Community United (SCU) for a commemorative march to honor the legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. OSU alumnus fulfills dream; joins OSUPD ranks Nov 29 With love for his community and a deep desire to serve, Cole Hammond has always wanted to make a positive difference in the lives of those around him. EVENTS VIEW ALL Unsupported browser detected. Please use a supported browser such as Microsoft Edge, Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome, or Apple Safari or View the calendar. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Events calendar powered by Trumba Home Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©