Skip to content Information and resources related to COVID-19 Protect Texas Together Division of Diversity and Community Engagement MENU GIVE Search About DDCE K-12 Education Longhorn Center for School Partnerships AdviseTX Dual Enrollment Initiatives Neighborhood Longhorns Program UT Youth Engagement Centers University of Texas Elementary School UT-University Charter School Student Success Fearless Leadership Institute First-Gen Equity Global Leadership and Social Impact Heman Sweatt Center for Black Males Inclusive Innovation and Entrepreneurship Latina/x and Indigenous Leadership Institute Longhorn Center for Academic Equity Gateway Scholars McNair Scholars Longhorn Link Program Project MALES RGV Familia XP3 Inclusive Campus Business Affairs Campus Climate Disability Resources Dynamics of Diversity Certificate Courses Gender and Sexuality Center Multicultural Engagement Center Inclusive Campus Support President’s Advisory Committee on LGBTQIA+ Initiatives Services for Students with Disabilities Student Org Co-Sponsorship Program Office for Inclusion and Equity University Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan University Resource Groups Women in STEM (WiSTEM) Community Engagement Center for Community Engagement The Project UT Volunteers Hogg Foundation for Mental Health Longhorns for Equity, Access, and Diversity Initiative Partnerships and Sponsorships Texas Grant Resource Center University Interscholastic League Youth Protection Program Home News More Than A Monolith More Than A Monolith ‘The Blanket Identity’ film project emphasizes passions, individuality among AAPI community By Rebecca Johnson • May 19, 2022 Top left: Iris Li, Kaitlyn Ng Bottom: Ria Upreti The term “Asian American” is commonly construed as a catch-all, shoehorning people of many cultures and experiences into a single group and muddling distinctions. To help broaden our understanding of the various cultures within the “Asian American” monolith, three UT Austin students created a film project called “The Blanket Identity.” Produced by Cockrell School of Engineering students Ria Upreti, Iris Li, and Kaitlyn Ng, “The Blanket Identity” features interviews with members of the AAPI community with a particular focus on their passions and interests. “We wanted to create a video-based film project that looks at the intersection between Asian identity and people’s passions, and how those things influence or don’t influence each other,” said Upreti, a mechanical engineering and linguistics senior. The idea for the project, said Upreti, stemmed from a conversation with Li about their identities in contrast to what they were seeing in the mainstream. “We started talking about how much we both wanted to do a project that was on our own terms and that we had some ownership over,” Upreti said. In December 2020, the trio began their search for documentary subjects to interview, reaching out on social media and through email campaigns, with some help from the Center for Asian American Studies. After recruiting two Radio-Television-Film students, videographer Hayden Rhodes and film editor Michele Davis, they began making their short documentaries and posting them on YouTube. Most, but not all, feature UT Austin students and faculty. All members of “The Blanket Identity. Top left to right: Kaitlyn Ng, Michele Davis, Iris Li, Ria Upreti, Hayden Rhodes The short films feature people of various cultures and identities discussing their unique passions, which range from music production, to business ownership, to linguistics, mental health and more. “The idea to focus on both heritage and passions just shows each person’s uniqueness and makes it more nuanced,” said Ng, a civil engineering senior. “I just really appreciated how willing and open people were to talk to us.” While filming the interview, Li, a chemical engineering senior, said she learned so much from the various people of Asian descent who openly shared their life experiences. “It just made me realize that people do have such different backgrounds, even though on the surface, we are all marked as being Asian or Asian American,” Li said. The project has since come to an end as the founders have graduated this spring and are embarking on their careers and graduate school. Visit the project’s YouTube channel to view the six mini documentaries, which will also be archived at the Center for Asian American Studies. Tags: AAPI Heritage Month, Center for Asian American Studies 110 Inner Campus Drive Austin, Texas, 78712 512-471-3212 Subscribe Sign up for our mailing list to get newsletters and event invitations. Subscribe About Us Office of the Vice President Executive Staff Human Resources On Brand DEI Action Plan ACCESS Magazine Land Acknowledgement © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Emergency Information | Site Policies | Web Accessibility Policy | Web Privacy Policy