Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity Think and Do The Extraordinary Support the Unit About Staff Contact Giving Diversity at NC State Assessment Model Reports and Surveys Community African American Cultural Center GLBT Center Multicultural Student Affairs Women’s Center Committees Connections Interfaith Prayer and Meditation Spaces Student Employment Inclusive Excellence Cultural Competence Toolkit DEI Training Requirement The Credential Inclusive Excellence Certificate Program IDI at NC State Opportunities for Faculty and Staff Opportunities for Students Programs and Initiatives Resources Equal Opportunity Accessibility, Adjustment, Accommodation Discrimination and Harassment EEO and Hiring Practices File a Report Policies Pregnancy and Parenting Title IX Video Tutorials: How to Access EOE Services Safe at NC State Get Help File a Report Complainant Resources Respondent Resources Bias Impact Response News & Events News Toward Inclusive Practices (TIPs) Signature Events Calendar Religious and Cultural Holidays Subscribe and Archives Think and Do The Extraordinary Support the Unit About Community Inclusive Excellence Equal Opportunity Safe at NC State News & Events Full Site Navigation About Staff Contact Giving Diversity at NC State Assessment Model Reports and Surveys Community African American Cultural Center GLBT Center Multicultural Student Affairs Women’s Center Committees Connections Interfaith Prayer and Meditation Spaces Student Employment Inclusive Excellence Cultural Competence Toolkit DEI Training Requirement The Credential Inclusive Excellence Certificate Program IDI at NC State Opportunities for Faculty and Staff Opportunities for Students Programs and Initiatives Resources Advocacy Opportunities Articles Associations and Networks Books DIY/DEI Curated Resources Guidance on Support Spaces Inclusive Pedagogy and Teaching Resources Building a Trauma-Informed Practice in the Classroom and Beyond Interactive Resources and Websites Media On-Campus Resources Podcasts Speaking and Writing About Diversity Virtual Event Recordings Equal Opportunity Accessibility, Adjustment, Accommodation Discrimination and Harassment EEO and Hiring Practices File a Report Policies Pregnancy and Parenting Title IX Video Tutorials: How to Access EOE Services Safe at NC State Get Help File a Report Complainant Resources Respondent Resources Bias Impact Response News & Events News Toward Inclusive Practices (TIPs) Signature Events Calendar Religious and Cultural Holidays Subscribe and Archives UNC System Racial Equity Task Force Three system-wide activities took place during fall semester of 2020. The University of North Carolina System launched a system-wide task force to “examine the legacy of race and racism in North Carolina’s public higher education system” and its impact on students, faculty, staff and communities. The task force began meeting in July 2020 and conducted several information-gathering activities to report findings to the Board of Governors. Focus areas included student recruitment, enrollment and outcomes; employee recruitment, retention and promotion; and supporting safe, diverse and inclusive campuses and communities. A series of activities enabled the task force to gather suggestions and feedback, meet with constituent groups and prepare a report of recommendations and action steps in order of priority to present to the UNC System president on Dec. 16, 2020. See the Final Report (Dec. 16, 2020) System-Wide Racial Equity Survey From Sep. 14–30, the task force conducted a short survey on race, equity, and disparities that exist across the UNC System. Students, faculty and staff members of all UNC institutions were encouraged to complete the survey. Virtual Town Halls The UNC System Racial Equity Task Force invited students, faculty and staff to participate in Virtual Town Halls from Oct. 19–29. The Task Force sought to learn about experiences, ideas and/or questions about race and equity at NC State and in the UNC System. The feedback informed recommendations for the Board of Governors and UNC System Office. “Share Your Ideas” Feedback Form Students, faculty and community members of all institutions were invited to submit feedback and suggestions via a feedback form. The task force reviewed and considered all information received via the form. Goals of the Task Force The task force initially defined its goals as follows: Equity in the student academic experience. We’ll examine how to close equity gaps in every stage of the student experience, from recruitment through graduation. Equity-minded faculty, staff, and administrators. We’ll take a deep dive into human resources practices in the recruitment, hiring and retention of employees system-wide. Safe and inclusive campuses and communities. Building a better world that’s equitable for all starts on our campuses. We’ll work with students, faculty and staff to foster and maintain safe and supportive campuses that promote diversity, inclusion and a sense of belonging. (Taken from the UNC System Racial Equity Task Force website.) For More Information See UNC System Racial Equity Task Force. See NC State’s Racial Equity Summit. Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity Winslow Hall, Campus Box 7530 Raleigh, NC 27695-7530 Staff Directory Annual Report Contact Us Website Feedback Giving Accessibility Privacy Policies Request Faculty and Staff Training Request Student Training Campus Map © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.