Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Diversity & Inclusion Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home About Us Staff EDI President’s Council Strategic Plan Resources Anti-Racism Resources Resources for Students Resources for Faculty & Staff Tallahassee Community Resources Monthly Observances and Celebrations Diversity in Athletics Supplier Diversity Program Seminole Tribe of Florida Report a Situation Get Involved Affinity Groups Black Faculty and Staff Network (BFSN) A Letter From the Black Faculty & Staff Network LatinX Faculty & Staff Network (LFSN) Queer & Trans Employee Network (QTEN) Mini-Grant Program Programs & Organizations D&I Internship D&I Student Ambassadors Campus & Community Events Coffee Chats Lunch and Learns Training Learning Opportunities D&I Certificate National Coalition Building Institute Allies and Safe Zones Request a Training Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Dashboard News Calendar Make a Suggestion Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Diversity & Inclusion Toggle navigation Home About Us Staff EDI President’s Council Strategic Plan Resources Anti-Racism Resources Resources for Students Resources for Faculty & Staff Tallahassee Community Resources Monthly Observances and Celebrations Diversity in Athletics Supplier Diversity Program Seminole Tribe of Florida Report a Situation Get Involved Affinity Groups Black Faculty and Staff Network (BFSN) A Letter From the Black Faculty & Staff Network LatinX Faculty & Staff Network (LFSN) Queer & Trans Employee Network (QTEN) Mini-Grant Program Programs & Organizations D&I Internship D&I Student Ambassadors Campus & Community Events Coffee Chats Lunch and Learns Training Learning Opportunities D&I Certificate National Coalition Building Institute Allies and Safe Zones Request a Training Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Dashboard News Calendar Make a Suggestion Home Affinity Groups Black Faculty and Staff Network (BFSN) Home About Us Resources Get Involved Training Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Dashboard News Calendar Make a Suggestion Affinity Groups Black Faculty and Staff Network (BFSN) A Letter From the Black Faculty & Staff Network LatinX Faculty & Staff Network (LFSN) Queer & Trans Employee Network (QTEN) Mini-Grant Program Programs & Organizations D&I Internship D&I Student Ambassadors Campus & Community Events Coffee Chats Lunch and Learns Read BFSN's latest newsletter D&I in the Community D&I In the News Asian Pacific American Heritage Month 2022 Dr. Maxine Montgomery named 2022-2023 Robert O. Lawton Distinguished Professor Quicklinks Make a Report Strategic Plan Anti-Racism Resources Black Faculty and Staff Network (BFSN) Join the BFSN today! bfsn.floridastate@gmail.com Twitter: @FSU_BFSN Instagram: @FSU_BFSN Read our latest newsletter The Black Faculty and Staff Network (BFSN) seeks to achieve a visible commitment of the inclusion and recognition of Black faculty and staff at Florida State University. Mission Statement The Black Faculty and Staff Network (BFSN) shall serve as a resource for faculty, staff, and students in its pursuit to achieve a visible and purposeful commitment to equity, diversity, inclusion, and recognition of Black Faculty, Staff, and Students at Florida State University through relationship driven strategies with University leaders and the community. Our 2020 Focused Goals Serve as a resource for faculty, staff, and students while building stronger relationships with University leadership. Engage the BFSN in positive ways to reinforce a diverse, inclusive, and safe FSU while engaging and promoting dialogue about issues that affect Black faculty, Black staff, and Black students. Collaborate closely with University leadership to help advance the diversity and inclusion efforts and the Strategic Plan. Leadership Team & Executive Board title-inside title-centered 2 Dr. Gregory J. Harris Faculty Co-Chair for BFSN (Term: 2020-2022) Dr. Harris currently serves as the Associate Dean for Academic Affairs in the College of Health and Human Sciences and as Interim Chair for the Department of Family and Child Sciences. Dr. Harris is originally from St. Petersburg, Florida. He holds a bachelor's degree in sociology with a minor in psychology from the Florida State University, a Masters of Applied Social Sciences degree in sociology and psychology from the Florida Agricultural & Mechanical University and a master's degree in Criminal Justice from Boston University. He received his Ph.D., in Human Development and Family Studies from the Florida State University. He enjoys family, close friends, writing, and expanding knowledge. Joseph (Joe) Blanks Staff Co-Chair for BFSN (Term: 2020-2022) Joe is the Business Manager for Campus Recreation. As recent transport, Joe comes to Tallahassee after 10 years of living in New York city, but is a California native. Joe is finishing his B.S. Degree in Management of Information Systems and Business Analytics w/ Specialization in Accounting. Accountant, DJ, poet and JUCO football national champion (Grossmont College). Pearson Secretary for BFSN (Term: 2020-2022) Pearson currently serves as an Assistant Director in New Student & Family Programs under the Division of Student Affairs as well as a Ph.D student in the College of Education. Pearson is from Memphis, Tennessee and complete her Bachelor and Master’s degree at the University of Mississippi. Pearson enjoys running, re-watching Grey’s Anatomy, and attending concerts. Ebony Wofford Membership and Events Director for BFSN (Term: 2020-2022) Ebony Wofford currently serves as a Coordinator in the Department of Fraternity and Sorority Life under the Division of Student Affairs. Ebony is originally from Long Island, New York but claims Charlotte, North Carolina as her second home. She holds a bachelor’s degree in Political Science from North Carolina A&T State University and a M.Ed in Higher Education from the University of North Carolina Wilmington. In her spare time, Ebony enjoys watching documentaries, cooking, and spending quality time with family and friends. Anye Markos Treasurer for BFSN (Term: 2020-2022) Ayne is the Business Manager for University Relations and the FSU License Plate Coordinator. Holds a bachelor's degree in Accounting and a Master’s in Business Administration from Florida State University. During her free time, she volunteers for Florida Guardian ad Litem Program and Junior Achievement Big Bend. Randi Hill Communications Director for BFSN (Term: 2020-2022) Randi currently serves as an Academic Advisor within the Center for Academic Retention & Enhancement (CARE). She holds a Bachelor’s degree in Interdisciplinary Social Sciences with concentrations in Economics and Sociology from FSU, a Master’s degree in Public Administration from FAMU and has recently been admitted into FSU’s Public Administration program to receive her Ph.D. Randi is originally from Miami, FL but has lived in Tallahassee since 2011. She enjoys cooking vegetarian meals, advocating for mental healthcare and intends to become certified in yoga instruction. Celebrate Blackness Today and Everyday! With the nomination and support of the Gamma Mu Lambda Chapter of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc. (Tallahassee, Florida) Dr. Gregory Harris is this year's recipient of the Moses G. Miles Brother of The Year Award. Dr. Harris continues to serve with excellence and compassion. Courtney B. Francis has been nominated for her humility, outstanding work-ethic, and her uncanny ability to get things done. Courtney has a level of integrity and excellence that consistently inspires everyone she encounters. January 2020: Courtney lead the charge to implement a MLK Jr. Turnaround Trip to Alabama where 100 students were able to visit the Legacy Museum and the National Memorial for Peace and Justice during the MLK Jr holiday weekend. Courtney worked tirelessly to ensure transportation logistics, tickets, small-group debrief dialogue, etc. was possible at no expense to students or volunteer staff members. July 2020- Nominated and appointed to serve on the Anti Racism Task Force for ACUHO-I (Association of College and University Housing Officers - International) - Courtney is an invaluable team member who is currently managing University Housing's Night Staff program, composed of 100+ student leaders who rely on her as she is awaiting a supervisor, to be recruited and to manage this robust program. Courtney managed all of these things as a full time Higher Education PhD student. Related News FSU appoints new director of nationally recognized CARE program FSU Director of Fraternity/Sorority Life elected as president of national organization Black Owned Restaurants in Tallahassee Sounds for you FUNK & SOUL (a playlist by Joe Blanks) Nominate a Black Faculty/Staff Member Here Membership The Black Faculty and Staff Network is a member-supported organization. Any FSU employee is eligible to become a member of the BFSN. Please fill out our Membership Form if you haven't already done so to start the process. Yearly dues are $20 and can be paid by check or Cashapp at $fsubfsn. Please email Treasurer, Ayne Markos regarding payments. Get Involved!!! Events For questions or comments, please contact us at diversity@fsu.edu © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media