Skip to content Disability Resources Diversity Matters at UT File a Disability Grievance The University offers multiple options for individuals seeking to address concerns or to file a disability-related grievance in a prompt and fair manner. Filing such a complaint with the University is generally considered an appropriate first step, in that it provides an opportunity to resolve the issue at the local level. However, exhaustion of the University’s grievance procedure is not a prerequisite to filing a complaint with either a federal agency or a court. Individuals wanting to file a disability grievance can reach out to any of the campus departments below for assistance. Department of Investigation and Adjudication The Department of Investigation and Adjudication (DIA) oversees the University’s process for investigating and resolving complaints of discrimination and/or harassment filed against University employees, contractors and visitors. DIA also serves as the primary liaison between the University and external civil rights-related agencies. Individuals who feel they have been discriminated against or subjected to harassment should contact DIA. All inquiries will be kept confidential, to the extent permitted by law and University policy, and no person should fear retaliation. DIA Intake Form DIA Phone: 512-471-3701 University Compliance Services University Compliance Services investigates concerns raised by individuals who believe a member of the University community has violated a law, regulation, policy, or acted in an unethical manner. There are several methods for reporting suspected compliance and ethics violations. The Compliance and Ethics Web Form and toll-free Hotline are managed by an independent company, and are available 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Reports submitted through the Web Form or Hotline are then forwarded to the appropriate University officials who will promptly address the allegations. If the contact information is provided by the reporting party, he or she may be contacted for further information or may request updates on the investigation. Individuals submitting a report anonymously are told to check back in two-week intervals for updates regarding the investigation. Report online: www.lighthouse-services.com/austin.utexas Phone: English 877-507-7321 | Español 800-216-1288 Email: compliance@austin.utexas.edu University ADA Coordinators The University’s ADA Coordinators are the primary contact for individuals to raise a concern about a physical barrier or inquire about the provision of reasonable accommodations. Report a Barrier Form Contact the ADA Coordinators Form Deputy ADA Coordinator phone: 512-471-7107 State and Federal Organizations Students, employees, or visitors with concerns about potential disability discrimination may also contact state and federal organizations for guidance. Disability Rights Texas: https://www.disabilityrightstx.org/ Texas Workforce Commission: https://twc.texas.gov/ The United States Department of Education, Office for Civil Rights (OCR): https://www.ed.gov/ The United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD): https://www.hud.gov/ The United States Department of Justice, Disability Rights Section (DOJ): https://www.justice.gov/ The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC): https://www.eeoc.gov/ © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Emergency Information | Site Policies | Web Accessibility Policy | Web Privacy Policy Disability Resources Home Accessible Map Captioning Services Contact ADA Coordinators Employee Workplace Accommodations File a Disability Grievance Frequently Asked Questions Interpreting and CART Services Job Applicants with Disabilities Parking at the University Report a Barrier on Campus Services for Students with Disabilities Web Accessibility ×