Skip to the content RGV Familia Menu Menu Close Menu Home About Us Events What is RGV Familia? RGV Familia is a transformative personal and professional development initiative providing UT students from the Rio Grande Valley (RGV) empowerment through programming, events and training, while also incorporating parent and family programming to provide holistic support for students. Para español, cambie el idioma en el menú abajo. English English Spanish Program Areas Personal and Professional Development Programming/workshops with culturally relevant content aimed at developing leadership and workforce skills UT Admissions student recruiter training and opportunity for travel to RGV for recruitment/retention events Parent and Family Programming Events/workshops for families of RGV students Spanish-language programming Community Building Provide a space for RGV students to share their unique experiences and learn to maximize this cultural capital through critical conversations Events/networking with campus and community professionals who are from the RGV The RGV Experience RGV Familia is an initiative for UT students who are from the Rio Grande Valley (RGV), also known as "the Valley". Our community is unique; it centers on our multicultural heritage and strong family relations. For students from the RGV, many of whom are first in their family to attend college, it is a cultural shock to come from small, mostly ethnically homogeneous border towns, to living in the large metro of Austin and attend UT. Geographically Speaking The vibrant, fast-growing Rio Grande Valley is geographically and culturally a very different place than the urban areas of Texas. A largely agricultural area, it is comprised of 4 counties on the Texas-Mexico border including Cameron, Hidalgo, Starr, and Willacy. 90% of the population is Latino/Hispanic (ranging from 86-97% in each county). It is over 300 miles from Austin. Meet Our Team Milly Lopez Director San Benito, TX Veronica Pecero Assoc Director for Access and Inclusion Office of Admissions David Garcia Director, Valley Admissions Center San Benito, TX Rosie Garza Co-President Weslaco, TX Valeria Riveron Co-President Reynosa, Tamaulipas, MX Karen Lopez Vice President Weslaco, TX Kevin Barajas Finance Chair Brownsville, TX Hayley Baker Communications Chair Brownsville, TX Abigail Castro Recruitment Chair Brownsville, TX Kiara Vasquez Digital Media Chair Hidalgo, TX Rodrigo Moran Partner Liaison Mission, TX Valeria Hernandez Program Experience Chair Houston, TX Find out more about our familia students and staff. Upcoming Events View all events Ready to join RGV Familia? Contact us at rgvfamilia@utexas.edu. Follow Us Contact RGV Familia is an initiative of the Division of Diversity and Community Engagement, in collaboration with the Office of Admissions and other campus organizations. We look forward to meeting each of you! Contact: rgvfamilia@utexas.edu 110 Inner Campus Dr. Main Building, 302 Austin, Texas 78712 Get RGV Familia News Please enable JavaScript in your browser to complete this form. Name * First Last Email * Hometown Affiliation * Faculty/Staff Student Community Member Email Submit © 2022 RGV Familia Powered by WordPress To the top ↑ Up ↑ English English Spanish