Skip to Content Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Indiana University Indiana University IU Menu About Data, Reports, and Plans Diversity Assessment Contact us about our Programs Recommend a Student to IU Request Funding from OVPDEMA Post-evaluation form Distinguished Inclusive Excellence Award Heritage Anniversaries Upcoming Events Sponsorships Anti-Racism Anti-Racist News Resources Anti-Racist Dashboard Diversity Education Inclusive Campus Environment Toolkit Awareness Prevention Training Response Resources Quick Links Previous Workshops 2022 Social Justice Conference 2021 Social Justice Conference Cultural Involvement Women's History Month Academic Support Scholar Opportunities Academic Scholar Program OVPDEMA Scholarships Other Scholarships FAQ Community Engagement Indiana Latino Expo Resources Career Resources Events Campus Resources External Resources OVPDEMA Resources News & Events Student Stories Featured Stories News Diversity at IU Newsletters Diversity and Inclusion Diversity Insights Events Semester in Review 2020 - Spring 2019 - Fall Contact Meet the Vice President Chief Diversity Officers OVPDEMA Program Directors OVPDEMA Central Administration Give Office of the Vice President for Diversity, Equity, and Multicultural Affairs Home About Data, Reports, and Plans Diversity Assessment Contact us about our Programs Recommend a Student to IU Request Funding from OVPDEMA Post-evaluation form Distinguished Inclusive Excellence Award Heritage Anti-Racism Anti-Racist News Resources Anti-Racist Dashboard Diversity Education Inclusive Campus Environment Toolkit Previous Workshops Cultural Involvement Women's History Month Academic Support Scholar Opportunities Academic Scholar Program OVPDEMA Scholarships Other Scholarships FAQ Community Engagement Indiana Latino Expo Career Resources Events Campus Resources External Resources OVPDEMA Resources News & Events Contact Give Home Anti-Racism Anti-Racism A Commitment to Anti-Racism at Indiana University As the world changes, it requires us to continually reevaluate how we live up to the principles of diversity, equity, and inclusion. For decades, Indiana University has been at the forefront of this work, striving for a more equitable, diverse, and inclusive learning environment for people from all backgrounds. We invite you to be co-workers in envisioning a just and fair future for all. We invite you to explore the work of Indiana University faculty and staff whose academic, personal, and professional commitment to anti-racist, diversity, equity, and inclusion work establishes IU as a national leader. We Care Report an Incident Indiana University does not tolerate acts of discrimination, hate, harassment, retaliation, or any other act that is damaging to our safe, civil, and inclusive community—and neither should you. Report an incident Let's Talk The Let’s Talk program gives you the tools to find solutions to your problems. Students Let's Talk Find tools and resources. Faculty & Staff Initiative or Idea Let us help you amplify your diversity, equity, or inclusion initiative. Share today. Share your ideas to create a more inclusive community where all belong. Share today. IU’s Anti-Racist Initiatives Now is the time to stand up for what is good and right. Universities have a special obligation to do everything possible to ensure that campus communities are places where differences of all kinds, whether of race, ethnicity, or belief are respected, valued, and protected and hatred, bigotry, and intolerance powerfully condemned. Learn about Indiana University’s antiracist agenda and approach to address racism. Latest News IU makes $30 million investment in faculty diversity hiring Tuesday, September 21, 2021 The seven-year Presidential Diversity Hiring Initiative will accelerate IU's efforts to hire a more diverse mix of faculty.View All The demonstrations of the last several weeks are a clarion call from our nation’s social justice advocates. The time is now for us to recommit ourselves to the work of racial justice.James C. Wimbush, IU’s Vice President for Diversity, Equity, and Multicultural Affairs, Dean of The University Graduate School, and Johnson Professor for Diversity and Leadership. Upcoming Workshops A Framework to Build a High-Performing Diversity, Inclusion, Belonging, and Equity Culture Thursday, June 16, 2022 Starts at 12 p.m. View All Education and Training Diversity education takes many forms at Indiana University. Learn more about various educational opportunities across its campuses for staff, faculty, and students to foster an inclusive and respectful environment that encourages dialogue and interaction about issues related to equity, social justice, and intersectional diversity. Learn more Previous Workshops Anti-Racism Terminology-Guide Developed by NASPA, the guide serves as a tool and resource for advancing anti-racism and social justice efforts across multiple functional areas in higher education and student affairs. Download PDF Version Inclusive Campus Environment Toolkit Indiana University is unwavering in its commitment to create safe and welcoming learning environments that advocate access, diversity, equity, inclusion, and community for all. We can and will work together to learn from each other, bridge our differences, and treat every individual with respect and civility. The toolkit is intended to serve as a reference guide to information and resources to support university community members as they address situations, to offer strategies for action, and provide steps you can take to help build safe and inclusive campus communities. View the Toolkit Fighting Racism in COVID-19 Times The IU Asian Culture Center in Bloomington and the School of Public Health Office of Student Diversity and Inclusion co-hosted a webinar/panel discussion, "COVID-19 Exposed," on April 8, 2020. Watch the webinar and review responses from Q&A. Learn more Our Work, Our IU Commitment Indiana University has prioritized the recruitment and retention of underrepresented faculty, staff, and students, and timely graduation of students, while ensuring that IU maintains a learning environment where people of all backgrounds can thrive, and a commitment to local and national outreach and advocacy kept. This work requires a myriad of innovations in student advocacy, services and programs, and critical faculty partnerships across Indiana University. IU Chief Diversity Officers See All Chief Diversity Officers Schools, Colleges, Departments/units, Culture Centers, programs, and more Culture Centers African American Arts Institute (IUB) Asian Culture Center (IUB) First Nations Educational and Cultural Center (IUB) La Casa Latino Cultural Center (IUB) LGBTQ+ Culture Center (IUB) LGBTQ+ Center (IUPUI) Multicultural Center (IUPUI) Neal-Marshall Black Culture Center (IUB) Schools, Colleges, Departments/units, programs Center for Research on Race and Ethnicity in Society Diversity at IU East Office of Campus Diversity at IU Kokomo Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion at IUPUI Office of Diversity, Equity and Multicultural Affairs at IU Northwest Diversity & Inclusion at IU South Bend Office of Equity and Diversity at IU Southeast School of Public Health Kelley School of Business (IUB) Kelley School of Business (IUPUI) School of Education IU School of Informatics (IUB) IU School of Informatics (IUPUI) IU School of Medicine O’Neill School (IUPUI) O’Neill School (IUB) Research Faculty across all of IU's campuses are at the forefront of timely and cutting-edge research aimed at understanding and dismantling injustice and inequality. Learn more Spotlight on IU Faculty and Staff Leading the Charge IU campuses are a microcosm of our larger society. Like our society, we know IU is not perfect, but we work diligently to make it so. Through the scholarly work of our faculty, the community building initiatives of our culture centers, and our partnerships and civic engagements with the communities we serve, we are committed to a university where a diverse community of faculty, staff, and students can flourish and feel comfortable sharing their thoughts and feelings. Check back periodically to meet IU faculty and staff whose work supports our commitment to a safe, diverse, and inclusive IU for all. Michin Hong Associate Professor IUPUI’s Michin Hong is examining the experiences of anti-Asian racism among Asian American college students at IUPUI – information she hopes can be used in expanding understanding about experiences of racial discrimination among Asian American students and developing racial literacy programs and interventions on campus. Read More J.C. Barnett Financial Aid Counselor at IU Kokomo J.C. Barnett’s art work was recently featured in a virtual exhibition as part of the campus’s Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. commemoration, in partnership with 2021 Building Bridges Award recipient, Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority Inc., Omicron Phi Omega Chapter. Read More Rosalyn Davis Clinical Associate Professor of Psychology at IU Kokomo Rosalyn Davis, Clinical Associate Professor of Psychology receives Virgil Hunt Award, recognizing her efforts to promote diversity, excellent teaching, and distinguished research. Read More James Wallace Director of Diversity, Equity and Multicultural Affairs at IU Northwest How to have courageous conversations about race? James Wallace, director of Diversity, Equity and Multicultural Affairs at IU Northwest writes we all have to get more comfortable with uncomfortable conversations. Read More Dr. Yolanda Treviño Assistant Vice President for Strategy, Planning, and Assessment Today, Treviño embraces the powerful lessons of diversity she first learned as a kindergartener. Treviño works with offices across the university to devise and employ strategies to improve diversity and inclusion at IU. In doing so, Treviño harnesses the collaborative spirit of the university to create a diverse and welcoming environment for students, faculty, and staff of all backgrounds. Read More Darryl Heller Director of Civil Rights Heritage Center “The CRHC is many things,” Darryl Heller, director of the Civil Rights Heritage Center, said. “The center is a living museum where guests can explore the history of civil rights in Northwest Indiana. It is classroom space utilized by area universities as well as K-12 educators. It is a meeting space for grassroots organizations interested in issues relating to social justice, a rotating art exhibition space featuring artists of color, and a circulating library containing books and information on African American history.” Read More Yemi Mahoney Chief Diversity Officer and Special Assistant to the Chancellor Yemi Mahoney is IU East’s chief diversity officer and special assistant to the chancellor. Mahoney’s higher education career spans over two decades, where she worked in a variety of departments such as financial aid, New Student Orientation, sexual assault education, and student union administration. For the past 12 years, Mahoney has immersed herself in diversity and inclusion work. Read More Monica Johnson University Director for Diversity, Education, and Cross-Cultural Engagement Director for IUB Neal-Marshall Black Culture Center Starting with a proactive rather than reactive approach to education, Johnson seeks to build competencies and understanding among IU community members that honor the true beauty of diversity throughout our university. Learn more about Diversity Education & Training IU School of Education faculty co-author book about Latinx Experiences The Latino presence continues to grow in traditional population enclaves and has tripled in areas that are not traditionally associated with this pan-ethnic group. The dramatic growth of this population in the U.S. requires a considerably deeper understanding of individuals that share this multifaceted identity. This timely book synthesizes new research and its implications for practice that is critical for professionals working with Latinos in educational and counseling contexts. The authors provide insight into identity development, environmental influences, and how these factors influence persistence in higher education. Civil Rights Heritage Center at IU South Bend Born from the efforts of Indiana University South Bend students and professors, the Civil Rights Heritage Center transformed a once-segregated city swimming pool into an active learning center. It explores the civil rights struggles of the past so people can take action in the present and build a better future. Learn more Partner with us Your gift will support underrepresented students, faculty, and staff across Indiana University with resources such as emergency needs, scholarships, research, leadership development, and other programs and initiatives that create an equitable, diverse, and inclusive environment where all community members can do their very best work. Tweets by @IU_OVPDEMA https://www.facebook.com/Diversity.iu.edu Anti-Racist News Resources Anti-Racist Dashboard Office of the Vice President for Diversity, Equity, and Multicultural Affairs resources and social media channels Diversity Store Twitter Facebook Instagram Accessibility | Privacy Notice | Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Indiana University