Skip to Content Diversity and Inclusion Open Close primary navigation Search Search AboutExpand Collapse section Mission and Vision Statement Core Values and Guiding Principles Campus Demographics History of Inclusion Committees and Workgroups ServicesExpand Collapse section Accessibility Services Educational Training and Programming 119 Euclid Affinity Groups ResourcesExpand Collapse section Resource Center Inclusion Policies Diversity and Inclusion Commitments Land Acknowledgment Statement DACA/Undocumented Students AcademicsExpand Collapse section Degree Programs Schools and Colleges News Events Contact Search Search Home Contact Contact Office of Diversity and Inclusion Link Eboni Britt, Executive Director, Strategic Communications and Initiatives 315.443.0476 Stacey White, Administrative Assistant to the Chief Diversity and Inclusion Officer 315.443.5465 Ebony King, Diversity and Inclusion Specialist 315.443.4112 William Myhill, Interim Director and ADA Coordinator, Office of Equal Opportunity, Inclusion, and Resolution Services 315.443.6162 Melanie Domanico, Accommodations Specialist, Office of Equal Opportunity, Inclusion, and Resolution Services 315.443.1890 Annice Allen, Executive Assistant, Communications and Office Operations 315.443.1548 Cornelia Stokes, Office Coordinator, 119 Euclid 315.443.4005 Aaron Joshua, Office Coordinator, 119 Euclid 315.443.4005 Additional Resources Link The Center for Disability Resources Link The Center for Disability Resources (CDR), formerly known as the Office of Disability Service’s (ODS), provides disability-related resources for students that go beyond legal compliance. Center for International Services Link The Center for International Services is the resource for international students, scholars and their dependents on issues related to immigration status, employment, cultural, social and academic concerns which impact your success at Syracuse University. Disability Cultural Center Link The Disability Cultural Center (DCC) coordinates campus-wide social, educational, and cultural activities on disability issues for students, faculty, staff, and community members with and without disabilities. Faculty Affairs Link Provides information, resources, and guidance across the academic career, including support, faculty hiring, professional development, and recognition. Hendricks Chapel Link Hendricks Chapel is home to all student religious or spiritual groups on campus. These groups span a wide diversity of religious traditions and spiritual interests. Participation in religious groups is open to all students. LGBTQ Resource Center Link The Syracuse University Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender (LGBT) Resource Center seeks to be a campus and regional leader delivering support, community, and education around marginalized genders and sexualities, and the complex intersections of our multiple identities. Office of Community Engagement Link Provides students, faculty and staff with authentic engagement opportunities that allow them to interact with the world around them. Office of Multicultural Affairs Link The Office of Multicultural Affairs (OMA) provides the necessary support and guidance needed to encourage students to become members of a community respectful of differences. The Office of University Ombuds Link Provides faculty, staff, and graduate students with an informal, confidential, impartial, and independent resource to address concerns or questions openly without fear of retaliation or judgment. Stop Bias Link STOP Bias is a University-wide initiative that educates the campus community about bias and provides resources to report and receive support for bias-related incidents. © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy