Skip to Content Diversity and Inclusion Open Close primary navigation Search Search AboutExpand Collapse section Mission and Vision Statement Core Values and Guiding Principles Campus Demographics History of Inclusion Committees and Workgroups ServicesExpand Collapse section Accessibility Services Educational Training and Programming 119 Euclid Affinity Groups ResourcesExpand Collapse section Resource Center Inclusion Policies Diversity and Inclusion Commitments Land Acknowledgment Statement DACA/Undocumented Students AcademicsExpand Collapse section Degree Programs Schools and Colleges News Events Contact Search Search 119 Euclid Home Services 119 Euclid Welcome to 119 Euclid, a space where Black students are celebrated. Created as a commitment from the university to the demands of student protesters, 119 Euclid seeks to enhance the student experience by reinforcing Black culture across the African diaspora. 119 Euclid includes: A social lounge – this large room includes a television and many modular chairs to accommodate game night, movie night, and group discussions. Meeting rooms (2) – these reservable rooms hold approximately 12 people and are fully equipped with a television that can address all presentation and entertainment needs. Kitchen – fully functioning, this kitchen has tables and chairs and hold approximately 25 people. Quiet room – equipped with plenty of seating and room to study this room can also hold small groups. Reflection room – dedicated to Black bodies lost to violence this room is a space for introspection and contemplation. Conference room – this room has numerous modular tables that can hold a large meeting or a small program for about 30 people. Shared office space – an office for graduate students and members of the 119 Euclid staff. Graduate students can reserve the space for their needs. Students are encouraged to come to the space at any time during operation hours and contact 119 Euclid to reserve meeting space or to plan an event. The space is fully staffed and open Monday – Friday 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. and Saturdays from 1 to 9 p.m. Naming opportunities and questions about ways to support 119 Euclid can be directed to Rachel Vassel. Please contact 119 Euclid Ave by email or call 315.443.4005. Follow us on Instagram at 119Euclid. More from this Section Accessibility Services Educational Training and Programming How to Establish an Affinity Group © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy