Deprecated: Methods with the same name as their class will not be constructors in a future version of PHP; WP_Categories_to_Tags has a deprecated constructor in /code/wp-content/plugins/wpcat2tag-importer/wpcat2tag-importer.php on line 31 Business Affairs - for the Division of Diversity and Community Engagement Business Affairs for the Division of Diversity and Community Engagement DDCE Home Supervisor / Staff / Student Resources Supervisor Resources Staff Resources Student Resources Financials Business Contacts DDCE Human Resources IT Support October 10, 2020 Welcome to DDCE Business Affairs Mission The Division of Diversity and Community Engagement’s Business Affairs Office and its division business partners seek to ensure DDCE business practices, procedures and individual contributions of work, meet and align with the University of Texas at Austin’s policies and standards of work excellence. In addition to serving as a… read more October 1, 2020 COVID-19 Response Updates: Information for DDCE Staff and Students Deprecated: wp_make_content_images_responsive is deprecated since version 5.5.0! Use wp_filter_content_tags() instead. in /code/wp-includes/functions.php on line 5323 The health and well-being of Faculty, Staff and Students of DDCE is a top priority. Business Affairs is committed to keeping your health and safety at the forefront as we work towards 100% business continuity. This page is designed to keep the DDCE Business Contacts informed about our response to… read more September 4, 2020 DDCE Business Contacts’ Spotlights Mission The Division of Diversity and Community Engagement’s Business Affairs Office and its division business partners seek to ensure DDCE business practices, procedures and individual contributions of work, meet and align with the University of Texas at Austin’s policies and standards of work excellence. DDCE Business Contacts Information DDCE Business… read more September 3, 2020 DDCE Business Contacts’ Meeting Info Mission The Division of Diversity and Community Engagement’s Business Affairs Office and its division business partners seek to ensure DDCE business practices, procedures and individual contributions of work, meet and align with The University of Texas at Austin’s policies and standards of work excellence. DDCE Business Contact Directory DDCE Meeting… read more March 5, 2020 DDCE Finance Team Work Schedule DDCE Finance Team Work Schedule March 4, 2020 University Financial & Administrative Applications Below is a list of the financial and administrative applications and tools supported by Office of the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer organizational units. For a complete list of all University of Texas at Austin administrative applications, visit UT Direct. Account Balances Provides UT Austin account balance Information.… read more November 5, 2021 Amazon Business Prime 1.DDCE Amazon Business Prime Invitation The e-mail invitation looks similar to: You are welcome to add requisitioners and additional administrators to your unit’s Amazon Business Prime Account. 2. Training Resources Box link to the Amazon Business Prime training resources from the ProCard Office including instructions on how to add… read more September 25, 2020 DDCE Travel – Domestic & Foreign Travelers must demonstrate how business trips will benefit DDCE. Before submitting travel request, travelers must check the budget to ensure availability of funds. Complete the DDCE Request for Travel (RTA) form and submit to your travel administrator as soon as possible after your trip is approved by your supervisor and… read more September 23, 2020 DDCE Gifts, Grants, Endowments & Pledges Information Gifts and endowments are an important part of the University’s operations and play an integral role in helping the University achieve its goals. They provide UT Austin with a permanent source of funding to support professorships, financial aid, research, capital projects, schools, departments, institutes, centers, and more. Private support is… read more September 21, 2020 AskUs Release Notes Workday Release Notes are transitioning into askUS Release Notes, which will cover both HR/Payroll (Workday) and Financial systems. askUS Release Notes will be updated each week on Fridays. Currently, they are published to the Release Notes page of the Workday @ UT website and emailed directly to subscribers. If you… read more September 21, 2020 COVID-19 Risk Assessment Chart – Texas Medical Association Know Your Risk During COVID-19 The Texas Medical Association COVID-19 Task Force and Committee on Infectious Diseases have created a chart that ranks activities on their risk level for COVID-19. The levels are based on input from the physician members of the task force and the committee, who worked from the assumption that –… read more September 19, 2020 DDCE Uninterrupted: Business Continuity During the Age of Covid-19 On March 13, 2020, University of Texas President Gregory Fenves announced an extended spring break for students and that most faculty and staff would begin working remotely due to the Coronavirus pandemic. Under the leadership of Vice President Leonard N. Moore, all units in the Division of Diversity and Community… read more September 17, 2020 DDCE Purchasing & Payment Services Information The University’s Purchasing Office operates under the Office of the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and has the responsibility and sole authority1 to obligate funds for procurement. Its mission is to procure goods and services to sustain, foster, and support the educational and research missions of The University… read more September 13, 2020 *DEFINE (DEpartmental INformation NEtwork) Overview *DEFINE, an acronym for ‘D’epartmental ‘F’inancial ‘I’nformation ‘NE’twork, is a financial application used by The University of Texas at Austin and other UT components. *DEFINE is a public application, which means anyone with a logon ID can access it. Below are some of the modules available in *DEFINE: GMM… read more 1 2 3 4 Next Page » Search Search site: Need IT Help? Submit an IT Help Request Topics Budgeting & Accounting (10) *DEFINE (1) Account Reconciliation & Certification (1) Chart of Accounts (1) DDCE Unit Monthly Financial Reports (MFRs) & Resources (1) DocuSign (1) Financial & Administrative Systems (1) Fiscal Year-End Resources (1) Forms-Admin & Financial (1) Gifts, Endowments & Pledges (1) Handbook of Business Procedures (HBP) (1) Prompt Payment Act (1) Scholarships & Fellowships (1) Business Continuity Planning (1) DDCE Uninterrupted (1) Business Process Improvement (1) eBITS Roadmaps (1) Communications (7) AFM Newsletters (1) AskUs Release Notes (1) COVID-19 Updates (1) DDCE Publications & Newsletters (3) HR Spectrum (1) COVID-19 Resources (9) Business Continuity (1) Communications (4) COVID-19 Risk Assessment Chart (1) Finance Team Info & Schedule (1) Off-Campus Inventory Management (1) DDCE Business Contacts (2) Business Contacts Directory (1) DDCE Business Contacts' Spotlights (1) Meeting Agendas & Minutes (1) Education & Training (7) *DEFINE (1) DDCE Accounting 101 (1) DDCE Budgeting 101 (1) Financial Reporting (1) Fiscal Year-End Process (1) Inventory Management (1) Online Training (1) Records Management (1) Reports (1) Event Management (1) CVENT (1) Gifts, Grants, Endowments & Pledges (1) Co-Sponsorships (1) Compliance (1) DDCE Gift & Endowments Stewardship Guide (1) Gift Deposits (1) Wire Transfers (1) Human Resources (7) DDCE Staff Resources (1) DDCE Student Resources (1) DDCE Supervisor Resources (1) Employee Leave (2) Ethics & Compliance (2) Family & Medical Leave (FMLA) (2) Hiring & Recruiting (1) Injuries & Workmen's Comp (WCI) (1) Payroll (1) Report Bias or Discrimination (2) Separations (1) Time Off and Leave (2) Timekeeping (2) Information Technology (1) Data Security (1) Desktop Support (1) Software Licensing (1) Two-Factor Authentification (1) UT Voicemail (1) Zoom (1) Inventory Management (1) Annual Certification Process (1) DDCE Inventory Guide (1) Off-Campus Inventory (1) Training (1) Purchasing & Payment Services (3) Business Contracts (1) Business Contracts Review Checklist (BCRC) (1) Campus Distribution Services (CDS) (1) DDCE Supplier Diversity Institute (1) Disencumbrances (1) DocuSign (1) Historically Underutilized Business (HUB) (1) Hotel Agreements (1) Independent Contractor Checklist (EICCC) (1) Official Occasions (OOE) (1) Point Plus (1) Procard Management (2) Purchase Orders (1) Quotes & Bids (1) UT Market (1) Vendor Management (1) Records Management (1) DDCE Records Management Guide (1) Training (1) Taxes (1) Internet Sales Tax (1) Sales & Use Tax (1) UBIT (1) UT Sales Tax Exemption (1) Travel Management (1) Authorizations (RTAs) & Reimbursements (1) Camp Insurance (1) Car Rental (1) Cash Advance (1) Charter Bus Rental (1) Uncategorized (1) How Can We Improve This Site? Please fill out any suggestions in the feedback form. Thank you, we appreciate your input! Teeyia Mercer Executive Director & Chief Business Officer © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Emergency Information | Site Policies | Web Accessibility Policy | Web Privacy Policy DDCE Office of Business Affairs DDCE Home Supervisor / Staff / Student Resources Supervisor Resources Staff Resources Student Resources Financials Business Contacts DDCE Human Resources IT Support ×