Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity Think and Do The Extraordinary Support the Unit About Staff Contact Giving Diversity at NC State Assessment Model Reports and Surveys Community African American Cultural Center GLBT Center Multicultural Student Affairs Women’s Center Committees Connections Interfaith Prayer and Meditation Spaces Student Employment Inclusive Excellence Cultural Competence Toolkit DEI Training Requirement The Credential Inclusive Excellence Certificate Program IDI at NC State Opportunities for Faculty and Staff Opportunities for Students Programs and Initiatives Resources Equal Opportunity Accessibility, Adjustment, Accommodation Discrimination and Harassment EEO and Hiring Practices File a Report Policies Pregnancy and Parenting Title IX Video Tutorials: How to Access EOE Services Safe at NC State Get Help File a Report Complainant Resources Respondent Resources Bias Impact Response News & Events News Toward Inclusive Practices (TIPs) Signature Events Calendar Religious and Cultural Holidays Subscribe and Archives Think and Do The Extraordinary Support the Unit About Community Inclusive Excellence Equal Opportunity Safe at NC State News & Events Full Site Navigation About Staff Contact Giving Diversity at NC State Assessment Model Reports and Surveys Community African American Cultural Center GLBT Center Multicultural Student Affairs Women’s Center Committees Connections Interfaith Prayer and Meditation Spaces Student Employment Inclusive Excellence Cultural Competence Toolkit DEI Training Requirement The Credential Inclusive Excellence Certificate Program IDI at NC State Opportunities for Faculty and Staff Opportunities for Students Programs and Initiatives Resources Advocacy Opportunities Articles Associations and Networks Books DIY/DEI Curated Resources Guidance on Support Spaces Inclusive Pedagogy and Teaching Resources Building a Trauma-Informed Practice in the Classroom and Beyond Interactive Resources and Websites Media On-Campus Resources Podcasts Speaking and Writing About Diversity Virtual Event Recordings Equal Opportunity Accessibility, Adjustment, Accommodation Discrimination and Harassment EEO and Hiring Practices File a Report Policies Pregnancy and Parenting Title IX Video Tutorials: How to Access EOE Services Safe at NC State Get Help File a Report Complainant Resources Respondent Resources Bias Impact Response News & Events News Toward Inclusive Practices (TIPs) Signature Events Calendar Religious and Cultural Holidays Subscribe and Archives Accessibility, Adjustment, Accommodation NC State provides reasonable accommodations based on disability and religion as well as adjustments based on pregnancy. NC State provides reasonable accommodations based on disability and religion as well as adjustments based on pregnancy. We provide equal opportunity in all of our programs, activities and services, as required by Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) of 1990, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and other applicable laws that prohibit disability, religious, and sex discrimination. We strive for the inclusion of all individuals as part of our commitment to creating and maintaining an equitable and diverse community. Accommodations/Adjustments Information ADA Accommodations Employees The Equal Opportunity and Equity (EOE) unit assists eligible employees who qualify for reasonable accommodations under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) of 1990. The EOE engages in an interactive process with employees to determine eligibility and ensuring equal opportunity in employment. The Requesting an Accommodation page provides you step-by-step instructions on how to request an accommodation based on disability. For additional assistance, please contact the Equal Opportunity and Equity unit at equalopportunity@ncsu.edu or 919.513.0574. Students The Disability Resource Office (DRO) is the designated office to assist eligible students with disabilities by determining access needs and coordinating academic adjustments in accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act. For additional assistance, please contact the Disability Resource Office at disability@ncsu.edu or 919.515.7653. Guests and Visitors NC State welcomes all community members to attend, participate and support university programs, activities and events. Accessibility at NC State provides general information regarding accessing campus resources, creating online content and applying for employment. For additional assistance, please contact the Equal Opportunity and Equity unit at equalopportunity@ncsu.edu or 919.513.0574. ADA Coordinator Sheri Schwab, Vice Provost for Institutional Equity and Diversity Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity 231 Winslow Hall, Campus Box 7530 Raleigh, NC 27695-7530 919.513.0574 (phone), 919.513.1428 (fax) Religious Accommodations Religious discrimination involves treating a person (applicant or employee) unfavorably because of their religious beliefs. The law requires employers to “reasonably accommodate religious beliefs or practices, unless doing so would cause more than a minimal burden on the operations of the employer’s business.” An individual who is interested in requesting a religious accommodation should submit the Request for Religious Accommodations form to provide information about the type of accommodation being requested and information about the belief, practice or observance. For additional assistance, please contact the Equal Opportunity and Equity unit at equalopportunity@ncsu.edu or 919.513.0574. Pregnancy Adjustments Title IX protects pregnant individuals and requires equal access and equal participation for pregnant in educational programs and activities including work, clubs, sports, honor societies, student leadership opportunities and other activities. Title VII and the Pregnancy Discrimination Act protect pregnant employees by forbidding discrimination on the basis of sex based on pregnancy. An individual who is interested in requesting a reasonable adjustment due to pregnancy should submit the Pregnant and Parenting Individual Request for Assistance Form. For additional assistance, please contact the Equal Opportunity and Equity unit at equalopportunity@ncsu.edu or 919.513.0574. Accessibility Resources Accessibility Excursion 30 Years of ADA Accessibility at NC State Planning a Program Workshops As NC State continues to celebrate the 30th Anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act, OIED hosted the 2021 (Virtual) Accessibility Excursion in April to raise awareness about campus accessibility. This year’s Accessibility Excursion highlighted some of the digital accessibility tools available on the university’s various digital platforms such as Panopto, Zoom and Moodle. Visit the Excursion In celebration of the 30th Anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act (July 26th, 2020), OIED hosted a week of informative workshops and sessions with partners both locally and across the country. Please enjoy the featured presentations as we recognized ADA Past, Present, and Future on the campus of NC State. Check out the ADA Past, Present, and Future Accessibility at NC State provides general information regarding accessing campus resources, creating online content and applying for employment. Visit Accessibility at NC State Guidelines and advice for planning an accessible event at NC State are available for program planners. Plan an Event The Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity offers workshops on the ADA and Title IX. Attend a Workshop Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity Winslow Hall, Campus Box 7530 Raleigh, NC 27695-7530 Staff Directory Annual Report Contact Us Website Feedback Giving Accessibility Privacy Policies Request Faculty and Staff Training Request Student Training Campus Map © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.