Skip to Content Diversity and Inclusion Open Close primary navigation Search Search AboutExpand Collapse section Mission and Vision Statement Core Values and Guiding Principles Campus Demographics History of Inclusion Committees and Workgroups ServicesExpand Collapse section Accessibility Services Educational Training and Programming 119 Euclid Affinity Groups ResourcesExpand Collapse section Resource Center Inclusion Policies Diversity and Inclusion Commitments Land Acknowledgment Statement DACA/Undocumented Students AcademicsExpand Collapse section Degree Programs Schools and Colleges News Events Contact Search Search Home About Core Values and Guiding Principles Core Values and Guiding Principles At Syracuse University, we believe in the dignity and worth of all people. This belief commits us to ensure an equitable, diverse, accessible, inclusive and campus environment for all. Each person here should be welcomed and appreciated. We value diverse identities. Cultural perspectives and worldviews matter to us. Difference should never mean devaluation, nor should it result in discrimination. We believe that diversity and inclusion enhance who we are as students, faculty, staff, and alumni. At Syracuse University, a key dimension of excellence is our adherence to the core values equity, diversity, accessibility, and inclusion. Equity involves assuring that individuals receive the support they require to perform at their highest level. Diversity encompasses a host of differences. These may include, but are not limited to, race, ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, class, learning style, country of origin, disability, political ideology, religion, and cultural perspectives. Accessibility involves making sure that physical and psychological obstacles do not prevent individual achievement or participation. Inclusion requires respectful, intentional and purposeful engagement with diverse students, faculty, alumni, and staff. The following principles guide our actions as we adhere to these core values: We will ensure that equity is a fundamental element of all decision-making. We will enhance dialogue and actions to foster greater understanding and appreciation for the lived experiences of others. We will nurture and support a richly diverse campus community at all levels. We will invest in continuing education of students, faculty, and staff to support inclusive excellence and social justice. We will actively seek to advance inclusive practices via curricular, co-curricular, and extra-curricular activities. We will create and develop new methods to improve access and retention of underrepresented students, staff, and faculty. More from this Section Mission and Vision Statement Campus Demographics History of Inclusion Committees and Workgroups © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy