Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University Diversity & Multicultural Affairs Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About People/Contact Diversity in Providence Partnerships Campus Climate Survey History Our Programs Brown Advocates for Social Change and Equity (BASCE) MEDSTEP Diversity Fellowship Program Our Community Faculty Medical Students Trainees Pre-Med & Pre-Health Students Medical Student Initiatives News & Events Search Diversity & Multicultural Affairs Medical Students ODMA works closely with leadership across campus to provide the student community with a supportive learning environment. Breadcrumb Home Our Community Sub Navigation In This Section Faculty Medical Students Enrichment Opportunities ODMA Fellowship Rotation Resources for Medical Students Student Profiles Visiting Student Scholarship Trainees Pre-Med & Pre-Health Students Medical Student Initiatives Brown Advocates for Social Change and Equity (BASCE) A year-long program that seeks to develop healthcare leaders who have an aptitude and passion for engaging their peers in dialogue around issues of racism, cultural diversity, inclusion, social justice, and health equity. BASCE Medical Students ODMA works closely with leadership across campus to provide the student community with a supportive learning environment. Quick Links Enrichment Opportunities The ODMA curates an evolving library of enrichment opportunities for medical students at Brown. Visit Page Open details for Enrichment Opportunities ODMA Fellowship The Office of Diversity and Multicultural Affairs (ODMA) Fellows Program is an opportunity for a medical student to develop skills in leadership, collaboration, and program development through the creation of initiatives that support the mission of the ODMA. Visit Page Open details for ODMA Fellowship Diversity Visiting Student Scholarship A program co-sponsored by the Office of Diversity and Multicultural Affairs and The Warren Alpert Medical School's affiliated medical departments. Visit Page Open details for Diversity Visiting Student Scholarship Student Support and Resources ODMA works closely with the Offices of Medical Education and Continuous Quality Improvement and Student Affairs, to provide the student community with a supportive learning environment, offering advising and support needed to grow as a future physician. Student Wellness Office of Student Affairs Well-Being Resources BWell Health Promotion Student Health Council Committee on Learning Environment (COLE) COLE is a collaborative committee comprised of students, AMS faculty/staff, and other faculty from our clinical departments. COLE will function as an advisory board move forward with the learning environment initiatives. Team Tutoring TEAM (Together, Everyone Achieves More) is a peer tutoring program designed to provide support for underrepresented in medicine (URM), first generation, or low-income first-year medical students. It runs for the first semester of medical school with sessions held the week before an exam. The format is highly interactive, with a mix of peer-to-peer teachback and team-based learning. In addition, the sessions provide an additional opportunity to build connections between medical students from all years. For more information, please contact odma@brown.edu. Affinity Groups Asian Pacific American Medical Association (APAMSA) Executive Board: Katie Chiou MD’25, Janet Guo MD’25, Samika Kanekar MD’25, Angela Zhu MD'25 Contact: katie_chiou@brown.edu, janet_guo@brown.edu, samika_kanekar@brown.edu, angela_zhu@brown.edu The Asian Pacific American Medical Students Association (APAMSA) is a national organization of medical and pre-medical students committed to addressing the unique health challenges of Asian and Pacific Islander American (APIA) communities. The mission of APAMSA is to promote the health and well-being of APIA communities and to teach health care providers who work with these communities to understand how to care for APIA patients in a culturally sensitive manner. Finally, APAMSA provides an important forum for APIA medical students to meet, exchange information and experiences, and to develop personally and professionally. The goals of the Alpert Medical School chapter of APAMSA include fostering a sense of community among APIA students, organizing panels and lectures related to APIA advocacy and health issues, and hosting community health fairs which include HIV and hepatitis screenings. APAMSA National Website Brown Minority Housestaff Association (BMHA) Chair: Dr. Yvorn Aswad and Dr. Tiffany Bell Contact: bmhabrownuniversity@gmail.com; yvorn.aswad@gmail.com; tiffany.n.bell@gmail.com The Brown Minority Housestaff Association (BMHA) aims to promote the advancement of underrepresented housestaff through mentorship, networking and advocacy. The BMHA seeks to increase the presence of underrepresented faculty and housestaff through active recruitment and community building within Brown, foster the development of professional and social connections that will increase retention of minority housestaff and faculty, and use the strength of a diverse workforce to more effectively meet the needs of a diverse population. Visit BMHA Brown Sexual and Gender Minority Alliance (BSGMA) Director: Dr. Erin Baroni Contact: brownsgma@gmail.com The Brown Sexual and Gender Minority Alliance (BSGMA) is an organization devoted to education, advocacy, and support for sexual and gender minority trainees and faculty affiliated with the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. Visit BSGMA on Facebook Latino Medical Student Association (LMSA) Presidents: Daniel Parra MD '25 Contact: lmsa@brown.edu The Latino Medical Student Association (LMSA) is a national organization founded to represent, support, educate, and unify US Latino medical students. The Alpert Medical School chapter strives to work toward these objectives in an inclusive environment and encourages students from all backgrounds to join. More specifically, LMSA aims to fulfill its mission through involvement in community service. They aim to improve the health of underserved communities by creating a communication network for medical students, physicians, and leaders in our community serving underserved populations, supporting the efforts of other organizations committed to the improvement of healthcare access and quality of care, establishing a support network that will help foster a sense of community among members, and fostering the development of future Latino leaders in medicine. Go to LMSA Visit LMSA on Facebook Spectrum Co-Directors: Victoria Angenent-Mari MD'25; Olivia Nyberg MD'25 Contact: spectrum@brown.edu Spectrum provides LGBTQ+ advocacy within The Warren Alpert Medical School community. By facilitating connections with physician mentors and providing educational opportunities for medical students and other trainees, the organization fosters improvements in medical care for LGBTQ+ patient populations. Further, Spectrum works closely with the AMS administration to develop a more inclusive and comprehensive curriculum. The organization also serves to support and celebrate LGBTQ+-identified individuals within the medical school and the greater RI healthcare community. Spectrum also helps organize medical and graduate student social events to help foster the greater Brown LGBTQ+ community. Visit Spectrum on Facebook Student National Medical Association (SNMA) President: Jasmine Gibson MD’25; Mario Ojadi MD’25 Contact: brown@snma.org The Student National Medical Association (SNMA) is the nation's oldest and largest student organization focused on the needs and concerns of medical students of color. SNMA programs are designed to serve the health needs of underserved communities and communities of color. In addition, SNMA is dedicated both to ensuring that medical education and services are culturally sensitive to the needs of diverse populations as well as to increasing the number of African-American, Latino, and other students of color entering and completing medical school. The Brown Chapter of SNMA works toward this goal through programs and initiatives such as community health fairs which include blood pressure and diabetes screenings, bone marrow drives, and an annual on-campus educational event for high school students called Meet the Cadaver. Visit AMS at Brown SNMA Facebook Visit SNMA Student Profiles Hear from some of our students in their own words. Student Profiles Brown Advocates for Social Change and Equity (BASCE) A year-long program that seeks to develop healthcare leaders who have an aptitude and passion for engaging their peers in dialogue around issues of racism, cultural diversity, inclusion, social justice, and health equity. BASCE Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About People/Contact Diversity in Providence Partnerships Campus Climate Survey History Our Programs Brown Advocates for Social Change and Equity (BASCE) MEDSTEP Diversity Fellowship Program Our Community Faculty Medical Students Trainees Pre-Med & Pre-Health Students Medical Student Initiatives News & Events Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Medical Students Open details for Medical Students Bookmark this Page