Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University Diversity & Multicultural Affairs Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About People/Contact Diversity in Providence Partnerships Campus Climate Survey History Our Programs Brown Advocates for Social Change and Equity (BASCE) MEDSTEP Diversity Fellowship Program Our Community Faculty Medical Students Trainees Pre-Med & Pre-Health Students Medical Student Initiatives News & Events Search Diversity & Multicultural Affairs Joseph Diaz, MD, MPH Associate Dean for Diversity and Multicultural Affairs Biography Dr. Diaz is a primary care provider at Memorial Hospital of RI, a Care New England hospital. A graduate of Brown Medical School, Dr. Diaz completed a residency and fellowship in General Internal Medicine at Rhode Island Hospital before joining the Department of Medicine and the Center for Primary Care and Prevention at Memorial Hospital of RI in 2001. Since joining the faculty, Dr. Diaz has been actively involved in medical education, served as a site director for the core clerkship in medicine, and was a lead faculty member in the Alpert Medical School Academy system. He is currently a co-director of the Scholarly Concentration in Care of the Underserved. Dr. Diaz’s clinical work and research focus on the delivery of health care to underserved populations. His research has centered on assessing and addressing disparities in preventive health with a focus on the role of language and culture as a barrier to colorectal cancer screening. Dr. Diaz oversees the Office of Diversity and Multicultural Affairs, which helps to create and foster a diverse, inclusive, and culturally competent learning and training environment for students, faculty, and trainees within the Division. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About People/Contact Diversity in Providence Partnerships Campus Climate Survey History Our Programs Brown Advocates for Social Change and Equity (BASCE) MEDSTEP Diversity Fellowship Program Our Community Faculty Medical Students Trainees Pre-Med & Pre-Health Students Medical Student Initiatives News & Events Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Joseph Diaz, MD, MPH Open details for Joseph Diaz, MD, MPH Bookmark this Page