Skip to main content Search: Go Search context Search Filters: This Site Cornell Utility Navigation Giving Leadership Report an Incident Search Cornell University Diversity and Inclusion Main Navigation Our Story Institutional Initiatives 2017-2018 Recommendations Our Historic Commitment News Events Belonging at Cornell Belonging at Cornell News Sense of Belonging Fairness Net Promoter Score Turnover Rates Proportionate Hiring Rate Survey Results Survey Results (Accessible Alternative) Innovation Grants Belonging at Cornell News Archive Our Community Anti-Racism Resources DEI Celebration Resources Student & Post Doc Faculty Resources Staff Resources LGBTQ Staff & Faculty Trans Inclusion at Cornell Trans Inclusion Recommended Practices Gender Inclusive Pronouns Alumni, Parents & Friends Our Commitments Diversity Leadership at Cornell About PADE DIB Inclusive Excellence Network Inclusive Excellence Podcast Episode Archive Inclusive Excellence Summit Inclusive Excellence Academy Upcoming Seminars List of Previous Seminars Bias Reporting at Cornell For Students For Faculty/Staff Equal Opportunity & Affirmative Action Disability Access Accessible Red Runner Transportation Workplace Accommodations Gender Equity & Title IX Restroom & Facilities Guidelines Supplier Diversity More in this section Our Community Anti-Racism Resources DEI Celebration Resources Student & Post Doc Faculty Resources Staff Resources LGBTQ Staff & Faculty Trans Inclusion at Cornell Trans Inclusion Recommended Practices Gender Inclusive Pronouns Alumni, Parents & Friends Home Our Community Anti-Racism Resources Anti-Racism Resources Resources for Managers and Supervisors Leading during traumatic and triggering events: Recommendations for leading and managing during traumatic and triggering events. Tips are listed as Neutral, the minimum actions required to prevent a roll-back or deterioration of team culture and functioning; First Gear, actions to begin acknowledging the trauma; and Second Gear through Fourth Gear, referring to additional actions to begin connecting as a team around the event, attempting to make meaning of it, and taking action. Read the LinkedIn article by Clayton Robbins, Diversity Equity Inclusiveness Consulting. Advancing Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at Cornell In this six-course certificate program for staff, you will hear from Cornell leadership about the importance of evolving a culture of diversity, equity, and belonging. Optional university-wide community conversations will be offered via zoom. Other DEI Courses Cornell’s Department of Inclusion and Workforce Diversity, in collaboration with the Department of Organizational Development and Effectiveness and Professor Joseph Margulies, Professor of Law and Government in the College of Arts and Sciences, hosted programs on anti-racism. Course content can be downloaded through CULearn. Why Are People Protesting? Hosted by Jennifer Fonseca, Sr. Management Consultant, Organizational Development and Effectiveness; and Reginald White, HR Director for the Research Division This program provides a historical context for the current reaction to recent killings of black people in America. We will look at what institutional racism is, how it manifests and what the impact is on the greater community. Allyship: How Can I Support My Black Colleagues Right Now? Hosted by Anthony Sis, Diversity and Inclusion Training Specialist, Department of Inclusion and Workforce Diversity This program delves into allyship and what it means to be an ally. We will look at what anti-racism means and how to engage meaningfully in advancing equity in our work and daily lives. Urban Policing: What's underlying the tension between black communities and police departments? Hosted by Professor Joseph Margulies, Professor of Law and Government, Cornell College of Arts and Sciences The relationship between police and urban communities has a long history fraught with hostility and resentment that periodically explodes into episodes of anger and rage. But the best police leaders recognize the impact policing has had on communities of color and are trying to transform that relationship. In this talk, we will try to explain the root of anger and discuss the prospect of change. Webinars Cornell Community Conversation on Race and Labor in America - Discussion of "13th", the documentary. If you missed the opportunity to attend this webinar with Professor Ifeoma Ajunwa of Cornell University’s ILR School/Law School and Professor Michele Bratcher Goodwin of the University of California, Irvine School of Law we have provided a recording below, along with additional resources that were mentioned during the webinar. The film is still available for free streaming on Netflix and Youtube ) Date of film discussion: September 10th, 2020. Video recording of Webinar: Video Recording of Webinar here The conversation discussed the film along with the following articles: Michele Goodwin: The Thirteenth Amendment: Modern Slavery, Capitalism, and Mass Incarceration Ifeoma Ajunwa and Angela Onwuachi-Willig: Combating Discrimination Against the Formerly Incarcerated on the Labor Market Books for further Reading: Race, Labor, and the Future of Work, Ifeoma Ajunwa, (Oxford Handbook for Race and Law) Cuz: The Life and Times of Michael A. - Danielle S. Allen Incidents in the Life of a Slave Girl - Harriet Ann Jacobs Additional Resources mentioned: American Civil Liberties Union: Link to website Additional Resources From the Office of Faculty Development and Diversity Resources for Engaging in Conversations About Race and Anti-Racism From the University Faculty, Office of the Dean Take Action Against Racism From Cornell University Press Antiracism and Racial Justice Resources Global Cornell Silence is Racism- a comprehensive list of resources on anti-racism Global Cornell Race and Racism Across Borders- a series of reflections through artistic expression Cornell University Diversity and Inclusion Contact Report an Incident Cornell University ©2022 University Privacy Web Accessibility Assistance