Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Prospective Undergraduate Students Current Undergraduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Employers Admissions» Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics» Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Online Learning Non-Degree & Special Programs Academic Policies Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Research» Faculty and Research Staff Institutes, Centers & Initiatives Department Research Research Areas Undergraduate Research Opportunities University and School Research Resources Innovation, Design & Entrepreneurship» Student Life» Undergraduate Student Life Graduate Student Life Living in New York City Commencement Student Profiles About» Dean of Columbia Engineering At A Glance Engineering for Humanity Mission & Vision Supporting the Vision History Plan A Visit Board of Visitors Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion People News Columbia Engineering Magazine Strategic Collaborations Get Involved Bulletin Make a Gift Contact Home Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Columbia Engineering and the wider University are deeply committed to cultivating a global community of scholars and researchers devoted to academic excellence and the translation of ideas into broad impact. If you have questions, feedback, suggestions, or want to get involved with diversity initiatives at Columbia Engineering, send us an email at [email protected]. Students and Prospective Students We attract undergraduate and graduate students and postdoctoral researchers from all backgrounds and support their educational goals through mentoring, advising, fellowships, and programming. Discover programs, groups, and support for undergraduates and graduates. Professional transitions to engineering and applied science. Faculty Our faculty is composed of leaders and innovators in their field who are drawn to the advantages of a major research University in a populous, urban setting that affords unique opportunities for research and testing. We work with the Office of the Provost on initiatives to recruit and support faculty who reflect the diversity of New York City and the world. Locate the resources you need. K-12 Outreach Early exposure to science, technology, engineering, and math is a crucial factor in a student’s interesting in engineering and applied science as a career path. Our outreach programs connect underserved communities with world-class STEM resources. Get involved. Research and Innovation The interdisciplinary nature of research at Columbia Engineering fosters innovation from the classroom to the lab to the marketplace. Through collaboration across our sister schools, we are able to bring engineering and design thinking to social challenges. Learn about mission-focused research and innovation. Staff We support a diverse work environment for our staff in cooperation with Columbia University’s Office of Equal Opportunity & Affirmative Action. Find out more. Alumni Our global alumni network is an active and engaged community that champions the Columbia Engineering vision and mission. Alumni generously support a diverse student and faculty body through programs, fellowships, scholarships, and more. Find out more about alumni groups and events. Disability Resources We are committed to making Columbia accessible for all of our faculty, students, staff, and visitors. Over the past several years, we have led efforts to enable enhanced classroom access to address both mobility and hearing-impaired disabilities, as well as other accessibility issues. Learn More. University Community Resources Office of University Life - Inclusion & Belonging Resources for Racial Justice Undergraduate Resources SEAS Diversity Equity & Inclusion Commission The commission is charged to engage with all constituents in the School of Engineering and Applied Science to identify challenges and opportunities in DEI and devise strategies and an action plan for advancing the SEAS DEI mission in research, education and community impact. Learn more about the DEI Commission Click here to download the DEI Commission Draft Report Click here to provide feedback for the DEI Commission Report Columbia University and Amazon Summer Undergraduate Research Experience (SURE) Program This eight-week program in New York City will allow undergraduate students an opportunity to engage in cutting edge research on campus at Columbia University and be mentored by faculty and STEM professionals representing multiple career paths from academia and industry. Learn More 500 W. 120th Street #510 New York, NY 10027 Tel (212) 854-2993 Google Maps Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University Privacy Policy Terms of Use Faculty Job Opportunities Make a Gift Contact