Skip to content Information and resources related to COVID-19 Protect Texas Together Division of Diversity and Community Engagement MENU GIVE Search About DDCE K-12 Education Longhorn Center for School Partnerships AdviseTX Dual Enrollment Initiatives Neighborhood Longhorns Program UT Youth Engagement Centers University of Texas Elementary School UT-University Charter School Student Success Fearless Leadership Institute First-Gen Equity Global Leadership and Social Impact Heman Sweatt Center for Black Males Inclusive Innovation and Entrepreneurship Latina/x and Indigenous Leadership Institute Longhorn Center for Academic Equity Gateway Scholars McNair Scholars Longhorn Link Program Project MALES RGV Familia XP3 Inclusive Campus Business Affairs Campus Climate Disability Resources Dynamics of Diversity Certificate Courses Gender and Sexuality Center Multicultural Engagement Center Inclusive Campus Support President’s Advisory Committee on LGBTQIA+ Initiatives Services for Students with Disabilities Student Org Co-Sponsorship Program Office for Inclusion and Equity University Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan University Resource Groups Women in STEM (WiSTEM) Community Engagement Center for Community Engagement The Project UT Volunteers Hogg Foundation for Mental Health Longhorns for Equity, Access, and Diversity Initiative Partnerships and Sponsorships Texas Grant Resource Center University Interscholastic League Youth Protection Program Home K-12 Initiatives K-12 Initiatives The growing number of children from underrepresented groups who are entering the Texas educational pipeline deserve both the opportunity to enroll in college and the chance to thrive there. To this end, the DDCE is committed to increasing the success of students from PreK through 12th grade. The DDCE’s pre-college initiatives reach communities statewide to foster a culture of academic success for students from first generation or low income families or who attend high schools that are underrepresented in higher education. Some initiatives offer incentives and support for academic success, while others provide dual high school and college credit, tutoring, mentoring, and interactive conversations with families about what it takes for students to be ready for college. AdviseTX Advise TX places exceptional recent college graduates from all fields of study on high school campuses as near-peer college advisers to lead low-income and first-generation students to college. CalcBridge CalcBridge is a partnership among Texas high schools, the Department of Mathematics, and the DDCE. It allows high school students to earn college mathematics credit while connecting students with collegiate scientists and researchers. ChemBridge ChemBridge is a partnership among Texas high schools, the College of Natural Sciences, and the DDCE. It allows high school students to earn college chemistry credit , while earning concurrent high school credit for an advanced science class. Longhorn Center for School Partnerships Serving more than 10,000 students annually, LCSP is a portfolio of programs that provide college readiness services for underrepresented students that include both academic and college awareness initiatives. MathBridge MathBridge is a partnership among Texas high schools, the Department of Mathematics and the DDCE. It allows high school students to earn college mathematics credit while connecting students with collegiate scientists and researchers. Neighborhood Longhorns Program NLP is a partnership between Texas Athletics and the DDCE. It works in 30 Title I elementary and middle schools in Austin to improve academic performance and to increase retention by providing educational incentives and scholarships. Project MALES Project MALES is a multi-faceted research and mentoring initiative that is working to increase retention and graduation rates of Latino male students (and other males of color) enrolled at UT Austin and partner institutions. WritingBridge WritingBridge is a partnership among Texas high schools, the Department of Rhetoric and Writing, and the DDCE. It allows high school students to college rhetoric credit while connecting students with collegiate readers, writers and researchers. The University of Texas Elementary School UTES is a public charter school located in East Austin. Its mission is to: develop students into lifelong learners; provide opportunities for professional development for UT Austin; and serve as a model of an exemplary educational program. The UT-University Charter School District Composed of 23 campuses across Texas, UT-UCS serves special-needs K-12 students in unique settings, such as foster homes, domestic abuse shelters, and residential treatment centers. UT Youth Engagement Centers UT Youth Engagement Centers provide a comprehensive college preparatory program for select underserved high school students. UT Youth Engagement Centers has centers in Austin, Dallas, Houston, Rio Grande Valley, and San Antonio. Recent Posts Celebrating AAPI Heritage Month May 28, 2022 Celebrating Our Spring Graduates May 28, 2022 More Than A Monolith May 19, 2022 Q&A: Celebrating AAPI Heritage Month May 17, 2022 Photo Recap: Tower Awards 2022 May 13, 2022 110 Inner Campus Drive Austin, Texas, 78712 512-471-3212 Subscribe Sign up for our mailing list to get newsletters and event invitations. Subscribe About Us Office of the Vice President Executive Staff Human Resources On Brand DEI Action Plan ACCESS Magazine Land Acknowledgement © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Emergency Information | Site Policies | Web Accessibility Policy | Web Privacy Policy