Skip to main content < Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information and Resources University of Pennsylvania Toggle Navigation Toggle Search Accessibility Menu Jump to… Main Content Search Main Navigation Utility Navigation Main menu Diversity at Penn More Diversity at Penn Penn Compact 2022 Policies Reports Forms Facts and Figures Timeline Stories Programs More Programs Academic Programs Diversity Offices, Initiatives and Student Organizations Administrative and Co-Curricular Resources More Resources Affiliated With Resource Centers Religious Organizations Arts Organizations Student Government Consultation Councils Student Affairs School Affiliated Organization News & Events More News & Events Videos Diversity News Events Utility Navigation Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices & Services Webmail Back to Accessibility Menu Search Search Multimedia ACE Honors Penn President Amy Gutmann with 2015 Reginald Wilson Diversity Leadership Award | ACE announced on March 17 that University of Pennsylvania President Amy Gutmann will receive the 2015 Reginald Wilson Diversity Leadership Award. The award is given annually to an individual who has made outstanding contributions and demonstrated sustained commitment to diversity in higher education. View Transcript Professor Dorothy Roberts on use of race as biological category | View Transcript Roberts' pathbreaking work in law and public policy focuses on urgent contemporary issues in health, bioethics, and social justice, especially as they impact the lives of women, children, and African-Americans. She joined the University of Pennsylvania as in Spring 2012 as the 14th Penn Integrates Knowledge Professor with a joint appointment in the Department of Sociology and the Law School where she also holds the inaugural Raymond Pace and Sadie Tanner Mosell Alexander chair. Penn Womens Center: Voices of Change | View Transcript Dr. Amy Gutmann, president of the University of Pennsylvania since 2004, is internationally recognized for her success in increasing access to higher education and integrating knowledge across disciplines to maximize creativity and innovation. She created Penn's all-grant, no-loan guarantee for undergraduates, which has become a model for American universities. ACE Honors Penn President Amy Gutmann with 2015 Reginald Wilson Diversity Leadership Award | View Transcript ACE announced on March 17 that University of Pennsylvania President Amy Gutmann will receive the 2015 Reginald Wilson Diversity Leadership Award. The award is given annually to an individual who has made outstanding contributions and demonstrated sustained commitment to diversity in higher education. Multimedia Archives University of Pennsylvania ©2022 University of Pennsylvania Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement