Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University Diversity & Multicultural Affairs Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About People/Contact Diversity in Providence Partnerships Campus Climate Survey History Our Programs Brown Advocates for Social Change and Equity (BASCE) MEDSTEP Diversity Fellowship Program Our Community Faculty Medical Students Trainees Pre-Med & Pre-Health Students Medical Student Initiatives News & Events Search Diversity & Multicultural Affairs Faculty Faculty members provide mentorship, modeling, and advocacy in every setting to provide for the success of all members of the community. Breadcrumb Home Our Community Sub Navigation In This Section Faculty Medical Students Trainees Pre-Med & Pre-Health Students Medical Student Initiatives Brown Advocates for Social Change and Equity (BASCE) A year-long program that seeks to develop healthcare leaders who have an aptitude and passion for engaging their peers in dialogue around issues of racism, cultural diversity, inclusion, social justice, and health equity. BASCE Faculty Faculty members provide mentorship, modeling, and advocacy in every setting to provide for the success of all members of the community. ODMA Faculty Association The ODMA FA is comprised of faculty from every specialty at Alpert Medical School. A diverse faculty is essential to the health and success of AMS. As faculty members, we embrace the imperative to provide mentorship, modeling, advocacy in every setting to provide for the success of our trainees and ourselves. ODMA FA supports the mission of the Office of Diversity and Multicultural Affairs to create and foster a diverse, inclusive, and culturally competent learning environment for students, faculty, and trainees. For more information, please send us an email. Join our ODMA FA Listserv Mentoring and Education Diverse Students and Trainees to Excel as Physicians (MEDSTEP) MEDSTEP uses a group and peer mentorship model that includes students, residents, housestaff, and attendings to build community and create a safe space for discussion, education and professional growth. MEDSTEP Dean's Diversity Award for Junior Faculty The Dean’s Diversity Award for Junior Faculty is offered by the ODMA to promote academic excellence in diversity, inclusion, and health equity. As part of its Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan, the Warren Alpert Medical School (AMS) wishes to support research and programming that will contribute to academic excellence and scholarly activities that promote diversity and inclusion in the AMS community and health equity among the communities we care for throughout Providence and Rhode Island. The Dean’s Diversity Award for Junior Faculty supports Alpert Medical School (AMS) affiliated faculty (at the Instructor and Assistant Professor level) who seek to conduct individual or collaborative research and programming that promotes academic excellence in diversity and inclusion via scholarly activity focused on issues of diversity and inclusion and as they relate to health disparities and health equity. Who is eligible? Any current junior faculty member (Instructor or Assistant Professor level) whose primary appointment is in a clinical department. Faculty seeking funds must demonstrate that the scholarly activity aligns with one (or more) of the six priority areas described in the medical schools Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan and outlined as follows: People Academic Excellence Curriculum Community Knowledge Accountability Previous Recipients for the Dean's Diversity Award Marshala Lee, MD, MPH Galen Henderson, MD Mentorship Award in Diversity and Equity in Medicine (MADE) The Mentorship Award in Diversity and Equity in Medicine (MADE) is awarded through nominations by ODMA. It recognizes an Alpert Medical School faculty member for their extraordinary dedication to mentoring medical students and residents in the promotion of diversity, inclusion, and health equity. MADE Awardees 2020 Dioscaris R. Garcia, PhD Assistant Professor of Orthopaedics Co-Director, The Diane N. Weiss Center for Orthopaedic Trauma Research Dr. Garcia is an Assistant Professor of Orthopaedics (Research), and former Dual-Assistant Professor of Molecular Pharmacology, Physiology and Biotechnology at Brown University. Dr. Garcia moved to New York City from the Dominican Republic at age 11 and has been a resident of Rhode Island for over 25 years. He attended the University of Rhode Island, where he obtained a BS in Microbiology, and made significant contributions to the discovery of novel antibiotics. Dr. Garcia obtained his PhD in Molecular Pharmacology and Physiology from Brown University in 2012, and has served as faculty since 2013 in both the Department of Orthopaedics, and the former Department of Molecular Pharmacology, Physiology, and Biotechnology. Dr. Garcia has mentored over 300 undergraduate, graduate, and medical students during his tenure at Brown University, and specializes in the development of diagnostic and treatment technologies in the field of infections. Dr. Garcia has also been recognized as one of the architects of the Rhode Island COVID-19 response, and a leader in the advocacy for equity of urban communities. 2019 Jael Rodriguez, MD Associate Professor of Medicine Dr. Rodriguez is an associate professor of medicine (clinical) in the Division of General Internal Medicine at Brown, functioning as both an inpatient attending physician on the teaching general medicine wards at Rhode Island Hospital, as well as supervising residents at the Chapman Street resident continuity clinic, RIH Center for Primary Care. He grew up between Moca, Dominican Republic, and the Bronx, New York, and attended medical school at the University of South Florida College of Medicine in Tampa, Florida. He completed his residency in General Internal Medicine (primary care track) at Brown, at Rhode Island Hospital and The Miriam Hospital. His main areas of interest include primary care, end-of-life care and advanced planning, and sociocultural aspects of healthcare for minority populations. 2018 Roxanne Vrees, MD Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology Dr. Vrees is an alum of the Program in Liberal Medical Education at Brown. After receiving her medical degree at Brown Medical School, Dr. Vrees completed the residency program in obstetrics and gynecology at Brown/Women & Infants Hospital. She is an assistant professor of obstetrics and gynecology and director of the obstetrics and gynecology core clerkship at the Warren Alpert Medical School. In addition, she is the medical director of the Division of Emergency Obstetrics and Gynecology at Women & Infants and has been appointed Associate Dean for Student Affairs at the Alpert Medical School. Martha Sanchez Assistant Professor of Medicine Dr. Martha Sanchez joined the Division of Infectious Diseases in the Department of Medicine in October 2016. She is an Adult Infectious Diseases Physician at The Miriam Hospital, Rhode Island Hospital and Newport Hospital. She is the Director of the Immunology Center Adherence and Retention Program (ICARE) at The Miriam Hospital and the Director of the Brown University-Santiago, Dominican Republic Exchange Program. Dr Sanchez is an Assistant Professor of Medicine at The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University and a Mary B. Arnold Longitudinal Mentor. On 2018, she received the Mentorship Award in Diversity and Equity (MADE) by the Office of Diversity and Multicultural Affairs (ODMA). She earned her Medical School Degree at the Instituto Tecnológico de Santo Domingo (INTEC), in the Dominican Republic. She completed her Internal Medicine Residency in the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai at Englewood Hospital and Medical Center, Englewood, New Jersey. She subsequently completed her Infectious Disease Fellowship at Rutgers New Jersey Medical School Program, Newark, New Jersey. After her fellowship she worked providing HIV, Hepatitis, STI and Tuberculosis care to the underserved community in New Bedford, MA. Dr. Sanchez's Clinical and Research interest include the HIV Care Continuum in the US and Dominican Republic, Hepatitis C, Tropical Medicine. 2017 Fadya El Rayess, MD, MPH Associate Professor of Family Medicine Fadya El Rayess, MD, MPH is program director of Brown Family Medicine Residency and co-director of Brown FM Global Health Fellowship. A graduate of Cornell University, she earned an MD/MPH from George Washington University. She completed an FM residency at the University of New Mexico and a Faculty Leadership Development Fellowship at Brown. A National Health Service Corps Scholar, she worked in RI community health centers for twelve years prior to joining the Brown FM residency. She co-directs Brown Med’s Caring for Underserved Communities Concentration and volunteers at the student clinic. She serves on the Brown Council for Diversity in Medicine and Brown’s Global Health Initiative Executive Committee. She has won a number of community service and teaching awards including the 2017 Mentorship Award in Diversity and Equity Award in Medicine. In 2009, Dr. El Rayess and her family spent a year in Lesotho, Africa, where –as assistant residency director – she supported the development of a FM residency. Her clinical interests include health equity, advocacy, immigrant, refugee, reproductive, LGBT and global health. An avid kayaker, she enjoys running, yoga, women’s literature in translation and spending time with her family. Sybil Cineas, MD Associate Professor of Medicine and of Pediatrics Sybil Cineas, MD is the Associate Residency Director for Med/Peds and oversees the Med/Peds ambulatory curriculum as well as the longitudinal Med/Peds rotation for Brown medical students. Dr. Cineas serves as a Career in Medicine faculty advisor at the Alpert Medical School of Brown University and is an assistant director for the Longitudinal Integrated Clerkship (LIC). ODMA Travel Awards to the AAMC Minority Faculty Leadership Development Seminar The ODMA offers travel awards for two minority junior faculty members to attend the AAMC Minority Faculty Leadership Development Seminar. The Warren Alpert Medical School Clinical Department Chairs nominate one junior faculty member from their department to be considered for the ODMA Travel Award. AAMC Minority Faculty Leadership Development Seminar Previous ODMA Travel Award Recipients Dr. Monica Serrano Gonzalez Dr. Carla Moreira Dr. Taneisha Wilson Dr. Saurabh Agarwal Dr. Libertad Flores Brown Advocates for Social Change and Equity (BASCE) A year-long program that seeks to develop healthcare leaders who have an aptitude and passion for engaging their peers in dialogue around issues of racism, cultural diversity, inclusion, social justice, and health equity. BASCE Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About People/Contact Diversity in Providence Partnerships Campus Climate Survey History Our Programs Brown Advocates for Social Change and Equity (BASCE) MEDSTEP Diversity Fellowship Program Our Community Faculty Medical Students Trainees Pre-Med & Pre-Health Students Medical Student Initiatives News & Events Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Faculty Open details for Faculty Bookmark this Page