Skip to main content Search: Go Search context Search Filters: This Site Cornell Utility Navigation Giving Leadership Report an Incident Search Cornell University Diversity and Inclusion Main Navigation Our Story Institutional Initiatives 2017-2018 Recommendations Our Historic Commitment News Events Belonging at Cornell Belonging at Cornell News Sense of Belonging Fairness Net Promoter Score Turnover Rates Proportionate Hiring Rate Survey Results Survey Results (Accessible Alternative) Innovation Grants Belonging at Cornell News Archive Our Community Anti-Racism Resources DEI Celebration Resources Student & Post Doc Faculty Resources Staff Resources LGBTQ Staff & Faculty Trans Inclusion at Cornell Trans Inclusion Recommended Practices Gender Inclusive Pronouns Alumni, Parents & Friends Our Commitments Diversity Leadership at Cornell About PADE DIB Inclusive Excellence Network Inclusive Excellence Podcast Episode Archive Inclusive Excellence Summit Inclusive Excellence Academy Upcoming Seminars List of Previous Seminars Bias Reporting at Cornell For Students For Faculty/Staff Equal Opportunity & Affirmative Action Disability Access Accessible Red Runner Transportation Workplace Accommodations Gender Equity & Title IX Restroom & Facilities Guidelines Supplier Diversity More in this section Belonging at Cornell Belonging at Cornell News Sense of Belonging Fairness Net Promoter Score Turnover Rates Proportionate Hiring Rate Survey Results Survey Results (Accessible Alternative) Innovation Grants Belonging at Cornell News Archive Home Belonging at Cornell Proportionate Hiring Rate Proportionate Hiring Rate About the metric Diversity in the workplace is the idea that your team should reflect the general makeup of the society around you. Diversity is also about including different ideas, backgrounds, variety of thought, and opinions in key decision making. The organization should be made up of a variety of different types of people, from different backgrounds and experiences. This can include diversity in regard to gender, socio-economic levels, race, religion, sexual orientation, veteran status, disability status and other identities. Diversity recruiting is the practice of hiring candidates using a process that is free from biases for or against any candidate. The goal is aimed at finding the best possible candidate for open searches, but it’s structured to give all applicants an equal opportunity. Why having a diverse workforce is important to Cornell? Diversity and Inclusion are a part of Cornell University's heritage. Diversity and uniqueness are valued as a means of advancing an inclusive working, living, and learning environment. Cornell aims to employ highly qualified individuals who contribute to the overall success of the university’s strategic goals. The university endeavors to cultivate the broadest and most diverse applicant pool possible in order to create the most effective and productive workforce, which is critical to fulfilling the university’s mission and to supporting ongoing operations. When we diversify our workforce, we increase university’s stability, productivity, innovation, and more. Diversity also provides many tangible benefits for performance, innovation, and productivity. Actions and Initiatives Audit job ads. Ensure the language in position ads is inclusive and speaks to a broad range of candidates. Targeted outreach. Proactively connect with individuals and associations from a variety of different and diverse sources. Referrals. Tap into the diverse networks of current faculty and staff. Internships and fellowships. Offer internships or fellowships to targeted groups Resources and Readings 12 ways to improve your diversity recruiting strategy https://blog.recruitee.com/diversity-recruiting-strategy/ 5 Steps to Improve Diversity Recruiting https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/hr-topics/talent-acquisition/pages/five-steps-improve-diversity-recruiting.aspx Want Diversity? 15 Recruiting Tactics To Attract A Wider Range Of Candidates https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbescoachescouncil/2017/08/29/want-diversity-15-recruiting-tactics-to-attract-a-wider-range-of-candidates/#31bad7572144 Cornell University Diversity and Inclusion Contact Report an Incident Cornell University ©2022 University Privacy Web Accessibility Assistance