Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Site Home Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity News Think and Do The Extraordinary Support the Unit Back to OIED Vice Provost Features People Subscribe Think and Do The Extraordinary Support the Unit Back to OIED Vice Provost Features People Subscribe Search Menu for full site navigation Full Site Navigation Vice Provost May 16, 2022 | Diversity Digest In Response to the Buffalo Shootings Executive Vice Chancellor and Provost Warwick Arden and Vice Provost Sheri Schwab respond to the Buffalo shootings Nov 24, 2021 | Diversity Digest Acknowledging the Arbery Trial Deliberations Vice Provost Sheri Schwab acknowledges the Arbery trial deliberations. Nov 22, 2021 | Diversity Digest End of Semester Message from the Vice Provost Vice Provost Sheri Schwab reflects on the past year's achievements in diversity, equity and inclusion and looks ahead to our continued work. Apr 14, 2021 | Vice Provost Providing Support in Response to the Recent Events in Minneapolis Vice Provost Sheri Schwab issues a statement regarding the death of Daunte Wright and the Derek Chauvin trial. Mar 30, 2021 | Diversity Digest Honoring those Lost with Allyship, Attention and Action Vice Provost Sheri Schwab issues a message to the community. Jan 19, 2021 | Diversity Digest New Efforts, New Hopes After a Challenging Year The past year was challenging for all of us; we continue to persevere and we are currently continuing to work hard on many equity and inclusion efforts. Sep 24, 2020 | Vice Provost Message to the Campus Community Please join us in any of the following opportunities to come together, and we encourage you to reach out to one of our campus resources for support and community. Aug 25, 2020 | Diversity Digest Welcome Back, Wolfpack! Vice Provost Sheri Schwab issues a fall welcome message to the campus community. Jul 17, 2020 | Diversity Digest Honoring 30 Years of Inclusion #ThanksToTheADA The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), signed into law on July 26, 1990, is a monumental piece of civil rights legislation that prohibits discrimination towards individuals with disabilities. Jun 8, 2020 | Diversity Digest Responding to Concerns and Moving Forward Vice Provost for Institutional Equity and Diversity Sheri Schwab and Interim Vice Chancellor of Academic and Student Affairs Lisa Zapata issue a joint statement. Older Posts View the Archive Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity Winslow Hall, Campus Box 7530 Raleigh, NC 27695-7530 Staff Directory Annual Report Contact Us Website Feedback Giving Accessibility Privacy Policies Request Faculty and Staff Training Request Student Training Campus Map © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.