Skip to Content Diversity and Inclusion Open Close primary navigation Search Search AboutExpand Collapse section Mission and Vision Statement Core Values and Guiding Principles Campus Demographics History of Inclusion Committees and Workgroups ServicesExpand Collapse section Accessibility Services Educational Training and Programming 119 Euclid Affinity Groups ResourcesExpand Collapse section Resource Center Inclusion Policies Diversity and Inclusion Commitments Land Acknowledgment Statement DACA/Undocumented Students AcademicsExpand Collapse section Degree Programs Schools and Colleges News Events Contact Search Search Featured Pages The DEIA Strategic Plan Survey Results About Services Land Acknowledgment Statement Contact Previous slide Next slide The Office of Diversity and Inclusion sets priorities and promotes an equity commitment for students, faculty, and staff across campus. We believe equity in thought, feeling, and action fosters measurable diversity, full accessibility, true inclusivity, and meaningful belonging. Campus Wide Services Include: Strategic planning and consultation – for schools, colleges, and departments that are seeking direction on their unique DEIA plans and initiatives, the ODI provides guidance and planning that aligns with the university’s five-year strategic DEIA plan. Consultation is provided to campus members to address DEIA opportunities and issues. Educational Training – to build awareness and advocacy around the complexities of DEIA, the ODI offers customized educational training for faculty, staff, and students. Accessibility services – the ODI administers reasonable accommodations for applicable staff and faculty members. Departments, schools, and colleges seeking guidance on accessibility issues can consult with the office. Programming and special initiatives – the ODI develops special programming and initiatives to advance discourse on national DEIA issues and to provide additional support to affected campus members. Please visit us at 304 Steele Hall or call 315.443.4110 for more information. Featured Stories Link Professional Development Training Making Your Presentations Inclusive: Big Responsibilities and Little Tricks for Accessibility Link Introduction to ten practices you can implement to make your presentations more inclusive. Read more Syracuse University student Ruell Branch Astrophysics and Activism Link First-year student’s passion for physics and social justice propel him to become a force of nature in tackling universal problems. Read more Syracuse University student Taylor John Our Time Has Come Scholarships Allow Students to Flourish Link Aspiring physician values leadership skills, community and network she has discovered at Syracuse University. Read more Syracuse University’s Class of 2018 Carrying the Ball for the Seventh Generation Link Onondaga Nation Faithkeeper reflects on his unlikely journey through Syracuse University and lifelong pursuit of human and environmental justice. Read more Events “Carry the Wait” Art Exhibition February 8, 2022 – April 29, 2022 Community Folk Art Center The Community Folk Art Center has an exhibition “Carry the Wait” featuring artwork from Atlanta-based artist, Shanequa Gay. Gay’s work is about ritual and personal memory, storytelling and fantasy. She calls upon her ancestors and the deep well of southern black traditions found in her home place of Atlanta. ICI Typer Meetups: General Discussion March 21, 2022 at 3:30 pm – 4:30 pm Community Folk Art Center During these hard times many of us are missing the social interaction and connection. To offset this isolation and to reconnect with other typers the ICI invites you weekly typer meetups and discussions. Weeks will alternate between general conversation and book club discussions. IdentiDND March 21, 2022 at 7:00 pm – 9:00 pm Schine Student Center Please Note: Event details have been updated. Explore your identity through character creation and adventure with your peers in a series of Dungeons and Dragons games. Each meeting will be its own separate one-shot adventure. All experience levels are welcome! Queer & Anti-Capitalist March 22, 2022 at 4:00 pm – 5:00 pm Schine Student Center What is rainbow capitalism? What does it mean to be anti-capitalist? Join us for a discussion around queerness and its relationship to capitalism/anti-capitalism. For more information or to request accommodations, please email lgbt@syr.edu or call 315-443-0228. Lisa A. Flores, Visiting Scholar Talk March 24, 2022 at 6:00 pm – 7:30 pm Heroy Geology Laboratory Visiting rhetorical scholar Lisa A. Flores, Ph.D., will deliver the talk “The Im/Possibilities of Gendered/Racialized Im/Mobilities.” Flores is a professor in the Department of Communication at the University of Colorado Boulder. She is guided by the argument that the vocabularies we speak and the stories we tell create the worlds we inhabit. In her research, Flores studies narratives of privilege and disadvantage, particularly as they play out in public discourse around questions of race, gender, nation and labor. She is the author of “Deportable and Disposable: Public Rhetoric and the Making of the ‘Illegal’ Immigrant” (Penn State University Press, Fall 2020), as well as a number of essays appearing in journals, such as the Quarterly Journal of Speech, Rhetoric & Public Affairs, and Critical Studies in Media Communication. Her current work examines mobility and containment as rhetorical mechanisms of race, gender and sexuality. QTPOC Affinity Group March 24, 2022 at 7:00 pm – 8:00 pm Schine Student Center A closed group that creates a safe, healing space for queer and trans students of color. Please note that this is a closed group only for those holding the above identities. If you are an ally, this is not the space for you, but please email the LGBTQ Resource Center and we can provide you with resources and answer any questions. Full Event Calendar © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy