Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Division of Institutional Diversity Main Menu In this section About us Departments Make a gift Contact Us Home About Institutional Diversity About us Oklahoma State University is a land-grant institution committed to excellence in diversity and inclusion. We strive to maintain a welcoming and inclusive environment that appreciates and values all members of the university community. Our leadership Dr. Jason F. Kirksey Vice President, Institutional Diversity The Division of Institutional Diversity is committed to providing results-oriented, engaging, invigorating, and inspiring opportunities for all students, faculty, staff, and administrators to create a better and brighter future at OSU. Welcome from the Vice President Our staff Committed to your success Our department provides seminars, workshop courses and other activities that afford students, staff, faculty and community members with opportunities to broaden their perspectives regarding differences and notions of inclusion. Meet our staff Our testimonials Who we are Faculty and staff share how Oklahoma State University has helped them grow professionally in their careers. Staff Testimonials Community Advancing Conversations Promoting awareness and education The Community Advancing Conversations initiative is a monthly dialogue series designed to enrich, enlighten and engage all members of the OSU community and advance the institution's commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion. Learn More Boards and Councils Faculty Council Diversity Committee Reviews policies and processes related to the recruitment, retention, and inclusion of diverse faculty on campus. Diversity Committee Faculty Council Inclusive Excellence Advisory Board The Board serves as advisory group for the Vice President for Institutional Diversity on in issues regarding diversity and inclusion and equal opportunity for every member of the OSU system. Inclusion Leadership Council The Council meets quarterly to advance organizational collaborations and partnerships, particularly around campus programming, share information, build networks, and formulate ideas to cultivate and strengthen OSU’s commitment to supporting and advancing its culture of inclusion, particularly among the university’s faculty and staff members. Mission, Vision, and Goals Community Advisory Board The primary purpose of the Board is focusing on efforts to proactively engage and support the campus and Stillwater community. Its membership consists of campus and community leaders who meet monthly to build networks, cultivate and strengthen internal and external university relationships and partnerships, share information, and develop opportunities and ideas to enrich and fortify OSU’s commitment to supporting and advancing its culture of inclusion. Mission, Vision, and Goals Diversity Development Council The Oklahoma State University Diversity Development Council (DDC) is an advisory group established by the Vice President of Institutional Diversity and the Chief Diversity Officer. The DDC members commit to philanthropically support OSU and advise the VPID/CDO on matters related to creating an inclusive university culture for all OSU students, faculty, and staff, regardless of race, ethnicity, religion, gender, sexual orientation, status as a veteran, as well as other dimensions of diversity and inclusion. DDC Bylaws OSU Athletics Diversity and Inclusion Council The Oklahoma State University Athletics Diversity and Inclusion Council will be a permanent entity in OSU Athletics and is being populated by a cross-section of individuals from the OSU campus, OSU Athletics, current student-athletes and alumni. It will be housed in the university's Division of Institutional Diversity. OSU Athletics Diversity and Inclusion Council Unity Committee The Unity Council (Committee) was formed as a group of professionals in each college and division across the campus who are responsible for DEI work in their area. They have a mission to share ideas and celebrate DEI. They look at academics and focus on student success. Unity Committee Academic Colleges Committees & Programs Our DEI efforts expand to multiple areas of the OSU system including our Academic Colleges. Academic Colleges DEI Resources Home Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©