Longhorn Center for Academic Equity Empowering students personally, academically, and professionally Search site: Home The Team Signature Programs Darren Walker Scholars First-Gen Equity First-Gen Equity History Gateway Scholars Longhorn Link McNair Scholars Strive Grad Prep Academy Academic Support Tutoring Academic & Career Success Coaching First-Year Courses Study Abroad Initiatives College to Career > Co-op Internship Explore Law Fearless Leadership Institute (FLI) Heman Sweatt Center for Black Males Monarch Student Program Funding Resources Scholarships 2020 Scholarship Recipients Ronald E. McNair Scholars Program Home Eligibility Apply About the program The McNair Scholars Program is a federally funded program mandated by Congress. McNair Scholars is one of eight TRIO education programs housed in the U.S. Department of Education, and the only one primarily focused on students’ post-baccalaureate success. McNair Scholars seeks to increase the number of undergraduate students earning doctoral degree who are low-income and first-generation, or who come from communities underrepresented in graduate education. Program participants must be committed to enrolling in graduate programs with an end goal of successfully completing a Ph.D. Students selected to participate in McNair Scholars work with both a faculty advisor (on graduate school literacy) and a faculty mentor (on research and scholarship. Scholars define, develop, and deliver an independent research project. Scholars receive a free GRE prep course ($2,000 value). In total, Scholars are eligible for up to $5,500 for participating. Program Services Research opportunities for participants who have completed at least thirty (30) hours of college Exposure to cultural events and academic programs not usually available to undergraduates. Mentoring and advising during both the research and application processes. Seminars and other scholarly activities designed to prepare students for doctoral studies Travel to research conferences and graduate school visits Tutoring Academic counseling Assistance in obtaining student financial aid Assistance in securing admission and financial aid for enrollment in graduate programs Guidance on teaching methods and strategies via our McNair Teaching Academy Potential to earn over $7,000 in stipends and scholarships Workshops The Nuts and Bolts of Graduate School The Faculty Mentor Relationship Public Speaking and Presentations How to find your research question GRE Prep Writing Personal Statements Creating a CV Choosing the right school and program for you How to fund your graduate education ~Deadline Extended~ Applications Due 11:59pm, April 15th 2022 The application is active for the 2022-23 academic year. Click here to download an overview of the program with frequently asked questions. Meet some of our McNair Graduates! Tailar Fernando Eligibility As mandated by federal law, a student is eligible to participate in the McNair Scholars Program if the student meets all four the following requirements: 1. Is a citizen or national of the United States; or Is a permanent resident of the United States; or Is in the United States for other than a temporary purpose and provides evidence from the Immigration and Naturalization Service of his or her intent to become a permanent resident; or Is a permanent resident of Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, or the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands; or Is a resident of one of the Freely Associated States. 2. Is currently enrolled in a degree program at The University of Texas at Austin. 3. Is… A low-income individual who is a first-generation college student; and/or A member of a group that is underrepresented in graduate education (i.e., Black, Hispanic, American Indian, Alaskan Native, Native Hawaiian, Native American, Pacific Islanders); 4. Has NOT enrolled in ANY post-baccalaureate programs at an institution of higher education. Click here to download an overview of the program with frequently asked questions. Apply For more information, attend one of our upcoming info sessions: Zoom: 97740906226 https://utexas.zoom.us/s/97740906226 (Central Time) Tuesday, April 5th, 10:00-11:00 am Thursday, April 7th, 2:30-3:30 am The application is active for the 2022-23 academic year. Deadline to apply is March 31 by 11:59 pm. For details about applying, please see the Application Procedure below. Please complete all of the requirements. Again, if you are a first-generation and low-income student, we encourage you apply. Application Procedure To complete an application, please submit all five of the following: 1. McNair Scholars Application (Click here to access. Please sign electronically.) 2. Statement of Purpose and Research Experience Essay (Please upload into application.) 3. Curriculum Vitae (CV) or resume including, but not limited to, a list of all academic honors, distinctions, scholarships, memberships in academic and extracurricular organizations and participation in academic activities, including research experience. (Please upload into application.) 4. Most recent copy (2021) of the IRS Form 1040 Individual Income Tax Return. Note: Form 1040 is the strongly preferred and easiest option, but these other proof of household’s taxable income will suffice: (A) a signed statement from the individual’s parent or guardian, (B) verification from another governmental source, (C) a signed financial aid (i.e., FAFSA) application. (Please upload into application.) 5. Three (3) Letters of Recommendation, at least two of which must come from higher education faculty who can speak to your researching and writing skills. Additional recommendations do not increase chances of selection. Please provide this link — tinyurl.com/y5p2zrnd — to your recommenders. Recommenders should submit directly via this form. All requirements must be completed and submitted by March 31 for consideration. Apply utexas-mcnair.mylacai.com/apply.php Staff Director Dr. Eric Dieter ericdieter@austin.utexas.edu 512-232-8487 Sr. Student Program Coordinator Dr. Nabeeha Chaudhary nabeeha.chaudhary@austin.utexas.edu 512-232-2918 McNair Journal Download the PDF. Visit Us Student Services Building 3.200 100 West Dean Keeton Street Austin, TX 78712 Support the McNair Scholars Program Donate Now Contact or Visit Us Covid-19 In-Person Office Hours: TW 10am - 2pm (512) 471-1205 lcae@austin.utexas.edu Student Services Building 3.200 100 West Dean Keeton Street Austin, TX 78712 Support The Longhorn Center for Academic Equity Donate Now Support DDCE Services Tutoring Academic and Career Success Coaching First-Year Courses Fall Signature Course Spring Speaker Series Study Abroad Signature Programs Gateway Scholars Longhorn Link McNair Scholars Initiatives Sweatt Center for Black Males College to Career Explore Law Fearless Leadership Institute (FLI) Monarch Student Program More Info The Team © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Emergency Information | Site Policies | Web Accessibility Policy | Web Privacy Policy Longhorn Center for Academic Excellence Home The Team Signature Programs Darren Walker Scholars First-Gen Equity Gateway Scholars Longhorn Link McNair Scholars Strive Grad Prep Academy Academic Support Tutoring Academic & Career Success Coaching First-Year Courses Study Abroad Initiatives College to Career > Fearless Leadership Institute (FLI) Heman Sweatt Center for Black Males Monarch Student Program Funding Resources Scholarships 2020 Scholarship Recipients ×