Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Division of Institutional Diversity Main Menu In this section About us Departments Make a gift Contact Us Home Asian American Student Resources Asian American Student Resources OSU serves Asian Americans Oklahoma State University strives to maintain a welcoming and inclusive environment that appreciates and values all members of the university community. Our purpose is to spread and promote diversity, to foster a sense of unity and camaraderie among Asian American students at OSU, and promote goodwill through community service. OSU Asian American HighlightsOSU is among the Top 100 Degree Producers for Asian American and biracial/multiracial graduates (2014-2019) 200% increase in doctorates earned by Asian Americans from 2009 to 2016 211% increase in enrollment for first-generation Asian American students from 2009 to 2016 85% increase in enrollment for freshman Asian American students from 2009 to 2016 Asian American Student Organizations The Asian American Student Association (AASA) hosts several events on campus to invite others to learn more about various Asian cultures, including Lunar New Year, the Mr. and Miss Asian OSU Scholarship Pageant, and Asian Awareness Week. OSU’s AASA provides students the opportunity to lead and serve in Stillwater and the Asian community through volunteer work with Rise of Phoenix, Into the Streets, Habitat for Humanity and more. The Vietnamese American Student Association's (VASA) main purposes are to promote Vietnamese-American culture, to raise diversity awareness, and to create unity and friendship among organization's members and with the OSU population as a whole. VASA host a number of activities including the Harvest Moon Festival and Tet Festival. From Malaysia to Stillwater Kai-Sean Lee, a doctoral student and instructor in the School of Hospitality and Tourism Management, earned a master’s degree at OSU and now teaches Introduction to Food Studies. Lee has been able to surround himself with people who are very nurturing in terms of the language of food. Once his education at OSU is completed, he plans to let food lead the way to his next journey whether in America, Europe or Asia. Read more Programs and Resources Asian American Student Association Asian American Student Association Minority Women's Association Minority Women's Association Vietnamese American Student Association Vietnamese American Student Association Multicultural Greek Council Multicultural Greek Council Delta Epsilon Psi Delta Epsilon Psi Oklahoma Louis Stokes Alliance for Minority Participation (OK-LSAMP) Oklahoma Louis Stokes Alliance for Minority Participation (OK-LSAMP) OSU-Asian Alumni Association Chinese Students & Scholars Association Chinese Students & Scholars Association Vietnamese Student Association Vietnamese Student Association Nepalese Student Association Nepalese Student Association Japanese Student Association Japanese Student Association Korean Student Association Korean Student Association Chinese Language Association Chinese Language Association Japanese Club of Oklahoma State Japanese Club of Oklahoma State Malaysian Student Society Malaysian Student Society International Student Organization International Student Organization Sri Lankan Student Association Sri Lankan Student Association Minority Association of Pre-Health/Pre-Medical Students Minority Association of Pre-Health/Pre-Medical Students Minorities in Agriculture, Natural Resources and Related Science Minorities in Agriculture, Natural Resources and Related Science “I grew up in the Philippines, and we were poor. So I’m used to working hard. I don’t want to be wasting my students’ time, and I try to live what I’m preaching. I tell them, ‘If I tell you to work hard, I want you to expect me to work hard, too.’” - Dr. Edralin Lucas, OSU nutritional sciences professor and 30-year teaching veteran, Oklahoma Medal of Excellence in Teaching at a Research University winner Oklahoma State University Getting InvolvedPursue your passions and interests through 500+ campus organizations and activities on campus. Mr. and Ms. International OSU 2020 pose together. Maria Sol Ramirez Saenz is a Geography graduate student from Mexico, and Ashish Pampana is a Civil Engineering graduate student from India. Vietnamese American Students Association Students participate in a Lunar New Year celebration on campus. Students attend International Expo. The Expo is a fun and tasty way to find out more about the different cultures of other countries. The Indian Student Association hosts Diwali Night for a night of celebrating the rich and beautiful tradition of Indian heritage. Student participates in a Lunar New Year celebration on campus. Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©