Sweatt Center Promoting academic excellence among African American males About Initiatives News Welcome We Read more Welcome We are proud to announce the launch of the Heman Sweatt Center for Black Males formerly known as the African American Male Research Initiative (AAMRI). The center is an innovative academic community consisting of professors, administrators, graduate, and undergraduate students committed to contributing to your academic success and acclimation to the University of Texas at Austin. As a part of this program, you will have access to an interconnected array of programs and services. Sweatt Center students are able to combine the best features of the university (world-class faculty, first-rate research facilities, competitive athletics) with the kind of small community that you would find at highly-competitive private colleges. Students within the Sweatt Center are able to take advantage of the following: Black Student-Athlete Summit (annual summit discussing issues of Black athletes) Collegiate Black Male Retreat (connect with collegiate Black males from across the country) Power Hours (weekly empowerment meetings with FREE FOOD) Free academic tutoring in popular courses (science, math, writing, psychology, etc.) Wall Street and Silicon Valley exposure trips AMP’d Mentorship Program (mentorship from Black male faculty, staff, and industry professionals) Study Abroad opportunities (including China, Costa Rica, and South Africa) College For A Day (opportunity to expose high school males to higher education) Academic advising, resumes, mock interview, career counseling and more! Black Male Education Research Collection Membership in a vibrant learning community of people who are invested in your future and want to work together to change the world! For updates on Events, Announcements, Job Opportunities, & Scholarships please follow our social media accounts on Instagram & Twitter: @SweattCenter Remember, you are not in this alone! Ryan Sutton, Ph.D. Director, Heman Sweatt Center for Black Males Heman Sweatt Heman Marion Sweatt was the first African American to be admitted to the University of Texas School of Law in 1950 as the result of the Supreme Court decision in Sweatt v. Painter. Sweatt displayed courage and tenacity in his effort to be admitted to the Law School, and his efforts helped pave the way for the integration of predominately white universities in the South. The Sweatt v. Painter decision led to the 1954 ruling in Brown v. The Board of Education which desegregated schools across the country and opened the University of Texas at Austin to black undergraduates in 1956. Read more about Heman Sweatt’s life on the Texas State Historical Association’s website. Interested in The Sweatt Center? To get involved please fill out this form and Dr. Sutton will be in touch. To subscribe to our newsletter email Ryan Sutton. If you are interested in being paired with a Black Male faculty or staff mentor please fill out this form. EVENTS CALENDAR Follow our Google calendar for up-to-date event information. FOLLOW US Learn More Download the flyer (PDF). © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Emergency Information | Site Policies | Web Accessibility Policy | Web Privacy Policy Heman Sweatt Center for Black Males About Initiatives News ×