Longhorn Center for Academic Equity Empowering students personally, academically, and professionally Search site: Home The Team Signature Programs Darren Walker Scholars First-Gen Equity First-Gen Equity History Gateway Scholars Longhorn Link McNair Scholars Strive Grad Prep Academy Academic Support Tutoring Academic & Career Success Coaching First-Year Courses Study Abroad Initiatives College to Career > Co-op Internship Explore Law Fearless Leadership Institute (FLI) Heman Sweatt Center for Black Males Monarch Student Program Funding Resources Scholarships 2020 Scholarship Recipients First-Gen Equity Developing post-secondary dynasties one first-generation student at a time. Learn More LCAE COVID-19 & UPDATES Welcome back Longhorns! LCAE’s Lending Library is available to all LCAE students. Please use this form to submit your requests for technology support and/or textbooks. The distribution will be contact-less or students can arrange to have items shipped. Disclaimer: All items checked out in Fall 2021 are expected to be returned to the center in two weeks after its checked out, unless there is staff approval for additional time. Please fill out the form to your best knowledge. Your response will be processed and someone from LCAE will get back to you within 24-48 hours. ATTENTION: Due to a high demand of technology/textbook lending, incoming requests are not guaranteed. We apologize for this inconvenience. LCAE Tutoring: Our tutoring services are currently up-to-date and open to all students. Please view Drop-In hours here. Online Center Hours: M-F 8am – 5pm If you would like to schedule a meeting with a staff member, please use this page to set up a time. Click on the individual you would like to meet via Zoom and email/schedule a time with them. Physical Center Hours: M-F 8am – 5pm There will be a staff member on-site at LCAE during this time. If you should have questions, need to drop/pick up an item, and/or need LCAE related support, you can utilize these physical center office hours to speak directly with a staff member. Covid-19 Procedures: Face-coverings are highly encouraged. 15 Occupants at one time in the LCAE lobby. Every work station will be disinfected after every use. University Wide Covid-19 Updates UT Austin has made modifications to university operations to help slow the spread of COVID-19. Protect Texas Together should help you navigate Fall 2021. For all student needs, please go to Texas One Stop and/or Longhorns Online to access online learning resources available to you. Empowering Students: Personally, Academically, and Professionally We are a learning community that empowers students personally, academically, and professionally to become innovative, productive and engaged global citizens who are committed to social responsibility and promoting a diverse community of people, ideas, and perspectives. We accomplish this through academic success initiatives, leadership development, and bridging partnerships that move our students to change the world. For additional information, please visit each programs individual site or contact us via phone (512) 471-1205 or email. LCAE Calendar CONTACT OR VISIT US (512) 471-1205 lcae@austin.utexas.edu Student Services Building 3.200 100 West Dean Keeton Street Austin, TX 78712 SUPPORT Academic Equity Donate Now Services Tutoring Academic and Career Success Coaching First-Year Courses Fall Signature Course Spring Speaker Series Study Abroad Signature Programs Gateway Scholars Longhorn Link McNair Scholars Initiatives Sweatt Center for Black Males College to Career Explore Law Fearless Leadership Institute (FLI) Monarch Student Program More Info The Team © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Emergency Information | Site Policies | Web Accessibility Policy | Web Privacy Policy Longhorn Center for Academic Excellence Home The Team Signature Programs Darren Walker Scholars First-Gen Equity Gateway Scholars Longhorn Link McNair Scholars Strive Grad Prep Academy Academic Support Tutoring Academic & Career Success Coaching First-Year Courses Study Abroad Initiatives College to Career > Fearless Leadership Institute (FLI) Heman Sweatt Center for Black Males Monarch Student Program Funding Resources Scholarships 2020 Scholarship Recipients ×