Skip to primary navigation Skip to content Skip to primary sidebar The Center for Community Engagement What Starts Here Changes The World Search this website About Us Student Engagement Community-Based Learning Equity and Community Advocacy Austin’s Central Resource for Volunteerism and Service-learning Ab Read more July 16, 2020 COVID-19 Resources & Volunteering Deprecated: wp_make_content_images_responsive is deprecated since version 5.5.0! Use wp_filter_content_tags() instead. in /code/wp-includes/functions.php on line 5323 The Center for Community Engagement has compiled a list of resources and volunteering opportunities for the community to use. You can find information and resources about COVID-19 assistance, donations, testing sites, and volunteering. February 4, 2022 Preserving Austin’s Black History Click here to read an article and Q&A with Stephanie Lang, oral history storyteller and director of Equity and Community Advocacy at the Center for Community Engagement. Stephanie L. Lang, whose family has lived in Austin and the surrounding area for multiple generations, is a writer, community curator, and passionate advocate… read more February 3, 2022 VolunteerUT VolunteerUT is the entity that connects members of the UT community with direct service opportunities across central Texas. We hope to make volunteering easily accessible, whether as a one-time event or an ongoing commitment, through the following online tools: GivePulse is the primary platform used to connect UT students, faculty, and staff… read more December 18, 2021 Prairie View Interscholastic League (PVIL) Exhibit Now Open The Prairie View Interscholastic League (PVIL) exhibit is now open at the African American Museum of Dallas, showcasing memorabilia and the rich legacy of the League, its athletes, and coaches. It will run from now until February 15, 2022. “An exhibition of the players, teams and the impact and dominance of… read more December 16, 2021 East Austin: The History that Made Us Written by Moody College of Communications Student Brenna Van Skiver, East Austin: The History that Made Us is a UT Austin student’s investigation into student perceptions of East Austin and its history, and how we can use this history to become better neighbors to all members of our community.… read more August 30, 2021 Tired of Waiting: Food Access in East Austin Tired of Waiting: Food Access in East Austin is a documentary short that explores the lack of food access in the Colony Park neighborhood of East Austin. Developed in partnership with the UT Center for Community Engagement, UT Moody College of Communications Honors Program, Cortez Consulting, Colony Park Neighborhood Association, and the Daily Texan, this project engages… read more Page 1 Page 2 Page 3 … Page 21 Next Page » Primary Sidebar Follow Us Join our email list and receive spotlights on service opportunities, internships, or volunteering. The Chase Building Read about this historic building and our plans for making it an asset to the community. Find out more about: Building History | John S. Chase | Drucie R. Chase | Preservation Storytelling| Supporting the Project VolunteerUT Contact Us Center for Community Engagement On-campus location: 100 West Dean Keeton St, A6300 Student Services Building (SSB) suite 3.200 Off-campus location: John S. Chase Building – COMING SOON! 1191 Navasota Street utcce@austin.utexas.edu 512.471.6161 Support Our Work Our programs and services are made possible through your generous contributions. Texas Grants Resource Center Looking for funding? For more than 50 years, the Texas Grants Resource Center (TGRC) has served as a bridge between the grant-seeking and grant-making communities in Central Texas. Set-up an appointment to explore funding opportunities to support your work. Visit us at diversity.utexas.edu/tgrc. © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Emergency Information | Site Policies | Web Accessibility Policy | Web Privacy Policy Center for Community Engagement About Us Student Engagement Community-Based Learning Equity and Community Advocacy ×