Skip to content Information and resources related to COVID-19 Protect Texas Together Division of Diversity and Community Engagement MENU GIVE Search About DDCE K-12 Education Longhorn Center for School Partnerships AdviseTX Dual Enrollment Initiatives Neighborhood Longhorns Program UT Youth Engagement Centers University of Texas Elementary School UT-University Charter School Student Success Fearless Leadership Institute First-Gen Equity Global Leadership and Social Impact Heman Sweatt Center for Black Males Inclusive Innovation and Entrepreneurship Latina/x and Indigenous Leadership Institute Longhorn Center for Academic Equity Gateway Scholars McNair Scholars Longhorn Link Program Project MALES RGV Familia XP3 Inclusive Campus Business Affairs Campus Climate Disability Resources Dynamics of Diversity Certificate Courses Gender and Sexuality Center Multicultural Engagement Center Inclusive Campus Support President’s Advisory Committee on LGBTQIA+ Initiatives Services for Students with Disabilities Student Org Co-Sponsorship Program Office for Inclusion and Equity University Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan University Resource Groups Women in STEM (WiSTEM) Community Engagement Center for Community Engagement The Project UT Volunteers Hogg Foundation for Mental Health Longhorns for Equity, Access, and Diversity Initiative Partnerships and Sponsorships Texas Grant Resource Center University Interscholastic League Youth Protection Program Home Community Engagement Community Engagement The University of Texas at Austin fulfills its core mission by serving the people of Texas as a catalyst for positive social change. DDCE works to accomplish this goal by leveraging the university’s intellectual resources to cultivate mutually beneficial partnerships that address significant issues in Texas communities. DDCE reaches beyond the campus walls and contributes to a synergy among community engagement initiatives that extend from the academic colleges, schools, and administrative units to community members and organizations. The resulting collaborative partnerships lead to dynamic community-university initiatives that promote equity, access and social justice. The Hogg Foundation for Mental Health The Hogg Foundation has been promoting mental health in Texas since 1940. It advances mental wellness for the people of Texas as a strategic grantmaker and by providing educational services and programs. Inclusive Innovation and Entrepreneurship IIE is creating a space within the University’s reach that can serve as a bridge and an example for the entire community on how both private and public interests can work together to address the disparity and inequity wealth gap between communities. The Center for Community Engagement Through programs and partnerships with other campus departments, the LCCE leverages campus resources to provide a nationally-recognized community and service learning based experience for students, volunteers, and community partners. Texas Grant Resource Center For more than 50 years, the TGRC has connected grant seekers with grantmakers. It also provides free access to funding research tools and offers consultations for funding research for both nonprofit organizations and individuals. The Project The Project is one of the nation’s largest community-university days of service, attracting approximately 2,000 student volunteers each year who work in a selected underserved community in the Austin area. The University Interscholastic League Since 1910, the UIL has existed to provide educational extracurricular academic, athletic, and music contests. It is the largest inter-school organization of its kind in the world and touches almost every community in Texas. UT Volunteers UT Volunteers is a database of volunteer opportunities that will allow you to find the best fit service for you, based on your preferences. The Youth Protection Program The YPP is committed to ensuring the safety of minors participating in camps or programs on university premises or participating in those programs sponsored or supported by the university. Recent Posts Celebrating AAPI Heritage Month May 28, 2022 Celebrating Our Spring Graduates May 28, 2022 More Than A Monolith May 19, 2022 Q&A: Celebrating AAPI Heritage Month May 17, 2022 Photo Recap: Tower Awards 2022 May 13, 2022 110 Inner Campus Drive Austin, Texas, 78712 512-471-3212 Subscribe Sign up for our mailing list to get newsletters and event invitations. Subscribe About Us Office of the Vice President Executive Staff Human Resources On Brand DEI Action Plan ACCESS Magazine Land Acknowledgement © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Emergency Information | Site Policies | Web Accessibility Policy | Web Privacy Policy