Skip to main content Search: Go Search context Search Filters: This Site Cornell Utility Navigation Giving Leadership Report an Incident Search Cornell University Diversity and Inclusion Main Navigation Our Story Institutional Initiatives 2017-2018 Recommendations Our Historic Commitment News Events Belonging at Cornell Belonging at Cornell News Sense of Belonging Fairness Net Promoter Score Turnover Rates Proportionate Hiring Rate Survey Results Survey Results (Accessible Alternative) Innovation Grants Belonging at Cornell News Archive Our Community Anti-Racism Resources DEI Celebration Resources Student & Post Doc Faculty Resources Staff Resources LGBTQ Staff & Faculty Trans Inclusion at Cornell Trans Inclusion Recommended Practices Gender Inclusive Pronouns Alumni, Parents & Friends Our Commitments Diversity Leadership at Cornell About PADE DIB Inclusive Excellence Network Inclusive Excellence Podcast Episode Archive Inclusive Excellence Summit Inclusive Excellence Academy Upcoming Seminars List of Previous Seminars Bias Reporting at Cornell For Students For Faculty/Staff Equal Opportunity & Affirmative Action Disability Access Accessible Red Runner Transportation Workplace Accommodations Gender Equity & Title IX Restroom & Facilities Guidelines Supplier Diversity More in this section Our Community Anti-Racism Resources DEI Celebration Resources Student & Post Doc Faculty Resources Staff Resources LGBTQ Staff & Faculty Trans Inclusion at Cornell Trans Inclusion Recommended Practices Gender Inclusive Pronouns Alumni, Parents & Friends Home Our Community Alumni, Parents & Friends Alumni, Parents & Friends Cornell Mosaic Cornell University Mosaic is an umbrella organization of Cornell's diverse alumni associations, affliated alumni, and friends that was created in 2006. Cornell Mosaic's primary mission is to promote the involvement of diverse alumni organizations and individuals in Cornell programs and volunteer activities; to represent the interests of Cornell University's diverse constituencies and to support development efforts by Cornell's diverse alumni. President's Council of Cornell Women (PCCW) PCCW was founded in 1990 by then-President Frank H.T. Rhodes to enhance the involvement of women students, faculty, staff, and alumnae as leaders within Cornell University and its many communities. PCCW explores ways to expand the role of women within Cornell's decision-making groups, helps attract outstanding women students, faculty, and staff to Cornell, and enhances their leadership opportunities. The organization also offers guidance and role models for Cornell women and provides financial support for PCCW and other initiatives that help Cornell women. Cornell Asian Alumni Association (CAAA) CAAA was founded in 1990 to serve the needs and interests of Asian alumni, Asian students, and the University. We sponsor activities and events that help promote community and connectedness among our alumni members including professional development and social networking events, undergraduate support activities, guest speakers and community service. Each year, CAAA awards two Cornell Tradition Fellowships and one Scholarship to Cornell students. Cornell Black Alumni Association (CBAA) Founded in 1976, the Cornell Black Alumni Association (CBAA) was conceived as an organization devoted to providing a communication network for Black alumni. Over the years, CBAA’s mission and scope of activities has expanded, resulting in myriad programs that have a direct and significant impact on alumni and future Cornell students. Cornell Black Lawyers Alumni Network (CBLAN) CBLAN is an affiliate group of the Cornell Black Alumni Association (CBAA) and the Cornell Law School Alumni Association (CLSAA). Membership in CBLAN is open to all alumni of the Cornell Law School, alumni of other Cornell University colleges and schools who have graduated from another accredited law school, present or former faculty of Cornell Law School, and administrators of Cornell Law School. Cornell Latino Alumni Association (CLAA) The Cornell Latino Alumni Association (CLAA) was founded in 1994 with the mission of representing and promoting the needs and interests of all Latino alumni as they exist at Cornell University and beyond. By definition, CLAA’s constituency is broad and encompasses Cornell University’s Latino American, Latino Caribbean, Latin American, and Latino European alumni, which collectively comprise about 15% of the total alumni population. Cornell Native American Alumni Association (CNAAA) The Cornell Native American Alumni Association (CNAAA) provides AIP alumni the chance to network and reconnect with old friends. CNAAA aims to bring together alumni from all different backgrounds and disciplines by organizing reunions for them and their families to attend. Cornell's LGBTQ Alumni Association First organized in 1979 and then incorporated in 1980, Cornell University Gay and Lesbian Alumni Association (CUGALA) is one of the oldest and largest LGBT university alumni organizations in the country. Over the past three decades, CUGALA has grown from a handful of individuals to a network of over 3,000 lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender alumni and straight allies—each with a unique story, but collectively committed to making Cornell a more supportive and inclusive place for members of the LGBT community. Latino Lawyers of Cornell (LLoC) LLoC is an affiliate group of the Cornell Latino Alumni Association (CLAA) and the Cornell Law School Alumni Association (CLSAA). Membership in LLoC is open to all alumni of the Cornell Law School, alumni of other Cornell University colleges and schools who have graduated from another accredited law school, and present or former faculty of Cornell Law School. Center for Transformative Action The Center for Transformative Action (CTA) helps create communities that are socially just, ecologically sound, and work for everyone. We do this through our educational programs, and by supporting system-changing projects with incubator and fiscal sponsorship services. Our projects work to transform the structures, as well as the habits of mind, that produce inequities in our communities, country, and the world. Through their innovative methods, as well as their successes and challenges, they show us what is possible. CTA is an educational non-profit organization affiliated with Cornell University. Diversity Consortium of Tompkins County Cornell University is an active member of the Ithaca and Tompkins County communities. Diversity and inclusion are important to the university, the City of Ithaca, Tompkins County, and other area municipalities. The Diversity Consortium of Tompkins County works collectively to address diversity issues; one of their programs is a biannual county-wide diversity roundtable. Cornell's campuses in New York City and Doha, Qatar, are similarly engaged with their respective local communities. Greater Ithaca Activities Center The Greater Ithaca Activities Center (GIAC) is a center for all ages, particularly youth and teens. It serves the immediate neighborhood and the greater Ithaca area by providing multicultural, educational, and recreational programs focused on social and individual development. Ithaca College Center for LGBT Education, Outreach, and Services The Center for LGBT Education, Outreach, and Services actively fosters the academic success and personal growth of LGBT students, and it offers college-wide services to enhance the campus community's understanding and appreciation of LGBT people and themes. Multicultural Resource Center The mission of MRC is to create dialogue around diversity issues, particularly racism, in Tompkins County, and to facilitate community leadership on these issues by helping to empower people to embrace our community’s ethnic and cultural diversity. Supplier Diversity Cornell is working to expand the use of diverse suppliers and similarly encourages large suppliers to develop and expand their own diversity programs. Cornell provides an opportunity for businesses to certify their ownership and help expand supplier diversity though the following ownership categories: small, small+disadvantaged, minority, veteran, woman, disabled veteran, or disabled. Tompkins Connect Tompkins Connect's mission is to connect, educate, engage, and inspire a diverse group of young professionals and emerging leaders in a culture of social consciousness and leadership development that will benefit the not-for-profit community. Tompkins Connect hosts many events throughout the year for young professionals in Tompkins County to interact both socially and professionally. Tompkins County Human Rights Commission The Tompkins County Human Rights Commission (TCHRC) is a volunteer advisory group appointed by the Tompkins County Legislature for the purpose of fostering mutual understanding and respect among all persons in Tompkins County. The general role of the TCHRC is to encourage equality; discourage discrimination; and to serve as an advisory board to the Office of Human Rights. Cornell University Diversity and Inclusion Contact Report an Incident Cornell University ©2022 University Privacy Web Accessibility Assistance