Skip to content Disability Resources Diversity Matters at UT Request a Sign Language Interpreter or CART Services Services for Students with Disabilities coordinates sign language interpreting and communication access real-time translation (CART) services for The University of Texas at Austin. Please review and follow the guidance below to request services. I am a Student The University of Texas at Austin will cover the cost of providing sign language interpreting or CART services for Deaf or hard of hearing students registered with Services for Students with Disabilities (SSD). In turn, students are responsible for making timely submission requests for service in their classes, related academic requirements, meetings with a teaching assistant (T.A.) or professor, and non-academic out-of-class activities sponsored by the University. Deaf or hard of hearing students that are registered with SSD can submit a service request using the Interpreter Services Request For Students Form. If you have not registered for services with SSD, please follow the registration process to get started. Students with questions can call or email SSD: Phone: 512-471-6259 Videophone: 512-410-6644 Email: ssd@austin.utexas.edu For more information, including an overview of student responsibilities and the “no-show” policy, please visit the Services for Students with Disabilities website. I am a Faculty or Staff Member The University of Texas at Austin will cover the cost of providing sign language interpreting or CART services for Deaf or hard of hearing employees approved for workplace accommodations by the University ADA Coordinators. In turn, employees are responsible for making timely submission requests for service in advance of a meeting or other work-related activity, including trainings and conferences (on or off campus) in which they require services in order to fully participate. Deaf or hard of hearing employees can submit a service request for sign language interpreting or CART services using the Interpreter Services Request For Faculty and Staff Form. If you have not registered for workplace accommodations, please follow the Accommodation Request Process to get started. Employees with questions can call or email the University ADA Coordinators: Phone: 512-471-7107 Email: ada@austin.utexas.edu I am a School or College Department Schools and Colleges hosting an event or program on campus are responsible for covering the cost of providing sign language interpreting or CART services. Examples of campus events that are required to cover the cost of providing services includes, but is not limited to, University Commencement, individual School or College graduation ceremonies, University sponsored youth summer camps, performances at one of the University’s performing arts venues, a University sponsored conference, etc.. If you are a contact for a School or College department that is hosting an event or program on campus and have received a request to provide sign language interpreting or CART services from a participant and/or member of the general public, then please submit the Campus Event Interpreter Services Request Form. To secure services, the request form should be submitted as far in advance as possible, but at least three (3) business days in advance of the requested date of service. Last minute requests cannot be guaranteed, though attempts will always be made to secure interpreting/captioning services. If you need to cancel services, you must email SSD Deaf/HH Services at SSDDeafHH@austin.utexas.edu at least 24 business hours (Monday through Friday, 8am-5pm) in advance to avoid any charges. Departments must provide an account number for the charges to be billed through Interdepartmental Transfer (IDT) approximately 4-6 weeks after the event has taken place. If you have questions regarding the cost and billing for your event, please email SSDDeafHH@austin.utexas.edu. I am a Visitor Members of the general public who are visiting the campus to participate in a University event or program should contact the department sponsoring the event to request sign language interpreting or CART services. Visitors should submit a request to the sponsoring department at least ten (10) business days in advance of the event or program. Requests placed after that time will be accommodated if possible. To request services for a performance at Bass Concert Hall, McCullough Theater, Bates Recital Hall, Brockett Theater, or Payne Theater, please email the Ticket Office at tickets@performingarts.org. To request services for a performance at the Frank Erwin Center, please email the Box Office at ticketoffice@erwin.utexas.edu. To request services for a performance at the Blanton Museum of Arts, please email the Visitor Services Team at visitors@blantonmuseum.org. To request services for a campus tour, please email the Visitor Center at visitorcenter@austin.utexas.edu. For all other requests, please contact the sponsoring department. © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Emergency Information | Site Policies | Web Accessibility Policy | Web Privacy Policy Disability Resources Home Accessible Map Captioning Services Contact ADA Coordinators Employee Workplace Accommodations File a Disability Grievance Frequently Asked Questions Interpreting and CART Services Job Applicants with Disabilities Parking at the University Report a Barrier on Campus Services for Students with Disabilities Web Accessibility ×