Skip to the content The Latina/x and Indigenous Leadership Institute Menu Home About Us Close Menu Home About Us The Latina/x and Indigenous Leadership Institute What is LILI? The Latina/x and Indigenous Leadership Institute (LILI) is a student success initiative supporting the personal and professional development of Latina/x and indigenous students through culturally relevant programming that amplifies and affirms their voices. Programming Personal and Professional Development Events/workshops aimed at developing leadership skills Professional networking opportunities to develop relationships and increase support systems during workforce transitions Cultural Nourishment Programming explores culturally relevant topics and engages students in critical conversations informed by our intersectional identities Community Building Provides a space where students connect with each other and with other Latina/x and indigenous professionals across campus and community Why Latina/x and Indigenous? LILI as a group is intended to support Latina students at UT, where they are the third-largest student population. It is a gender inclusive organization that supports students of all Latinx genders, as well as those that do not identify with a gender. LILI is a space for Latina/x and Indigenous/First Nation people who have traditional ties to tribal communities or are themselves part of the movement and migration. Meet our Team The LILI leadership team includes UT staff, ULN students and student officers. Bella Anita Vargas ULN Intern Victoria Bardon Co-President Lauren Gomez Co-President Emily Smith Vice President Frida Lopez-Stern (she/her/ella) Marketing Chair Kandice Cantu Membership Co-Chair Gaby Montenegro Membership Co-Chair Maria Buendia Finance Chair  Follow Us @liliutexas Contact Us The Latina/x and Indigenous Leadership Institute (LILI) is an initiative of the Division of Diversity and Community Engagement. We look forward to connecting with you! Contact: lili@utexas.edu 110 Inner Campus Dr. Main Building, 302 Austin, Texas 78712 © The University of Texas at Austin 2021 Emergency Information | Site Policies | Web Accessibility Policy | Web Privacy Policy