Skip to Content Diversity and Inclusion Open Close primary navigation Search Search AboutExpand Collapse section Mission and Vision Statement Core Values and Guiding Principles Campus Demographics History of Inclusion Committees and Workgroups ServicesExpand Collapse section Accessibility Services Educational Training and Programming 119 Euclid Affinity Groups ResourcesExpand Collapse section Resource Center Inclusion Policies Diversity and Inclusion Commitments Land Acknowledgment Statement DACA/Undocumented Students AcademicsExpand Collapse section Degree Programs Schools and Colleges News Events Contact Search Search Home Resources DACA/Undocumented Students DACA/Undocumented Students Students Solidarity Statement Link Syracuse University has a long, proud history of/for its commitment to diversity, social justice, civic engagement and cultural pluralism. In order to honor that commitment as a higher education institution, we must continue to mindfully develop a student body that is not only diverse, but also informed, socially aware and truly committed to seriously engaging with all members of the University community. It is our belief that the future of the 2012 executive action, known as the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA), merits further discussion among the SU community. DACA has granted many youth and young adults the ability to be gainfully employed and pursue advanced educational opportunities, thereby becoming contributing members of society. Syracuse University welcomes all students. We were reminded as an academic community that it is our responsibility to support our community of Dreamers, who are eligible for deportation if lack of action among Congress and the President results in jeopardizing the opportunity for these young people to legally remain in the only country many of whom have only known for most of their entire lives. The University has demonstrated support for our community of Dreamers. In a December 7, 2016 message to the University community, Chancellor Kent Syverud charged members of the SU community to work together to ensure all members of the community are protected from physical harm, discrimination and intimidation. An Ad Hoc Committee on Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA)/Undocumented Students was formed in February 2017. The committee focused on establishing opportunities for dialogue and reflection among students, faculty and staff regarding this important issue. A report with was made to the Chancellor in late May 2017 with specific recommendations as to how best to support our DACA students. All recommendations were approved. We must continue to work and advocate for our DACA students. It is imperative that, as a University, we are vigilant to the specific challenges this population faces. We must ensure adequate resources are provided to allow them to be informed of their rights, feel protected in their surroundings, and achieve successful completion of their academic course of study. Syracuse University stands firmly behind our DACA/undocumented students. We must continue to remain informed and vigilant about federal policies. We will continue to support and fight for the best interests of all of our students, whether they are DACA, undocumented or mixed status students. We believe in their promise for the future of this country and for Syracuse University. Know Your Rights Link United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), a U.S. government agency that oversees lawful immigration processes and manages immigrant benefits function, including DACA applications and renewals. National Immigration Law Center, one of the leading nongovernmental organizations in the U.S. that advocates for rights of immigrants. American Immigration Council, a nonprofit that advocates for immigrants, including through research and policy analysis. American Immigration Lawyers Association, a national association of immigration lawyers. Center for Immigrants’ Rights Clinic, Pennsylvania State Law School. Legal Support at Syracuse University (not official legal counsel) Link Jennifer Gavilondo, Associate General Counsel, Office of University Counsel, jgavilon@syr.edu Legal Resources in Syracuse Link Onondaga Volunteer Lawyers Project: Herve Comeau, Coordinator, hcomeau@onvlp.org Hiscock Legal Aid Society: Lucero Saldana Mistry, Immigration Attorney, lsaldana@hlalaw.org AILA, Upstate NY Chapter: Divya Hoffman, Pro Bono Liaison, divyahoffmann@gmail.com Campus Support and Resources Link Below are numerous resources that can help you navigate our campus community. Some individuals have been highlighted who are sensitive to the needs of DACA/Undocumented students and students with “mixed-status families”. DACA/Undocumented Student Liaison Huey Hsiao Associate Director Office of Multicultural Affairs Schine Student Center, Suite 105 315.443.9676 huhsiao@syr.edu Academic Advising Academic advisors at Syracuse University all support DACA/Undocumented students and students with “mixed-status families”. They are aware of the issues facing undocumented students and are prepared to support these students. (There will soon be particular individuals in each school and college trained to assist students. These names will be posted once their training is complete.) Admissions and Financial Aid The Office of Admissions is generally your first point of contact at Syracuse University. Undocumented students and students with DACA status should connect with the International Admissions team if they have questions. We are very happy to assist you with navigating the nuances of the application process to Syracuse University. Jennifer Mathews Director, International Admissions 200 Crouse-Hinds Hall 315.443.3611 jmmathew@syr.edu Institutional need-based aid is available for undocumented undergraduate students regardless of DACA status. Aid is based on your completion of the CSS Profile application. Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) is not required. For more information on how to apply, please contact Shelley Crawford. Scholarship Information Laura Ortiz Assistant Director 200 Bowne Hall 315.443.1513 laortiz@syr.edu Career Services Syracuse University Career Services can help connect your dots, from your first year through your last, and beyond. With a team focused on helping you discover your passions, explore your options, build skills and make connections, we can assist you in discovering who you want to be and where you want to go. We can assist you in finding internships and job opportunities, exploring graduate and law programs or discussing your career goals. Daniel Pack Career Exploration Specialist dvpack@syr.edu Counseling Center The Counseling Center supports and enhances student health and wellness by providing comprehensive and holistic mental health, substance abuse, and sexual assault and relationship violence-related services. Operating within a multicultural framework and with a social justice orientation, the Counseling Center strives to assist students by providing support during times of crisis, providing advocacy when needed, facilitating problem resolution, enhancing coping skills, promoting personal growth, and supporting academic success. Kizzie P. Walker Staff Therapist 200 Walnut Place 315.443.4715 kwalke02@syr.edu Finding your “Home” These departments, offices, and centers are more than just places to take a class, listen to a lecture, or participate in a program. They are places where you can find someone who will listen to you and that can provide community and support. They can be a place where you can find a “home”. Participating in a mentoring program is great way to actively learn how to navigate the campus, and to be supported in engaging in the student experience. A list of mentoring programs can also be found below. African American Studies Asian/Asian American Studies Community Folk Arts Center Disability Cultural Center Hendricks Chapel La Casita Latino-Latin American Studies LGBT Resource Center Mentoring Programs Office of Multicultural Affairs Native American and Indigenous Studies Slutzker Center for International Services Women in Science and Engineering Graduate School Graduate study and research have been recognized as a critical piece of Syracuse University’s mission since its inception in 1870. Today, every school and college at Syracuse offers graduate study, and the University awards approximately 1,700 master’s degrees and certificates of advanced study and 150 doctoral degrees annually. In all, more than 135 graduate degree and certificate programs are offered at the University. Glenn Wright Director of Programs 304 Lyman Hall 315.443.3458 glwright@syr.edu Office of Student Assistance Student Assistance case managers provide comprehensive prevention, outreach and follow up services to identify and assist students in need of support in managing any aspects of their well-being. Case Managers work collaboratively with both off and on campus resources to proactively identify and serve students in need. Student Assistance takes a strength based approach and strives to create safer spaces for all in which resilience, self-advocacy, and personal and academic success are achieved. Effective case management prioritizes the safety and security of the University community and works to ensure that individual students have access to appropriate resources and support services. Sarah Solomon Director 306 Steele Hall 315.443.4357 stsolomo@syr.edu Public Safety The Department of Public Safety (DPS) is dedicated to maintaining a safe and secure living, learning and working environment in partnership with those it serves by respectfully employing the highest professional standards and providing exceptional services to the Syracuse University community. It is not DPS’s responsibility to enforce federal laws regarding immigration status, and DPS will not inquire about the immigration status of students. Kathleen Pabis Commander 005 Sims Hall 315.443.5735 kmpabis@syr.edu Off-Campus Resources Link Online Resources American Immigration Council ASPIRE (Asian Students Promoting Immigrant Rights through Education) Black Alliance for Just Immigration Council on American-Islamic Relations My (Un)Documented Life National Council of La Raza United We Dream Contacts within relevant multicultural student organizations Link Here is a small sampling of student organizations that may interest undocumented students. African Student Union Asian Students in America Central New York Civil Liberties Union at Syracuse University La Lucha Xicanxs Empowering Xicanxs (XEX) Here is the list of over 300 student organizations. More from this Section Bias, Racism, and Prejudice Black, Indigenous, People-of-Color (BIPOC) Disability and Accessibility Inclusion Policies LGBTQIA+ community Religion Resource Center Diversity and Inclusion Commitments Land Acknowledgment Statement © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy