Skip to main content Search: Go Search context Search Filters: This Site Cornell Utility Navigation Giving Leadership Report an Incident Search Cornell University Diversity and Inclusion Main Navigation Our Story Institutional Initiatives 2017-2018 Recommendations Our Historic Commitment News Events Belonging at Cornell Belonging at Cornell News Sense of Belonging Fairness Net Promoter Score Turnover Rates Proportionate Hiring Rate Survey Results Survey Results (Accessible Alternative) Innovation Grants Belonging at Cornell News Archive Our Community Anti-Racism Resources DEI Celebration Resources Student & Post Doc Faculty Resources Staff Resources LGBTQ Staff & Faculty Trans Inclusion at Cornell Trans Inclusion Recommended Practices Gender Inclusive Pronouns Alumni, Parents & Friends Our Commitments Diversity Leadership at Cornell About PADE DIB Inclusive Excellence Network Inclusive Excellence Podcast Episode Archive Inclusive Excellence Summit Inclusive Excellence Academy Upcoming Seminars List of Previous Seminars Bias Reporting at Cornell For Students For Faculty/Staff Equal Opportunity & Affirmative Action Disability Access Accessible Red Runner Transportation Workplace Accommodations Gender Equity & Title IX Restroom & Facilities Guidelines Supplier Diversity More in this section Our Story Institutional Initiatives 2017-2018 Recommendations Our Historic Commitment News Events Home Our Story Events Events Jessica Tanzer's San Francisco, 1987-1996 Wednesday, June 1, 2022 - 9:00am , Kroch Library, Michael T. Sillerman '68 Rotunda “Artists are here to disturb the peace.” -- James Baldwin 1961 Through her actions and photography, Jessica Tanzer disturbed the peace. The tradition of Pink Saturday, a street party on the eve of the San Francisco Pride Parade, started as an ACT UP headcount from the ledge outside Tanzer’s apartment window in June 1990. Members of the AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power (ACT UP) had come… Radical Desire: Making On Our Backs Magazine Wednesday, June 1, 2022 - 9:00am , Kroch Library, Hirshland Gallery On Our Backs magazine launched in San Francisco in 1984 promising, per the tagline on the cover, “entertainment for the adventurous lesbian.” The photographic images on the cover and throughout were central to its mandate to deliver sexual content for lesbians. The photography also created the greatest difficulties for the magazine’s circulation at a moment when many feminist leaders decried… Faculty Learning Community for Inclusive Teaching Wednesday, June 1, 2022 - 1:00pm This is a five-week online peer-to-peer discussion program that runs concurrently with the asynchronous Teaching & Learning in the Diverse Classroom course. Forming an interdisciplinary cohort, faculty meet weekly via Zoom to explore course-related topics and strategies, focused on how to create and sustain inclusive learning environments. Info Session: International Cornell Curriculum Grants Thursday, June 2, 2022 - 12:00pm Global Cornell is offering International Cornell Curriculum grants of between $20,000 and $30,000 to create, develop, or improve curricula that provide students with international experiences, preferably with linkages to Cornell’s Global Hubs strategic partners or locations. ICC grants will support the planning, development, or advancement of new or existing for-credit, tuition-bearing courses… “Radical Desire: The Models of On Our Backs: The Pioneers of Lesbian Erotic Visibility,” gallery talk with Susie Bright Friday, June 3, 2022 - 4:00pm , Rare and Manuscript Collections, Carl A. Kroch Library, Hirshland Gallery Abandon any tired stereotypes of dusty archives and stuffy gallery talks! Susie Bright, one of the driving forces behind the ground-breaking and successful lesbian sex magazine On Our Backs, will be leading explorations of the themes of the exhibition in Cornell Library's Hirshland Gallery, "Radical Desire: Making On Our Backs Magazine." 5/13 - Lesbian Butch Femme Erotica… Open House Friday, September 16, 2022 - 12:00pm , 429 Rockefeller Hall Join us for lunch as we welcome new and returning students, mingle with faculty, staff and friends, and learn how you can enhance your degree with a LATINA/O STUDIES MINOR! ALL WELCOME ACADEMICS COMMUNITY SUPPORT Latina/o Studies Fridays with Faculty luncheon seminar Friday, September 23, 2022 - 12:00pm , 429 Rockefeller Hall conference room The Latina/o Studies Program Fridays with Faculty luncheon seminar offers an opportunity for Latina/o and non-Latina/o students of all levels and disciplines to meet faculty and administrators from across the university for informal conversation about their current research/work in progress. All are welcome! Fridays at 12 noon. September 23 September 30 October 14… 29th Annual Latino Unity Dinner Friday, October 21, 2022 - 12:00am , Physical Sciences Building, 154 The Unity Dinner provides the opportunity for the entire Cornell Latinocommunity to get together and enjoy a wonderful dinner before the end of the fall semester. As the Unity Dinner is a gala event, the dress code is semi-formal. If you need accommodations to participate in this event, please contact Azucena Ortega at aeo34@cornell.edu or Marti… Lingua Mater Student Competition Deadline Sunday, October 30, 2022 - 12:00am The Lingua Mater competition invites students to translate Cornell's Alma Mater into a different language and submit a video of the performed translation. The inaugural Lingua Mater student competition took place in 2018 as part of Cornell's Global Grand Challenges Symposium. The top three videos received cash prizes. 2022 competition details Can you translate Cornell’s… Lingua Mater Alumni Competition Deadline Sunday, October 30, 2022 - 12:00am The Lingua Mater competition invites alumni to translate Cornell's Alma Mater into a different language and submit a video of the performed translation. The inaugural Lingua Mater alumni competition took place in 2018 as part of Cornell's Global Grand Challenges Symposium. Winners included the Cornell Club of Thailand in 2018, Cornell Club of Gaeta, Italy in 2019, and alumni in… Cornell University Diversity and Inclusion Contact Report an Incident Cornell University ©2022 University Privacy Web Accessibility Assistance