Skip to main content University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Log In Search Search Form Search Submit Close Diversity and Inclusion Menu Search Log In About Enhancing Diversity and Inclusion Our Core Values & Beliefs Chancellor's Commissions #NCLUDE Recognizing the Land Council on Inclusive Excellence and Diversity (CIED) Inclusive Excellence and Definitions Nebraska DEI Impact Awards Resources Racial Equity Resources Inclusive Election Diversity Education Request Prospective Student Resources Student Resources Hiring Toolkit Accessibility Resources UNL Report Implementing Inclusive Excellence into Virtual Learning Environments Employment Opportunities Campus & Community Connections Office of Diversity and Inclusion Sponsorship Request BRIDGE Faculty and Staff Search Program Commitment to Change Professional Development Opportunities Programs and Initiatives Research Academic Programs Access and Opportunity Programs Grant Programs Leadership Programs Faculty of Color Symposium Belong. Grow. Practice. Lead. CEO Act!on My Husker Action Live at 5 News, Events and Highlights News Newsletter Newsletter Archive I'm a Husker & Husker Dialogues Inclusive Leadership Retreats Bridging the Political Divide Diversity Reports and Analysis State of Diversity 2021 Diversity Data Fact Book / Statistics Diversity Reports Special Report College and Unit-Level Diversity Plans and Strategies Diversity Planning Toolkits Office of Diversity and Inclusion About the Office Meet the Office of Diversity and Inclusion Team Diversity Engagement Team Diversity Education Request Contact the Office of Diversity and Inclusion Support Diversity and Inclusion Speaking request for the Vice Chancellor of Diversity Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Diversity & Inclusion COVID-19 Updates: COVID-19 Related Resources Nebraska Diversity and Inclusion Diversity Home Asian Pacific Islander Desi American Heritage Month We are the flagship and land-grant university for Nebraska, and diversity and inclusion are central to our mission and pursuit of excellence. Each person has something to gain from and offer to our community of learning, discovery and outreach. All are welcome here. Sign Up for Updates Support ODI Newsletter Recognizing the Land Join a Community for Diversity and Inclusive Excellence #NCLUDE is a collaborative community for students, faculty, staff, alums and the greater community to engage in candid conversations and partake in educational opportunities surrounding the importance and awareness of inclusive excellence in our everyday lives. All are welcome. Learn More About #NCLUDE I'm A Husker & Noah Marketing · Omaha, Nebraska “When he sees them [friends] perk up and connect with a line or a melody, he can't help but feel motivated to keep creating. "That's the best feeling in the world."” Read more about Noah Diversity And Inclusion News Kishore endeavors to leave a footprint Tessalee helps Huskers find success in college, beyond Keasling tells graduates to pursue passions, inspire others Leadership opportunities help Nguyenduy make an impact See More News The University of Nebraska's incident reporting, or UNL Report system is an online tool for reporting campus incidents or positive acts of kindness. It is available through a link in the footer of every university web page. UNL Report Follow the Office of Diversity & Inclusion on Social Media Address: Office of Diversity and Inclusion ADMS 104 501 N 14th St Lincoln, NE 68588 Phone Number: 402-472-0148 Fax: 402-472-8714 Email: diversity@unl.edu Vice Chancellor Office Hours: Third Monday of each month from 12-1PM Fourth Monday of each month from 5-6PM Visit Dr. Barker during scheduled office hours. Social Media Related Links University Communication Campus Links Directory Employment Events Libraries Maps News Office of the Chancellor Report an Incident Policies & Reports Accessibility Statement Emergency Planning and Preparedness Institutional Equity and Compliance Notice of Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Security and Fire Safety Report Student Information Disclosures UNL web framework and quality assurance provided by the Web Developer Network · QA Test University of Nebraska–Lincoln Established 1869 · Copyright 2022 Some parts of this site work best with JavaScript enabled.