Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Diversity & Inclusion Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home About Us Staff EDI President’s Council Strategic Plan Resources Anti-Racism Resources Resources for Students Resources for Faculty & Staff Tallahassee Community Resources Monthly Observances and Celebrations Diversity in Athletics Supplier Diversity Program Seminole Tribe of Florida Report a Situation Get Involved Affinity Groups Mini-Grant Program Programs & Organizations D&I Internship D&I Student Ambassadors Campus & Community Events Coffee Chats Lunch and Learns Training Learning Opportunities D&I Certificate National Coalition Building Institute Allies and Safe Zones Request a Training Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Dashboard News Calendar Make a Suggestion Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Diversity & Inclusion Toggle navigation Home About Us Staff EDI President’s Council Strategic Plan Resources Anti-Racism Resources Resources for Students Resources for Faculty & Staff Tallahassee Community Resources Monthly Observances and Celebrations Diversity in Athletics Supplier Diversity Program Seminole Tribe of Florida Report a Situation Get Involved Affinity Groups Mini-Grant Program Programs & Organizations D&I Internship D&I Student Ambassadors Campus & Community Events Coffee Chats Lunch and Learns Training Learning Opportunities D&I Certificate National Coalition Building Institute Allies and Safe Zones Request a Training Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Dashboard News Calendar Make a Suggestion EDI Dashboard A.E.I. Taskforce Initiatives President's Council on EDI Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion (EDI) Dashboard We are committed to building a meaningful community that values each person based on their distinctive and unique identity. Because of this commitment, equity, diversity, and inclusion are top priorities for Florida State University. The President's Council on Equity, Diversity & Inclusion, the University's Strategic Plan Implementation Team, and the 2020-2021 President's Anti-Racism, Equity & Inclusion Taskforce have all taken up the charge to advance critical EDI-related initiatives. Together, we strive for the betterment of our campus community and the surrounding communities in which we live and learn. The EDI Dashboard is part of our effort to encourage a campus community that celebrates our diversity, incorporates equity and inclusion in all we do, and fosters belonging. With a commitment to both transparency and accountability, the EDI Dashboard establishes a baseline and serves as a tool to: • Establish goals and track progress • Identify opportunities for growth while acknowledging challenges • Assess policies, practices, and procedures Please submit any Dashboard feedback or questions to diversity@fsu.edu EDI Advancement Focus Areas President's Council on Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion The Council is comprised of faculty, staff, and students from across the university, forming a standing body that ensures FSU maintains a diverse, equitable, and inclusive campus for all. Learn More about the President's Council on Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion University Strategic Plan (2017-2023) Diversity and Inclusion is Goal III of the University Strategic Plan for 2017 – 2023. Goal III includes initiatives, metrics, and outcomes at the local and international levels. Learn More about the University Strategic Plan President's Taskforce on Anti-Racism, Equity, & Inclusion (2020-2021) Established in 2020, the AEI taskforce was comprised of 30 campus and community members who developed action steps to advance anti-racism, equity, and inclusion at FSU. Learn More about the President's Taskforce on Anti-Racism, Equity, & Inclusion Snapshot of University Demographics President's Council on Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion The President’s Council on Equity, Diversity & Inclusion was established with the primary charge of advancing institutional initiatives related to equity, diversity, and inclusion. Currently, the council is focused on initiatives related to Goal III of the 2017-2023 Strategic Plan and the Taskforce on Anti-Racism, Equity, and Inclusion. The Council is comprised of students, faculty, staff, and alumni from a variety of divisions and departments across the university. It is divided into implementation teams whose work focuses on projects that foster equity, diversity, and inclusion within a specific area on campus. Meet The Council Learn about Council Projects University Strategic Plan Diversity and Inclusion, Goal III of the Strategic Plan, outlines two overarching objectives: increased diverse representation and expanded global and cultural competencies in the FSU community. Beginning in 2017, tactics and activities have commenced and continue to address recruitment and retention of students, staff, and faculty as well as to foster an inclusive campus culture. Achievements include a 5.9% increase in enrollment of students from underrepresented groups in Fall 2020, as compared to the prior Fall semester. Outcomes are measured on an annual basis and can be seen by viewing the university strategic plan dashboard, linked below. University Strategic Plan President's Taskforce on Anti-Racism, Equity, & Inclusion (2020-2021) The President’s Taskforce on Anti-Racism, Equity, & Inclusion was established in 2020 by the former president of the university. Led by a three-person executive committee and divided into three subcommittees, the Taskforce met monthly for one academic year, at the end of which the Taskforce produced a list of recommendations for university advancement. Approved initiatives were then delegated to appropriate parties and are in the process of implementation. Recruitment, Retention, and EDI Education Advance the recruitment and professional development of underrepresented minority students, faculty, and staff with increased pathways to tenure-track and leadership positions within the university. Historical Legacy Promote a historical legacy of the university, including dedicated facilities and monuments, that encompasses the recognition and respect of all identity groups represented at Florida State. Campus Climate Initiatives Cultivate a campus culture that values diversity and fosters a sense of belonging for students, staff, faculty, and community members who collaborate with, take pride in, and support the university. Progress Report on Taskforce Initiatives Taskforce Website Home About Us Resources Get Involved Training Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Dashboard News Calendar Make a Suggestion title-inside title-centered 2 For questions or comments, please contact us at diversity@fsu.edu © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media