Texas Grant Resource Center Learn. Connect. Impact. Search site: About Contact Us Candid Resources Visit Us History Learn. Connect. Impact. TGRC Updates In response to the continuing public health situation in Austin and to protect the health of our patrons and staff, the Texas Grants Resource Center public space will be closed for the remainder of the spring 2022 semester. All programming and grant-seeker support will proceed virtually. If you are seeking nonprofit funding, please click here to learn more about our offerings. Please sign up for our newsletter to receive the most updated information on openings, events, and online trainings. Upcoming programs Please click here to register for any upcoming Grant Search Orientations. All scheduled orientation times will be virtual via Zoom and are listed here in Central Standard Time (CST): Grant Search Orientations Monday, May 23rd (2:00pm-3:00pm) Monday, June 13 (1:00pm-2:00pm) *July date coming soon Contact us: tgrc@austin.utexas.edu For more than 50 years, the Texas Grants Resource Center (TGRC) has served as a bridge between the grant-seeking and the grant-making communities. The TGRC is a unit within the Division of Diversity and Community Engagement (DDCE) at the University of Texas at Austin. The TGRC contains core publications from Candid, the leading source of philanthropy information, as well as other major materials in fund development, grants, and nonprofit management. It provides free access to multiple Candid online funding research tools. The TGRC has one of the most extensive Foundation Directory Online archives in the United States and is the fifth-oldest Candid Funding Information Network partner. The TGRC offers consultations and orientations for funding research, for both nonprofit organizations and individuals. Because of the availability of electronic information on state and federal grant opportunities, the TGRC emphasizes private sector funding options and information (i.e., private foundations and corporate foundations/direct giving programs). It has little on-site information about small business startups. In keeping with its original commitment to make information accessible to all, the TGRC is open to everyone, free of charge. Subscribe To Our Newsletter Sign up to receive our monthly newsletter featuring presentations, workshops and other non-profit news. © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Emergency Information | Site Policies | Web Accessibility Policy | Web Privacy Policy Texas Grant Resource Center About Contact Us Candid Resources Visit Us History ×