Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity Think and Do The Extraordinary Support the Unit About Staff Contact Giving Diversity at NC State Assessment Model Reports and Surveys Community African American Cultural Center GLBT Center Multicultural Student Affairs Women’s Center Committees Connections Interfaith Prayer and Meditation Spaces Student Employment Inclusive Excellence Cultural Competence Toolkit DEI Training Requirement The Credential Inclusive Excellence Certificate Program IDI at NC State Opportunities for Faculty and Staff Opportunities for Students Programs and Initiatives Resources Equal Opportunity Accessibility, Adjustment, Accommodation Discrimination and Harassment EEO and Hiring Practices File a Report Policies Pregnancy and Parenting Title IX Video Tutorials: How to Access EOE Services Safe at NC State Get Help File a Report Complainant Resources Respondent Resources Bias Impact Response News & Events News Toward Inclusive Practices (TIPs) Signature Events Calendar Religious and Cultural Holidays Subscribe and Archives Think and Do The Extraordinary Support the Unit About Community Inclusive Excellence Equal Opportunity Safe at NC State News & Events Full Site Navigation About Staff Contact Giving Diversity at NC State Assessment Model Reports and Surveys Community African American Cultural Center GLBT Center Multicultural Student Affairs Women’s Center Committees Connections Interfaith Prayer and Meditation Spaces Student Employment Inclusive Excellence Cultural Competence Toolkit DEI Training Requirement The Credential Inclusive Excellence Certificate Program IDI at NC State Opportunities for Faculty and Staff Opportunities for Students Programs and Initiatives Resources Advocacy Opportunities Articles Associations and Networks Books DIY/DEI Curated Resources Guidance on Support Spaces Inclusive Pedagogy and Teaching Resources Building a Trauma-Informed Practice in the Classroom and Beyond Interactive Resources and Websites Media On-Campus Resources Podcasts Speaking and Writing About Diversity Virtual Event Recordings Equal Opportunity Accessibility, Adjustment, Accommodation Discrimination and Harassment EEO and Hiring Practices File a Report Policies Pregnancy and Parenting Title IX Video Tutorials: How to Access EOE Services Safe at NC State Get Help File a Report Complainant Resources Respondent Resources Bias Impact Response News & Events News Toward Inclusive Practices (TIPs) Signature Events Calendar Religious and Cultural Holidays Subscribe and Archives Title IX "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance.” — Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 At NC State, we are committed to ensuring that every member of our community learns and works in an environment free of sex discrimination and sexual harassment. Consistent with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, NC State does not discriminate against students, employees or members of the community on the basis of sex in any of its programs or activities. Sexual harassment (including sexual violence) is a kind of sex discrimination and is prohibited by Title IX and by NC State. Title IX requires that all educational institutions that receive federal funds or financial assistance prohibit sex discrimination in all educational programs and activities, including recruitment, student admissions, financial assistance, housing, access to academic offerings and athletics. Title IX Support Consultation and Guidance Title IX Training Title IX Resources Title IX Updates The Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity is available to partner with campus departments to provide consultation and guidance related to several areas covered under Title IX. Learn more NC State hosts an approved Title IX training program for faculty, staff, and students on an annual basis plus posts its training materials for Title IX staff. Learn more See our resource guide for additional information and tools pertaining to Title IX and gender equity. Learn more The Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity provides information about the U.S. Department of Education's proposed regulation on federal Title IX. Learn more Title IX Coordinator All educational institutions receiving federal financial assistance must designate at least one employee to coordinate their efforts to comply with and carry out their responsibilities under Title IX. Title IX coordinator(s) play a critical role in helping a school ensure that every person affected by its operations, including faculty, staff and students, is aware of their legal rights under Title IX and that the school and all of its employees, through its policies, procedures and practices, complies with its legal obligations. The Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity implements and monitors NC State’s Title IX compliance procedures. The vice provost for institutional equity and diversity is the Title IX coordinator and works in partnership with the deputy Title IX coordinators. Sheri Schwab Title IX Coordinator David Elrod Lead Deputy Title IX Coordinator Michelle Lee Deputy Title IX Coordinator Nicci Hooker Deputy Title IX Coordinator Shelly Brown Dobek Deputy Title IX Coordinator Raymond Harrison Deputy Title IX Coordinator Designated Officials and Responsible Employees As a community, we must all make ending sex discrimination a priority. However, some individuals have been identified as having specific reporting responsibilities regarding sexual harassment and/or Title IX allegations. View more information on the Designated Officials and Responsible Employees page. Contact Us 231 Winslow Hall | Campus Box 7530 Raleigh, NC 27695-7530 919.513.0574 (phone) 919.513.1428 (fax) title-ix-coordinator@ncsu.edu Laws and Policies NC State’s Equal Opportunity and Equity Policy prohibits discrimination based on sex in compliance with Title IX and other related federal laws. See below for related laws and policies. Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy (POL 04.25.07) Equal Opportunity, Non-Discrimination and Affirmative Action Policy (POL 04.25.05) NC State’s Code of Student Conduct (POL 11.35.01) Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 Clery Act/Campus SAVE — The Jeanne Clery Act, a consumer protection law passed in 1990, requires all colleges and universities that receive federal funding to share information about crime on campus and their efforts to improve campus safety as well as inform the public of crime in or around campus. Title VII — Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 is a federal law that prohibits employers from discriminating against employees on the basis of sex, race, color, national origin or religion. Title VI — Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 prohibits discrimination based on race, color and national origin in programs or activities that receive federal financial assistance. Equal Pay Act — The Equal Pay Act of 1963 is a federal law amending the Fair Labor Standards Act, aimed at abolishing wage disparity based on sex. Pregnancy Discrimination — The Pregnancy Discrimination Act (PDA) is an amendment to Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Discrimination on the basis of pregnancy, childbirth or related medical conditions constitutes unlawful sex discrimination under Title VII. Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity Winslow Hall, Campus Box 7530 Raleigh, NC 27695-7530 Staff Directory Annual Report Contact Us Website Feedback Giving Accessibility Privacy Policies Request Faculty and Staff Training Request Student Training Campus Map © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.