Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Diversity & Inclusion Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home About Us Staff EDI President’s Council Strategic Plan Resources Anti-Racism Resources Resources for Students Resources for Faculty & Staff Tallahassee Community Resources Monthly Observances and Celebrations Diversity in Athletics Supplier Diversity Program Seminole Tribe of Florida Report a Situation Get Involved Affinity Groups Mini-Grant Program Programs & Organizations D&I Internship D&I Student Ambassadors Campus & Community Events Coffee Chats Lunch and Learns Training Learning Opportunities D&I Certificate National Coalition Building Institute Allies and Safe Zones Request a Training Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Dashboard News Calendar Make a Suggestion Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Diversity & Inclusion Toggle navigation Home About Us Staff EDI President’s Council Strategic Plan Resources Anti-Racism Resources Resources for Students Resources for Faculty & Staff Tallahassee Community Resources Monthly Observances and Celebrations Diversity in Athletics Supplier Diversity Program Seminole Tribe of Florida Report a Situation Get Involved Affinity Groups Mini-Grant Program Programs & Organizations D&I Internship D&I Student Ambassadors Campus & Community Events Coffee Chats Lunch and Learns Training Learning Opportunities D&I Certificate National Coalition Building Institute Allies and Safe Zones Request a Training Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Dashboard News Calendar Make a Suggestion Home Diversity and Inclusion Certificate Series Home About Us Resources Get Involved Training Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Dashboard News Calendar Make a Suggestion Learning Opportunities D&I Certificate National Coalition Building Institute Allies and Safe Zones Request a Training D&I in the Community D&I In the News Asian Pacific American Heritage Month 2022 Dr. Maxine Montgomery named 2022-2023 Robert O. Lawton Distinguished Professor Quicklinks Make a Report Strategic Plan Anti-Racism Resources Diversity and Inclusion Certificate Series The Diversity & Inclusion Council is proud to introduce the Florida State University Diversity & Inclusion Certificate. The certificate creates an opportunity for faculty and staff to explore strategic areas around diversity and to learn more about the ways in which they can assist in creating a welcoming and inclusive campus for all. The Diversity & Inclusion Certificate is a partnership between the Center for Leadership & Social Change, Human Resources and other diversity-related offices and programs across the university. Upon completing required core sessions, electives and submission of the Theory to Action Project, email the completion form to training@fsu.edu. Participants must have their supervisor's approval to attend classes if they occur during the employee's regular working hours. For additional program information, contact the Office of Training and Organizational Development at training@fsu.edu, 850-644-8724. The FSU Diversity & Inclusion Program requirements are: Core Sessions (3 required) FSU Diversity & Inclusion Certificate: An Introduction & Overview This online course introduces participants to the purpose and goals of the FSU Diversity & Inclusion Certificate. The Introduction & Certificate Overview presentation provides information about the program, program requirements as well as various resources you will be interacting with during your experience. This online course site will also serve as a repository for non-certificate elective and Theory to Action Project submissions. (PDDI01) D&I Core Session 1 - Cultural Competence & Higher Education This workshop will provide participants with an understanding of multiculturalism and cultural competence within the broad context of higher education. This session will focus on enhancing our awareness, knowledge and skills in the area of multicultural competence in order to work more effectively with diverse student, faculty and staff populations. Our university's efforts related to diversity will be discussed and participants will explore the connection between multicultural competency and their professional role at the university. (PDDI02) D&I Core Session 2 - Cultural Competence in Administration & Management The purpose of this workshop is to explore cultural competence as it relates to the administrative, management, and leadership tasks common throughout our campus environment. Participants will reflect on how diversity influences leadership, planning, and teamwork in their areas. The multicultural competencies associated with meaningful and culturally relevant services are identified, and strategies for developing these competencies are explored. (PDDI03) D&I Core Session 3 - Cultural Competence in Teaching & Research This workshop will focus on exploring the awareness, knowledge and skills required by instructors and faculty in their central roles as educators in transforming higher education through teaching and research. During the session participants will explore recommendations related to multicultural competence in research and teaching, curricular transformation, and assessment. (PDDI04) Certificate Elective Sessions (3 required for certificate) - subject to change Elective sessions are offered to provide an opportunity for faculty, administrators, and staff to explore specific areas of interest or gaps in understanding in an effort to deepen specialized knowledge in this professional development experience. Certificate Electives are developed in collaboration with academic and administrative departments on campus, as well as community organizations that specialize in areas that incorporate diversity and inclusion strategies. In addition to Certificate Electives, there are also Additional Electives located on and off campus. These additional electives include the Social Justice Ally Training, as well as attending professional conferences and various community speakers and training workshops that cover topics that include diversity and/or inclusion themes. Additional Electives require the submission of a non-certificate elective form located in the D&I Intro & Overview Course Materials. ADA: Understanding the Americans with Disabilities Act: Learn how to navigate through the minefields of employment law by examining issues related to Disability Law at the Federal, State, and University Policy level. Participants will gain an understanding of the requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act and what constitutes discrimination against a person with a disability. (COADA2 or COADAO) Equal Opportunity & Compliance: Examines issues related to Equal Employment Opportunity Law at the Federal, State, and University Policy level. Participants will gain an understanding of anti-discrimination law and discuss guidelines on how to recognize and avoid discriminatory behaviors at work. (COEE01) Embracing Diversity: The objectives of this training are to provide employees with knowledge and resources to create inclusive, harassment-free workplaces; promote reporting of inappropriate behavior and ensuring efficient response; and introduce available resources to support diversity and inclusion at FSU. (CODIV2) Bridging Cultures III: Managing Intercultural Conflict: This workshop will introduce participants to various styles of intercultural conflict management and negotiation processes. Participants will learn how to assess their cultural management style in order to be more effective when working across cultures and manage cultural issues successfully. (CSMIC1) Allies and Safe Zones 101: This workshop is a basic training in allyship and contemporary LGBTQ issues. Please visit sga.fsu.edu/safe_zone for more information. (PDSZ01) Allies and Safe Zones 201: Trans Ally is a two-hour training that will engage participants in understanding trans* identities, gender variance, socialized gender expectations, intersex identities, and becoming allies to people with trans* and other gender variant identities. Please visit sga.fsu.edu/safe_zone for more information. (PDSZ02) Allies and Safe Zones 301: These "Train the Trainer" workshops allow attendees to learn how to facilitate Allies and Safe Zones trainings under the guidance of the Safe Zone coordinator. Please visit sga.fsu.edu/safe zone for more information. (PDSZ03) Prejudice Reduction Workshop: Through this workshop, participants can expect to experience progressive exercises that will examine the information and misinformation we have learned about groups other than our own; the ways in which we have internalized stereotypes about our own social identity groups; ways to effectively respond to micro aggressions and other oppressive behaviors that create dialogue ultimately leading to positive change. The workshop is rooted in audience participation and active listening using a series of personal reflection, pair and share, and small-group activities. (PDNCBI) Theory to Action Project As the capstone to the Diversity & Inclusion Certificate, each participant who has successfully completed the three (3) Core Sessions and three (3) Elective Sessions will create a Theory to Action Project. The Theory to Action project should demonstrate the learning and reflection that took place throughout the completion of the certificate's core and elective sessions. The project should include: a summary of the learnings from the sessions and reflection on how those learnings impacted your own understanding of diversity and inclusion a summary of the information and/or theories of equity, diversity, and inclusion that inform the development of the proposed action(s) a detailed description of the action(s) that should be taken to create a more diverse, inclusive, and equitable campus a projected timeline for completion (if you were to enact the Theory to Action Project) While it is necessary to submit the completed Theory to Action Project in order to receive the Diversity & Inclusion Certificate, it is not mandatory that certificate recipients enact the Project. The Diversity & Inclusion Certificate review board may approach certificate awardees who submitted exemplary Theory to Action Projects in order to discuss possible implementation of the project. Theory to Action Project development should not begin until all three (3) Core Courses have been successfully completed. Information contained in these courses is critical to identifying the themes and/or theories that inform and support the Theory to Action Project. Examples of a Theory to Action Project might be: A program for students An update in curriculum (design or readings) Submission of an article for publication or conference presentation proposal A campus-wide or community presentation In-service training for faculty, staff, departmental colleagues or students in one's area of work. Note: Redelivering a D&I Certificate Training course to one's own department does not count as a Theory to Action Project. Participants track their own progress using the D&I Completion Certificate Form. Once you submit your Theory to Action Project, and all supporting materials, please scan and email the certificate completion form to training@fsu.edu. The D&I Certificate Review Committee will then affirm completion of the 6 required courses and review your Theory to Action Project. More detailed information and instructions for the Theory to Action Project submission is located under "Modules" in the D&I Overview in Canvas. title-inside title-centered 2 For questions or comments, please contact us at diversity@fsu.edu © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media