Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search UC Riverside Office of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Welcome People People@UCR Equity Advisors Committees Contact Us Resources Resources for Students, Staff, Faculty & Alumni Climate Resources Learning Resources Training Resources Policies and Guidelines Complaint Resolution History of UCR DEI Efforts Affinity Groups All Affinity Groups Black Faculty and Staff Association Disability Network Latina/Chicana Staff & Faculty Group LGBTQ+ Out List Get Involved Get Involved with DEI Chancellor’s Making Excellence Inclusive Certificate Program Contact Faculty Resources Commitment to Diversity At UC Riverside, we ask all applicants for academic and campus leadership positions to provide a “Statement of Contributions to Diversity” as part of their applications. We recognize that excellence is inextricably linked to the diversity of our faculty, staff, and student body. We define diversity very broadly and take seriously Regents Policy 4400, which states: “The diversity of the people of California has been the source of innovative ideas and creative accomplishments throughout the state’s history into the present. Diversity – a defining feature of California’s past, present, and future – refers to the variety of personal experiences, values, and worldviews that arise from differences of culture and circumstance. Such differences include race, ethnicity, gender, age, religion, language, abilities/disabilities, sexual orientation, gender identity, socioeconomic status, and geographic region, and more.” In a “Statement of Contributions to Diversity,” we ask applicants to describe their past and/or potential future contributions to promoting a diverse, equitable, and inclusive environment, which is a key requirement of the role of every faculty member and administrator at UCR. There are numerous ways to contribute, and a commitment to this part of our mission can be reflected through research, teaching, supervision, mentoring, community engagement, service, and any of the other varied activities that are a part of an academic career. A packet of information on faculty best practices in hiring and other useful resources are also available here from Academic Personnel: https://academicpersonnel.ucr.edu/recruitment-and-appointment#additional_resources. A recording of a recent faculty hiring presentation by Mariam Lam to the Chancellor’s Advisory Committees is also available. Professional Organizations More Information Women's Organizations More Information UCR Women's Faculty Association More Information Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 Campus Return Office of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion 3144 Hinderaker Hall University of California, Riverside Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-7061 Email: tasha.hudson@ucr.edu Find Us Follow Us on Instagram: Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel