Skip to main content < Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information and Resources University of Pennsylvania Toggle Navigation Toggle Search Accessibility Menu Jump to… Main Content Search Main Navigation Utility Navigation Main menu Diversity at Penn More Diversity at Penn Penn Compact 2022 Policies Reports Forms Facts and Figures Timeline Stories Programs More Programs Academic Programs Diversity Offices, Initiatives and Student Organizations Administrative and Co-Curricular Resources More Resources Affiliated With Resource Centers Religious Organizations Arts Organizations Student Government Consultation Councils Student Affairs School Affiliated Organization News & Events More News & Events Videos Diversity News Events Utility Navigation Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices & Services Webmail Back to Accessibility Menu Search Search Diversity News Charles L. Howard named Penn’s Vice President for Social Equity and Community President Amy Gutmann and Provost Wendell Pritchett are pleased to announce the appointment of Charles L. “Chaz” Howard as the University of Pennsylvania’s first-ever Vice President for Social Equity and Community. Erika H. James Named Dean of Penn’s Wharton School Erika H. James has been named the next dean of the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, effective July 1. The announcement was made today by Penn President Amy Gutmann and Provost Wendell Pritchett. Penn Launches Fueling Business Growth On July 28, 2021 the University of Pennsylvania launched the Fueling Business Growth campaign, a new supplier diversity and inclusion initiative strategically enhancing a long-held priority to provide local, diverse, and minority-owned enterprises with increased opportunities to conduct business with Penn. 2019 Novel Coronavirus (2019-nCoV): Frequently Asked Questions Penn continues to monitor and provide Novel Coronavirus (2019-nCoV) updates online. You can check the Student Health Service and Campus Health websites for updates. Major notifications and announcements may also be shared via email. Statement from Penn President Amy Gutmann on the repeal of DACA On Tuesday, September 5, 2017, the Trump Administration announced that it will begin to phase out the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) status granted to an estimated 800,000 young people in the US, pending further action by Congress. The University has vigorously reaffirmed the commitments that first made in November 2016. News Archives University of Pennsylvania ©2022 University of Pennsylvania Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement