Skip to content Disability Resources Diversity Matters at UT Contact the University ADA Coordinators The University ADA Coordinators welcome feedback from students, faculty, staff, and visitors. To send us a message, please complete and submit the feedback form. Contact the ADA Coordinators Dr. Jennifer Maedgen, senior associate vice president in the Division of Diversity and Community Engagement, serves as the ADA/Section 504 Coordinator for the campus, as well as the Electronic Information Resources (EIR) Coordinator. She has oversight responsibility for the Office for Inclusion and Equity and Services for Students with Disabilities and works with both of these offices to provide equal access and a welcoming and inclusive environment for individuals with disabilities. Dr. Maedgen has a bachelor’s degree in psychology from the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA), master’s and doctoral degrees in clinical psychology from the University of Texas at Austin, and completed her pre-doctoral internship and postdoctoral fellowship at the University of Virginia. Stephanie Myers is the Deputy ADA Coordinator for the University of Texas at Austin. In her role, she consults and facilitates the interactive process for exploring reasonable accommodations for faculty and staff. Before joining the University in 2015, Stephanie was the Accessibility and Disability Rights Coordinator for the Texas Governor’s Committee on People with Disabilities. She also worked as a Project Coordinator for the New York City Mayor’s Office for People with Disabilities. Stephanie has a bachelor’s degree in English from Sam Houston State University and a master’s degree in Disability Studies from the City University of New York, School of Professional Studies. © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Emergency Information | Site Policies | Web Accessibility Policy | Web Privacy Policy Disability Resources Home Accessible Map Captioning Services Contact ADA Coordinators Employee Workplace Accommodations File a Disability Grievance Frequently Asked Questions Interpreting and CART Services Job Applicants with Disabilities Parking at the University Report a Barrier on Campus Services for Students with Disabilities Web Accessibility ×