Skip to content Information and resources related to COVID-19 Protect Texas Together Division of Diversity and Community Engagement MENU GIVE Search About DDCE K-12 Education Longhorn Center for School Partnerships AdviseTX Dual Enrollment Initiatives Neighborhood Longhorns Program UT Youth Engagement Centers University of Texas Elementary School UT-University Charter School Student Success Fearless Leadership Institute First-Gen Equity Global Leadership and Social Impact Heman Sweatt Center for Black Males Inclusive Innovation and Entrepreneurship Latina/x and Indigenous Leadership Institute Longhorn Center for Academic Equity Gateway Scholars McNair Scholars Longhorn Link Program Project MALES RGV Familia XP3 Inclusive Campus Business Affairs Campus Climate Disability Resources Dynamics of Diversity Certificate Courses Gender and Sexuality Center Multicultural Engagement Center Inclusive Campus Support President’s Advisory Committee on LGBTQIA+ Initiatives Services for Students with Disabilities Student Org Co-Sponsorship Program Office for Inclusion and Equity University Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan University Resource Groups Women in STEM (WiSTEM) Community Engagement Center for Community Engagement The Project UT Volunteers Hogg Foundation for Mental Health Longhorns for Equity, Access, and Diversity Initiative Partnerships and Sponsorships Texas Grant Resource Center University Interscholastic League Youth Protection Program Home Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Once enrolled at The University of Texas at Austin, DDCE programs offer the academic support, mentoring, and tutoring students need to succeed at a tier-one university, obtain research experience, and gain exposure to graduate school. Together these aligned initiatives provide a continuous pathway for students to achieve their highest post-secondary goals. Heman Sweatt Center for Black Males The Heman Sweatt Center for Black Males (formerly known as the African American Male Research Initiative) is a faculty-led academic initiative rooted in evidence-based practices to promote African American male academic excellence. AAMRI also informs the public on how best to create and maintain a culture of Black male excellence in K-16 settings. College to Career: Prelaw Undergraduate Scholars Program Available to rising sophomores and juniors at UT Austin and Huston-Tillotson University, this program is a five-week residential course designed to help students learn more about the legal profession and what is needed to earn a law degree. Fearless Leadership Institute FLI serves women of color through academic excellence, professional development, and personal growth. FLI empowers students through bi-weekly workshops, special events, and an annual leadership retreat. The Gateway Scholars Program Gateway Scholars is a DDCE signature program and one of the largest student success programs on campus. It engages students from all undergraduate schools and colleges to facilitate and enhance students’ transition through college. Gender and Sexuality Center The GSC provides opportunities for all members of the UT Austin community to explore, organize, and promote learning around issues of gender and sexuality. Global Leadership and Social Impact Following on the success of study abroad trips hosted by the Longhorn Center for Academic Excellence, the GLSI seeks to expand these opportunities for students to develop a global mindset and prepare for the global workforce. Multicultural Engagement Center The MEC educates and empowers students to be leaders and agents of social change. Through activities and education, the MEC transforms lives by providing diverse educational opportunities and support services for students. Longhorn Center for Academic Excellence The LCAE is a learning community that empowers students personally, academically, and professionally to become engaged members of the university community. It includes numerous support programs including the federally funded TRiO programs. Longhorn Link Longhorn Link is a federally funded TRiO program. The program provides opportunities for academic development and serves to motivate students towards the successful completion of their post-secondary education. The McNair Scholars Program The MSP is a federally funded TRiO program. The program goal is to increase the number of students in doctoral degree programs who are low-income, first-generation, or underrepresented in graduate programs. Monarch Student Program The Monarch Student Program advises, advocates, and raises awareness for the academic rights of undocumented students at UT Austin so that they can thrive academically, personally, and professionally through their college experience. Project MALES Project MALES is a multi-faceted research and mentoring initiative that is working to increase retention and graduation rates of Latino male students (and other males of color) enrolled at UT Austin and partner institutions. Recent Posts Celebrating AAPI Heritage Month May 28, 2022 Celebrating Our Spring Graduates May 28, 2022 More Than A Monolith May 19, 2022 Q&A: Celebrating AAPI Heritage Month May 17, 2022 Photo Recap: Tower Awards 2022 May 13, 2022 110 Inner Campus Drive Austin, Texas, 78712 512-471-3212 Subscribe Sign up for our mailing list to get newsletters and event invitations. Subscribe About Us Office of the Vice President Executive Staff Human Resources On Brand DEI Action Plan ACCESS Magazine Land Acknowledgement © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Emergency Information | Site Policies | Web Accessibility Policy | Web Privacy Policy