Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Diversity and Access Office Search this site Submit Search Menu Home Non-Discrimination Equity & Affirmative Action Disability Access Campus Transportation Disability-Related Resources Access, Mobility and Transportation Adaptive Recreation Adaptive Technology Blind and Visually Impaired Deaf and Hard of Hearing Inclusive Event Planning Mental Health Repetitive Strain Injury Telecommunications Access Web Accessibility Digital Inclusion Checklist Service and Support Animals FAQs: Service and Support Animals at Stanford Emergency Evacuation Planning Guide for Assisting Individuals with Disabilities in an Emergency Guide for Individuals with Disabilities in an Emergency Diversity Contact Us Main content start Welcome to the Diversity & Access Office The Diversity and Access Office ensures University-wide compliance with federal, state, and local regulations concerning non-discrimination and disability access. Our mission is to advance Stanford's commitment to diversity, equal opportunity, and affirmative action goals as well as to foster an inclusive and accessible community for students, staff, faculty, and visitors. We are within the unit of Institutional Equity & Accesswhich also includes the office of the Ombuds and SHARE Title IX office. Announcements For University updates on COVID-19, visit healthalerts.stanford.edu. For COVID-19 & disability information, visit the COVID-19 & Disability page. Ensure that your online learning, meetings, programming and activities are accessible for individuals with disabilities by reviewing the Digital Inclusion Checklist. Join the Disability Staff Forum (DSF) to learn more about disability-related topics, events, and build community. Please visit the DSF website and sign up for the DSF mailing list for updates. Campus Engagement Staff Mini-Grants: These mini-grants were established to foster staff members’ creative ideas for new, exciting, and/or meaningful ways to gather, interact, and bring liveliness to campus spaces. We encourage any benefits-eligible staff with such ideas and the motivation to make them happen to apply! Preview the mini-grant application and find out more. Upcoming Events Jun 09 – to – Jun 12 Commencement Thursday, June 9, 2022 | 9:00am - Sunday, June 12, 2022 | 10:00am PDT See All Events In the Spotlight The Hardest Part of Being Disabled is Being Ignored - Rooted in Rights In the Spotlight Lyft Pilot - Wheelchair Accessible Vehicles Coming to San Francisco In the Spotlight Physical-Scientist Navigates Own Health Challenges to Reach Heights of 25-Year Career In the Spotlight See all Spotlights Stanford Diversity and Access Office Web Login Address Diversity and Access Office Kingscote Gardens 419 Lagunita Drive Suite 130 Stanford, CA 94305 United States (650) 725-0326 equalopportunity@stanford.edu Having trouble viewing a page? Report Accessibility Issues Quick Links Request Captioning/Interpreting Campus Access Guide Stanford Staff Groups Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top