Skip to main content Search: Go Search context Search Filters: This Site Cornell Utility Navigation Giving Leadership Report an Incident Search Cornell University Diversity and Inclusion Main Navigation Our Story Institutional Initiatives 2017-2018 Recommendations Our Historic Commitment News Events Belonging at Cornell Belonging at Cornell News Sense of Belonging Fairness Net Promoter Score Turnover Rates Proportionate Hiring Rate Survey Results Survey Results (Accessible Alternative) Innovation Grants Belonging at Cornell News Archive Our Community Anti-Racism Resources DEI Celebration Resources Student & Post Doc Faculty Resources Staff Resources LGBTQ Staff & Faculty Trans Inclusion at Cornell Trans Inclusion Recommended Practices Gender Inclusive Pronouns Alumni, Parents & Friends Our Commitments Diversity Leadership at Cornell About PADE DIB Inclusive Excellence Network Inclusive Excellence Podcast Episode Archive Inclusive Excellence Summit Inclusive Excellence Academy Upcoming Seminars List of Previous Seminars Bias Reporting at Cornell For Students For Faculty/Staff Equal Opportunity & Affirmative Action Disability Access Accessible Red Runner Transportation Workplace Accommodations Gender Equity & Title IX Restroom & Facilities Guidelines Supplier Diversity More in this section Belonging at Cornell Belonging at Cornell News Sense of Belonging Fairness Net Promoter Score Turnover Rates Proportionate Hiring Rate Survey Results Survey Results (Accessible Alternative) Innovation Grants Belonging at Cornell News Archive Home Belonging at Cornell Net Promoter Score Net Promoter Score About the metric The net promoter score measures how willing an individual is to recommend positively an institution to other people such as family, friends, peers, or professional associates. This metric assesses loyalty, engagement and advocacy. It is an indication of an individual’s actual experience and sentiment. If a person feels good about their organization or work group, they’ll be more likely to go above and beyond and actively look for ways to improve the organization, including by sharing their positive experience with others. Why the Net Promoter Score matters at Cornell University? It’s no secret that high turnover and low productivity can be costly to any organization, including for us here at Cornell University. Measuring faculty and staff net promoter score is a way to be proactive and identify any signs of workplace dissatisfaction so we can monitor and improve the faculty and staff experience. When faculty and staff are engaged, they are eager to come to work, motivated to perform, and seek out new and creative ways to improve. Committed and engaged faculty and staff are more likely to recommend their employer as an amazing place to work to others. At Cornell, we believe that we’re not just hiring people, we’re unleashing their potential. Cornell is only as strong as our people. Today, being an agile, innovative organization requires balancing the need to bring in fresh ideas and perspectives, with the continuity and context that comes from within. We do this with a commitment to talent management. Attracting and hiring the best faculty and staff is critical, but only the first step. Our focus continues through developing, engaging, and retaining people in a way that matches their individual career interests with the needs and priorities of the university. Employees come onboard excited to join our educational mission and our commitment to excellence. The last thing we want to hear is that talented Cornellians are leaving simply because they couldn’t advance their career or weren’t engaged. Actions and Initiatives Be open to receiving feedback. Cultivate an environment where people are comfortable sharing feedback. Provide empowerment and authority. Ensure that faculty and staff are empowered and take responsibility for how they do their jobs. Provide opportunity for growth. Encourage faculty and staff to continue to develop their skills and careers. Consider wellbeing of faculty and staff. Caring for all the dimensions of wellbeing enables individuals to be their best at work and beyond. Recognition. Provide feedback to individuals about their performance, growth prospects, accomplishments, and areas needing improvement regularly. Resources and Readings Net Promoter Score (NPS) and the Employer Brand http://thesocialworkplace.com/2016/07/net-promoter-score-nps-and-the-employer-brand/ Driving Growth with Net Promoter Score (NPS) video by Fred Reichheld https://viewer.books24x7.com/VideoViewer.aspx?bookid=21581 Showing Sentiment with Net Promoter Score chapter from The big book of dashboards visualizing your data using real-world business scenarios by Steve Wexler, Jeffrey Shaffer, Andy Cotgreave. https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/pdf/10.1002/9781119283089.ch17 How Effective Is Net Promoter Score (NPS)? https://www.forbes.com/sites/shephyken/2016/12/03/how-effective-is-net-promoter-score-nps/#330d27723e4c How to use net promoter score (NPS) to drive growth https://www.getfeedback.com/blog/using-nps-to-drive-growth/ Cornell University Diversity and Inclusion Contact Report an Incident Cornell University ©2022 University Privacy Web Accessibility Assistance