Skip to content Information and resources related to COVID-19 Protect Texas Together Division of Diversity and Community Engagement MENU GIVE Search About DDCE K-12 Education Longhorn Center for School Partnerships AdviseTX Dual Enrollment Initiatives Neighborhood Longhorns Program UT Youth Engagement Centers University of Texas Elementary School UT-University Charter School Student Success Fearless Leadership Institute First-Gen Equity Global Leadership and Social Impact Heman Sweatt Center for Black Males Inclusive Innovation and Entrepreneurship Latina/x and Indigenous Leadership Institute Longhorn Center for Academic Equity Gateway Scholars McNair Scholars Longhorn Link Program Project MALES RGV Familia XP3 Inclusive Campus Business Affairs Campus Climate Disability Resources Dynamics of Diversity Certificate Courses Gender and Sexuality Center Multicultural Engagement Center Inclusive Campus Support President’s Advisory Committee on LGBTQIA+ Initiatives Services for Students with Disabilities Student Org Co-Sponsorship Program Office for Inclusion and Equity University Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan University Resource Groups Women in STEM (WiSTEM) Community Engagement Center for Community Engagement The Project UT Volunteers Hogg Foundation for Mental Health Longhorns for Equity, Access, and Diversity Initiative Partnerships and Sponsorships Texas Grant Resource Center University Interscholastic League Youth Protection Program LEAD student-athletes prepare for community service Longhorns for Equity, Access, and Diversity Initiative (LEAD) Home Longhorns for Equity, Access, and Diversity Initiative (LEAD) The Division of Diversity and Community Engagement serves as a catalyst for positive social change by leveraging the university’s intellectual resources to cultivate partnerships that address significant issues across the state. In partnership with Texas Athletics, the LEAD Initiative gives student-athletes the opportunity to engage in impactful collaborations with nonprofit organizations in Texas that serve underrepresented populations with resources in the following areas: education services, recreation activities, basic needs and/or emergency services. The LEAD Initiative provides student-athletes with experience in real-world civic leadership and empowers them to go above and beyond to strengthen communities by building avenues for lasting relationships with the university. Areas of Impact Resources Qualifications Organizations requesting support must provide services to diverse Texas populations in one or more of the areas listed below. Education services: equitable educational support and resources to diverse students to ensure their success from pre-k to college and beyond. Recreation activities: support for extracurricular and/or recreation activities including but not limited to programming in the arts, after school clubs, sports, etc. Basic needs: services that assist in creating long-term well-being for those in our community without adequate access to food, clothing, housing, and/or services such as sanitation and healthcare. Emergency services: to assist with resolving legal, medical and other expenses that arise due to unprecedented circumstances and/or events. Guidelines and Processes Requirements for sponsoring non-profit community organizations Sponsorship funding may be provided if all the following requirements are met, but it is not guaranteed. Approval of sponsorship is determined at the discretion of the university. The non-profit community organization must provide service to diverse populations in Texas and include programming for diverse populations in one or more of the following areas: Education services, recreation activities, basic needs and/or emergency services. Sponsorship awards are one-time agreements. Organizations may only receive funding once per year (September 1-August 31). Applicants must complete the online Sponsorship Request Form and include the following documents: Proposal letter describing organization and event Include description of the org’s commitment to serving diverse populations Provide details of programming/events you are requesting to support Sponsorship packet (if available) Budget spreadsheet (optional) For access to student-athlete volunteers, complete: Student-Athlete Appearance Request Form Application Review Process Applications are reviewed biweekly. Review committee comprised of student-athletes and DDCE staff. Only complete applications are reviewed; please submit all required documents. Applications are reviewed in the order they are received. Organizations will be notified of application status soon after application is reviewed. Questions and Contact For questions regarding LEAD Initiative partnership and sponsorship opportunities, please contact Director of Institutional Partnerships Milly Lopez. 110 Inner Campus Drive Austin, Texas, 78712 512-471-3212 Subscribe Sign up for our mailing list to get newsletters and event invitations. Subscribe About Us Office of the Vice President Executive Staff Human Resources On Brand DEI Action Plan ACCESS Magazine Land Acknowledgement © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Emergency Information | Site Policies | Web Accessibility Policy | Web Privacy Policy