Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Institutional Diversity Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search About Meet Our Staff Reports Resources Diversity Strategic Plan Definitions Strategic Plan Committee Initiatives State of Diversity at Oregon State Unit Level Diversity Strategic Planning Oregon State University at NCORE 2022 Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Celebration We Have Work To Do Work Groups President and Provost's Leadership Council on Diversity, Equity and Inclusion President and Provost's Leadership Council Reports Equity Leaders Consortium NAGPRA Community Diversity Relations Diversity Education Guidance for DEI Learning Leading Change for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Dialogue Facilitation Lab Bias Incident Response Bias Incident Response Process Bias Response Team Frequently Asked Questions Education and Resources Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift About Meet Our Staff Reports Resources Diversity Strategic Plan Definitions Strategic Plan Committee Initiatives State of Diversity at Oregon State Unit Level Diversity Strategic Planning Oregon State University at NCORE 2022 Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Celebration We Have Work To Do Work Groups President and Provost's Leadership Council on Diversity, Equity and Inclusion President and Provost's Leadership Council Reports Equity Leaders Consortium NAGPRA Community Diversity Relations Diversity Education Guidance for DEI Learning Leading Change for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Dialogue Facilitation Lab Bias Incident Response Bias Incident Response Process Bias Response Team Frequently Asked Questions Education and Resources Submit Bias Incident Report The 2022 Faculty and Staff Community Climate Survey will be open from May 10 to June 3, 2022. Invitations to participate in the survey will be communicated directly to university employees. Visit the Community Climate Assessment page for additional information. 2022 State of Diversity at Oregon State University Join us in honoring and celebrating the many Oregon State community members who have worked for equity and justice over the last academic year at a reception, and the launch of the 2022 State of Diversity at Oregon State University Address website. Tuesday, June 7 4 to 5 pm Horizon Room, Memorial Union Featuring remarks by Interim President Becky Johnson, Provost Ed Feser and Interim Vice President and Chief Diversity Officer Scott Vignos. Refreshments will be served. Accommodations for disabilities may be made by contacting the Office of Institutional Diversity, 541-737-1063 or [email protected]. Featured Stories Events Resources Make A Gift The Office of Institutional Diversity supports the efforts of OSU students, faculty, staff and all members of the university community in envisioning and creating an anti-racist institution. Realizing our commitment to leading change and dismantling systemic racism requires that we collaboratively work as faculty, staff and students to take action, consistent with the mission and the values of OSU. Learn more about the President's Moving Forward Together initiative and OSU's commitment to advancing inclusive excellence. Moving Forward Together Upcoming Events Full Calendar Connect With Us OSU Diversity facebook page Contact Info Office of Institutional Diversity 510 Kerr Administration Building Oregon State University 1500 SW Jefferson Way Corvallis, Oregon 97331 (541) 737-1063 [email protected] Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer About Directions Sponsorship Meet Our Staff Strategic Plan Definitions Committee Strategic Plan Initiatives Martin Luther King Jr Celebration We Have Work To Do Community Diversity Relations Diversity Education Request a Consult Bias Incident Response