Skip to main content < Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information and Resources University of Pennsylvania Toggle Navigation Toggle Search Accessibility Menu Jump to… Main Content Search Main Navigation Utility Navigation Main menu Diversity at Penn More Diversity at Penn Penn Compact 2022 Policies Reports Forms Facts and Figures Timeline Stories Programs More Programs Academic Programs Diversity Offices, Initiatives and Student Organizations Administrative and Co-Curricular Resources More Resources Affiliated With Resource Centers Religious Organizations Arts Organizations Student Government Consultation Councils Student Affairs School Affiliated Organization News & Events More News & Events Videos Diversity News Events Utility Navigation Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices & Services Webmail Back to Accessibility Menu Search Search Diversity and Inclusion Diversity is not only a public good—it is also very good for Penn. Our quest for eminence depends on great minds that represent a wide array of perspectives and backgrounds. President Amy Gutmann Penn Compact 2022 Policies Reports Diversity Timeline Across 12 Schools, more than 25,000 students, and more than 4,000 faculty members, we become one university: a wide-ranging, ever-changing community that draws its strength from a multitude of races, ethnicities, genders, sexual orientations, historical traditions, ages, religions, disabilities, veteran status, interests, perspectives, and socioeconomic backgrounds. President Gutmann’s Statement on Diversity Understanding and appreciating diversity is foundational for success in today’s world. It is fundamental to the education we provide at Penn and one of our University’s most important priorities. Read statement on Diversity DACA and Undocumented Student Resources Penn benefits greatly from the rich diversity of all undergraduate, graduate, and professional students. As part of that commitment to inclusion, Penn provides access and support to undocumented students, including those with Deferred Action for Childhood Arrival (DACA) status. DACA and Undocumented Student Resources Website 35 Years of Service - Greenfield Intercultural Center For 35 years, the Greenfield Intercultural Center has served as Penn’s resource for enhancing student’s intercultural knowledge, competency, and leadership. The GIC offers experiential courses for credit, signature intercultural programs, and other services related to diversity and intercultural education. Greenfield Intercultural Center Supplier Diversity & Inclusion Fueling Business Growth is tied to a multi-faceted action plan aimed at strengthening relationships, and expanding access to resources, with local, diverse and minority-owned businesses. Supplier Diversity & Inclusion Pan-Asian American Community House - 20 Years For twenty years, the Pan-Asian American Community House has been a hub of academic, personal, and professional growth for Penn students interested in Asian American culture and the Asian American Diaspora. Through advising, leadership development, advocacy, social and cultural programming we expand student access to the University’s resources. Pan-Asian American Community House iCommunicate Intercultural Trainings ISSS (International Student & Scholar Services) offers 3 tracks of iCommunicate trainings. Request a training for your group, office or department. Open to all Penn students, scholars, faculty and staff. iCommunicate Intercultural Trainings Penn & Slavery Augmented Reality App The Penn & Slavery Project's student-developed app takes users on a tour of slavery's legacy at Penn in six stops, each telling a story through an augmented reality (AR) experience. The tour relates to specific locations on Penn's University City Campus. Penn & Slavery Augmented Reality App EVENTS Through - May 23, 2022 No Ocean Between Us: Art of Asian Diasporas in Latin America & The Caribbean, 1945–Present features modern and contemporary art by Latin American and Caribbean artists of Asian descent. This exhibition highlights artists whose work reflects the global dialogues between their Asian heritages and their Latin American or Caribbean identities, as well as the major artistic movements of their times. Included in the exhibition are paintings, works on paper, sculptures, and mixed media works that reflect the flow of migration from Japan, China, India, and Indonesia and the artistic impact in its host countries such as Argentina, Brazil, Cuba, Guyana, Jamaica, Panama, Peru, Mexico, Trinidad and Tobago, and Suriname. Go to all events NEWS Project HOPE This 2021 President’s Engagement Prize project is working to address the lack of legal and reentry support to incarcerated Philadelphians by serving as the core of an expansive advocacy network. Go to all news PROGRAMS Fueling Business Growth is tied to a multi-faceted action plan aimed at strengthening relationships, and expanding access to resources, with local, diverse and minority-owned businesses. Go to Supplier Diversity & Inclusion Website PROGRAMS Projects for Progress - Office of Social Equity and Community An initiative announced in 2020 that supports proposals by teams of students, faculty, and staff designed to promote equity and inclusion and to make a direct impact in Philadelphia. Go to all programs ACTION PLAN FOR FACULTY DIVERSITY AND EXCELLENCE Faculty Inclusion Report (PDF) Penn Medicine Service in Action - Community Impact Report Read the annual report Penn Compact 2022 Penn's Strategic Vision Diversity at Penn Penn has a number of policies and initiatives that support its efforts to foster inclusive excellence. Diversity and inclusion related data, progress reports on initiatives, a timeline of selected milestones, and stories about members of the Penn community are available here. Policies, Reports, Data and more Academic Programs Academic departments and centers offer research and talks that explore issues related to diversity and inclusion. Additionally, the University’s schools, programs and centers offer programming to educate and support inclusive excellence and the intellectual and interpersonal development of its students, faculty, and staff. Programs and Resource Offices Videos of Diversity Inclusion and diversity are the focus of a number of videos that illuminate the University’s commitment and the journeys of members of the community. Diversity Videos Administrative Offices and Co-curricular Resources Students, faculty and staff belong to organizations and affinity groups that provide opportunities to explore dimensions of diversity, share their stories, offer support and mentorship, and educate themselves and others about particular dimensions of inclusion. Affinity Organizations and groups Towards Inclusion: Diversity at Penn ACE Honors Penn President Amy Gutmann with 2015 Reginald Wilson Diversity Leadership Award | View Transcript University of Pennsylvania ©2022 University of Pennsylvania Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement