Skip to content Information and resources related to COVID-19 Protect Texas Together Division of Diversity and Community Engagement MENU GIVE Search About DDCE K-12 Education Longhorn Center for School Partnerships AdviseTX Dual Enrollment Initiatives Neighborhood Longhorns Program UT Youth Engagement Centers University of Texas Elementary School UT-University Charter School Student Success Fearless Leadership Institute First-Gen Equity Global Leadership and Social Impact Heman Sweatt Center for Black Males Inclusive Innovation and Entrepreneurship Latina/x and Indigenous Leadership Institute Longhorn Center for Academic Equity Gateway Scholars McNair Scholars Longhorn Link Program Project MALES RGV Familia XP3 Inclusive Campus Business Affairs Campus Climate Disability Resources Dynamics of Diversity Certificate Courses Gender and Sexuality Center Multicultural Engagement Center Inclusive Campus Support President’s Advisory Committee on LGBTQIA+ Initiatives Services for Students with Disabilities Student Org Co-Sponsorship Program Office for Inclusion and Equity University Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan University Resource Groups Women in STEM (WiSTEM) Community Engagement Center for Community Engagement The Project UT Volunteers Hogg Foundation for Mental Health Longhorns for Equity, Access, and Diversity Initiative Partnerships and Sponsorships Texas Grant Resource Center University Interscholastic League Youth Protection Program Home News Celebrating Our Spring Graduates Celebrating Our Spring Graduates Meet Armin Panjvani (Psychology, '22) By Rebecca Johnson • May 28, 2022 Growing up in Beaumont, Texas, Armin Panjvani was among the very few Asian Americans in her schools. That all changed when she came to UT Austin and found herself surrounded by many different groups of students from the Asian American Pacific Islander (AAPI) community. She soon became highly involved in campus life, serving as chair of the Asian American Culture (AAC) Committee and as a member of the GraduAsian planning committee. We sat down with Panjvani, whose family comes from India, to learn more about her experiences on campus and the lifelong friendships she made while planning big events alongside her fellow committee members. We wish her well as she leaves the Forty Acres to embark on her gap year before pursuing a master’s degree in psychology. Culture shock … “Up until eighth grade, I was the only Asian kid in my school. When I got to high school, I was maybe one of 15. Then I came to UT and all of a sudden, I’m on a campus with a 50,000 population and tons of Asians everywhere I look. There’s an entire organization dedicated to this religious group that I’m a part of, and there’s any kind of cultural group you want to join. The possibilities are really endless.” Feeling welcome … “When I went to my first AAC meeting, I was greeted by a membership officer who is one of the sweetest people I’ve ever met. As soon as I walked in, she sat next to me and said, ‘Oh my gosh, hi! What’s your name?’ After the meeting, she introduced me to people and really made sure that every new person was feeling welcome. Throughout the year that was a constant thing, and it really did feel like this big family. That was one of the biggest things for me with AAC, that it felt like a community.” Enhancing campus culture … “The AAC is one of the 10 committees that make up Campus Events + Entertainment, which is a university-funded event planning organization. It’s run by students, and we plan events for students. The AAC specifically focuses on Asian American cultural events, Asian American headliners, and that sort of thing. We typically have around eight events a year.” Putting on a show…“Two of our main events are called InspirAsian and CultivAsian. We bring a well-known Asian American speaker or performer to come talk to students. Another one of our most frequented events is Miyazaki Festival , a celebration of the director Hayao Miyazaki and his films—all of the Studio Ghibli films, essentially. We actually got more than double of our expected attendance for this year! We also celebrate Lunar New Year; that’s one of our biggest events of the year. And this year we also had our first South Asian event. It was called “Explore South Asia.” A time for celebrAsian … “GraduAsian is one of the affinity graduations, which also include Black Grad and Latinx Grad. It’s a separate celebration to commemorate Asian American-identifying and Asian-identifying graduates. It’s not a ceremony, but we do have stoles. We have a photo booth, and food and some cultural performances. You invite your family and friends and get your stole and celebrate your culture while also celebrating your accomplishments.” Tags: AAPI Heritage Month, Celebrating spring graudates, student success 110 Inner Campus Drive Austin, Texas, 78712 512-471-3212 Subscribe Sign up for our mailing list to get newsletters and event invitations. Subscribe About Us Office of the Vice President Executive Staff Human Resources On Brand DEI Action Plan ACCESS Magazine Land Acknowledgement © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Emergency Information | Site Policies | Web Accessibility Policy | Web Privacy Policy