Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Division of Institutional Diversity Main Menu In this section About us Departments Make a gift Contact Us Home African American Student Resources African American Student Resources OSU serves African Americans Oklahoma State University is a nationally recognized leader with an unwavering commitment to achieving inclusive excellence across its university system. African American student organizations unify and promote the cultural heritage of African Americans. These groups promote the interaction between the academic, social, and political worlds of the black students attending OSU. We desire to create a more functional relationship with the general community on the Oklahoma State University campus. OSU African American Highlights OSU is among the top 100 degree producers for African American and biracial/multiracial graduates (2014-2019) 50% increase in African American students earning a bachelor's degree from 2010-2019 8 years straight of OSU receiving the Higher Education Excellence in Diversity Award 97% increase in undergraduate students of color from Fall 2009 to Fall 2018 African American Student Organizations OSU provides African American students with resources to enrich their campus experience through such organizations as the African American Student Association (Afro-Am), National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC) and Minority Women’s Association, giving students the opportunity to lead, provide community service and promote cultural unity. OSU is proud to cultivate an environment where the student body is able to celebrate and promote Black History Month. In 2020, the Mr. and Miss Black OSU scholarship pageant celebrated its 50th anniversary. The pageant continues to symbolize the importance of education and diversity on Oklahoma State’s campus. Still Standing Tall OSU senior overcomes obstacles with help from Institutional Diversity There is no quit in Oklahoma State University senior Adam Martin. The history (pre-law) major has been knocked down but never defeated while pursuing his long-term goals of practicing law and running for political office. Adam Martin's Testimonial Programs and Resources African American Student Association African American Student Association NAACP OSU NAACP Chapter Minority Women's Association Minority Women's Association African American Business Students Association African American Business Students Association National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC) National Pan-Hellenic Council Oklahoma Louis Stokes Alliance for Minority Participation (OK-LSAMP) OK-LSAMP International Student Organization International Student Organization National Society of Black Engineers National Society of Black Engineers Black Graduate Student Association Black Graduate Student Association Black Alumni Association Black Alumni Chapter African Student Organization African Student Organization Association of Black Psychologists Association of Black Psychologists Minority Association of Pre-Health/Pre-Medical Students Minority Association of Pre-Health/Pre-Medical Students Minorities in Agriculture, Natural Resources and Related Science Minorities in Agriculture, Natural Resources and Related Science National Association of Black Journalists National Association of Black Journalists “I was never trying to make history. I was just a regular woman and teacher wanting to further my education so that I could improve my community and the lives of my students.” - Nancy Randolph Davis The first African American student to attend Oklahoma A&M College in 1949 Getting InvolvedPursue your passions and interests through 500+ campus organizations and activities on campus. OSU Celebrates the life and legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. - I Have a Dream MLK Speech.Avery Fulton Miss Black OSU 2020 Keona Marie TidwellAvery Fulton Miss Black OSU Keona Marie Tidwell and Mr. Black OSU Braeden ShawAvery Fulton Caileb Booze, the first black president of the Interfraternity Council (IFC), at Oklahoma State University.Phil Shockley Phil Armstrong during the Tulsa Race Massacre talk at OSU.Avery Fulton African American Student Association during the 2019 homecoming parade.Gary Lawson Students visiting the annual Lights on Stillwater. Jacee McCoy, honored as a Freshman Research Scholar at OSUPhil Shockley 2019 Graduate College CommencementPhil Shockley Awards ceremony for the Retention Initiative for Student Excellence (RISE) program within the Division of Institutional Diversity.Avery Fulton A talk about anti-racism by Dr. Ibram Kendi.Phil Shockley Lifesize sculpture depicting Nancy Randolph Davis, the first African-American student to attend Oklahoma A&M College, unveiled on the Oklahoma State University campus.Gary Lawson The Black Faculty and Staff Association at OSU.Gary Lawson Former Miss OSU and Miss Oklahoma 2017 Triana Browne, a graduate in Human Development and Family Sciences. 2020 Homecoming Royalty Court participates in Homecoming activities. Students participate in a Greek yard show for Multicultural Greek Council and National Pan-Hellenic Council. Members of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority pose together during a Greek Yard Show. Marching band student participates in Homecoming celebration. Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©