Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Academic Affairs & Diversity Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Initiatives Diversity Heritage Months Resources Documents About the Office LDEO Demographics NSF ADVANCE Anti-Racism and Race Talk Avoiding Implicit Bias DEIA Committee Diversity Seminar Gender & Diversity Hour Harassment Awareness JEDI Award LGBTQ Awareness Postdoctoral Seminar Diversity URGE Women in Science Work Environment Survey Black History Month LGBTQ Pride Month Search Committees Scientific Staff Postdoctoral Affairs Avoiding Implicit Bias Code of Conduct Title IX and EOAA Academic Affairs & Diversity You are here: Home Diversity Heritage Months LGBTQ Pride Month LGBTQIA+ Pride Month June is Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer (LGBTQIA+) Pride Month. This month-long celebration recognizes all members of the LGBTQIA+ community who have fought and continue to fight for fundamental rights and complete equality. June is dedicated to reminiscing and acknowledging all the treasured influences and valued contributions brave individuals have given. We embrace the LGBTQIA+ community and pay homage to those that were lost due to hate crimes and those who continue to face ongoing violence, discrimination, and various inequalities. Pride Month aims to bring awareness while also remembering the rich history that began here in New York on June 28th , 1969, during the Stonewall Uprising. The First Pride Marches took place on June 18th, 1970, nearly a year after the Stonewall Uprising. The Stonewall Uprising ignited a call to action that continues to motivate us to achieve equality, justice, and opportunities for all LGBTQIA+ individuals. We celebrate Pride Month by honoring the historical roots of the LGBTQIA+ community. Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory’s commitment to allyship begins with supporting and remembering the origins of all individuals of the LGBTQIA+ community. Lamont Pride 2019 In honor of Pride Month, a Pride Social was held on Monday June 24. Organized by graduate student Julian Spergel and research staff assistant Hannah Sweets, this event celebrated the LGBTQ community at Lamont, and honored the 50th anniversary of the Stonewall Riots. Image Carousel with 5 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: 2019_people1 Slide 2: 2019_people2 Slide 3: 2019_pride1 Slide 4: 2019_pride2 Slide 5: Speech Previous Next Office of Academic Affairs & Diversity61 Route 9W, 218 Monell Bldg. · Palisades, NY 10964 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close