Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Division of Institutional Diversity Main Menu In this section About us Departments Make a gift Contact Us Home Make a gift Make a gift Shape the futureYour gift can make a lifelong impact for current and future students Our mission is to develop and support efforts that help the Oklahoma State University System achieve and maintain environments, where all members are actively broadening their perspectives about differences; actively seeking to know individuals; actively including all members of the community in every aspect of the organization; and where students achieve academic excellence. We could use your help A gift to the initiative of your choice, small or large, can help support our efforts. You may give online through the OSU Foundation or by calling 405-385-5100. If there is a specific program or initiative you would like your gift to go towards, include its name in the COMMENTS box. Thank you for your consideration and support. Every gift is appreciated. GIVE TO INSTITUTIONAL DIVERSITY Current initiatives and programs Office of Multicultural Affairs The Office of Multicultural Affairs is a comprehensive support service that provides educational and personal growth opportunities to enhance the university experience for students of underrepresented populations enrolled at OSU. Support services are provided through academic skill development programs, group advisement, and outreach programs. Oklahoma LSAMP The Oklahoma Louis Stokes Alliance for Minority Participation (OK-LSAMP) program is sponsored by the National Science Foundation. The Oklahoma Alliance was formed under the leadership of OSU and the Oklahoma State Regents for Higher Education to address the critical under-supply of minority students receiving degrees in science, technology, engineering and mathematics. R.I.S.E. Program The Retention Initiative for Student Excellence Program (R.I.S.E.) is designed to assist students in their transition from high school to OSU and address all of the academic needs they may face. The program provides scheduled study group sessions, tutoring as needed and other services. R.I.S.E. Jumpstart Program The Retention Initiative for Student Excellence (R.I.S.E.) Jumpstart Program is a five-week summer residential experience designed to afford incoming first year students to OSU opportunities to achieve a smooth transition to college life. Life skills seminars and familiarity with the existing academic support networks that exist on campus will be intertwined throughout the program's schedule. Diversity Education The Diversity Education Unit partners with Colleges, Departments and the OSU campuses in developing and implementing diversity education learning programs specific to their needs. Diversity Academic Support This unit's mission is to provide resources and opportunities for academic, social, and emotional growth and be engaged in activities designed to help create a more inclusively diverse community of learners at OSU. Inclusion Leadership Program This program consists of a year long leadership program designed to equip OSU students and students from high schools in Stillwater, Oklahoma City and Tulsa with the skills and knowledge to become effective leaders in a more diversely inclusive society. Women's Programs This unit develops programs that enhance gender equity and awareness of women's issues in the OSU community partnering with departments to develop and co-sponsor activities, events, and research regarding gender issues. Home Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©