Longhorn Center for School Partnerships Providing College-readiness Services for Underrepresented Students Neighborhood Longhorns UT Youth Engagement Centers Austin Dallas Houston San Antonio Rio Grande Valley Advise TX Dual Enrollment Initiatives Chembridge MathBridge WritingBridge College Readiness Services for Underrepresented Students The Longhorn Center for School Partnerships (LCSP) is a portfolio of programs that provides college readiness services for underrepresented students, including both academic and college awareness initiatives. LCSP serves more than 40,000 students annually. Our statewide Dual Enrollment Initiatives program includes: ChemBridge, MathBridge, and WritingBridge. LCSP’s integrated college awareness programs include Neighborhood Longhorns and UT Outreach Centers in Austin, Dallas, Houston, Rio Grande Valley and San Antonio. Collaborating with the Division of Diversity and Community Engagement’s student success and academic support programs for UT Austin students, LCSP helps create successful pathways for underrepresented students. Welcome! The Longhorn Center for School Partnerships provides college readiness services for underrepresented students that include both academic and college awareness initiatives. We engage Title-One school districts and communities across the State of Texas to help create a college-going culture. Our vision is that 100% of the students we serve will attend a college or university of their choice. Contact Us Patrick Patterson Asst. Vice President 512-232-4603 patrickkpatterson@austin.utexas.edu See our list of contacts for specific programs and directions to our offices. Dual Enrollment Initiatives © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Emergency Information | Site Policies | Web Accessibility Policy | Web Privacy Policy Longhorn Center for School Partnerships Neighborhood Longhorns UT Youth Engagement Centers Austin Dallas Houston San Antonio Rio Grande Valley Advise TX Dual Enrollment Initiatives Chembridge MathBridge WritingBridge ×