Skip to main content < Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information and Resources University of Pennsylvania Toggle Navigation Toggle Search Accessibility Menu Jump to… Main Content Search Main Navigation Utility Navigation Main menu Diversity at Penn More Diversity at Penn Penn Compact 2022 Policies Reports Forms Facts and Figures Timeline Stories Programs More Programs Academic Programs Diversity Offices, Initiatives and Student Organizations Administrative and Co-Curricular Resources More Resources Affiliated With Resource Centers Religious Organizations Arts Organizations Student Government Consultation Councils Student Affairs School Affiliated Organization News & Events More News & Events Videos Diversity News Events Utility Navigation Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices & Services Webmail Back to Accessibility Menu Search Search Stories of Diversity at Penn The following stories are from our diverse Penn community. Lisa-Bellini.jpg Lisa Bellini Vice Dean for Faculty Affairs and Resident Affairs and Professor of Medicine Penn Medicine In order to attain excellence in one’s area of expertise, one must appreciate the value and impact of diversity. Each of us represents a small piece of the world’s tapestry. Excellence demands that broad input is solicited and appreciated with an emphasis on inclusion. We are only as good as we are diverse. Faculty Affairs Robert-Carpick.jpg Robert Carpick Professor and Chair, Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics School of Engineering and Applied Science As an engineering scientist, I want to make sure we recruit from the full pool of talent. Stereotyping, a lack of role models, chilly climates, and discrimination can all combine to turn people away. For example, women are no less capable than men as scientists and engineers, yet far fewer women choose science and engineering careers. The problem is societal, starting early in the education system, but we can do our part to rectify it. That means being aggressive about recruitment, and making sure the climate is welcoming at all levels. Being openly gay, I’ve personally experienced discrimination and harassment. Science and engineering can do better by doing what’s right. Faculty Profile Gilbert-Casellas.jpg Gilbert F. Casellas, Esq. L’77 University of Pennsylvania’s Board of Trustees Chair, Trustees’ Ad Hoc Committee on Diversity We simply cannot become or remain an eminent, world-class institution and pursue knowledge beyond traditional boundaries unless we expand beyond traditional boundaries of perspectives, thought, and experience to embrace difference and seek inclusion. Clare-Jasmine-Din.jpg Claire Jasmine Din Director of Computing, Penn Chemistry As an employee, Penn alumna, and member of the LGBT community for over 20 years, I value the diversity that this world-class institution offers. Penn is like a second home to me and I am grateful for the opportunity to contribute to Penn's mission, to add to my life skills via the tuition benefit, and to see the evolution of Penn's medical insurance plan for LGBT employees. Penn Chemistry Department Penn Lesbian Gay Bisexual Transgender Center John-Irizarry.jpg Johnny Irizarry Director, La Casa Latina: Center for Hispanic Excellence As an educator, administrator, citizen and family member, social diversity has been a personally lived experience that has challenged me to live my life intentionally aware of how my behaviors and choices affect social, cultural and racial diversity. The greatest of our academic and technological advancements will be rendered insufficient if we do not also purposely invest in the development of our richly diverse collective human capital. La Casa Latina More Stories About Penn Go to Multimedia to hear stories about diversity and inclusion from the Penn community. Visit Video Page Michelle-Leong.jpg Michelle Leong SEAS’13, Electrical Engineering and Economics Double Major Engineering & Applied Science Being able to learn and work in an environment as diverse as Penn creates richer experiences. There’s so much to learn from even just one person. Through my activities and friendships on campus, I’ve been able to meet a variety of students, faculty, and staff and learn so much from each of them. Every person has his or her own story that’s shaped his or her decisions and perspectives. I think it’s important to make the effort to put yourself out there and listen to these experiences. Asian Pacific Student Coalition Alpha Kappa Delta Phi Pan-Asian American Community House Emilio-Parrado.jpg Emilio Parrado Associate Professor of Sociology School of Arts & Sciences I value diversity because it brings different perspectives to academia. I use my experiences as an immigrant from Latin America – and my ability to reach and communicate with Latinos – to understand the Latino population and provide a different perspective from the one typically assumed. I focus on the impact of migration, both within and across countries, as a significant life-course event, with diverse implications for migrants and their families, as well as for the areas and countries involved. Faculty Profile Brian-Peterson.jpg Brian Peterson Director, Makuu Black Cultural Center An institution’s commitment to diversity symbolizes its appreciation and its vision for true democratic participation. With rich cultural resources like the Makuu Black Cultural Center, Penn is realizing this commitment. Makuu Black Cultural Center Website melanie-philip.jpeg Melanie Philip C’12 Health & Societies Major, College of Arts & Sciences College is not only about academic progress but also personal growth. I strongly believe that students grow the most from working, learning, and living with students of different backgrounds. Diversity of opinions and ideas is critical. Having the opportunity to work alongside motivated students who are passionate about a variety of issues has truly shaped my outlook. My peers simultaneously challenge and motivate me to step outside of my comfort zone and become acquainted with that which is unfamiliar. Penn Consortium of Undergraduate Women African Rhythms Susan-Ross.jpg Susan Ross Professor of Microbiology, Associate Dean for Graduate Education and Director of Biomedical Graduate Studies Perelman School of Medicine In Biomedical Graduate Studies, we have a responsibility to train students from underrepresented backgrounds to be the future research leaders of both academia and industry. There has been a major effort to increase the diversity of the population in biomedical graduate programs, but the percentage of students in these programs still does not reflect the US population. By actively recruiting these candidates, we have doubled the percentage of underrepresented students entering Penn’s BGS PhD programs in the past decade. Faculty Profile Biomedical Graduate Studies Nancy-Tkacs.jpg Nancy Tkacs Assistant Dean for Diversity and Cultural Affairs and Associate Professor School of Nursing Science Chair, University Council Committee on Diversity and Equity Health disparities are inextricably linked to disparities in education and economic status. The more Penn can increase opportunity and access to all persons, the greater our contribution will be to improving the nation’s health by reducing the growing gap between “haves” and “have-nots.” Faculty Profile Office of Diversity (Nursing) UC Committee on Diversity and Equity University of Pennsylvania ©2022 University of Pennsylvania Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement