Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Academic Affairs & Diversity Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Initiatives Diversity Heritage Months Resources Documents About the Office LDEO Demographics NSF ADVANCE Anti-Racism and Race Talk Avoiding Implicit Bias DEIA Committee Diversity Seminar Gender & Diversity Hour Harassment Awareness JEDI Award LGBTQ Awareness Postdoctoral Seminar Diversity URGE Women in Science Work Environment Survey Black History Month LGBTQ Pride Month Search Committees Scientific Staff Postdoctoral Affairs Avoiding Implicit Bias Code of Conduct Title IX and EOAA Academic Affairs & Diversity You are here: Home About About About The Office of Academic Affairs & Diversity is housed in the Lamont Directorate, and has the following mission and focus: 1. To enable better representation of underrepresented groups, including women and minorities, and promoting diversity and inclusion among all scientific ranks at Lamont; 2. To develop policies, procedures, and initiatives for academic affairs and diversity. These include: search and recruitment procedures; appointments and promotions; salary structures; family leave policies; bylaws and governance; mentoring programs; awards and recognition; and the advancement of junior scientists. BIAS TRAINING & PRESENTATIONS This office conducts training and presentations on the following topics: Implicit Bias; Racial Bias; Gender Bias; LGBTQ+ Awareness. These sessions are especially customized to the STEM workplace. Sessions typically last 1 hour. To request a bias training session, email [email protected] DIVERSITY & INCLUSION INITIATIVES View a summary of our Key Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) Initiatives. To learn about these activities and initiatives in greater detail, click on the Documents menu link above. Office of Academic Affairs & Diversity61 Route 9W, 218 Monell Bldg. · Palisades, NY 10964 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close