Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Diversity & Inclusion Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home About Us Staff EDI President’s Council Strategic Plan Resources Anti-Racism Resources Resources for Students Resources for Faculty & Staff Tallahassee Community Resources Monthly Observances and Celebrations Diversity in Athletics Supplier Diversity Program Seminole Tribe of Florida Report a Situation Get Involved Affinity Groups Mini-Grant Program Programs & Organizations D&I Internship D&I Student Ambassadors Campus & Community Events Coffee Chats Lunch and Learns Training Learning Opportunities D&I Certificate National Coalition Building Institute Allies and Safe Zones Request a Training Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Dashboard News Calendar Make a Suggestion Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Diversity & Inclusion Toggle navigation Home About Us Staff EDI President’s Council Strategic Plan Resources Anti-Racism Resources Resources for Students Resources for Faculty & Staff Tallahassee Community Resources Monthly Observances and Celebrations Diversity in Athletics Supplier Diversity Program Seminole Tribe of Florida Report a Situation Get Involved Affinity Groups Mini-Grant Program Programs & Organizations D&I Internship D&I Student Ambassadors Campus & Community Events Coffee Chats Lunch and Learns Training Learning Opportunities D&I Certificate National Coalition Building Institute Allies and Safe Zones Request a Training Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Dashboard News Calendar Make a Suggestion Home Lunch and Learns 2021 - 2022 Home About Us Resources Get Involved Training Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Dashboard News Calendar Make a Suggestion Affinity Groups Mini-Grant Program Programs & Organizations D&I Internship D&I Student Ambassadors Campus & Community Events Coffee Chats Lunch and Learns D&I in the Community D&I In the News Asian Pacific American Heritage Month 2022 Dr. Maxine Montgomery named 2022-2023 Robert O. Lawton Distinguished Professor Quicklinks Make a Report Strategic Plan Anti-Racism Resources Lunch and Learns 2021 - 2022 The EDI Office hosts a monthly online event featuring an academic department or administrative office. These Lunch & Learns are intended to provide information and access to university resources in an effort to foster a diverse, inclusive and equitable campus community; in alignment with the Diversity & Inclusion goal of the university’s strategic plan. Lunch & Learns are open to all university faculty & staff. September 15, 2021 - FSU Sustainable Campus Sustainable Campus director, Elizabeth Swiman, will host our September Lunch & Learn. Equity, diversity, and inclusion (EDI) is a core component of creating and more just and sustainable world. This Lunch & Learn is designed to help us reframe our definition and perspective of sustainability and center the "people" sphere to better integrate social justice into all sustainability efforts. During the L&L, Ms. Swiman will review and discuss a series of case studies that highlight the overlapping nature of environmental and social justice. We will also shed light on how these movements interact and influence each other and lay the groundwork for stronger connections and collaboration between allies. October 6, 2021 - Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Office SPECIAL EDITION Join us for a special extended edition of the EDI Lunch & Learn series hosted by the Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Office (Office of Human Resources). Michelle Douglas, Director of the EDI Office and Chief Diversity Officer; Raja Benton, EDI Specialist; and Annie Grier, Senior Coordinator for Diversity & Inclusion will present on the following programs from the EDI Office: Message from the Chief Diversity Officer Diversity & Inclusion Certificate and other EDI Trainings Diversity & Inclusion Website and Resources Affinity Groups Special EDI Announcements October 20, 2021 - Center for the Advancement of Human Rights Center for the Advancement of Human Rights (CAHR) director, Dr. Terry Coonan, will present on how CAHR supports students, faculty, and staff from underrepresented groups. CAHR engages in interdisciplinary advocacy, education, and research on persistent and emerging issues of human rights. It aims to make significant contributions to the promotion, understanding, and protection of human rights in this country and abroad. November 17, 2021 - FSU Career Center Li Pon, Senior Assistant Director, Experiential Learning and Kyra Duffey, Assistant Director for Career Advising and Counseling will share ways that faculty & staff can engage with the FSU Career Center in support of students and the greater campus community. Topics include InternFSU, ProfessioNole Mentors, and maximizing your diversity resources page January 26, 2022 - Civil Rights Institute Civil Rights Institute director, Bridgett Birmingham, will host our January Lunch & Learn. CRI's mission is to commemorate and study the United States Civil Rights Movement and to promote civil rights and social change. February 16, 2022 - Center for Global Engagement Center for Global Engagement directors in Certificates & Training, Dr. Elcin Haskollar and Dr. Tanu Kohli Bagwe, will host our February Lunch & Learn. CGE facilitates international diversity, fosters global understanding and awareness, and enhances internationalization efforts throughout the FSU community. March 23, 2022 - Professional Development Opportunities Karen Oehme, Director of FSU's Institute for Family Violence Studies and Ellen Piekalkiewicz, Director of FSU's Center for the Study and Promotion of Communities, Families, and Children will share the professional development opportunities and certifications available to staff and faculty through FSU's Center for Academic & Professional Development: Professional Certification in College Student Wellbeing, Trauma & Resilience Professional Certification in Trauma & Resilience Professional Certification in Rebound & Recovery Professional Certification in Human Trafficking Prevention & Intervention April 13, 2022 - FSU Autism Institute & CARD Amy Wetherby, Director of the FSU Autism Institute and Cathy Zenko, the Director of the FSU Center for Autism and Related Disabilities (CARD) will share information on their work and opportunities for campus engagement as the EDI Office recognizes Autism Appreciation Month. May 11, 2022 - Latinx Distinguished Faculty & Staff Award - Staff Winners Join us for a conversation with Latinx Distinguished Faculty & Staff Award - Staff Award Winners: Charlotte Souffront-Garcia, program director of Business Relationship Management in the Division of Student Affairs, and Dr. Carlos Gomez, director of Counseling and Psychological Services. Together, they will share their innovative, award-winning work in support of Hispanic/Latinx students and how other Offices and Departments can engage students in co-developing and informing efforts of change, diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging. title-inside title-centered 2 For questions or comments, please contact us at diversity@fsu.edu © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media