Skip to main content Search: Go Search context Search Filters: This Site Cornell Utility Navigation Giving Leadership Report an Incident Search Cornell University Diversity and Inclusion Main Navigation Our Story Institutional Initiatives 2017-2018 Recommendations Our Historic Commitment News Events Belonging at Cornell Belonging at Cornell News Sense of Belonging Fairness Net Promoter Score Turnover Rates Proportionate Hiring Rate Survey Results Survey Results (Accessible Alternative) Innovation Grants Belonging at Cornell News Archive Our Community Anti-Racism Resources DEI Celebration Resources Student & Post Doc Faculty Resources Staff Resources LGBTQ Staff & Faculty Trans Inclusion at Cornell Trans Inclusion Recommended Practices Gender Inclusive Pronouns Alumni, Parents & Friends Our Commitments Diversity Leadership at Cornell About PADE DIB Inclusive Excellence Network Inclusive Excellence Podcast Episode Archive Inclusive Excellence Summit Inclusive Excellence Academy Upcoming Seminars List of Previous Seminars Bias Reporting at Cornell For Students For Faculty/Staff Equal Opportunity & Affirmative Action Disability Access Accessible Red Runner Transportation Workplace Accommodations Gender Equity & Title IX Restroom & Facilities Guidelines Supplier Diversity More in this section Belonging at Cornell Belonging at Cornell News Sense of Belonging Fairness Net Promoter Score Turnover Rates Proportionate Hiring Rate Survey Results Survey Results (Accessible Alternative) Innovation Grants Belonging at Cornell News Archive Home Belonging at Cornell Belonging at Cornell News Belonging at Cornell News May 3, 2022 Dear Cornell Community, As we near the end of the semester, we are pleased to provide a few of the many updates on diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives across campus: The Cornell Division of Public Safety has been established, creating the foundation for a more equitable and balanced approach to campus public safety. This action resulted from the work of the Public Safety Advisory Committee (PSAC), charged in 2020 with evaluating and reimagining a plan for campus safety. A new website highlighting Cornell’s commitment to Indigenous nations and communities within North America has launched. View the website to learn more about Cornell’s history with Indigenous communities, as well as stories about more recent projects and research. An LGBTQ+ Resource Guide for faculty and staff is now available. The guide offers suggestions for best practices for classroom and colleague engagement, a glossary with guidance on the use of appropriate terms and resources available for the LGBTQ+ community. The Belonging at Cornell Initiative grants Request for Proposals (RFP) is now open for faculty and staff (a grant cycle for students will launch in September). Collaborative projects that align with the university objectives of improving the Cornell experience for students, faculty, and staff and support the environment of Cornell as a great place to study and work are encouraged. Proposals are due June 6. The Belonging at Cornell framework continues to support initiatives fostering respect and appreciation for difference and strengthening the culture of inclusion and belonging at Cornell. We invite you to review some of the great initiatives going on around campus in this newsletter. Sincerely, The Presidential Advisors on Diversity and Equity (PADE) Avery August, Vice Provost for Academic Affairs Marla Love, Robert W. and Elizabeth C. Staley Dean of Students Sonia Rucker, Associate Vice President for Inclusion and Belonging Newsletter Archive Advancing Diversity and Inclusion Expanded virtual outreach draws diverse Class of 2026 ILR creates workplace inclusion, diversity education program Student Translator-Interpreter Program breaks language barriers Michener testifies to House on role of universal health insurance Recent News Migrations project helps refugees claim health care rights LinkedIn, Cornell Bowers CIS launch strategic partnership More Headlines First group of Zhu Fellows named in Arts & Sciences CALS junior earns national award for addressing social change Cornell, partners seek to grow STEM recruiting program CVM alumna runs urgent care clinic for low-income families Five Inducted into Bouchet Graduate Honor Society More News Upcoming Events Nobel Laureate Leymah Gbowee: Forging Lasting Peace Tue., May 3 at 5 p.m. Hear Nobel Peace Prize winner Leymah Gbowee's views on how action and activism can shape a just world. The Future of Law Enforcement Wed., May 4 at 10:30 a.m. Join Acting Ithaca Mayor Laura Lewis and Sonia Rucker, Cornell AVP of Inclusion and Belonging, for a moderated discussion with Cedric Alexander. Gatty Lecture: Boats, Waters, and Queer Figures in Contemporary Philippine Cinema Thur., May 5 at 12:15 p.m. Join Kale Fajardo for a talk on postcolonial and decolonial implications portrayed in Filipino films. More Events Join Cornell students, faculty and staff in celebrating Asian Pacific American Heritage Month during the month of May. Find diversity celebration resources, activities and events on Cornell’s diversity website. Resources & Opportunities 2022 Belonging at Cornell Innovation Grants Application deadline June 6th Proposals that include cross-college/unit collaboration and promise to drive sustained impact to the Cornell community are encouraged. Soup & Hope Creates Connection Through Storytelling Spring 2022 semester The popular speaker series, in its 15th year, continued with stories of transformation and empowerment. Enjoy recordings from this past semester here. Teaching & Learning in the Diverse Classroom June 1-30, 2022 Online course that provides an opportunity to explore strategies to effectively support student engagement and a sense of belonging across difference. Faculty Learning Community for Inclusive Teaching June 1-29, 2022 Discussions, activities and reflective exercises focused on designing, or redesigning your course using an inclusive course design framework. Advancing DEI Staff Training Mandatory 6-part course empowering staff to support a Cornell culture where everyone feels valued. Cornell Center for Cultural Humility (CHUM) Several program offerings focused on cultural sensitivity in research, practice and policy. More Resources Belonging at Cornell Diversity and inclusion are founding principles of Cornell University and are part of our Core Values. Initiatives across campus reaffirm this commitment and provide opportunities for meaningful dialogue. This newsletter is sent to all Cornell University faculty, staff and students. For additional resources and to connect with us, visit: Belonging at Cornell Cornell University Diversity and Inclusion Contact Report an Incident Cornell University ©2022 University Privacy Web Accessibility Assistance