Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Office of Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Belonging myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link News Campus Map People Inclusive Excellence Events Education & Resources Select to follow link Concepts & Definitions Trainings READ Religious Observances Tilford Conference Get Involved Select to follow link Faculty & Staff Councils Select to follow link Working With Councils Judith Heumann Disability Rights Advocacy Award Get Support Contact Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Office of Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Belonging Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Belonging We strive for a campus where greater fairness, care, and belonging are integrated into our learning and workplace practices and all have opportunities to meet their academic and professional goals. About DEIB Across Campus Our office is committed to fostering diversity, equity, and inclusion practices and policies in classrooms, residence halls, social spaces, offices, laboratories, and every other place at KU where our students, faculty members, and staff live, work, research, and learn. Get Involved on The Hill Important Resources We are committed to helping all Jayhawks get the support they need. Whatever your situation may be, there are resources on campus and in the community to support you. DEIB Campus Map DEIB Campus Map Find Support Find Support Religious Observances Religious Observances Inclusive Excellence This is our foundation for intentional organizational change and community accountability, which will facilitate progress on indicators of diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging. Discover Inclusive Excellence Related Resources Jayhawks Rising Request Funds Education Resource Guide Review a guide is dedicated to informing and educating the KU community about key concepts and terms related to DEIB. Concepts & Definitions Trainings Safe Zone, Social Justice Fellows, LinkedIn Learning, Whiteness in the Workplace, Diversity EDU Available Trainings READ Program Books can be the key to sparking conversations and dialogue; they help us understand the world and explore possibilities. Join us to Read for Equity and Diversity. Reading Program Past Events It is important to keep an easily accessible record of the events that have happened on campus for our community to learn from. Past Events Snapshot Examine the University through the data that represent our students, staff, and faculty. These resources offer several ways to view and interpret institutional information. KU By The Numbers Examine interactive dashboards with current, historical, and comparative data for a variety of subject areas, including enrollment, retention and completion, tuition and fees, employees, and financial expenditures Learn More Undergraduate Students By the Numbers Review key facts and figures about the student population for the current academic year. Learn More Campus Climate Study In 2016, all KU campuses studied the experiences and values of students, staff, and faculty. Click the red arrow to review an archive of documents from the Climate Study. Learn More Swipe to see more DEIB News Mon, 05/16/22 Message on Violence in Buffalo, NY KU’s Office of Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Belonging grieves the racially motivated and admitted act of white supremacy that occurred in Buffalo this Saturday. Mon, 04/04/22 Newsletter: April 2022 Greetings! The Office of Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Belonging has several upcoming events we would like to share with you. Our team has been working with collaborators across campus and in the community to bring you some stellar opportunities to learn and grow on a variety of topics. See all news Diversity & Inclusion Events See all events Strong Hall, Room 151 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 10, 11, 27, 29, 30, 34, 36, 38, 41, 42, 43, 44 diversity@ku.edu 785-864-6705 twitter Get Support Academic Success Student Affairs Office of the Provost Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.