Skip to content Disability Resources Diversity Matters at UT Frequently Asked Questions Who needs answers? Make a selection to go to that section. Prospective/Incoming Student Current Student Faculty Member Staff Member Visitor I am a prospective/incoming student. Is there a separate admissions process for students with disabilities? No. Students with disabilities are expected to meet the same admissions criteria as all other students. It is up to the student whether to self-identify during the admissions process as having a disability. Please note that disability-related documentation sent to the Office of Admissions is not automatically forwarded to Services for Students with Disabilities. May The University of Texas at Austin deny my admission because I have a disability? No. If you meet the essential requirements for admission, the University may not deny your admission simply because you have a disability. As a student with a disability leaving high school and entering postsecondary education, will I see differences in my rights and how they are addressed? Yes. Section 504 and Title II of the ADA protect all elementary, secondary and post-secondary students from discrimination. However, several of the requirements that apply through high school are different from the requirements that apply beyond high school. The University is not required to design special programs for students with disabilities or have Individualized Educational Plans (IEP). Rather, the University is required to provide appropriate accommodations as necessary to ensure that it does not discriminate on the basis of disability. In the post-secondary environment, colleges and universities are responsible for providing equal access to students who meet the definition of a disability and protecting them from discrimination. Colleges and universities are not responsible for identifying or evaluating students and the goal of accommodation is to ensure equal access versus academic success. Students at the University are responsible for requesting accommodations and following through on the processes and procedures outlined on the Services for Students with Disabilities website. Parents play a more “behind the scenes” role in supporting their college student and cannot make requests on their student’s behalf. Confidentiality laws limit the amount of information that can be shared with parents. It may be helpful to review “Making the Transition to UT” for more information on the differences between accommodations in K-12 and college. I have been accepted to The University of Texas at Austin and I have a disability. What department do I contact to learn about accommodations? Services for Students with Disabilities (SSD) is the main point of contact for students with disabilities. While SSD’s primary role is to coordinate accommodations, SSD also works with other campus departments to coordinate accommodations for housing, placement exams and accommodations for physical accessibility. Prospective students can review information, instructions and required forms on the SSD website. I want to register for accommodations. What steps do I need to take? A student who wants to receive accommodations through Services for Students with Disabilities (SSD) should follow the registration process to get started. Incoming students with questions can call or email SSD: Phone: 512-471-6259 Videophone: 512-410-6644 Email: ssd@austin.utexas.edu Do I have to inform The University of Texas at Austin that I have a disability? No. However, if you want the University to provide an accommodation you must identify yourself as having a disability. Disclosure of a disability is always voluntary and may be done at any time. Accommodations are not applied retroactively. Students who choose not to apply for accommodations when they arrive at the University should know there is no opportunity to retake exams or courses if they are unsatisfied with their grades without accommodations. What documentation should I provide to register with Services for Students with Disabilities? Documentation guidelines outline the information that must be included on documentation reports or evaluations that a student submits to Services for Students with Disabilities. Specific information is available according to the type of disability. Please make sure to reference the set of guidelines that most closely match the student’s disability(ies). What if my documentation is too old/insufficient? It is the student’s responsibility to provide up-to-date and sufficient disability documentation. If the initial documentation is incomplete or inadequate to determine the extent of the disability, Services for Students with Disabilities (SSD) may require additional documentation. Any cost associated with obtaining additional documentation is the responsibility of the student. SSD can provide referrals to campus or community providers who may be able to provide updated documentation. SSD has limited funding available to help offset the cost of psychoeducational evaluations. Students who would like to be considered for financial assistance should contact SSD for more information regarding the application process and timelines. Once Services for Students with Disabilities has received the necessary documentation from me, what should I expect? Students will receive notification via email regarding the status of their documentation once it has been reviewed by Services for Students with Disabilities (SSD). The email will inform students whether the submitted documentation meets SSD’s guidelines and directs students to contact SSD to schedule their intake appointment. During the intake appointment, a Disabilities Services Coordinator will talk with the student about their disability, academic history, and will work with the student to identify an appropriate accommodation. What accommodations are available at The University of Texas at Austin? The appropriateness of accommodations are determined based on your disability and individual needs. In providing an accommodation, the University is not required to lower or waive essential requirements. For example, although your program may be required to provide extended testing time, it is not required to change the substantive content of the test. In addition, the University does not have to make modifications that would fundamentally alter the nature of a service, program or activity that would result in undue financial or administrative burdens. Finally, the University does not have to provide personal attendants, individually prescribed devices, readers for personal use or study or other devices or services of a personal nature, such as tutoring and typing. Please visit the Services for Students with Disabilities website to review a list of commonly approved accommodations. Can I request an accommodation directly from my professor, before I have been approved for accommodations through Services for Students with Disabilities? Professors are only required to recognize accommodations outlined in a student’s official Accommodation Letter issued by Services for Students with Disabilities. Students should request and deliver their Accommodation Letter to their professors early in the semester to allow sufficient time for accommodations to be implemented. It is important for students to communicate with their professors regarding their needs in the class. Who will know I have a disability and have been approved for accommodations? Services for Students with Disabilities (SSD) values confidentiality and your disability documentation is not considered part of your academic record. When you use accommodations in the classroom, professors will know (via letter that you deliver) that you are registered with SSD, but will not be informed of your diagnosis or manifestations of your disability without your consent. If you plan to use accommodations, you must request, deliver, and discuss your Accommodation Letter with your professor each semester. Your Accommodation Letter lists the accommodation(s) you are approved to receive in the classroom and does not contain diagnostic information. In general, information about your disability cannot be released without your written permission except by court order or otherwise mandated by law. It is a good idea to speak with your Disabilities Services Coordinator about the limits of confidentiality and possible situations in which it may be appropriate to release information. Does Services for Students with Disabilities have transportation that can take me from place to place on campus? No, Services for Students with Disabilities does not have transportation to take a student from place to place on campus. The campus shuttle system is wheelchair accessible and all students are eligible to ride. Does the University offer accessible parking? Yes. The University has accessible parking available in its surface lots and parking garages. A red (temporary) or blue (permanent) state issued placard, in combination with a D permit issued by the University, will allow you to park in the accessible spaces on campus as well as all of the parking garages. If you are issued an accessible placard through the Texas DMV, then you can immediately apply for a University D permit, as there is no waitlist for that particular permit. For more information about the state placard, please visit the website for the Texas Department of Motor Vehicles. For more information about the D permit and ADA Parking Spaces on Campus, visit the Parking and Transportation Services website. Does the University have a map that shows the accessible entrances to buildings on campus? Yes. The Campus Accessibility Map is offered as a resource to provide information regarding accessible building access; however, due to the constantly changing nature of the University campus, the accuracy of the information provided by the map cannot be guaranteed. The map is frequently updated with new content, so if you find an area that is incorrectly labeled please provide that information via the University’s Report a Barrier feature. For additional FAQ’s, including parents of currents students, please visit the Services for Students with Disabilities web page. Back to Top I am a current student. I am a student at The University of Texas at Austin and I have a disability. What department do I contact to learn about accommodations? Services for Students with Disabilities (SSD) is the main point of contact for students with disabilities. While SSD’s primary role is to coordinate accommodations, SSD also works with other campus departments to coordinate accommodations for housing, placement exams and accommodations for physical accessibility. Students can review information, instructions and required forms on the SSD website. I want to register for accommodations. What steps do I need to take? A student who wants to receive accommodations through Services for Students with Disabilities (SSD) should follow the registration process to get started. Students with questions can call or email SSD: Phone: 512-471-6259 Videophone: 512-410-6644 Email: ssd@austin.utexas.edu Do I have to inform The University of Texas at Austin that I have a disability? No. However, if you want the University to provide an accommodation you must identify yourself as having a disability. Disclosure of a disability is always voluntary and may be done at any time. Accommodations are not applied retroactively. Students who choose not to apply for accommodations when they arrive at the University should know there is no opportunity to retake exams or courses if they are unsatisfied with their grades without accommodations. What documentation should I provide to register with Services for Students with Disabilities? Documentation guidelines outline the information that must be included on documentation reports or evaluations that a student submits to Services for Students with Disabilities. Please make sure to reference the set of guidelines that most closely match the student’s disability(ies). What if my documentation is too old/insufficient? It is the student’s responsibility to provide up-to-date and sufficient disability documentation. If the initial documentation is incomplete or inadequate to determine the extent of the disability, Services for Students with Disabilities (SSD) may require additional documentation. Any cost associated with obtaining additional documentation is borne by the student. SSD can provide referrals to campus or community providers who may be able to provide updated documentation. SSD has limited funding available to help offset the cost of psychoeducational evaluations. Students who would like to be considered for financial assistance should contact SSD for more information regarding the application process and timelines. Once Services for Students with Disabilities has received the necessary documentation from me, what should I expect? Students will receive notification via email regarding the status of their documentation once it has been reviewed by Services for Students with Disabilities (SSD). The email will inform students whether the submitted documentation meets SSD’s guidelines and directs students to contact SSD to schedule their intake appointment. During the intake appointment, a Disabilities Services Coordinator will talk with the student about their disability, academic history, and will work with the student to identify an appropriate accommodation. What accommodations are available at The University of Texas at Austin? The appropriateness of accommodations are determined based on your disability and individual needs. In providing an accommodation, the University is not required to lower or waive essential requirements. For example, although your program may be required to provide extended testing time, it is not required to change the substantive content of the test. In addition, the University does not have to make modifications that would fundamentally alter the nature of a service, program or activity that would result in undue financial or administrative burdens. Finally, the University does not have to provide personal attendants, individually prescribed devices, readers for personal use or study or other devices or services of a personal nature, such as tutoring and typing. Please visit the Services for Students with Disabilities website to review a list of commonly approved accommodations. Can I request an accommodation directly from my professor, before I have been approved for accommodations through Services for Students with Disabilities? Professors are only required to recognize accommodations outlined in a student’s official Accommodation Letter issued by Services for Students with Disabilities. Students should request and deliver their Accommodation Letter to their professors early in the semester to allow sufficient time for accommodations to be implemented. It is important for students to communicate with their professors regarding their needs in the class. Who will know I have a disability and have been approved for accommodations? Services for Students with Disabilities (SSD) values confidentiality and your disability documentation is not considered part of your academic record. When you use accommodations in the classroom, professors will know (via letter that you deliver) that you are registered with SSD, but will not be informed of your diagnosis or manifestations of your disability without your consent. If you plan to use accommodations, you must request, deliver, and discuss your Accommodation Letter with your professor each semester. Your Accommodation Letter only lists the accommodation(s) you are approved to receive in the classroom and does not contain diagnostic information. In general, information about your disability cannot be released without your written permission except by court order or otherwise mandated by law. It is a good idea to speak with your Disabilities Services Coordinator about the limits of confidentiality and possible situations in which it may be appropriate to release information. Do I have to use all of my accommodations in every class? No, students may choose to utilize their accommodations differently depending on the various requirements and components of a specific course. If a student chooses not to use an accommodation in a given class, they will not be given the opportunity to retake an exam or to make-up an assignment with accommodations at a later date. Remember, accommodations are not designed to be retroactive. Students must ask for accommodations utilizing the University procedures in order to receive them for each of their courses. What if I experience difficulty using my accommodations? Let Services for Students with Disabilities (SSD) know as soon as possible, if you have difficulty using your accommodations. It may be too late to correct the problem if you wait until the course or activity is completed. SSD will work with you to resolve the problem. Will my transcript reflect that I have received accommodations in my classes? No. Your disability information is considered confidential and is not included on your transcript. Does Services for Students with Disabilities have transportation that can take me from place to place on campus? No, Services for Students with Disabilities does not have transportation to take a student from place to place on campus. The campus shuttle system is wheelchair accessible and all students are eligible to ride. Does the University offer accessible parking? Yes. The University has accessible parking available in its surface lots and parking garages. A red (temporary) or blue (permanent) state issued placard, in combination with a D permit issued by the University, will allow you to park in the accessible spaces on campus as well as all of the parking garages. If you are issued an accessible placard through the Texas DMV, then you can immediately apply for a University D permit, as there is no waitlist for that particular permit. For more information about the state placard, please visit the website for the Texas Department of Motor Vehicles. For more information about the D permit and ADA Parking Spaces on Campus, visit the Parking and Transportation Services website. Does the University have a map that shows the accessible entrances to buildings on campus? Yes. The Campus Accessibility Map is offered as a resource to provide information regarding accessible building access; however, due to the constantly changing nature of the University campus, the accuracy of the information provided by the map cannot be guaranteed. The map is frequently updated with new content, so if you find an area that is incorrectly labeled please provide that information via the University’s Report a Barrier feature. I am a student and I have an employment position with The University of Texas at Austin (e.g. Teaching Assistant) who can help me explore workplace accommodations? Services for Students with Disabilities works with students to identify accommodations related to your coursework. If you are employed with the University then you will need to work with the University’s ADA Coordinators to identify reasonable accommodations in the workplace. Send an email to the ADA Coordinators to start the process: ada@austin.utexas.edu. I am a student and I have an employment position with The University of Texas at Austin. I have questions about my benefits and whether I am eligible for certain types of leave (e.g. FMLA). Who can help? Special rules relating to insurance and other benefits often apply if you are working in a job profile that requires you to be a student in order to hold that title (a “student-status job”). To learn more, visit the Student Employee Insurance & Benefits webpage hosted by Human Resources. For questions, contact the University’s HR Student Employment Consultant. For additional FAQ’s, including parents of currents students, please visit the Services for Students with Disabilities web page. Back to Top I am a faculty member. What laws cover a faculty member with a disability who needs workplace accommodations? Title I of the ADA covers the employment provisions, which are enforced by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. The provisions apply to private employers as well as state and local governments. The University of Texas at Austin, being a state university, is expected to comply with Title I. The University is required by law to provide reasonable accommodations to qualified employees with disabilities. The University’s ADA Coordinators are charged with coordinating the University’s compliance with the employment provisions of the ADA. University employees with a qualifying condition are evaluated for workplace accommodations under Title I of the ADA. Send an email to the ADA Coordinators to start the process: ada@austin.utexas.edu. I may need to take a period of leave or explore modified instructional duties. Who can help? To learn about options that are available to you, visit the Life and Work site hosted by the Office of the Executive Vice President and Provost. You can also contact Academic Personnel Services via email at evpp@utexas.edu or by phone at 512-232-4590. I injured myself while on vacation and can no longer get to my classroom because I have a cast on my leg and am using crutches. Is there anyone that can help me switch my classroom to a building that is closer to my office? As a first step, you will want to check with other professors in your department and see if anyone is willing to swap classrooms with you. If you cannot find someone who will swap classrooms, then you will need to talk with the course scheduler for your department. Your course scheduler can work with the Registrar’s Office to see if a change can be made. I have difficulty getting from my car to my office. Is there anyone that can help me find parking that is closer to my building? If your condition is affecting your ability to walk certain distances, you have the option to apply for a state of Texas accessible parking placard. A red (temporary) or blue (permanent) state issued placard, in combination with a D permit issued by the University, will allow you to park in the accessible spaces on campus as well as all of the parking garages. If you are issued an accessible placard through the Texas DMV, then you can immediately apply for a University D permit as there is no waitlist for that particular permit. For more information about the state placard, please visit the website for the Texas Department of Motor Vehicles. For more information about the D permit and ADA Parking Spaces on Campus, visit the Parking and Transportation Services website. I have a student in my class who has a disability. What laws cover a student with a disability at the post-secondary level? Section 504 and Title II of the ADA protect students with disabilities. According to these laws, “no otherwise qualified person with a disability in the United States shall, solely by reason of disability, be denied the benefits of, be excluded from participation in, or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving federal financial assistance.” “Otherwise qualified,” with respect to post-secondary education, means a person who meets the academic and technical standards requisite to admission. The University of Texas at Austin does not have any special admission provisions for students with disabilities. Students with disabilities must meet all standard requirements. How do students become eligible for accommodations? To become eligible, a student must have a documented disability and inform the University they are requesting accommodations based on that disability. The student must: Contact Services for Students with Disabilities (SSD), Provide SSD with documentation of the disability from an appropriate qualified professional, and Consult with SSD to determine appropriate accommodations. Can I review the student’s documentation of the disability? No. Services for Students with Disabilities (SSD) is the office designated to receive and interpret documentation of the disability. SSD staff members certify eligibility for services and determine accommodations. Disability information is confidential and students are not required to disclose this information to instructors. I just received an accommodation letter from a student. What should I do? Students are encouraged to meet with faculty members individually to discuss the recommended accommodations. The purpose of this meeting is to work out details related to the provision of accommodations by discussing how they should be implemented (e.g., for extended test taking time- when the student should take the exam, etc.). Faculty can contact the student’s Disabilities Services Coordinator, listed on the Accommodation Letter, to discuss concerns or ask questions. I am concerned the requested accommodation changes the nature of my course. What do I do? Contact the student’s Disabilities Services Coordinator, listed on the Accommodation Letter, to discuss your concerns. Do I need to change my grading standards for students with disabilities? No. The goal of accommodations in higher education is to provide students with disabilities with equal access and opportunity. In general, students with disabilities should be held to the same requirements as other students, although accommodations may alter how these requirements are met (e.g., provide more time to complete a test). If you have any questions about a specific situation, please contact the student’s Disabilities Services Coordinator, listed on the Accommodation Letter, to discuss your concerns. What if a student with a disability is failing? Treat the student as you would any student who is not performing well in your class. Invite the student to your office to discuss reasons for the failing performance and what resources the student may use to improve. Encourage the student to see their Disabilities Services Coordinator to discuss some additional strategies to improve his/her grades. Professors can contact the student’s Disabilities Services Coordinator, listed on the Accommodation Letter, to discuss their concerns. What if a student with a disability is often absent? Contact the student’s Disabilities Services Coordinator, listed on the Accommodation Letter, to discuss your concerns. What is a note-taker? A note-taker is usually another student in class or the Teaching Assistant who agrees to provide copies of lecture notes taken during class. Some students with disabilities may require a note taker as a reasonable accommodation. Do I need to alter my teaching style with a sign-language interpreter present? No. Interpreters are professionals who facilitate communication between hearing individuals and people who are deaf or hard of hearing. The role of the interpreter is similar to that of a foreign language translator: to bridge the communication gap between two parties. Who can help me caption the video content I use in class? Captioning and Transcription Services works with students, faculty, and staff to ensure campus media is accessible to everyone. Online courses also need to be accessible for individuals with disabilities. Central funding has been provided for strict compliance, which is the captioning of all video (including faculty lectures) when there is a student who is deaf or hard of hearing in the classroom. There has also been agreement that online courses with static information that is unchanged for two to three years will be captioned as they are being developed. Individual colleges and schools are responsible for this cost. Colleges and schools are also responsible for providing captioning for videos on their websites as well as any function that is public facing and has a major impact on the larger community. Contact: Daniel Jacobs, Captioning Service Coordinator Phone: (512) 495-4416 Email: Daniel.Jacobs@austin.utexas.edu Do professors have to provide retroactive accommodations? No. Accommodations are not applied retroactively. Students who choose not to apply for accommodations when they arrive at the University should know there is no opportunity to retake exams or courses if they are unsatisfied with their grades without accommodations. Please contact Services for Students with Disabilities if you have a situation you would like to discuss. Can I ask a student who is having obvious difficulties whether they have a disability or refer the student to Services for Students with Disabilities? Services for Students with Disabilities (SSD) discourages professors from asking directly about the possibility of a disability as it could be considered intrusive or insensitive. However, you can tell the student that you notice they are having a difficult time keeping up with or mastering the course material and encourage them to talk with you about gaining assistance. You can guide the student to the Writing Center, the Counseling Center, or other resources that you would provide to any student. If the student shares with you they have a history of a disability or suspects they have a disability, it would then be appropriate to tell the student about SSD. My department just hired a student worker. The student let me know they are registered with Services for Students with Disabilities and needs workplace accommodations. Who can help? Services for Students with Disabilities works with students to identify accommodations related to their coursework. If a student is employed with the University, they will need to work with the University’s ADA Coordinators to identify reasonable accommodations in the workplace. Student workers should send an email to the ADA Coordinators to start the process: ada@austin.utexas.edu. For additional FAQ’s, including parents of currents students, please visit the Services for Students with Disabilities web page. Back to Top I am a staff member. What laws cover a staff member with a disability who needs workplace accommodations? Title I of the ADA covers the employment provisions, which are enforced by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. The provisions apply to private employers as well as state and local governments. The University of Texas at Austin, being a state university, is expected to comply with Title I. The University is required by law to provide reasonable accommodations to qualified employees with disabilities. The University’s ADA Coordinators are charged with coordinating the University’s compliance with the employment provisions of the ADA. University employees with a qualifying condition are evaluated for workplace accommodations under Title I of the ADA. Send an email to the ADA Coordinators to start the process: ada@austin.utexas.edu. I may need to take a period of leave from work. Who can help? To learn about leave options that are available to you, visit the Time Off & Leave site hosted by Human Resources. You can also contact Leave Management via email at HRS-LM@austin.utexas.edu or by phone at 512-475-8099. I have difficulty getting from my car to my office. Is there anyone that can help me find parking that is closer to my building? If your condition is affecting your ability to walk certain distances, you have the option to apply for a state of Texas accessible parking placard. A red (temporary) or blue (permanent) state issued placard, in combination with a D permit issued by the University, will allow you to park in the accessible spaces on campus as well as all of the parking garages. If you are issued an accessible placard through the Texas DMV, then you can immediately apply for a University D permit as there is no waitlist for that particular permit. For more information about the state placard, please visit the website for the Texas Department of Motor Vehicles. For more information about the D permit and ADA Parking Spaces on Campus, visit the Parking and Transportation Services website. I am recovering from surgery or an illness and I am ready to return to work. I may have some short-term restrictions. Who can help? Depending on the length of your restrictions following surgery or an illness, it may be something that can be captured by a Temporary Alternative Duty Assignment, which is used for employees with restrictions that last less than 90 days. When employees provide a medical note (or RTW form) with restrictions to their supervisor. The supervisor will consult with the Department HR contact to determine whether they can accommodate the temporary restrictions. If the temporary restrictions can be accommodated, you will receive a Temporary Alternative Duty Assignment letter that clearly states the start, and end date of the Department’s ability to honor the restrictions. If an employee has restrictions that are expected to last for more than 90 calendar days or are obviously complex the case will be referred to the University’s ADA Coordinators who will get the employee started on the accommodation process. For work-related injuries, please review the information on the Workers’ Compensation Insurance website hosted by Human Resources. I supervise an employee who let me know they are experiencing difficulty at work due to a medical impairment or disability. How do I broach the topic of ADA with the employee? If an employee discloses they have a disability, and they are interested in a workplace accommodation, you can refer them to the University’s ADA Coordinators who will get the employee started on the accommodation process. I supervise an employee and I suspect they have a disability that is causing them difficulty in the workplace. The employee has never said anything to me or another colleague that confirms they have a disability. Can I refer the individual to the University’s ADA coordinators? According to the EEOC, an employer may ask an employee with a known disability whether they need a reasonable accommodation when it reasonably believes the employee may need an accommodation. The same is true with an employee with a known disability who is having performance or conduct problems; you can ask whether they need reasonable accommodation. If an employee has not disclosed they have a condition that may warrant consideration for accommodation then best practices suggest focusing on performance or behavior (i.e., what is happening) rather than trying to determine the underlying cause (i.e., why it is happening). There are questions you can ask that can inform whether an ADA referral is needed or whether other University supports will help the individual in the workplace. Questions you can ask include: Is there anything you need to be able to keep doing your job? How can we support you in improving your job performance? How can we help you become more effective in your job? Is there anything preventing you from performing your job? Can an employee with a disability be fired? Yes, if the termination is based upon their job performance. Reasonable accommodations must be provided by the employer, absent undue hardship, which will enable an employee the opportunity to perform the essential job functions. After that, it becomes purely a matter of whether or not the person with the disability is doing the job and performing at the level expected by the employer. Does an accommodation automatically follow an employee if they get a promotion or move to a different department? No, not always. In some cases, we will need to reevaluate their accommodation as the essential functions of their position have likely changed. Does an employer have to change a person’s supervisor as a form of reasonable accommodation? No. An employer does not have to provide an employee with a new supervisor as a reasonable accommodation. Although an employer is not required to change supervisors, the ADA may require supervisory methods be altered as a form of reasonable accommodation. Also, an employee with a disability is protected from disability-based discrimination by a supervisor, including disability-based harassment. Example: A supervisor frequently schedules team meetings on a day’s notice often notifying staff in the afternoon that a meeting will be held on the following morning. An employee with a disability has missed several meetings because they have conflicted with previously scheduled physical therapy sessions. The employee asks their supervisor to give them two to three days’ notice of team meetings so that, if necessary, they can reschedule the physical therapy sessions. Assuming no undue hardship would result, the supervisor must make this reasonable accommodation. Must an employer withhold discipline or termination of an employee who, because of a disability, violated a conduct rule that is job-related for the position in question and consistent with business necessity? No. An employer never has to excuse a violation of a uniformly applied conduct rule that is job-related and consistent with business necessity. Example: An employer never has to tolerate or excuse violence, threats of violence, stealing, or destruction of property. An employer may discipline an employee with a disability for engaging in such misconduct if it would impose the same discipline on an employee without a disability Back to Top I am a visitor. I would like to request alternative format materials (e.g., braille, large print, digital) for a University event. How do I make the request? Please contact the sponsor of the event you are attending to initiate your request. I will be visiting The University of Texas at Austin and one of my family members would like to borrow a wheelchair. What are the options? The University is unable to provide wheelchairs for individual use. Those requiring wheelchairs or other medical equipment for the duration of their time here in Austin should plan to make their own accommodations for the equipment prior to arriving on campus. Families interested in renting wheelchairs are encouraged to contact a local provider. I would like to request a sign-language interpreter or CART services for a University event. How do I make the request? Members of the general public who would like to request an interpreter for a University-sponsored event should contact the department sponsoring the event to request the interpreter. To secure services, your request should be submitted as far in advance as possible, but at least three business days in advance of the requested date of service. Last minute requests cannot be guaranteed, though attempts will always be made to secure interpreting/captioning services. I am going to a football game at DKR-Texas Memorial Stadium. I have questions about the accessibility of the stadium. Who can help? If you need assistance before, during or after a game at DKR-Texas Memorial Stadium, contact Fan Services at 512-471-7323 or FanServices@athletics.utexas.edu for more information. For more information, please visit the Fan Services page. I am going to a performance at Bass Concert Hall. I have questions about the accessibility of the venue. Who can help? If you need assistance, contact Guest Services at 512-471-8207. Accessible seating is available at all Texas Performing Arts venues. If you require wheelchair accessibility or have other special seating concerns, please notify the Ticket Office at the time of your ticket purchase. I have Disabled Veteran (DV) plates on my vehicle. Where can I park on campus? Visitors displaying a specialty veteran plate (Disabled Veteran, Medal of Honor, Former Prisoner of War, Pearl Harbor Survivor and Purple Heart) may park in a University parking garage at no charge, but will need to have their entry ticket validated or contact a staffed PTS office using the intercom at one of the exits. Does the University have a map that shows the accessible entrances to buildings on campus? Yes. The Campus Accessibility Map is offered as a resource to provide information regarding accessible building access; however, due to the constantly changing nature of the University campus, the accuracy of the information provided by the map cannot be guaranteed. The map is frequently updated with new content, so if you find an area that is incorrectly labeled please provide that information via the University’s Report a Barrier feature. Back to Top © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Emergency Information | Site Policies | Web Accessibility Policy | Web Privacy Policy Disability Resources Home Accessible Map Captioning Services Contact ADA Coordinators Employee Workplace Accommodations File a Disability Grievance Frequently Asked Questions Interpreting and CART Services Job Applicants with Disabilities Parking at the University Report a Barrier on Campus Services for Students with Disabilities Web Accessibility ×