Skip to main content < Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information and Resources University of Pennsylvania Toggle Navigation Toggle Search Accessibility Menu Jump to… Main Content Search Main Navigation Utility Navigation Main menu Diversity at Penn More Diversity at Penn Penn Compact 2022 Policies Reports Forms Facts and Figures Timeline Stories Programs More Programs Academic Programs Diversity Offices, Initiatives and Student Organizations Administrative and Co-Curricular Resources More Resources Affiliated With Resource Centers Religious Organizations Arts Organizations Student Government Consultation Councils Student Affairs School Affiliated Organization News & Events More News & Events Videos Diversity News Events Utility Navigation Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices & Services Webmail Back to Accessibility Menu Search Search Programs Supporting Inclusion Penn’s commitment to diversity is exemplified in our diverse and talented staff. Their innovation—individually and collectively—supports and advances Penn’s mission. The University benefits greatly from the different perspectives our staff bring to their work. --Craig Carnaroli, Senior Executive Vice President Individuals from different backgrounds, with diverse life experiences and different perspectives, create a richer academic environment. A more diverse faculty, workforce, and student body helps to bring innovative approaches to problems and new ways of thinking. As such, an emphasis on diversity is not just ‘the right thing to do’ but it is important for our success in academic medicine. We should embrace our diversity as a strength. --J. Larry Jameson, Executive Vice President Penn Health System, Dean Academic Programs Administrative Offices and Co-Curricular Resources Student Organizations Featured Diversity Centers and Initiatives at Penn Gender, Sexuality and Women's Studies Program The Gender, Sexuality and Women's Studies Program is an interdisciplinary program that provides exciting intellectual opportunities to explore the role of gender in human affairs. Go to the Program's website Latin American and Latino Studies Program The Latin American and Latino Studies (LALS) Program offers an interdisciplinary major and minor to study the history, arts, languages, cultures, societies, politics, and/or regional organizations of Latin American and Caribbean countries as well as Latino communities and individuals in the United States. Go to the Program's website Supplier Diversity & Inclusion Fueling Business Growth is tied to a multi-faceted action plan aimed at strengthening relationships, and expanding access to resources, with local, diverse and minority-owned businesses. Go to the Program's website University of Pennsylvania ©2022 University of Pennsylvania Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement