Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Diversity & Inclusion Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home About Us Staff EDI President’s Council Strategic Plan Resources Anti-Racism Resources Resources for Students Resources for Faculty & Staff Tallahassee Community Resources Monthly Observances and Celebrations Diversity in Athletics Supplier Diversity Program Seminole Tribe of Florida Report a Situation Get Involved Affinity Groups Mini-Grant Program Programs & Organizations D&I Internship D&I Student Ambassadors Campus & Community Events Coffee Chats Lunch and Learns Training Learning Opportunities D&I Certificate National Coalition Building Institute Allies and Safe Zones Request a Training Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Dashboard News Calendar Make a Suggestion Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Diversity & Inclusion Toggle navigation Home About Us Staff EDI President’s Council Strategic Plan Resources Anti-Racism Resources Resources for Students Resources for Faculty & Staff Tallahassee Community Resources Monthly Observances and Celebrations Diversity in Athletics Supplier Diversity Program Seminole Tribe of Florida Report a Situation Get Involved Affinity Groups Mini-Grant Program Programs & Organizations D&I Internship D&I Student Ambassadors Campus & Community Events Coffee Chats Lunch and Learns Training Learning Opportunities D&I Certificate National Coalition Building Institute Allies and Safe Zones Request a Training Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Dashboard News Calendar Make a Suggestion Home 2022 Campus & Community Events Home About Us Resources Get Involved Training Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Dashboard News Calendar Make a Suggestion Affinity Groups Mini-Grant Program Programs & Organizations D&I Internship D&I Student Ambassadors Campus & Community Events Coffee Chats Lunch and Learns D&I in the Community D&I In the News Asian Pacific American Heritage Month 2022 Dr. Maxine Montgomery named 2022-2023 Robert O. Lawton Distinguished Professor Quicklinks Make a Report Strategic Plan Anti-Racism Resources 2022 Campus & Community Events Are you interested in attending a dialogue, performance, workshop, or other event that advances equity, diversity, and/or inclusion in our community? See the list below about campus and community events occurring during the Spring 2022 semester. Some events are held in person, while others will take place in a virtual or hybrid format - click the associated link for each event to find out specific details. This list will be updated throughout the semester to include upcoming events as our office becomes aware of them. If you would like to recommend an event to be added to this list, please contact us with any event details, graphics/flyers, and a link with more information. These materials can be sent via email to diversity@fsu.edu. Spring Events February Wednesday, 2/9: Pride Alumni Network Webinar Dr. Charles Upchurch, Associate Professor of History will present on the history of LGBTQ+ initiatives at Florida State. Multiple Days, 2/9 - 2/11: "A Town Divided" Performance at TCC "A Town Divided" is Southern Shakespeare Company's original adaptation of Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet, set in Tallahassee, FL. The play was developed as a way to examine the racial and geographical boundaries of our city. Thursday, 2/10: Civil Rights and the First African-American Superstar Athlete The Tallahassee Historical Society presents a talk by Dr. Katherine Mooney in a hybrid format at Leroy Collins Library. Multiple Days, 2/10 - 2/11: South Asian Media and Cultural Studies Conference This year's conference focuses on the current research coming from the South Asian region in the fields of media and cultural studies. Students and faculty are welcome to attend. Tuesday, 2/15: Carothers Lunch and Learn As a part of the Milton S. Carothers faculty lecture series, Dr. Lakeisha Johnson, Assistant Professor of Communication Science and Disorders will share her expertise on "Literacy and Justice for All: Cultural Considerations for Diverse Readers" at Strozier Library. Wednesday, 2/16: Lunch and Learn with the Globe (EDI Office Event) The EDI Office will chat with FSU Center for Global Engagement (CGE) directors in Certificates & Training, Dr. Elcin Haskollar and Dr. Tanu Kohli about CGE offerings and programs. Tuesday, 2/22: Dr. E Patrick Johnson to Speak at FSU and FAMU Dr. Johnson, an accomplished scholar/artist, will read from his newest book Honeypot: Black Southern Women Who Love Women as well as Black. Queer. Southern. Women -- An Oral History. Friday, 2/25: Native American and Indigenous Studies at FSU: Moving Forward The Native American and Indigenous Studies (NAIS) Planning Committee warmly invites you to a discussion about the future of NAIS. The discussion will focus on what a NAIS Center would look like, what it would cover, and what you consider essential to such a center's mission. Friday, 2/25: "Invisible History" Movie Showing at Cascades Park The city of Tallahassee will show "Invisible History - Middle Florida's Hidden Roots" at Cascades Park. "Invisible History" is an Emmy-winning, locally produced documentary that explores the history of plantations and the enslaved in North Florida. March Month-long: Feminine Hygiene Drive for Oasis Center for Women and Girls Join the FSU Student Association of Social Workers to support women in our region by donating necessary items. Multiple Days, 2/25 - 4/2: 13th Middle East Film Festival Hosted by FSU's Department of Modern Languages and Linguistics and the FSU Middle East Center, the annual Middle East Film Festival showcases films that provide insight into international cinema and share perspectives rarely seen in mainstream media. Multiple Days, 3/1 & 3/4: AIG Retirement Services - Retirement Strategies for Women Learn how to overcome financial hurdles specific to women in planning and investing for the future. Wednesday, 3/2: FSU Chinese Program Guest Lecture - 'Defying Gender Norms' The FSU Department of Modern Languages and Linguistics presents a guest lecture by Xiaorong Li. Li will present "Defying Gender Norms: Female to Male Cross-Dressing in Ming-Qing China" Friday, 3/4: Coffee Chat with Women Wednesdays (EDI Office Event) The EDI Office will have a cup of conversation with Barbara Wescott of Women Wednesdays. Friday, 3/4: Global Cafe - Bangladesh Enjoy a culturally enriching lunch hour at the Center for Global Engagement eating authentic food, listening to music, and meeting students from the Bangladeshi Student Association at FSU. Friday, 3/4: Mini International Bazaar Learn more about the culture of several featured FSU multicultural organizations who will be sharing typical snacks and desserts. Tuesday, 3/8: 9th Annual Women in Leadership Conference Join the College of Communication and Information for an in-person conference involving numerous workshops and panel discussions. Tuesday, 3/8: Percival Everett Reads at The Bark An FSU English Department event, The Jerome Stern Reading Series presents award-winning novelist and story writer, Percival Everett. Multiple Days, 3/16 - 3/18: SCHA 2022 Together We Thrive Conference Hosted by FSU and FAMU, Together We Thrive SCHA 2022 will provide a space for college health professionals to come together to engage and learn ways in which we can thrive together. Tuesday, 3/22: Diverse Voices in STEM with Antje Muntendam FSU Libraries will chat with Dr. Muntendam about her work, research, and background. Wednesday, 3/23: Lunch and Learn about Professional Development Opportunities (EDI Office Event) The EDI Office will chat with directors of FSU's Institute for Family Violence Studies and Center for the Study and Promotion of Communities, Families, and Children about professional development opportunities available to FSU faculty and staff. Multiple Days, 3/24 - 3/25: Toni Morrison Symposium Join the FSU English department at a free symposium entitled 'Preserving African-American Literary Culture: Toni Morrison and Twenty-first Century Intellectual History', featuring Provost Jim Clark and two prominent speakers. Friday, 3/25: Don't Let Hunger Grow Event on Landis Green The food for Thought Pantry, Presidential Scholars, the Hillel and Challah for Hunger is hosting a Food Access Fair including donation collection, free produce and bread for FSU students, and an opportunity to learn about food insecurity from Sustainable Campus and other partners. Friday, 3/25: Preparing for the last (?) phase of your career Faculty are invited to join Faculty Fellows in a discussion in which Fellows will exchange ideas and strategies on how to transition to retirement. Wednesday, 3/30: 'Americanish' Screening with Director Iman Zawahry Join award-winning director Iman Zawahry, Panama City native and FSU Film alumna, for a screening of "Americanish" followed by a Q&A in the St. Joe Community Foundation Lecture Hall at the Holley Academic Center at FSU PC. Wednesday, 3/30: There is Something About GESI - Deconstructing the Gender Equity & Social Inclusion Framework with Dr. Ramos-Mottoussi Presented by the FSU Center for Global Engagement Engage Your World Speaker Series & Learning Systems Institute Thursday, 3/31: 2022 James P. Jones Distinguished Lecture in American History Historian and author Pamela Grundy will present "Strong and Fearless: The WNBA and the Fight for Racial Justice," which explores how American athletes have once again begun to take stands for racial justice and how female basketball players have led the way. Thursday, 3/31: Reading by American author Claudia Rankine Reading by New York Times bestselling poet and MacArthur "Genius" award recipient, Claudia Rankine. Event flyer Thursday, 3/31: Diversity in Leadership Panel Discussion Join the College of Business to hear executives from top companies discuss key DEI issues and what their businesses are doing to help ensure a diverse and inclusive workplace. Event open to all FSU students. Thursday, 3/31: Native American and Indigenous Studies (NAIS) at FSU Public Meeting This second spring semester public meeting is intended to listen to ideas and suggestions to help shape the future of a NAIS center. Thursday, 3/31: COACHE Mentoring Report Town Meeting Vice President Janet Kistner and the Faculty Fellows in the Office of Faculty Development and Advancement invite you to read the report on Mentoring an bring responses, questions, experiences, and hopes to the Town Meeting. April Multiple Days, 2/25 - 4/2: 13th Middle East Film Festival Hosted by FSU's Department of Modern Languages and Linguistics and the FSU Middle East Center, the annual Middle East Film Festival showcases films that provide insight into international cinema and share perspectives rarely seen in mainstream media. Multiple Days, 4/1 - 4/2: Springtime Tallahassee A top festival taking place in downtown Tallahassee, featuring music and other entertainment stages, a parade, a children's park, as well as arts, crafts, and food vendors. Multiple Days and Events, 4/1 - 4/30: Autism Acceptance Month Events - Leon County Public Library In-person exhibit at the Leon County Main Library and at the Railroad Square shops: Able Artists Gallery and Obsessions Gift Shop. Virtual exhibit online. Friday, 4/1: Coffee Chat with Islamic Center of Tallahassee (EDI Office Event) The EDI Office will have a cup of conversation with Shaikh Abid Wahab of the Islamic Center of Tallahassee. Friday, 4/1: International Coffee Hour with the Arab Student Union Join the Center for Global Engagement for refreshments and interaction with students, scholars, and faculty from around the world. Sunday, 4/3: Seminole Suit Up JCPenny will open just for FSU students, who will receive 30% off career dress apparel, accessories, and shoes. A valid student ID is required. Multiple Days, 4/4 - 4/7: Amazonia Week 2022 FSU's College of Arts and Sciences and the Department of Modern Languages and Linguistics will welcome experts from Latin America for an interdisciplinary exploration of critical issues affecting the future of the Amazon and its people. Tuesdays, 4/5 - 4/26: Food Recoveries with the Food Recovery Network The Food Recovery Network is on call if a campus or community partner is anticipating excess perishables at one of their events. The Network will pick up the items and distribute it to those who need them. Tuesday, 4/5: Diverse Voices in STEM with Monica Abou Harb FSU Libraries will chat with Monica Abou Harb about her work, research, and background. Wednesday, 4/6: TedxFSU 2022 - Sync The annual conference will feature talks from seven members of the FSU community to spark deep discussion and connection. This year's speakers hail from backgrounds including art, robotics, advocacy, and medicine. Thursday, 4/7: "Gender Violence and Authoritarianism in the Middle East: Transnational Feminist Perspectives" Dr. Nadje Al-Ali presents this lecture as a part of the Jeanette B. Chapman Endowed Lecture Series for Middle Eastern Studies. Friday, 4/8: Florida Substance Use Disorder Symposium - Health Equity and Social Justice Join the FSU College of Social Work and partners for a symposium bringing together experts in the areas of social justice and health equity. Tuesday, April 12: Understanding the War in Ukraine - A Roundtable with FSU Faculty The Office of the Provost, College of Communication and Information, and Center for Global Engagement's Engage Your World Speaker Series present an in-person, live streamed roundtable on the war in Ukraine. Wednesday, 4/13: Lunch and Learn with the FSU Autism Institute (EDI Office Event) The EDI Office will chat with directors of the FSU Autism Institute and FSU Center for Autism and Related Disabilities (CARD) about their programs and offerings as the EDI Office recognizes Autism Appreciation Month. Thursday, 4/14: Southside Farmer's Market Focused on serving the Greater Bond community, the Southside Farmer's Market provides easy access to fresh fruits, vegetables, eggs and seafood from local farmers, as well as free health and wellness screenings. Multiple Days, 4/15-4/16: Community and Students Passover Seder Chabad of Tallahassee and FSU will host a first and second seder for students and the community to begin the celebration of Passover. Wednesday, 4/20: FSU Lavender Graduation The Office of Representation, Inclusion & Student Equity is excited to announce FSU's inaugural Lavender Graduation, a ceremony specifically to celebrate the accomplishments and identities of our graduating LGBTQ+ students. Wednesday, 4/20: Tiffany Haddish - Black Mitzvah Watch Tiffany Haddish in her Grammy-winning comedy show where she discusses discovering her Jewish background and coming into motherhood. Multiple Days, 4/22 - 7/17: Treasures from the Kinsey African American Art & History Collection This exhibit, organized by the Bernard & Shirley Kinsey Foundation for Arts & Education and KBK Enterprises, Inc. will be open at the Holley Academic Center on FSU Panama City Campus in Panama City, FL. Saturday, 4/23: Earth Day Festival at The Hole Tallahassee's Earth Day Festival is free and will be an exciting day of colorful and educational exhibits and activities at The Hole on South Adams. Multiple Days, 4/23 - 4/24: Chain of Parks Art Festival A top-ranked and fun-filled outdoor cultural experience in downtown Tallahassee - featuring original, one-of-a-kind works of art; a wide variety of live entertainment; a host of local food trucks and vendors; and more. Multiple Days, 4/25 & 4/27: Global Citizenship Certificate Info Sessions The Global Citizenship Certificate prepares undergraduate students for the new challenges of living and working in an increasingly globalized world through a combination of academic courses and intercultural experiences. Monday, 4/28: V-rak-ke-ce-tv Cultural Graduation The Office of Representation, Inclusion & Student Equity, in partnership with several campus offices and organizations, is proud to honor spring and summer Class of 2022 graduates with a cultural graduation ceremony, centered on the culture of the Seminole Tribe of Florida. Summer Events May Multiple Days, 4/22-7/17: Treasures from the Kinsey African American Art & History Collection Treasures from The Kinsey African American Art & History Collection, organized by The Bernard & Shirley Kinsey Foundation for Arts & Education and KBK Enterprises, Inc., will be open at the Holley Academic Center-Panama City Campus. Friday, 5/13: Women’s Comedy Night at All Saints The Humortals is partnering with Planned Parenthood, and TCAC put on an all-women lineup of local comedy to benefit the Florida Access Network. Multiple Days, 5/13-5/22: Wait Until Dark It is a masterfully constructed thriller that moves from one moment of suspense to another as it builds toward an electrifying, breath-stopping final scene. Multiple Days, 5/13-5/29: Lady Day at Emerson's Bar and Grill Lady Day at Emerson's Bar & Grill recounts Billie Holiday's life story through the songs that made her famous. More than a dozen musical numbers are interlaced with salty, often humorous, reminiscences to project a riveting portrait of the lady and her music. Multiple Days, 5/14-5/22: Soul of the Southside Arts and Humanities Festival The Soul of Southside Arts and Humanities Festival aims to celebrate the rich and diverse history that exists within Tallahassee's Southside. Tuesday, 5/17: Mental Health and The Military Webinar A webinar presented by the Florida State University Black Alumni Association featuring six panelists who will discuss the importance of prioritizing mental health while providing a deeper insight into the complex traumas and challenges that service members face. Multiple Days, 5/19-5/28: Special exhibit on the Philippines Campaign Camp Gordon Johnston WWII Museum in Carrabelle is presenting a special exhibit on the Philippines campaign. This exhibit will chronicle the major battles and participants of the Philippines campaign, from the loss to the Japanese in 1942 to the final mopping up of residual forces in 1945. Friday, 5/20: Florida Emancipation Day, The Grove Museum (EDI Office Event) The EDI Office will have a cup of conversation with Amanda Hamon of the Grove Museum. Friday, 5/20: Emancipation Day Celebration Celebration and reenactment of Union General McCook’s reading of the Emancipation Proclamation from the steps of the Knott House on May 20, 1865 – freeing all enslaved people in Florida. Saturday, 5/21: Sista 2 Sista Women Empowering Women Our first Sista 2 Sista: Redeeming Faith Ministries Women Empowering Women Workshop will be held on May 21, 2022. We are excited and are praying that God will grant us an annual gathering of Sista 2 Sista. Each year we will bring new topics and entrepreneurs to encourage and empower our Sistas in various aspects of life. We are excited about the impact this gathering will have on the greater Tallahassee, Florida community. Saturday, 5/21: Jam Session at Alfred B. Maclay Gardens State Park Join other music lovers for an acoustic jam session in the Recreation Area. All experience levels and instruments are welcome. Electricity may not always be available, so acoustic instruments are encouraged. Saturday, 5/21: Satur-DIY Wood Workshop Join us at AR Workshop Tallahassee for a DIY class to make ANY Wood Project! In the workshop, you will have the opportunity to customize your project with your choice of designer paints and (non-toxic!) stain colors. BYO wine or beer to sip and enjoy during the workshop. Multiple Days, 4/15-9/30: Mary Proctor: I am Just the Messenger Mary Proctor: I am Just the Messenger is a two-site project organized by the Gadsden Arts Center & Museum and in conjunction with the Tallahassee Museum that presents the artwork of Missionary Mary L. Proctor, a visionary artist who has been making art for the last 25 years Friday, 5/27: EMPLOY Career Exploration Day The event explores career options available to students pursuing career and technical education certificate programs. Friday, 5/27: Little River Band This live concert showcases Little River Band's pristine harmony vocals known worldwide and delivers nostalgic memories of their greatest hits from the 70s and 80s. Friday, 5/27: Eddie 9V This four-piece ensemble from Atlanta packs a high energy retro-soul, blues and roots show with growlin’, gritty vocals and searing guitar with bounding stage presence. A show to behold. Bring your dancin’ shoes! Bring an appetite for Ms. Ernestine’s famous fried fish and sausages. Multiple Days, 5/27-5/28: Summer Opera Performance La Hija de Rappacini La hija de Rappaccini (Rappaccini’s Daughter) is an opera by Daniel Catan in which the topic of nurture vs nature unfolds in an incredibly dramatic way and ultimately ends in tragedy. The libretto by Juan Tovar is based on the play by Octavio Paz and an 1844 short story by Nathaniel Hawthorne. Experience this stunningly melodic piece full of mystery. But beware of the plants: they pack a punch! Multiple Days, 5/27-6/3: 2022 Creativity in Oils & Acrylics Exhibitions Tallahassee Senior Center for the Arts 2022 Creativity in Oils & Acrylics Exhibition runs from April 11, 2022 through June 3, 2022 in the Tallahassee Senior Center Auditorium Multiple Days, 5/27-6/3: Terrie Corbett-Beyond the Familiar Terrie Corbett has a passion for a unique medium called encaustic – paint produced by combining pigment with hot wax. This ages-old technique, although somewhat difficult to control, is becoming more popular today. Saturday, 5/28: Tallahassee Night Live Enjoy FREE live music each month from May to November at Cascades Park. Bring your own Food and Beverages, Blankets and Chairs! Food trucks will be available. Parking is available around the park- including the public parking garage at the Cascades Development! Saturday, 5/28: Hot Tamale Live Acoustic duo Hot Tamale puts on their upbeat, family-friendly acoustic show at this great country barbecue joint. Saturday, 5/28: Artist Mixer-Panama City, FL We invite artists from all disciplines: visual art, music, and theatre, to explore our new exhibit and permanent collection, and enjoy delicious hors d’oeuvres, wine, and music. During the event, artists will be asked to share their input on The Cultural Hub of Northwest Florida’s upcoming programming and membership opportunities through a series of interactive installations. We will also outline our history, goals, and vision for impacting the arts in Northwest Florida Sunday, 5/29: Family Crafternoon-Youth and Adult Projects Bring the family and join us at AR Workshop Tallahassee for a CANVAS & PLANK WOOD DIY class! Choose to make ANY Wood or Canvas project we offer! In the workshop, you will have the opportunity to customize your project with your choice of designer paints and (non-toxic!) stain colors. Food and drinks are welcome in the workshop, including adult beverages! Get rewarded with our DIY RewARds program! Register for five workshops, then cash in your DIY RewARds towards a future workshop! Monday, 5/30: Open Farm Fun Day Enjoy visiting all our farm animals, from chickens to camels, on our 12-acre farm! Fun for all ages! Events include Cow-milking, Pony rides, Horse rides, animal feedings, and animal photo booths. June Wednesday, 6/1: Dance Theatre of Harlem Dance Theatre of Harlem is a leading dance institution of unparalleled global acclaim. The company tours nationally and internationally, presenting a powerful vision for ballet in the 21st century. Wednesday, 6/1: Mission San Luis Archaeological Site & Lab Tour Learn first-hand what archaeologists know about the 17th-century residents of Mission San Luis from excavations and many years of research. Tour the historic site and see behind the scenes (including artifacts, not on display!) in the Archaeology Lab with Senior Archaeologist, Jerry Lee. Thursday, 6/2: Virtual Statewide Job Fair This is an excellent opportunity to meet employers recruiting students and alumni for full-time and part-time professional opportunities. To speak with employers that interest you, you must register for those specific employers’ appointments. Employers have entered times that they are going to be available, and it is up to the candidates to find and sign up for appointments that they are interested in. Friday 6/3: Railroads Square First Friday Railroad Square Art District is best known for the exciting and popular First Friday festival, a 20-year ongoing attraction to the art district including entertainment, theater, visual arts, live music, food & drink, open shops & studios…and more!! Friday, 6/3: DiversityX Virtual Job Fair DiversityX virtual job fairs connect you directly with diverse and inclusion-friendly employers. Interview with 40+ companies in just 3-hours. Friday, 6/3: Heather Pierson Duo Hailing from New Hampshire’s Mount Washington Valley, Heather Pierson is a pianist, singer/songwriter, and performer whose inspiring live performances with her bassist/partner Shawn Nadeau delve into Americana, jazz, blues, and folk. Best known for her ease at the piano and her bell-tone vocals, Heather’s songs embody honesty, playfulness, and a desire to share from the heart. Friday, 6/3: International Coffee Hour Join the Center for Global Engagement every Friday classes are in session from 5-6:30 p.m. in The Globe for refreshments from a featured culture and interaction with students, scholars, and faculty from around the world. Friday, 6/3: Coffee Chat with Capital City Chamber of Commerce The EDI Office will have a cup of conversation with the Capital City Chamber of Commerce for this month’s coffee chat meeting. July Coming soon! title-inside title-centered 2 For questions or comments, please contact us at diversity@fsu.edu © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media