Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Academic Affairs & Diversity Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Initiatives Diversity Heritage Months Resources Documents About the Office LDEO Demographics NSF ADVANCE Anti-Racism and Race Talk Avoiding Implicit Bias DEIA Committee Diversity Seminar Gender & Diversity Hour Harassment Awareness JEDI Award LGBTQ Awareness Postdoctoral Seminar Diversity URGE Women in Science Work Environment Survey Black History Month LGBTQ Pride Month Search Committees Scientific Staff Postdoctoral Affairs Avoiding Implicit Bias Code of Conduct Title IX and EOAA Academic Affairs & Diversity You are here: Home About LDEO Demographics LDEO Demographics The demographics at Lamont reveal a predominantly white/Caucasian male population, which is typical of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) fields. LDEO aims at promoting a more diverse workforce, with greater representation from women and minorities. Columbia's NSF-ADVANCE program in 2005 developed institutional level initiatives promoting diversity, following which various diversity initiatives and programs were developed by the Office of Academic Affairs & Diversity (which serves as Lamont's Diversity Office) to continue and further the mission of STEM diversity at Lamont. The following figures show the demographic composition of the LDEO professional scientific staff with respect to race and gender. As can be seen from the graphs below, over the period 2005 - 2017 there has been a significant increase in gender diversity. While the increase has been across all ranks, the greatest increase has been in junior ranks, with the most striking difference at the Lamont Assistant Research Professor level, from 18% female in 2005 to 50% female in 2017. With respect to racial diversity, there has been very little change over the same time period, with little to no Underrepresented Minorities (URMs), and a few Asians in some scientific ranks. On average, the scientific staff is 87% white, with some ranks being as much as 95% white. The demographics of invited seminar speakers shows increased gender and racial diversity over time, however while it was possible to compile gender data, it was not possible to accurately compile a list with racial data. Scroll down for the gender data on invited seminar speakers. This significant increase is a result of proactive efforts to promote increased visibility of women and minorities. Note: The following tracks are mentioned in the graphs below: Lamont Research Professor (LRP, formerly known as the Doherty Scientist track); Research Scientist (RS); and Staff Associate (SA). Of these, members of the Lamont Research Professor and Research Scientist tracks are considered Professional Officers of Research, and members of the Staff Associate track are considered Staff Officers of Research. Gender: LDEO Scientists 2005-2017 Lamont Asst. Research Professor: Gender 2005-2017 Race: LRP and RS Tracks 2005-2017 LDEO Seminars Gender 2008 - 2018 Office of Academic Affairs & Diversity61 Route 9W, 218 Monell Bldg. · Palisades, NY 10964 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close