Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Academic Affairs & Diversity Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Initiatives Diversity Heritage Months Resources Documents About the Office LDEO Demographics NSF ADVANCE Anti-Racism and Race Talk Avoiding Implicit Bias DEIA Committee Diversity Seminar Gender & Diversity Hour Harassment Awareness JEDI Award LGBTQ Awareness Postdoctoral Seminar Diversity URGE Women in Science Work Environment Survey Black History Month LGBTQ Pride Month Search Committees Scientific Staff Postdoctoral Affairs Avoiding Implicit Bias Code of Conduct Title IX and EOAA Academic Affairs & Diversity You are here: Home Diversity Heritage Months Black History Month Black History Month Information and resources to celebrate Black history. COLUMBIA RESOURCES Celebrating Black Scientists Slideshow by Lamont PhD students Kailani Acosta and Arianna Vauolo-Clarke, and Lamont alumna Elise Myers, PhD. Columbia Celebrates Black History and Culture Columbia has a wealth of online resources detailing the breadth of the African American experience. Learn more about some of the great Columbians who have played key roles in our local and national history. 10 Decades, 10 Black Columbians You Should Know In the last 100+ years, Black Columbians have made an indelible mark on the world. Historic Black Activism: 8 Trailblazing Columbians to Know Columbia News looks back at Black Columbians who made history through their activism. A Walking Tour of Harlem with Schomburg Center Chief of Staff, and Columbia Grad, Kevin Matthews Delve into the rich history of Harlem with this self-guided walking tour that takes you from Columbia’s campus to the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture. What to Read for Black History Month From Reconstruction to the Civil Rights Movement, fiction to nonfiction, music to medicine, this collection of books by Columbia authors will keep you busy this February. 4 Faculty Members Weigh in on the Meaning of Black History Month Today Our country is in the midst of a reckoning with race. Columbia professors discuss how our current situation is reflected in Black History Month. Let's Talk About Antiracism with Ibram X. Kendi Columbia School of Social Work’s Courtney Cogburn spoke with the author about his book, what it means to be antiracist, and the role of universities in helping to combat racism. ADDITIONAL RESOURCES February Is Black History Month The Library of Congress, National Archives and Records Administration, National Endowment for the Humanities, National Gallery of Art, National Park Service, Smithsonian Institution and United States Holocaust Memorial Museum join in paying tribute to the generations of African Americans who struggled with adversity to achieve full citizenship in American society. Black Culture Connection Explore Black history and culture through films, stories, and voices across public media from PBS. Black History Facts Black History Month honors the contributions of African Americans to U.S. history. History.com provides Black history facts. John Lewis: Good Trouble An intimate account of legendary U.S. Representative John Lewis’ life, legacy, and more than 60 years of extraordinary activism — from the bold teenager on the front lines of the Civil Rights movement to the legislative powerhouse he was throughout his career, calling on his fellow Americans to get into “good trouble” until his passing on July 17, 2020. Office of Academic Affairs & Diversity61 Route 9W, 218 Monell Bldg. · Palisades, NY 10964 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close