Skip to Content Diversity and Inclusion Open Close primary navigation Search Search AboutExpand Collapse section Mission and Vision Statement Core Values and Guiding Principles Campus Demographics History of Inclusion Committees and Workgroups ServicesExpand Collapse section Accessibility Services Educational Training and Programming 119 Euclid Affinity Groups ResourcesExpand Collapse section Resource Center Inclusion Policies Diversity and Inclusion Commitments Land Acknowledgment Statement DACA/Undocumented Students AcademicsExpand Collapse section Degree Programs Schools and Colleges News Events Contact Search Search Home About Committees and Workgroups Committees and Workgroups Disability Access and Inclusion Council The Disability Access and Inclusion Council was charged by the Chancellor to lead the effort to dismantle structural ableism at Syracuse University. Mission Link The Disability Access and Inclusion Council (DAIC) seeks to foster a richly diverse and inclusive community of learning and opportunity. The DAIC will work in alignment with the Office of Diversity and Inclusion and with SU community stakeholders on matters of accessibility, social justice, diversity, and intersectionality, and on reducing barriers and enhancing the campus experience for all individuals with disabilities. We acknowledge that this work will highlight tension from our complicity with structural ableism, and we will collectively embrace this tension as we hold each other accountable. Vision Link In the spirit of Nothing About Us Without Us, the vision of the Disability Access and Inclusion Council is to bring disability from the periphery to the center of our community’s commitment to experiencing belonging. Values Link As people with and without disabilities and with multiple identities, the Disability Access and Inclusion Council is committed to on-going learning, not making assumptions, seeking new ideas, building partnerships, being allies with all of those who live with marginalized identities, and embracing Universal Design, as we collaboratively advance the lived experience of all with disabilities. The DAIC will facilitate the ongoing observance and practice of the Syracuse University Office of Diversity and Inclusion’s Core Values and Guiding Principles — of diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility. Purpose Link The DAIC meets monthly to discuss policy initiatives, process changes, community and resource development, current activities occurring on campus that may have a broader impact on people with disabilities, to implement the Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Accessibility (DEIA) Strategic Plan, and to develop and implement disability community service priorities. We will carry out this charge with a sense of urgency embracing and drawing upon the Syracuse University Office of Diversity and Inclusion Guiding Principles (below) to uplift the University’s disability awareness: We will enhance dialogue and actions to foster greater understanding and appreciation for the lived experiences of others. We will nurture and support a richly diverse campus community at all levels. We will advise the Vice President of Diversity & Inclusion on continuing education of students, faculty, and staff to support inclusive excellence and social justice. We will support the advancement of inclusive practices via curricular, co-curricular, and extra-curricular activities. We will create and develop new methods to improve access and retention of underrepresented students, staff, and faculty. Membership Link The Disability Access and Inclusion Council is comprised of University staff, faculty, and student leaders with and without disabilities. These members strongly advocate for disability inclusion, rights, and justice, and have key executive and leadership responsibilities in our University. These members represent strategic areas of operation. 2021-2022 Member List: Rahmin Azria Rusty Bartels Eboni Britt Colleen Cameron Cynthia Carnahan Jenny Gluck Ellen de Graffenreid Mary Pat Grzymala Huey Hsiao Gillian Kanter Kenneth Mayes Beth Myers William Myhill (Co-Chair) Terra Peckskamp Paula Possenti-Perez (Co-Chair) Beth Prieve Kira Reed Melissa Reider Katie Scanlon Nicole C Westerdahl Alexis Wilner Stacey White Joe Alfieri Dana Broadnax Kelly Campbell Martha Diede James Duah-Agyeman Pamela Gavenda Maurice Harris James McLellan Bridget O'Bernstein Joey Pagano John Rossiter Kal Srinivas Cory Wallack University Senate Committees Committee on Race, Ethnicity, Equity, and Inclusion Committee on LGBTQA Justice and Advocacy Committee on Women’s Concerns More from this Section Mission and Vision Statement Core Values and Guiding Principles Campus Demographics History of Inclusion © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy