Skip to main content Search: Go Search context Search Filters: This Site Cornell Utility Navigation Giving Leadership Report an Incident Search Cornell University Diversity and Inclusion Main Navigation Our Story Institutional Initiatives 2017-2018 Recommendations Our Historic Commitment News Events Belonging at Cornell Belonging at Cornell News Sense of Belonging Fairness Net Promoter Score Turnover Rates Proportionate Hiring Rate Survey Results Survey Results (Accessible Alternative) Innovation Grants Belonging at Cornell News Archive Our Community Anti-Racism Resources DEI Celebration Resources Student & Post Doc Faculty Resources Staff Resources LGBTQ Staff & Faculty Trans Inclusion at Cornell Trans Inclusion Recommended Practices Gender Inclusive Pronouns Alumni, Parents & Friends Our Commitments Diversity Leadership at Cornell About PADE DIB Inclusive Excellence Network Inclusive Excellence Podcast Episode Archive Inclusive Excellence Summit Inclusive Excellence Academy Upcoming Seminars List of Previous Seminars Bias Reporting at Cornell For Students For Faculty/Staff Equal Opportunity & Affirmative Action Disability Access Accessible Red Runner Transportation Workplace Accommodations Gender Equity & Title IX Restroom & Facilities Guidelines Supplier Diversity More in this section Belonging at Cornell Belonging at Cornell News Sense of Belonging Fairness Net Promoter Score Turnover Rates Proportionate Hiring Rate Survey Results Survey Results (Accessible Alternative) Innovation Grants Belonging at Cornell News Archive Home Belonging at Cornell Fairness Fairness About the metric Fairness in the workplace refers to an aspect of organizational justice with regards to both process and outcome impartiality. Some of the factors that support fair treatment in the workplace include mutual respect, strong interpersonal relationships and honest communication. Individuals who feel they’re being treated unfairly in the workplace can have low morale, reduced productivity, and poor job satisfaction. It can also result in high turnover. On the other hand, individuals who feel they are treated well by their managers and organizations are often motivated to perform at higher levels. They have a greater sense of team spirit and overall job satisfaction. Individuals who feel valued and are treated fairly at work are better engaged and more productive. Importantly, there also is a structural component to fairness. This requires an organization to work on creating equitable and transparent systems and implement processes that allow for fairness to all. Why fairness matters at Cornell University? At Cornell University, it is important for all of us to know that we’re valued, that our work matters, and that we are compensated fairly for our efforts. We also want to work in an organization and an environment where we’re confident that we will have opportunities to grow, develop, participate and be heard. We also want to be empowered to contribute in a meaningful way. When faculty and staff feel Cornell is invested in their success and that they have equitable opportunities, they’re better able to focus their energy on performance. Our institutional processes, operations and systems need to be inclusive and free from bias. We need to consistently and routinely examine our structure and processes to ensure that they are fair to all faculty and staff. Additionally, it is important to balance flexibility and understand that, on an individual level, fair treatment doesn’t necessarily mean treating individuals the same. Each individual at Cornell University is unique. They have different needs, performance levels, personalities, work styles, motivations, and goals. When you honor their differences, you will be more likely to honor each person for who they really are. Actions and initiatives Provide equal opportunity for all. Reaffirm that everyone will receive an equal opportunity for development and to be recognized. Incorporate objectivity. Use clear, objective, predetermined criteria to make work decisions such as promotions, distributing project assignments and opportunities to attend conferences. Be transparent and open. Be transparent about how decisions are made and the factors that are considered. Welcome and encourage feedback. Cultivate an environment where people are comfortable sharing feedback. Resources and Readings How Workplace Fairness Affects Employee Commitment https://sloanreview.mit.edu/article/how-workplace-fairness-affects-employee-commitment/ Organizational Fairness and Diversity Management in Public Organizations: Does Fairness Matter in Managing Diversity? https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/pdf/10.1177/0734371X13486489 Fairness In The Workplace https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbescoachescouncil/2019/06/25/fairness-in-the-workplace/#1145c5b64191 Organizational Justice and Readiness for Change: A Concomitant Examination of the Mediating Role of Perceived Organizational Support and Identification https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fpsyg.2018.01172/full Trust in Decision-Making Authorities Dictates the Form of the Interactive Relationship Between Outcome Fairness and Procedural Fairness https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/pdf/10.1177/0146167214556237 Cornell University Diversity and Inclusion Contact Report an Incident Cornell University ©2022 University Privacy Web Accessibility Assistance