Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search RSMAS Home Rosenstiel Home Admissions Home Academic Departments Home People Resources Policies and Reporting Professional and Community Resources Student Resources University Resources Events Home People Resources Events Search Home People Resources Policies and Reporting Professional and Community Resources Student Resources University Resources Events Home AAA Read the full DEIC Statement of Commitment and link to President Frenk's 15 Action Items for Racial Justice at UM Click Here > Culture of Belonging The University of Miami is committed to building an inclusive and equitable environment that attracts diverse students, staff, and faculty. Learn about the President's Roadmap. here > Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Committee (DEIC) at Rosenstiel School The Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Committee (DEIC) at the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science is charged with promoting an environment in which every member of the Rosenstiel School community is valued and with developing the appropriate programs to fulfill the commitment to caring for the diverse faculty, staff and student bodies. The committee enhances the awareness among the Rosenstiel School community on diversity, equity and inclusion issues toward eliminating biases resulting from gender, ethnicity or sexual orientation. More about what D, E, I, and C mean to us: Diversity Science works best when it draws from the broadest pool of talent and lived experiences. We consider the broad scope of diversity, including but not limited to: race, ethnicity, sexuality, gender identity, geographic origins, economic background, religion, cultural practices, family status, disability status, and veteran status. Equity Every member of our community should have access to resources and opportunities that allow them to achieve their greatest potential. Inclusion Every person should feel welcome, valued, and able to achieve their greatest potential. We believe that a culture of inclusion is the most important precursor to achieving goals of diversity and equity. University of Miami fosters a "Culture of Belonging" that every member of our community should uphold. Committee Our committee is composed of a faculty representative from each of our five departments and the Rosenstiel School library, staff representatives, and student representatives. Please contact any of our committee members with ideas or questions, email diversity-committee@rsmas.miami.edu, or fill out our comment form below. People Rosenstiel School Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Committee Members Learn More Policies and Reporting Learn about policies, find resources for reporting misconduct Learn More Student Organizations & Resources Student groups and services at UM, fellowships Learn More University Resources UM-wide initiatives and resources Learn More Professional Resources Resources from Earth, Marine, & Atmospheric Sciences Organizations Learn More Events Learn More Getting Started Full page under development. Click here for some great places to start. Contact Us Have A Question? Comment form coming soon! Email us now. Have A Question? Comment form coming soon! Email us now. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Sciences The Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Committee 4600 Rickenbacker Causeway Miami, FL 33149-1031 (305) 421-4000 (305) 421-4000 Resources Give to Rosenstiel School About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Rosenstiel School Campus Map Campus Map Parking & Transportation Shuttle Schedule Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram social-linkedin social-google-plus Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices