Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity Think and Do The Extraordinary Support the Unit About Staff Contact Giving Diversity at NC State Assessment Model Reports and Surveys Community African American Cultural Center GLBT Center Multicultural Student Affairs Women’s Center Committees Connections Interfaith Prayer and Meditation Spaces Student Employment Inclusive Excellence Cultural Competence Toolkit DEI Training Requirement The Credential Inclusive Excellence Certificate Program IDI at NC State Opportunities for Faculty and Staff Opportunities for Students Programs and Initiatives Resources Equal Opportunity Accessibility, Adjustment, Accommodation Discrimination and Harassment EEO and Hiring Practices File a Report Policies Pregnancy and Parenting Title IX Video Tutorials: How to Access EOE Services Safe at NC State Get Help File a Report Complainant Resources Respondent Resources Bias Impact Response News & Events News Toward Inclusive Practices (TIPs) Signature Events Calendar Religious and Cultural Holidays Subscribe and Archives Think and Do The Extraordinary Support the Unit About Community Inclusive Excellence Equal Opportunity Safe at NC State News & Events Full Site Navigation About Staff Contact Giving Diversity at NC State Assessment Model Reports and Surveys Community African American Cultural Center GLBT Center Multicultural Student Affairs Women’s Center Committees Connections Interfaith Prayer and Meditation Spaces Student Employment Inclusive Excellence Cultural Competence Toolkit DEI Training Requirement The Credential Inclusive Excellence Certificate Program IDI at NC State Opportunities for Faculty and Staff Opportunities for Students Programs and Initiatives Resources Advocacy Opportunities Articles Associations and Networks Books DIY/DEI Curated Resources Guidance on Support Spaces Inclusive Pedagogy and Teaching Resources Building a Trauma-Informed Practice in the Classroom and Beyond Interactive Resources and Websites Media On-Campus Resources Podcasts Speaking and Writing About Diversity Virtual Event Recordings Equal Opportunity Accessibility, Adjustment, Accommodation Discrimination and Harassment EEO and Hiring Practices File a Report Policies Pregnancy and Parenting Title IX Video Tutorials: How to Access EOE Services Safe at NC State Get Help File a Report Complainant Resources Respondent Resources Bias Impact Response News & Events News Toward Inclusive Practices (TIPs) Signature Events Calendar Religious and Cultural Holidays Subscribe and Archives Safe at NC State Providing support to the campus community and ensuring their overall safety are some of our top priorities. Integral to Our Mission At NC State, we take the health and safety of students, faculty and staff seriously. The Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity supports the university community by providing services and resources to support and guide individuals in obtaining the help they need. We are committed to eliminating discrimination and harassment, including sexual harassment, sexual violence and interpersonal violence. We comply fully with federal and state laws, UNC System and campus policies that prohibit such acts within our campus community. If you are affected, you can find resources and/or file a report on this website. Resources include medical and counseling services, academic and housing support, referrals to legal and confidential advocacy organizations, our Bias Impact Response Team and more. Get Help On the occasion that you or someone you know may need any of these services, know that they are here for you. Learn More File a Report We want to use all available resources to ensure the best possible outcome for your case, or provide as much support as possible if you decide not to file. Learn More Complainant Resources If you've experienced harm or know someone who has, there are resources available for support. Learn More Respondent Resources If you have been accused of misconduct, you may want to speak with someone who can act as your support person. Learn more Bias Impact Response Team NC State’s Bias Impact Response Team addresses the outcomes of bias-related incidents that negatively affect our campus community climate. BIRT supports affected individuals and groups, promotes education and dialogue and cultivates a campus climate that is conducive to successful student matriculation and effective faculty and staff development. If you are in crisis or have witnessed a crime, do not submit an incident report. Please call 911 immediately. For non-emergency situations, call NC State Police at (919) 515-3000. Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity Winslow Hall, Campus Box 7530 Raleigh, NC 27695-7530 Staff Directory Annual Report Contact Us Website Feedback Giving Accessibility Privacy Policies Request Faculty and Staff Training Request Student Training Campus Map © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.