Skip to main content < Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information and Resources University of Pennsylvania Toggle Navigation Toggle Search Accessibility Menu Jump to… Main Content Search Main Navigation Utility Navigation Main menu Diversity at Penn More Diversity at Penn Penn Compact 2022 Policies Reports Forms Facts and Figures Timeline Stories Programs More Programs Academic Programs Diversity Offices, Initiatives and Student Organizations Administrative and Co-Curricular Resources More Resources Affiliated With Resource Centers Religious Organizations Arts Organizations Student Government Consultation Councils Student Affairs School Affiliated Organization News & Events More News & Events Videos Diversity News Events Utility Navigation Penn Home A-Z Directory Calendar Maps Offices & Services Webmail Back to Accessibility Menu Search Search Forms REPORTING TOOL FOR NON-EMERGENCY INCIDENTS ONLY FOR EMERGENCIES, PLEASE CALL PENN POLICE: 215-573-3333 or 511 from a campus phone COUNSELING AND PSYCHOLOGICAL SERVICES: 215-898-7021 option #1 UNIVERSITY HELP LINE: 215-898-HELP (898-4357) Forms Bias Incident Reporting Form The University of Pennsylvania is an inclusive community in which we learn from the research, ideas, and experiences of other people on campus and around the world. We value open expression and the learning that comes from civil and rigorous debate. We also value and respect the dignity and worth of all members of our community. At times individuals or groups may believe they have experienced discrimination or bias or were negatively impacted by the actions of another member of the Penn community. Individuals may report their concerns about having been treated in a biased or discriminatory manner by completing a Bias Incident Reporting form. In addition, the University has resource offices available to respond to complaints and concerns, including the Office of Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Programs , the Office of Student Conduct , the Office of Staff and Labor Relations in the Division of Human Resources, and the Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty . To make a report, please go to the Bias Incident Reporting Form. Inclusive Best Practice Form Many members of the Penn community contribute to making the University a more inclusive and welcoming university. Their efforts aid Penn in realizing its vision of inclusive excellence, foster innovation, and propel us forward. Often individuals and organizations are not recognized for helping to make Penn a place is which everyone can thrive. Many of the initiatives and programs being undertaken could be replicated elsewhere at the University. Please tell us about a person, organization, or initiative that you believe contributes to Penn’s aspirations for inclusive excellence. To make a report, please go to the Inclusive Best Practice Form. University Resources Anyone who believes that they have been treated inappropriately is encouraged to use one of the University’s resources, including the confidential resources listed below, to address their concerns: African-American Resource Center (resource for students, staff or faculty) Office of the Chaplain (resource for students, staff, faculty or visitors) Counseling and Psychological Services (resource for students) Employee Assistance Program (resource for staff or faculty) Lesbian Gay Bisexual Transgender Center (resource for students, staff or faculty) Office of the Ombuds (resource for students, staff or faculty) Penn Women’s Center (resource for students, staff or faculty) Office of Sexual Violence Prevention and Education (resource for students) Special Services Department, Division of Public Safety (resource for students, staff, faculty or visitors) Student Health Service (resource for students) Individuals may report their concerns about having been treated in a biased or discriminatory manner by completing a Bias Incident Reporting form. In addition, the University has resource offices available to respond to complaints and concerns, including the Office of Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Programs , the Office of Student Conduct , the Office of Staff and Labor Relations , in the Division of Human Resources, and the Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty . University of Pennsylvania ©2022 University of Pennsylvania Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement