Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Division of Institutional Diversity Main Menu In this section About us Departments Make a gift Contact Us Home Faculty and Staff Resources Faculty and Staff Resources You're welcome at OSU How to get involved Oklahoma State University is a land-grant institution committed to excellence in diversity and inclusion. We strive to maintain a welcoming and inclusive environment that appreciates and values all members of the University community. OSU is home to many diverse organizations specifically tailored towards its faculty and staff. We are committed to generating an all inclusive atmosphere to ensure the success of everyone in our Cowboy family. OSU Faculty & Staff Resources Faculty and Staff Awards The Dr. Howard Shipp, Jr. Inclusive Excellence Staff Award and the Dr. Patricia A. Bell Inclusive Excellence Faculty Award are funded by private donors and the Office of the Vice President of Institutional Diversity. Members of the OSU community, including students, staff, and faculty are encouraged to nominate meritorious candidates. The recipient receives a plaque, a one-time award, and is recognized by the university. To Apply Staff Award Faculty Award Diversity-related faculty and staff organizations Black Faculty and Staff Association Black Faculty and Staff Association (BFSA) serves as a resource for African-American faculty, staff, and students at Oklahoma State University through the promotion of professional development, mentoring, networking, wellness, scholarships and programs that emphasize the legacy and traditions of the African-American community. Native American Faculty and Staff Association The OSU Native American Faculty and Staff Association (NAFSA) gives OSU Native Americans a voice in the university community by advising the OSU administration on issues affecting Native Americans. Veterans Faculty and Staff The Veterans Faculty and Staff Association’s mission is to promote positive interaction among Veteran faculty, staff, students, and University leadership. We meet on the third Tuesday of every month at 3:30pm. Women's Faculty Council The Women's Faculty Council (WFC) works to improve the status of women at OSU by being advocates for women through educational programming, award funding, research, and career support. Fellowship of Christian Faculty and Staff Our mission is to encourage faculty, staff, and students to explore the relevance of Jesus Christ to the academy and to extend His love and grace to those within it. Asian Faculty and Staff The objectives of AAFSA are to promote fellowship, engage in social and cultural activities deemed appropriate, liaise with other cultural/civic/ethnic/ international organizations, serve as liaison between OSU faulty and staff or Asian origin, as well as between the Stillwater and broader Oklahoma community. Employee Queers & Allies League Our mission is to establish through our presence and visibility, a safe, supportive and equitable environment for all lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, allied, and other inclusive (LGBTQA+) employees and students of OSU. Hispanic/Latino Faculty & Staff Association (HLFSA) HFSA hopes to enlighten and inform students, faculty, and staff to the variety which one can find in Hispanic culture, and its contributions to our society. Curriculum Programs Gender/Women’s Studies We are a vibrant academic program offering a minor for undergraduates, support for curricular development and research by faculty, and opportunities to collaborate with community and campus partners who are intrigued by how gender shapes the world. Africana Studies The goal of the Center is to serve as a primary scholarly resource for OSU students, faculty, and staff who are seeking to gain knowledge and information related to Africa and its Diaspora. Home Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©