Skip to main content Yale University Yale Divinity Search Main Menu NavigationClick to open or close menu Alumni Faculty Resources Current Students Prospective Students Search form Search Yale Divinity School Giving Events News & Media Continuing Education Offices About YDS Bicentennial Mission, History, & Iconography Dean's Office Inclusivity Partners on the Quad Staff Directory Strategic Plan Sustainability Virtual Backgrounds YDS Bulletin & Policies Admissions & Aid Application Instructions and Requirements Fall Open House for Prospective Students Office of Admissions Degree Programs and Certificates Non-Degree Programs Tuition and Financial Aid Visit and Connect Request Information International Applicants Accreditation and Educational Effectiveness YDS Bulletin & Policies Academics Apply Now Academic Calendar Organization of the Curriculum Courses Degree Requirements Vocation and Leadership Exam Schedule Degree Programs & Certificates Libraries, Collections, and Other University Sources YDS Bulletin Life at YDS Worship, Spiritual Life, and Ministry Student Groups and Activities YDS, Yale, and New Haven International Students Accessibility Refectory at YDS University Student Resources Faculty & Research YDS Faculty Faculty Resources Lectureships Open Faculty Positions Programs and Initiatives Home Page 1 Reflections magazine Called into the Unknown: Church and Pandemic The new issue of Reflections explores community-building in exhausting times and peers into the future to see new possibilities for life and faith. Read the Spring 2022 issue of Reflections. Upcoming Events Jun 6 Summer Study at Yale Divinity School Aug 30 Opening Convocation Fall 2022 All Events News Twitter Alum leads a quilting ministry to remember George Floyd’s last words May 25, 2022 Commencement 2022: A call to stand as moral compasses May 23, 2022 Meet these graduates: Commencement 2022 May 22, 2022 'Reflections' takes top honors at Associated Church Press awards May 18, 2022 Sharing the untold story of an overlooked pioneer in bioethics May 18, 2022 All News @YaleDivSchool Follow Yale Divinity School @YaleDivSchool 3h "For all our talk of what has changed, it may be more accurate to say that the #pandemic did not alter, but rather… https://t.co/ajvNBSYc9x Yale Divinity School @YaleDivSchool 3h RT @YMI_Yale: June is known as LGBTQ+ #pride month. We have a vast amount of resources on this topic. We suggest you start by tra… https://t.co/LBMTP4mvRM Yale Divinity School @YaleDivSchool 5h It's #PrideMonth2022! Learn what @Yale is doing throughout June to honor LGBTQ+ communities.… https://t.co/Oz4IMeAJJ6 Serving 21st-Century Church and World Providing knowledge, insight, and inspiration in a critical time of upheaval and challenge. An Ecumenical Community Inclusively Christian, open to all denominations and perspectives A World-Class Research University Access to all of Yale’s academic and cultural resources PARTNERS ON THE QUAD Berkeley Divinity School, the Institute of Sacred Music, and Andover Newton Seminary are important collaborators with YDS, sharing space, faculty, students, and commitment to our shared mission of service to church and world. EXPLORE THE QUAD For church & world 'Critical Christian Leadership' Sarah Drummond, Dean of Andover Newton at YDS, writes on ministerial leadership. Read the blog Theological resources Through online lectures and other events, YDS offers a rich array of resources for faith formation, religious education, and personal and professional enrichment. View our lectures at YouTube Why YDS? Why YDS? Students and faculty talk about their experience at Yale Divinity School. How our alums serve the church and world Explore these alumni stories Lifeblood It’s the students who affect me the most. I’ve written poems that emerged out of classes, and been directly motivated and challenged by perceptions of students. They’re really the lifeblood of the school. Christian Wiman, Professor of the Practice of Religion and Literature Preparation for ministry @YaleDivSchool brought my head, heart and hands together for ministry. Grateful. Cece Jones-Davis '05 M.Div. Faculty mentorship My experience at YDS pushed me to better appreciate spiritual mentors in and out of class. Many times, I found myself blessed by faculty members who encouraged me to look beyond the boundaries of the syllabus as I sought answers to my biggest questions. Christopher Phillips ’18 M.Div. All tweets lead to YDS It feels like everywhere I turn, every theologian or scholar...or every publication I read keeps pointing me back to one place: @YaleDivSchool. And I'm totally onboard with that ;) @PorterCTaylor on Twitter Deepened capacity The depth, breadth and quality of my education and experience at YDS have had a profound impact on the quality of my ministry, deepened my capacity to think critically and creatively, and changed my life. Sandra Dager '82 M.Div. Transformational Leadership I lean upon my YDS experience every day in my personal and professional life. The community continues to inspire and support me in important ways, and I am grateful for the indelible impact that has had on my life. Dr. Elijah Heyward ’07 M.A.R., Chief Operating Officer, International African American Museum Passionate about questions of belief and practice This was a place for people like me: rooted in a tradition, ecumenically inclined, passionate about questions of religious belief and practice. I could be myself, let down my guard, and do my work with people who would become some of my closest friends. Chet Duke '20 M.A.R. Inspired to lead My time at Berkeley at YDS trained me to think and inspired me to lead with courage and faith. The Most Rev. Michael Curry ’78 M.Div., Presiding Bishop of the Episcopal Church Yale University It transforms a class when you can go beyond a textbook to see what a book or a woodcut in the 16th century looks like. Bruce Gordon, Professor of Ecclesiastical History The will and the grace to do it Of one thing I’m sure: There are people to serve, a world in pain and confusion, work to do … and my formation at YDS has given me the will and grace to do it. Will Dickinson '20 M.Div., Deacon in the Episcopal Diocese of Virginia 21st Century Church Only by encountering people in the world can we truly bring the Church into the 21st century and hope to revive it as an important and practical part of society. I am blessed that my education prepared me to live out my call in the world. Victoria Strang ’17 M.Div. Ecumenical formation The most formative part of my time at YDS was the ecumenical worship. I am so appreciative of Marquand Chapel. Calvon Jones ’18 M.Div. Lifeblood It’s the students who affect me the most. I’ve written poems that emerged out of classes, and been directly motivated and challenged by perceptions of students. They’re really the lifeblood of the school. Christian Wiman, Professor of the Practice of Religion and Literature Preparation for ministry @YaleDivSchool brought my head, heart and hands together for ministry. Grateful. Cece Jones-Davis '05 M.Div. Faculty mentorship My experience at YDS pushed me to better appreciate spiritual mentors in and out of class. Many times, I found myself blessed by faculty members who encouraged me to look beyond the boundaries of the syllabus as I sought answers to my biggest questions. Christopher Phillips ’18 M.Div. All tweets lead to YDS It feels like everywhere I turn, every theologian or scholar...or every publication I read keeps pointing me back to one place: @YaleDivSchool. And I'm totally onboard with that ;) @PorterCTaylor on Twitter Deepened capacity The depth, breadth and quality of my education and experience at YDS have had a profound impact on the quality of my ministry, deepened my capacity to think critically and creatively, and changed my life. Sandra Dager '82 M.Div. Transformational Leadership I lean upon my YDS experience every day in my personal and professional life. The community continues to inspire and support me in important ways, and I am grateful for the indelible impact that has had on my life. Dr. Elijah Heyward ’07 M.A.R., Chief Operating Officer, International African American Museum Passionate about questions of belief and practice This was a place for people like me: rooted in a tradition, ecumenically inclined, passionate about questions of religious belief and practice. I could be myself, let down my guard, and do my work with people who would become some of my closest friends. Chet Duke '20 M.A.R. Inspired to lead My time at Berkeley at YDS trained me to think and inspired me to lead with courage and faith. The Most Rev. Michael Curry ’78 M.Div., Presiding Bishop of the Episcopal Church Yale University It transforms a class when you can go beyond a textbook to see what a book or a woodcut in the 16th century looks like. Bruce Gordon, Professor of Ecclesiastical History The will and the grace to do it Of one thing I’m sure: There are people to serve, a world in pain and confusion, work to do … and my formation at YDS has given me the will and grace to do it. Will Dickinson '20 M.Div., Deacon in the Episcopal Diocese of Virginia 21st Century Church Only by encountering people in the world can we truly bring the Church into the 21st century and hope to revive it as an important and practical part of society. I am blessed that my education prepared me to live out my call in the world. Victoria Strang ’17 M.Div. Ecumenical formation The most formative part of my time at YDS was the ecumenical worship. I am so appreciative of Marquand Chapel. Calvon Jones ’18 M.Div. Yale Divinity School Yale Divinity School 409 Prospect Street New Haven, CT 06511 APPLY ONLINE Connect with us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Yale Divinity School Plan a Visit Academic Affairs Admissions Andover Newton Seminary at Yale Apply Online Berkeley Divinity School Development Office Directions Divinity Bookstore Divinity School Library Giving Institute of Sacred Music News Reflections Registrar’s Office Event Reservations Sustainability Tuition & Financial Aid YDS Bulletin & Policies YDS Directory Around Yale Accessibility at Yale Belonging at Yale Yale University Yale University Library Yale Religious Studies Student Information System Yale Visitor Center Office of International Students and Scholars Resource Office on Disabilities Yale Health Yale Athletics Yale Directory Information For… Prospective Students Current Students International Applicants Students with Disabilities Alumni Faculty Families Emergency Links Yale Emergency Management Public Safety SHARE Copyright © 2022 Yale University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Contact Us Feedback Login