Skip to main content search menu Search Admissions Academics Faculty Initiatives Admissions & Aid Be transformed by the renewing of your mind Visit UsRequest InfoApply Duke Divinity School's approach to theological education combines excellence in scholarship with a strong commitment to the church. Come be a part of all that God is doing in and through us. Duke Divinity School will prepare you for transformational and innovative leadership in ministry to serve God, the church, and the world. Our graduates serve in more than three dozen countries and all 50 states. They serve in parish-based ministry as pastors, music ministers, Christian educators, mission coordinators, youth ministers, and church planters. Others serve in ministries such as teaching, counseling, faith-based advocacy, nonprofit organizations, university presses, and academic positions. Our Community Joining our community means becoming part of a diverse student body from an array of backgrounds and experiences. Students range in age from their 20s to 70s and include recent college graduates, second- and third-career changers, those newly discerning their vocational call, and seasoned pastors seeking to further enrich their ministry. Degree Programs Four masters’ degrees, two doctoral degrees, and three joint degree programs prepare you for transformational leadership and service. Post-Baccalaureate Professional Degrees Master of Divinity (M.Div.) Hybrid Master of Divinity (Hybrid M.Div.) Master of Arts in Christian Practice (M.A.) Academic Degrees Master of Theological Studies (M.T.S.) Master of Theology (Th.M.) Doctoral Programs Doctor of Theology (Th.D.) Doctor of Ministry (D.Min.) Dual-Degree Programs M.Div./Master of Social Work M.T.S./Juris Doctor M.Div./Master of Public Policy Certificate Programs Certificate in Theology and Health Care Degree-Based Certificates Why I Came to Duke A Community of Faithfulness and Scholarship Our students come to Duke to pursue a variety of career paths. Some come to be ministers, church planters, and other leaders of the 21st century church. Others come to deepen their connection to Christian ministry in their nonprofit work, in their teaching and writing, or in whatever other forms their ministry takes. What they share is a desire for a program that is academically rigorous and unabashedly Christian. Angel: A Second-Career Student Follows Her Call Kendall: Professors Who Influence Me Will: Theological Reflection in Service to the Church Megan: Connecting Academics & Ministry Making Your Education Affordable Scholarships and Fellowship Opportunities Duke Divinity School awards more than $8 million in institutional scholarships and support to our students each year. Every M.Div., M.T.S., M.A., D.Min., and Th.D. student receives scholarship support, and we’re unique in our ability to provide funding for up to three field education internships for M.Div. students, resulting in as much as $24,000 in additional support. The M.Div. program also offers many fellowships that provide tuition support, including the Thriving Communities Fellowship, which provides full tuition. Learn More about Making Your Education Affordable Learn from World-Renowned Faculty Professors Who Serve the Academy and the Church At Duke Divinity School, you'll be immersed in robust theological inquiry with divinity school faculty recognized around the world for their scholarship and service to the church. Drawn from all over the globe and a broad spectrum of Christian traditions, these men and women share a commitment to teaching and to forming students for ministry. Learn More about Learn from World-Renowned Faculty Follow Your Passion Our Initiatives Offer Interdisciplinary Opportunities Engage questions of human flourishing and death in our Theology, Medicine, and Culture initiative. Join African leaders working for peace in the African Great Lakes Region with the Center for Reconciliation. Explore the role of arts in theology through Duke Initiatives in Theology and the Arts. The Divinity School's initiatives and centers combine scholarship with service and create interdisciplinary links with Duke's other professional schools and with the needs of society. Learn More about Follow Your Passion Explore the Heart of North Carolina Life in Durham From our temperate climate and our twists on classic Southern cuisine to our vibrant and varied religious communities, Durham is a multifaceted gem in the heart of North Carolina. The diverse setting makes it an excellent area for ministry and participation in the community. And you’ll also find your pick of sports, a flourishing arts scene, free and low-cost entertainment, an eclectic mix of restaurants, and affordable housing options. Learn More about Explore the Heart of North Carolina Support for Your Academic Success Faculty and Staff Dedicated to Your Achievement Duke Divinity School gives you the support you need to succeed, from a pre-orientation workshop that introduces the fundamentals of theological thought and writing, to ongoing academic workshops throughout the year, to tutors who are available to work with students one-on-one. University Resources As a student, you’ll have access to all Duke University offers, from a wide variety of courses at Duke to world-class libraries, lectures by leading thinkers, outstanding recreation facilities, a thriving arts community, a network of campus organizations, and tickets to exciting collegiate athletic events. Connect with Us We look forward to meeting with you and telling you more about our programs. Connect with Office of Admissions representatives through events on campus in Durham, N.C., or on the road near you. There are currently no upcoming events to display. More Admissions Events Resources Interested in learning more? The resources below will help you learn more about applying to the Divinity School. We’re also available to help at admissions@div.duke.edu or (919) 660-3436. How to Apply Find a step-by-step guide to the application process. More about How to Apply Which Program Is Right for You? Whether you want a full-time residential program or one that allows you to you remain in ministry full-time, we offer a program to fit your goals. More about Which Program Is Right for You? Funding Your Education We are committed to making theological education accessible for students of all means. Learn how. More about Funding Your Education Resources for Admitted Students Learn about the next steps in the admissions process for admitted students. More about Resources for Admitted Students Resources for Families Find resources including job listings for spouses, childcare, and family activities. More about Resources for Families How to Apply We’ll take you step-by-step through the application process. Which Degree Is Right for Me? Whether you're interested in a full-time post-graduate program or a program that allows you to pursue a degree while you remain in ministry full-time, Duke Divinity School offers a program to fit your needs. Funding Your Education Duke Divinity School believes that helping you to fund your education in a comprehensive way is part of our ministry. We are committed to making theological education accessible for students of all means. Duke Scholarships & Fellowships External Scholarships Tuition and Estimated Expenses Admissions Staff We look forward to meeting you online or in person at one of our Admissions events on campus or on the road near you. Duke and Durham Duke Divinity School students can look forward to taking advantage of all the resources and courses that a world-class university has to offer, while living in the heart of the N.C. Triangle area. Plan a Visit Are you interested in learning more about Duke Divinity School? Visiting with us is a great way to find out more about our programs. Admitted Student Resources If you’ve already been admitted, learn about the next steps in the matriculation process and find resources for making the transition to Duke. Paying Your Deposit New Student Orientation and Checklist Registering for Courses Housing & Local Resources Bri(DDD)ge Program About News Events Stories Stay in touch Sign up for our newsletter Alumni Make a Gift Directory Contact Us Duke Privacy Statement | Divinity Intranet (NetID Only) © Duke Divinity School Admissions & Aid Admissions & Aid Overview How to Apply Our Students Which Degree is Right for Me? Funding Your Education Scholarships & Fellowships Black Church Studies and Latinx Studies Fellowships Thriving Communities Fellowship External Scholarships Tuition and Estimated Expenses Preparing for Ordination Duke and Durham Plan a Visit Resources for Admitted Students Paying Your Deposit New Student Orientation & Checklist Registering for Courses Housing and Local Resources Bri(DDD)ge RISE Academic Workshop Admissions Staff Divinity Bulletin Statement of Diversity in Admissions Formation Formation Overview Field Education Communities of Learning Clinical Pastoral Education Forms & Policies International Field Education Office of Field Education Students Supervisors Houses of Study Anglican Episcopal House of Studies Asian House of Studies Baptist House of Studies Black Church Studies Hispanic House of Studies La Casa Hispana de Estudios Methodist House of Studies Presbyterian/Reformed House of Studies Ministerial Formation Spiritual Formation Worship Ordination Office of the Chaplain Office of Student Life Student Council & Organizations The Women’s Center Academics Academics Overview Master of Divinity Hybrid Master of Divinity Master of Theological Studies Master of Arts in Christian Practice Master of Theology Doctor of Theology Doctor of Ministry Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) Master of Divinity/Master of Public Policy Master of Divinity/Master of Social Work Master of Theological Studies/Juris Doctor Certificate in Theology and Health Care Degree-Based Certificates Certificate in Anglican Studies Certificate in Baptist Studies Certificate in Black Church Studies Certificate in Christian Education Certificate in Faith, Food, and Environmental Justice Certificate in Faith-based Organizing, Advocacy, and Social Transformation Certificate in Gender, Sexuality, Theology, and Ministry Certificate in Latinx Studies  Certificate in Methodist/Wesleyan Studies Certificate in Missional Innovation Certificate in Preaching Certificate in Prison Studies Certificate in Reflective and Faithful Teaching Certificate in Theology and the Arts Certificate in Theology, Medicine, and Culture Certificate in Worship Other Duke University Certificates Academic Calendar & Course Schedule The Center for Writing and Academic Support Appointments and Guidelines for Tutoring Services Quick Tips for Writing a Paper Writing Resources Divinity School Library Study Abroad Faculty Partners International Study Accreditation Educational Effectiveness Our Faculty Our Faculty Overview Faculty Directory Regular Rank Faculty Post-Docs and Adjunct/Visiting Faculty Consulting Faculty Emeritus Faculty Faculty Experts Faculty Books Initiatives Initiatives Overview Leadership Education at Duke Divinity Center for Reconciliation About Us Student Programs Summer Institute for Reconciliation African Great Lakes Initiative Northeast Asia Reconciliation Initiative The Americas Initiative Theology, Medicine, and Culture Initiative Duke Initiatives in Theology and the Arts The Center for Studies in the Wesleyan Tradition About Us Frank Baker Collection and Publications Charles Wesley’s Manuscript Verse Charles Wesley’s Published Verse John Wesley’s Poetry, Hymn, and Verse Activities of the Center Research Resources Thriving Rural Communities About Us Rural Ministry Fellowships Programs Preaching & Speaking Opportunities Resources Clergy Health Initiative About Us What We're Learning Pastor & Parish Media Coverage Black Pastoral Leadership Collaboration COVID-19: Responding Faithfully Ormond Center Racial Justice and Cultural Competency Wesleyan Formation Initiatives Duke Accelerated Pastoral Formation Program Rediscovering the Heart of Methodism Events Events Overview Calendar Clergy/Laity Training Programs UMC Training Programs Lifelong Learning Lifelong Learning Overview Divinity+ About About Overview Directions & Parking Department Directory Faculty & Staff Directory Update Directory Listing Divinity School Library News News Overview Viewpoints Divinity Medium Channel Divinity Magazine About Divinity Magazine Contact Divinity Magazine Faith & Leadership Faculty In The Media Sign Up For Our Newsletter Stories Viewpoints Give For Students For Faculty & Staff For Alumni For Alumni Overview Alumni Council & Board of Visitors Staff Update Contact Info & Class Notes Transcript Requests Jobs & Careers Jobs & Careers Overview Instructional Support Positions Intranet (NetID Only)