Skip to main content search menu Search Admissions Academics Faculty Initiatives Academics Combining excellence in scholarship with a passionate commitment to the life of the church Duke Divinity School is known for rigorous academic training. But we never view academic study as an intellectual exercise for its own sake. Our seven degree programs help you answer God's call—wherever that call takes you. In addition, three joint degree programs are available to students through partnerships with Duke Sanford School of Public Policy, Duke Law School, and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill School of Social Work. Degree Programs Four masters’ degrees, two doctoral degrees, and three joint degree programs prepare you for transformational leadership and service. Post-Baccalaureate Professional Degrees Master of Divinity (M.Div.) Hybrid Master of Divinity (Hybrid M.Div.) Master of Arts in Christian Practice (M.A.) Academic Degrees Master of Theological Studies (M.T.S.) Master of Theology (Th.M.) Doctoral Programs Doctor of Theology (Th.D.) Doctor of Ministry (D.Min.) Dual-Degree Programs M.Div./Master of Social Work M.T.S./Juris Doctor M.Div./Master of Public Policy Certificate Programs Certificate in Theology and Health Care Degree-Based Certificates The Academic Environment Lectures, workshops, and discussions with renowned leaders in Christian theology, ministry, and other subjects expand and inform the academic environment at Duke Divinity School. You’ll also find the support you need for success—from our extensive libraries and the Center for Theological Writing to all the student services that a major university can offer. The Divinity School Library World-Class Resources The Divinity School Library boasts a collection of more than 400,000 volumes in the fields of religion and related disciplines and affords a wealth of material for the seminary student. An integral part of the university’s library system, which possesses more than 6,200,000 volumes, the Divinity School Library also subscribes to over 700 religious periodicals, offers study facilities for students in its reading rooms, and houses a reference collection in religion. Learn More about The Divinity School Library The Center for Writing and Academic Support Writing Theology Well The Center for Writing and Academic Support aims to help students in the Divinity School strengthen theological interpretation, teaching, preaching, and communication. Through tutoring services and workshops, the center fosters creativity, imagination, and innovation in writing. Learn More about The Center for Writing and Academic Support Customize Your Degree with a Certificate In-Depth Study Duke Divinity School offers numerous certificates that help students customize degrees to fit their interests. Students can receive specific training in a particular denomination, such as the Certificate in Anglican Studies or the Certificate in Baptist Studies. Other certificates provider a deeper focus on other issues, such as the Certificate in Black Church Studies; the Certificate in Gender, Sexuality, Theology and Ministry; the Certificate in Prison Studies; and the Certificate in Theology and the Arts. Learn More about Customize Your Degree with a Certificate International Study International study gives students opportunities to experience the life of the church in an increasingly interconnected world. Duke Divinity School has several student exchange programs with prestigious universities in Hong Kong, England, Germany, and the Netherlands. In addition, professors and staff have led study trips to locations including Turkey, South Sudan, Mexico, and Haiti. Degree Programs Our degree programs encompass intellectual study and pastoral practice to develop future clergy, scholars, administrators, and lay leaders. Master of Divinity (M.Div.) Hybrid Master of Divinity (Hybrid M.Div.) Master of Arts in Christian Practice (M.A.) Master of Theological Studies (M.T.S.) Master of Theology (Th.M.) Doctor of Ministry (D.Min.) Doctor of Theology (Th.D.) M.T.S./J.D. M.Div./M.S.W. M.Div./M.P.P. Ph.D. Certificates Our certificates encourage and allow students to focus their coursework on a particular area of ministry or study. Certificate in Anglican Studies Certificate in Baptist Studies Certificate in Black Church Studies Certificate in Christian Education Certificate in Faith, Food, and Environmental Justice Certificate in Faith-based Organizing, Advocacy, and Social Transformation Certificate in Gender, Sexuality, Theology, and Ministry Certificate in Latinx Studies Certificate in Methodist/Wesleyan Studies Certificate in Missional Innovation Certificate in Preaching Certificate in Prison Studies Certificate in Reflective and Faithful Teaching Certificate in Theology and the Arts Certificate in Theology, Medicine, and Culture Certificate in Worship Study Abroad Through a variety of programs and initiatives, the Divinity School encourages students to explore the world as part of their education and formation. International Study Faculty Partners Center for Writing and Academic Support The Center for Writing and Academic Support offers tutoring services and organizes events to promote the role of writing within the church and the academy. Appointment & Guidelines for Tutoring Services Guidelines for M.A. and D.Min. Students Writing Resources About News Events Stories Stay in touch Sign up for our newsletter Alumni Make a Gift Directory Contact Us Duke Privacy Statement | Divinity Intranet (NetID Only) © Duke Divinity School Admissions & Aid Admissions & Aid Overview How to Apply Our Students Which Degree is Right for Me? Funding Your Education Scholarships & Fellowships Black Church Studies and Latinx Studies Fellowships Thriving Communities Fellowship External Scholarships Tuition and Estimated Expenses Preparing for Ordination Duke and Durham Plan a Visit Resources for Admitted Students Paying Your Deposit New Student Orientation & Checklist Registering for Courses Housing and Local Resources Bri(DDD)ge RISE Academic Workshop Admissions Staff Divinity Bulletin Statement of Diversity in Admissions Formation Formation Overview Field Education Communities of Learning Clinical Pastoral Education Forms & Policies International Field Education Office of Field Education Students Supervisors Houses of Study Anglican Episcopal House of Studies Asian House of Studies Baptist House of Studies Black Church Studies Hispanic House of Studies La Casa Hispana de Estudios Methodist House of Studies Presbyterian/Reformed House of Studies Ministerial Formation Spiritual Formation Worship Ordination Office of the Chaplain Office of Student Life Student Council & Organizations The Women’s Center Academics Academics Overview Master of Divinity Hybrid Master of Divinity Master of Theological Studies Master of Arts in Christian Practice Master of Theology Doctor of Theology Doctor of Ministry Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) Master of Divinity/Master of Public Policy Master of Divinity/Master of Social Work Master of Theological Studies/Juris Doctor Certificate in Theology and Health Care Degree-Based Certificates Certificate in Anglican Studies Certificate in Baptist Studies Certificate in Black Church Studies Certificate in Christian Education Certificate in Faith, Food, and Environmental Justice Certificate in Faith-based Organizing, Advocacy, and Social Transformation Certificate in Gender, Sexuality, Theology, and Ministry Certificate in Latinx Studies  Certificate in Methodist/Wesleyan Studies Certificate in Missional Innovation Certificate in Preaching Certificate in Prison Studies Certificate in Reflective and Faithful Teaching Certificate in Theology and the Arts Certificate in Theology, Medicine, and Culture Certificate in Worship Other Duke University Certificates Academic Calendar & Course Schedule The Center for Writing and Academic Support Appointments and Guidelines for Tutoring Services Quick Tips for Writing a Paper Writing Resources Divinity School Library Study Abroad Faculty Partners International Study Accreditation Educational Effectiveness Our Faculty Our Faculty Overview Faculty Directory Regular Rank Faculty Post-Docs and Adjunct/Visiting Faculty Consulting Faculty Emeritus Faculty Faculty Experts Faculty Books Initiatives Initiatives Overview Leadership Education at Duke Divinity Center for Reconciliation About Us Student Programs Summer Institute for Reconciliation African Great Lakes Initiative Northeast Asia Reconciliation Initiative The Americas Initiative Theology, Medicine, and Culture Initiative Duke Initiatives in Theology and the Arts The Center for Studies in the Wesleyan Tradition About Us Frank Baker Collection and Publications Charles Wesley’s Manuscript Verse Charles Wesley’s Published Verse John Wesley’s Poetry, Hymn, and Verse Activities of the Center Research Resources Thriving Rural Communities About Us Rural Ministry Fellowships Programs Preaching & Speaking Opportunities Resources Clergy Health Initiative About Us What We're Learning Pastor & Parish Media Coverage Black Pastoral Leadership Collaboration COVID-19: Responding Faithfully Ormond Center Racial Justice and Cultural Competency Wesleyan Formation Initiatives Duke Accelerated Pastoral Formation Program Rediscovering the Heart of Methodism Events Events Overview Calendar Clergy/Laity Training Programs UMC Training Programs Lifelong Learning Lifelong Learning Overview Divinity+ About About Overview Directions & Parking Department Directory Faculty & Staff Directory Update Directory Listing Divinity School Library News News Overview Viewpoints Divinity Medium Channel Divinity Magazine About Divinity Magazine Contact Divinity Magazine Faith & Leadership Faculty In The Media Sign Up For Our Newsletter Stories Viewpoints Give For Students For Faculty & Staff For Alumni For Alumni Overview Alumni Council & Board of Visitors Staff Update Contact Info & Class Notes Transcript Requests Jobs & Careers Jobs & Careers Overview Instructional Support Positions Intranet (NetID Only)