Columbia University Libraries Columbia University » Home Libraries » Home Digital Library Collections » Home Columbia Libraries Locations Columbia Archival Collections Portal CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog Log In Help About Ask a Librarian Suggestions & Feedback Library Hours Maps and Locations Terms of Use Hubert H. Harrison papers Search in All Fields for Q About See Also Hubert H. Harrison Papers, 1893-1927, Rare Book & Manuscript Library, Columbia University Hubert H. Harrison, When Africa awakes: The "inside story" of the stirrings and strivings of the New Negro in the western world (New York : Diasporic Africa Press, 2015) Hubert H. Harrison, A Hubert Harrison Reader (Middletown, Conn.: Wesleyan University Press, 2001) Jeffrey B. Perry, Hubert Harrison: The Voice of Harlem Radicalism, 1883-1918 (New York: Columbia University Press, 2009) Permanent URL BROWSE THE COLLECTION ABOUT THE COLLECTION Harlem's first great soapbox orator, Hubert H. Harrison was a brilliant and influential writer, educator, and movement builder during the early decades of the 20th century. In the words of civil rights activist A. Philip Randolph, he was "the father of Harlem radicalism." In 1917, Harrison founded the first newspaper (The Voice) of the “New Negro Movement”. Beginning in 1920, he became the principal editor of Marcus Garvey's Negro World, which he reshaped into a leading political and literary publication of the era. Harrison was a prolific speaker and writer in the 1920s, during which time he founded the International Colored Unity League and edited The Voice of the Negro. Harrison's unexpected death following an appendectomy on December 17, 1927, left behind his widow, four daughters, and a young son. A massive Harlem funeral spoke to his contemporary importance, but Harrison's work eventually faded from prominence. His radicalism on questions of race, class, religion, war, democracy, literature and the arts - and the fact that he was a forthright critic of individuals, organizations, and ideas of influence, were major reasons, along with his early death and the fact that he had no long-lasting organizational ties, for his subsequent neglect. 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 • Telephone (212) 854-7309 Order a Reproduction | Copyright and Permissions | Suggestions & Feedback