Skip to Main Content Brown University Digital Learning & Design Search Menu Site Navigation Home Events Resources Guides FAQ Instructor Consultations Propose a Project What We Do Media Catalog Technology Catalog Course Design Process About Contact Search Digital Learning & Design Technology Catalog Breadcrumb Home What We Do Sub Navigation In This Section Media Catalog Technology Catalog Course Design Process Technology Catalog Our team of Learning Designers and Technologists regularly review tech tools for digital teaching and learning. Below is a developing list of tools that DLD either supports or has otherwise vetted with Brown's procurement team to ensure our learning communities have a safe, accessible, and high quality experience. DLD Supported Approved Not Recommended DLD Supported Canvas TopHat Harmonize Ed Discussion Panopto/Media Library Gradescope Google Apps Google Classroom Jamboard Google Sites GoReact Adobe Spark Namecoach Turnitin Online Course Reserves (OCRA) Hypothes.is UDOIT These are Approved tools that are purchased centrally by Brown. DLD, in partnership with the IT Service Center, provides support and training. Approved ESRI Storymaps Miro Trello Cengage McGraw Hill Connect Norton InQuizitive WeBWork H5P (Pilot) The terms of service, privacy, and security have been reviewed and approved by Brown's Office of Information Technology (OIT). These tools are commonly purchased by individual departments or instructors, so support is provided by the vendor. Not Recommended Padlet Piazza VoiceThread LockDown Browser (Respondus) DLD does not recommend using these tools at this time. The terms of service, privacy, security and/or accessibility of these tools do not currently meet Office of Information Technology (OIT) standards. Additional Tools There are many digital learning tools to consider using when planning your course. If you would like to share success stories or inquire about tools not on this list, please write to dld@brown.edu. Note that adding tools to our official Supported/Approved list can take a semester or two as we thoroughly examine FERPA compliance, privacy, security, support, terms of use, overlap with existing Brown tools, accessibility, and other factors. For a list of additional software available to members of the Brown community, see the Brown IT Software Catalog. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Events Resources Guides FAQ Instructor Consultations Propose a Project What We Do Media Catalog Technology Catalog Course Design Process About Contact This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Technology Catalog Open details for Technology Catalog Bookmark this Page