Skip to Main Content Brown University Digital Learning & Design Search Menu Site Navigation Home Events Resources Guides FAQ Instructor Consultations Propose a Project What We Do Media Catalog Technology Catalog Course Design Process About Contact Search Digital Learning & Design Course Design Process Learn our process for creating effective, engaging, and inclusive online courses Breadcrumb Home What We Do Sub Navigation In This Section Media Catalog Technology Catalog Course Design Process Course Design Process Learn our process for creating effective, engaging, and inclusive online courses The Learning Designers and Media Producers of the Digital Learning & Design (DLD) team partner with instructors throughout the online course lifecycle to create engaging and effective student learning experiences. Whether the course begins as a face-to-face class or is designed from scratch, course development takes considerable time and thought. Before embarking on this journey, an instructor should ask themself: Why do I want to design and teach an online course? Do you normally completely design your course before it begins? How much time do you have to design an online course before it begins? In what ways do I want my online course to be engaging, student-centered and dynamic? Roles & Responsibilities Course Design Timeline Stage One: Plan During the Planning Stage, instructors should consider what students will be able to do as a result of their learning experience, as well as delineate how that experience will benefit them. Instructors will partner with the Digital Learning & Design team to outline rigorous, student-centered learning experiences and to devise clear course goals. Stage Two: Design During the Design Stage, instructors partner with Learning Designers to design assignments, projects, discussions, and other activities that support the course learning objectives. Instructors will consider how each activity assesses student learning. During this stage, instructors will also work closely with the media team to plan videos, interactive elements, and other media assets suited to the course content. As this stage draws to a close, instructors will have a short list of clearly defined learning objectives, as well as a course outline or syllabus that identifies the majority of course content and media assets (text, readings, images, videos, interactive elements). The next stage? Writing the course content. Stage Three: Write Writing course content happens well before the course opens to students. During this stage instructors will write out the full text of all course content, including assessments, instructions, and other materials. This can also include media content. By the end of this stage, instructors will be able to build the course in Canvas. Stage Four: Build During this stage, the instructor places course content, including assignments, discussions, and media, in the online learning platform with the help of a learning designer. Canvas is Brown University’s primary online Learning Management System, or LMS. Canvas allows instructors to build, teach and manage their courses online. It provides a collection of built-in tools instructors can use to upload and present content, communicate with students, create individual and group assignments, create assessments, and track student performance and grades. At the end of the build stage, instructors should have a completed online course ready for quality and usability testing. Stage Five: Launch The final stage sees the course open to students. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Events Resources Guides FAQ Instructor Consultations Propose a Project What We Do Media Catalog Technology Catalog Course Design Process About Contact This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Course Design Process Open details for Course Design Process Bookmark this Page