Department of Laboratory Medicine & Pathology, UW Medicine, University of Washington Submit Search Toggle Search Input Toggle navigation Menu As of July 1, 2020, the Departments of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology have merged to form the Department of Laboratory Medicine & Pathology. Find information about our Anatomic Pathology services on this site, or find information about our Clinical Pathology services here. Submit Search Resources for: Faculty and Staff | Visitors About Home Message From the Chair About Us History, Mission, and Core Values Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI) Employment Make a Gift Faculty & Staff Faculty Directory Staff Directory Resources for Faculty & Staff Patient Care Diagnostic Services in Lab Med & Pathology Online Laboratory Test Guide Anatomic Pathology Service Request Laboratory Medicine Service Request Anatomic Pathology Licenses & Accreditation Clinical Pathology Licenses & Accreditation Anatomic Pathology Research Services Laboratory Medicine Research Testing Services Education Academic Programs Graduate Program (M3D) Medical Students Residency Program Clinical Fellowships Post-Sophomore Fellowship MS in Laboratory Science & Pathology MLS Undergraduate Program Alumni Research Fellowships MD/PhD Program (MSTP) Training Grant Programs Visitor Programs Courses Research Research in Lab Med & Pathology Research Testing Service (RTS) Requesting Research Services from Anatomic Pathology Laboratories Research Centers Research Labs Events & Seminars Calendar of Events Laboratory Medicine Grand Rounds Pathology Grand Rounds Research Conference Medical Conferences News Latest News News in Patient Care News in Education News in Research Contact Department of Laboratory Medicine & Pathology, UW Medicine, University of Washington Make a gift to our Department today! University of Washington, 2020 View Resources from our Justice, Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Committee University of Washington Check Out Our Upcoming Events Including Our Virtual Seminar Series University of Washington, 2020 View our Virology Lab’s COVID-19 dashboard Researchers in the Virology Lab process tests for coronavirus We offer a full range of diagnostic services in anatomic and surgical pathology University of Washington, 2020 Learn More About Our Strong Focus on Basic Science and Clinical Research Dr. Charles Murry at the Murry lab at South Lake Union Learn More About Our Innovative Education Opportunities University of Washington, 2020 Previous Next Academic Programs Patient Care Research Centers Make a Gift About the Department of Laboratory Medicine & Pathology On July 1, 2020, the Departments of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology merged to form the Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology. Read a message from the Chair, Dr. Geoffrey S. Baird. A regional resource for clinical laboratory services required for innovative patient care, research and educational programs, we combine the sophisticated testing and informatics capabilities of fully accredited laboratories with the resources of an academic institution in its delivery of clinical and anatomical pathology services. Recognized for excellence in clinical training, world-class research initiatives, and a commitment to community service, we serve the five-state WWAMI region: WA, WY, AK, MT, and ID. Read More In the News News Latest News News in Patient Care News in Education News in Research Department Highlights Join Us for the Annual ACLPS Meeting Join us in Seattle to reconnect with colleagues and meet new ones from June 23-25, 2022. Read More Academic Positions Available - Apply Today! We have several academic appointments open. Come join us in beautiful Seattle, Washington. Read More Celebrating Medical Laboratory Professionals Week We are excited to celebrate Medical Laboratory Professionals Week from April 24-30, 2022! Read More Over Four Million COVID-19 Tests and Counting We've run over 4,000,000 COVID-19 tests since the pandemic began in March 2020. We've rounded up more resources to keep you updated on our efforts and recommendations. Read More Events & Seminars Calendar of Events Laboratory Medicine Grand Rounds Pathology Grand Rounds Research Conference Medical Conferences Upcoming Events Dept. of Laboratory Medicine & Pathology 1959 NE Pacific St Box 357470 Seattle, WA 98195 P: 206-543-1140 F: 206-543-3644 Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Contact Us Home Faculty Directory Faculty & Staff Resources Patient Care Education Research Research Centers Events & Seminars News Educational Resources UW Medicine University of Washington © 2022 University of Washington, UW Medicine Laboratory Medicine & Pathology | Copyright Information Privacy Policy | UW's Website Terms | Online Privacy Statement | Copyright and Disclaimer