Skip to content FacebookTwitterYouTubeInstagramFlickr Home About News Our History Our Mission Our Staff Resources Events Calendar DMS 30th Anniversary Academics CLUES Cultural Competency Certificate Architecture Diversity Certificate Agriculture and Life Sciences Cultural Competence Certificate Engagement Cultural Councils Asian Presidents’ Council (APC) Black Student Alliance Council (BSAC) Hispanic Presidents’ Council (HPC) Student Development Institute for the Development and Education of Asian American Leaders (IDEAAL) XL Academy First-Year Organizations ExCEL Institute for the Development and Education of Asian American Leaders (IDEAAL) Latino Logradores DMS Office Hours Welcome Social DMS Summer Hangouts Gender-Based Initiatives Aggie Black Male Connection (ABMC) Courageous Conversations Latino Males United (LMU) Heritage Months Asian Pacific Islander Desi American (APIDA) Heritage Month Black History Month Hispanic Heritage Month Native American/Alaskan Heritage Month Multicultural Graduation Celebrations NASPA Undergraduate Fellows Program Student Conferences Excellence uniting Culture, Education, and Leadership (ExCEL) Conference Leadership Education for APIDA Development (LEAD) Conference Southwestern Black Student Leadership Conference (SBSLC) DE&I ACE Awards Previous Awards Recipients Aggies to Aggies (A2A) Campus Climate Grant CLUES CommUnity Conversations Community Dialogue Cultural Explorations Cultural Competency Certificate Presentations A2A/Student Workshop Request Classroom Module Request Community of Respect Student Spotlight TAMU Race Identity & Social Equity (RISE) Conference and Fellowship Give to DMS Contact Home About News Our History Our Mission Our Staff Resources Events Calendar DMS 30th Anniversary Academics CLUES Cultural Competency Certificate Architecture Diversity Certificate Agriculture and Life Sciences Cultural Competence Certificate Engagement Cultural Councils Asian Presidents’ Council (APC) Black Student Alliance Council (BSAC) Hispanic Presidents’ Council (HPC) Student Development Institute for the Development and Education of Asian American Leaders (IDEAAL) XL Academy First-Year Organizations ExCEL Institute for the Development and Education of Asian American Leaders (IDEAAL) Latino Logradores DMS Office Hours Welcome Social DMS Summer Hangouts Gender-Based Initiatives Aggie Black Male Connection (ABMC) Courageous Conversations Latino Males United (LMU) Heritage Months Asian Pacific Islander Desi American (APIDA) Heritage Month Black History Month Hispanic Heritage Month Native American/Alaskan Heritage Month Multicultural Graduation Celebrations NASPA Undergraduate Fellows Program Student Conferences Excellence uniting Culture, Education, and Leadership (ExCEL) Conference Leadership Education for APIDA Development (LEAD) Conference Southwestern Black Student Leadership Conference (SBSLC) DE&I ACE Awards Previous Awards Recipients Aggies to Aggies (A2A) Campus Climate Grant CLUES CommUnity Conversations Community Dialogue Cultural Explorations Cultural Competency Certificate Presentations A2A/Student Workshop Request Classroom Module Request Community of Respect Student Spotlight TAMU Race Identity & Social Equity (RISE) Conference and Fellowship Give to DMS Contact Welcome to the DMS Howdy and welcome to the Department of Multicultural Services, located in Suite 2200 in the Memorial Student Center (MSC). The Department of Multicultural Services offers multiple educational and developmental initiatives and programs that foster belonging, community, and inclusive learning environments as students thrive as members of the Aggie family. Here at Texas A&M University, the university is committed to enriching the learning and working environment for all visitors, student, faculty, and staff by promoting a culture that embraces inclusion, diversity, equity, and accountability. Diverse perspectives, talents, and identities are vital to accomplishing our mission and living our core values. More information can be found on the university’s page. Our work directly aligns with the overarching goals of the Division of Student Affairs, in which diversity is defined as the inclusion and support of individuals from all groups, encompassing the various characteristics of people in our community. Through diversity, differences, identities, and ideas are each explored in a welcoming and nurturing academic environment. The educational benefits of diverse learning environments include civic learning, engagement, and preparation, to live in complex global settings. Our department offers something for everyone so please dive into our website. We hope to see you in person. Thanks and Gig ‘Em. View the Texas A&M State of Diversity Report DEPARTMENT NEWS DMS Open House To Be Held April 20th Tuesday, April 12, 2022|0 Comments The Department of Multicultural Services (DMS) will be showcasing its renovated and new spaces in the Memorial Student Center (MSC) Wednesday, April 20, which commemorates 10 years since the department’s return to the building in 2022 ACE Awards Winners Announced Friday, April 1, 2022|0 Comments The 2022 Accountability, Climate, and Equity (ACE) Awards recipients have been announced. Each recipient will be recognized and celebrated during the 2022 virtual ACE Awards Ceremony on Wednesday, April 13. Recipients are nominated from APIDA Heritage Month To Showcase Campus’ APIDA Culture and Wellness Thursday, March 24, 2022|0 Comments April is APIDA (Asian Pacific Islander Desi American) Heritage Month at Texas A&M. This year's theme is "Nurture Your Nature," chosen to showcase the diverse, rich culture of the APIDA Aggie community. View More News Search the DMS Search for: Upcoming DMS Events There are no upcoming events. View Calendar Add Add to Timely Calendar Add to Google Add to Outlook Add to Apple Calendar Add to other calendar Export to XML Recent Tweets It's showtime. Go get 'em! #BTHOFinals pic.twitter.com/KtltwKyYvP 4 weeks ago Have you seen the new murals and @dmstamu spaces in the MSC? As a home away from home for Aggies in the heart of c… twitter.com/i/web/status/1… 1 month ago Whoop! twitter.com/TAMU/status/15… 1 month ago Find us on Facebook Department of Multicultural Services • Suite 2200 Memorial Student Center • Texas A&M University • College Station, TX 77843-1121 Phone: 979-862-2000 • Fax: 979-862-2640 • E-mail: dms-info@dms.tamu.edu Accessibility • Security & Privacy Policy Multicultural Services is housed in the Division of Student Affairs FacebookTwitterYouTubeInstagramFlickr Page load link