Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Activate Menu Geisel School of Medicine Dartmouth Departments & Centers Find People Dartmouth Directory Geisel Faculty Directory Giving Make a Gift Anatomical Gifts Program DEI Dashboard Alumni Quick Links Admissions Biomedical Libraries COVID-19 Info Diversity & Inclusion Events Calendar Geisel Computing News Registrar Financial Aid Search this website Search for: Geisel School of Medicine Dartmouth Departments & Centers Find People Dartmouth Directory Geisel Faculty Directory Giving Make a Gift Anatomical Gifts Program DEI Dashboard Alumni Quick Links Admissions Biomedical Libraries COVID-19 Info Diversity & Inclusion Events Calendar Geisel Computing News Registrar Financial Aid Activate Menu About Us People Faculty Faculty List Faculty Honors and Awards Graduate Students Postdocs / Research Associates Staff News Recent News Recent Publications Employment Opportunities Calendar Contact Us About Us People Faculty Faculty List Faculty Honors and Awards Graduate Students Postdocs / Research Associates Staff News Recent News Recent Publications Employment Opportunities Calendar Contact Us Department of Biochemistry & Cell Biology Featured Landscape Dots mitochondria Molecule cells About Us The Department of Biochemistry and Cell Biology is one of 18 academic departments of Dartmouth’s Geisel School of Medicine. Biochemistry and Cell Biology is also one of four partner departments in the Molecular and Cellular Biology (MCB) graduate program, which awards PhD degrees through the Guarini School of Graduate and Advanced Studies. Currently there are over 160 graduate students in the MCB program. Biochemistry and Cell Biology's commitment to excellence in research, education, and service is an important part of our mission. Collegial and collaborative interactions among faculty, postdoctoral research associates and fellows, graduate students, Dartmouth undergraduate students and staff are integral to our culture. A general theme of our research is focused on defining molecular mechanisms that underlie fundamental cellular processes and yet our studies continue to provide key insights on aging, atherosclerosis, cancer, diabetes, neurotransmission, prion disease, kidney disease and a range of human health related issues. News May 2022 Adrianna De La Torre & Kristi Miller receive 2021 E. Lucile Smith Award for Scientific Excellence in Biochemistry The Department of Biochemistry & Cell Biology is pleased to announce Adrianna De La Torre and Kristi Miller as the recipients of the 2021 E. Lucile Smith Award for Scientific Excellence in Biochemistry. The Smith Awards honor the ground-breaking career of Dr. E. Lucile Smith, the first woman to attain the rank of Professor of Biochemistry at the Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth. Adrianna and Kristi received this award in recognition of their exceptional research accomplishments during the past year. The Dr. E. Lucile Smith awards are funded by the generosity of Dr. Smith’s nephew Gray Parker, his wife Mary Kay, and the Booth-Bricker Fund. Adrianna is being recognized for her accomplishments as a Ph.D. candidate in the lab of Dr. Ta Yuan Chang. Adrianna successfully defended in April 2022 and will formally graduate with her Ph.D. in June. Adrianna’s research focuses on developing nanoparticles encapsulating acyl-CoA:cholesterol acyltransferase (ACAT) inhibitors. ACAT is involved with cholesterol regulation and homeostasis by converting free cholesterol into cholesteryl esters for storage in the cell. Previous studies from the Chang lab and others have shown the benefits of inhibiting ACAT in atherosclerosis, neurodegenerative diseases, and certain forms of cancer. ACAT inhibitors are readily available, however, methods to encapsulate and deliver ACAT inhibitors by nanoparticles have not been reported. In her most recent work, Adrianna developed and characterized a stealth lipid-based nanoparticle system to facilitate the delivery of a potent ACAT inhibitor. This work was recently published in J Neurosci Methods. Kristi is being recognized for her accomplishments as a postdoctoral research scientist in the lab of Dr. James Moseley. She graduated with a Ph.D. in Molecular Cellular and Developmental Biology from The Ohio State University and joined the Moseley Lab in June 2019. Kristi’s initial project in the Moseley lab revealed a new mechanism of t-SNARE regulation in fission yeast. Combining quantitative microscopy and genetic approaches, Kristi and co-authors found that clustering of a conserved t-SNARE Psy1 (S. pombe Syntaxin) into multi-protein nodes at non-growing fission yeast cell sides restricts exocytosis to growing cell tips. Collectively, this work identifies a new mechanism that contributes to spatial control of polarized cell growth. This work was published in Molecular Biology of the Cell in 2021. Kristi’s current research focuses on how cells control their size. Upcoming Events Research in Progress Seminars: Lisa Francomacaro June 2 @ 4:00 pm - 5:00 pm PhD Thesis Presentation: “Deciphering phosphoprotein phosphatase signaling networks using proteomics approaches” Brooke Brauer June 27 @ 11:00 am - 12:00 pm View All Events Employment Opportunities Tenure-Track Faculty Position in Biochemistry and Cell Biology Tenure-Track Assistant Professor Department of Biochemistry and Cell Biology and the Norris Cotton Cancer Center Research Assistant II - Bill Wickner Lab at Dartmouth Laboratory Technician III - Higgs Lab Research Assistant II - Higgs Lab Latest TweetsMy Tweets Quick Links Geisel School of Medicine Dartmouth College Find People Admissions Biomedical Libraries Geisel Computing Affiliated Hospitals Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center White River Junction VA Medical Center California Pacific Medical Center Indian Health Service Medical Centers Contact US Department of Biochemistry and Cell Biology Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth 7200 Vail Hanover, NH 03755-3844 E-mail: biochemistry@dartmouth.edu Phone: (603) 646-5207 Fax: (603) 650-1128 Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Higher Education Act Information Dartmouth Compliance and Ethics Hotline This page may link to PDF files. Use this link to download Adobe Reader if needed.