Skip to main content Main navigation Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Search CALS Main Menu DiscoverCals Search CALS Search Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Main navigation Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About DiscoverCALS Close Main Menu Main navigation Panels Back Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Back Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Back Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Back Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series Back About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Breadcrumb Home Research Our Experts Amanda D. Rodewald Amanda Rodewald Garvin Professor, Natural Resources and the Environment Senior Director of the Center for Avian Population Studies, Laboratory of Ornithology About Amanda D. Rodewald is the Garvin Professor and Senior Director of the Center for Avian Population Studies at the Cornell Lab of Ornithology and the Department of Natural Resources and the Environment at Cornell University. Prior to joining Cornell in 2013, she spent 13 years as a professor at Ohio State University. Dr. Rodewald received a B.S. in Wildlife Biology from University of Montana, a M.S. in Zoology from University of Arkansas, and a PhD in Ecology from Pennsylvania State University. Her interdisciplinary research integrates population, community, and landscape ecology with conservation biology and sustainability science, and uses community science, big data, and computational modeling to understand and address conservation challenges in temperate and tropical landscapes. At Cornell, Dr. Rodewald also serves on the Faculty Advisory Board of the Cornell Atkinson Center for Sustainability. Since 2000, Dr. Rodewald has generated more than $9 million in research funding and has published over 170 scientific papers, an Ornithology textbook, 10 book chapters, and over 60 popular articles and commentaries, including bimonthly pieces for The Hill, a news source for politicians and advisors on Capitol Hill. Dr. Rodewald is a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) and the American Ornithological Society. She has previously served on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Science Advisory Board and Ecological Processes and Effects Committee, and she chaired the SAB panel reviewing the Waters of the US report. Her national leadership roles also include serving on the Scientific Review Committee of the National Socio-environmental Synthesis Center and the nominating committee of AAAS. She also has presented at Congressional briefings and hearings on legislative matters related to conservation and environmental protection. Dr. Rodewald aligns her research and outreach efforts in ways that support policy and management, and she regularly collaborates with and/or advises partners in government agencies, NGOs, and the private sector. Education Ph.D. in Ecology, 2000. Pennsylvania State University, University Park, Pennsylvania. M.S. in Zoology, 1995. University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, Arkansas. B.S. in Wildlife Biology, 1992. University of Montana, Missoula, Montana. Recent Research As an ecologist and conservation biologist, I seek to identify and understand the needs and threats facing ecosystems and species globally, the actions needed to ensure conservation, and the ways to work with people to achieve them. Because my work is motivated by a deep commitment to discover and innovate, move science into action and build capacity in others, I collaborate with a wide range of scientists, decision-makers, practitioners, and partners in public and private sectors to develop approaches that support people, biodiversity, and the environment. My current projects focus on (1) responses of animal populations and ecological communities to changes in land use, climate, invasive species, and disturbance regimes, (2) social and ecological dynamics in cities, working landscapes, and biodiversity hotspots, (3) sustainable management of temperate and tropical forests and agroecosystems, (4) conservation planning and prioritization, and (5) innovative finance and incentives to promote conservation and alleviate poverty. Awards & Honors Fellow, American Association for the Advancement of Science Honorary doctorate, Universidad Cientifica del Perú Fellow, American Ornithologists Union Fellow, CIC Academic Leadership Program International Fellow, Wall Institute for Advanced Studies, Univ. British Columbia Public Voices Fellow, The Op-Ed Project Courses Taught Conservation Controversies – Graduate seminar (team-taught alternating years) Contact Information Cornell Lab, 159 Sapsucker Woods Road 103 Fernow Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 (607) 254-2176 arodewald [at] cornell.edu Additional Links Dr. Rodewald at the Cornell Lab Center for Avian Population Studies Video: Conservation, coffee, and communities Video: Radical collaborations Selected Publications Journal Publications and Proceedings Jones, T.M., J.D. Brawn, I.J. Ausprey, A.C. Vitz, A.D. Rodewald, D.W. Raybuck, T.J. Boves, C.J. Fiss, D.J. McNeil, S.H. Stoleson, J.L. Larkin, W.A. Cox, A.C. Schwarzer, N. Horsley, E.M. Trumbo, and M.P. Ward. 2020. Parental benefits and offspring costs reflect parent-offspring conflict over the age of fledging among songbirds. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. Liang, Y., I. Rudik, E. Zou, A. Johnston, A.D. Rodewald, C.L. Kling. 2020. Conservation Co-benefits from air pollution regulation. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. Lin, H.Y., R. Schuster, S. Wilson, S.J. Cooke, A.D. Rodewald, and J.R. Bennett. 2020. Integrating season-specific needs of migratory and resident birds in conservation planning. Biological Conservation 252:108826. Sullivan, S.M.P., M. Rains, A.D. Rodewald, W.W. Buzbee, and A.D. Rosemond. 2020. Distorting science, putting water at risk. Science 369: 766-768. Rodewald, A.D., P. Arcese, J. Sarra, J. Tobin-de la Puente, J. Sayer, F. Hawkins, T. Martin, B. Guy, and K. Wachowicz. 2020. Innovative finance for conservation: roles for ecologists and practitioners. Ecological Society of America, Issues in Ecology. Swift, Rose. J., A.D. Rodewald, J. Johnson, B. Andres, and N. Senner. 2020. Seasonal survival and reversible state effects in a long-distance migratory shorebird. Journal of Animal Ecology. doi:10.1111/1365-2656.13246. McNeil, D.J., A.D. Rodewald, V. Ruiz-Gutierrez, K.E. Johnson, M. Strimas-Mackey, S. Petzinger, O.J. Robinson, G.E. Soto, A. A. Dhondt, and J. Larkin. 2020. Multi-scale drivers of restoration outcomes for an imperiled songbird. Restoration Ecology 28:880-891. doi: 10.1111/rec.13147 Johnston, A., T. Auer, D. Fink, M. Strimas-Mackey, M. Iliff, K. Rosenberg, S. Brown, R. Lanctot, A.D. Rodewald, S. Kelling. 2020. Comparing abundance distributions and range maps in spatial conservation planning for migratory species. Ecological Applications 30:e02058. doi.org/10.1002/eap.2058 Rodewald, A.D., M. Strimas-Mackey, R. Schuster, and P. Arcese. 2019. Tradeoffs in the value of biodiversity feature and cost data in conservation prioritization. Scientific Reports 9: article 15921 Martell J.E.M. and A.D. Rodewald. 2019. Frames, facts, and the science of communicating environmental crises. Conservation Biology. DOI: 10.1111/cobi.13424 Wilson, S., R. Schuster, A.D. Rodewald, J.R. Bennett, A.C. Smith, LaSorte, F.A., Verburg, P.H., and P. Arcese. 2019. Prioritize diversity or declining species? Trade-offs and synergies in spatial planning for the conservation of migratory birds in the face of land cover change. Biological Conservation 239:108285. Bennett, R.E., A.D. Rodewald, and K.V. Rosenberg. 2019. Overlooked sexual segregation of habitats exposes female migratory landbirds to threats. Biological Conservation 240:109266. Sullivan, S.M.P., M. Rains, and A.D. Rodewald. 2019. The proposed change to the definition of “waters of the United States” flouts sound science. Proceedings of the National Academy of Science 116:11558-11561. Schuster, R., Wilson S., Rodewald, A. D., Arcese P., Fink, D., Auer, T., Bennett, J. R. 2019. Optimizing the conservation of migratory species over their full annual cycle. Nature Communications 10:1754. doi.org/10.1038/s41467-019-09723-8 Arcese, P. and A.D. Rodewald. 2019. Predictors and consequences of earthworm invasion in a coastal archipelago. Biological Invasions. doi.org/10.1007/s10530-019-01942-w Hernandez-Aguilera, J.N., J. Conrad, M. Gomez, and A.D. Rodewald. 2019. The economics and ecology of shade-grown coffee: A model to incentivize shade and bird conservation. Ecological Economics 159:110-121. Rodewald, A.D. and P. Arcese. 2017. Reproductive contributions of cardinals are consistent with a hypothesis of relaxed selection in urban landscapes. Frontiers in Ecology and Evolution. Volume 5: article 77. DOI: 10.3389/fevo.2017.00077 Schuster, R., A.D. Rodewald, T.G. Martin,, K.A. Wilson,. E.A. Law, M. Watts , H.P. Possingham & P. Arcese. 2017. Tax-shifting and incentives for biodiversity conservation on private lands. Conservation Letters. DOI: 10.1111/conl.12377 LaSorte, F., D.Fink, P.J. Blancher, A.D. Rodewald, V. Ruiz-Gutierrez, K.V. Rosenberg, W.M. Hochachka, P.H. Verburg, and S. Kelling. 2017. Global change and the distributional dynamics of migratory bird populations wintering in Central America. Global Change Biology. DOI: 10.1111/gcb.13794 Rodewald, A.D., R.P. Rohr, M.A. Fortuna, and J. Bascompte. 2015. Does removal of invasives restore ecological networks? An experimental approach. Biological Invasions 17:2139-2146. DOI: 10.1007/s10530-015-0866-7 Colorado, G. J. Z. and A. D. Rodewald. 2015. Assembly patterns of mixed-species flocks in the Andes. Journal of Animal Ecology 84: 386-395. Amanda in the news News September 27, 2021 Quick View eBird data can help track bee health The project allows the Cornell Lab of Ornithology and the Cornell Atkinson Center for Sustainability to devise a new method of tracking the health of the all-important arthropod populations that are a part of pollinating one out of every three... Cornell Atkinson Lab of Ornithology Natural Resources and the Environment News June 16, 2021 Quick View Cornell researchers spur scientists to play bigger role in future Clean-Water policy For the Cornell Atkinson Center for Sustainability (Cornell Atkinson) faculty fellows Catherine Kling and Amanda Rodewald, the announcement isn’t just something to celebrate; it’s a call to action. Last year, Kling and Rodewald each co-authored... Cornell Atkinson Lab of Ornithology Natural Resources and the Environment Life. Changing. Visit CALS Explore Programs Diversity & Inclusion Support CALS Contact CALSLinks & Resources Information For Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Staff CALS Alumni NYS Residents Get Connected Newsroom Upcoming Events Media Relations CALS Directory Jobs at CALS Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Footer menu Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Equal Education & Employment Land Acknowledgment Sustainability Commitment Emergency Information