Skip to main content ICERM Documentation Search Topics Log in Info Content Recent Topics Policies Policies for using audio-visual and information technology resources at ICERM. Virtual Workshop Resources An overview of software, best practices, and logistics for successful virtual events at ICERM. Cube User guide for ICERM's Application and Visit Management System Cube. AV Systems Instructions for operating the audio-visual systems in ICERM's event spaces. Oscar Oscar is Brown's high-performance computing cluster managed by the Brown Center for Computation a... IT Resources General instructions for ICERM IT resources, including Brown IDs, wireless internet, and printing. Overview of IT Resources at ICERM Welcome to ICERM's documentation site. This site is our centralized repository of documentation and user guides for all of ICERM's technical systems, including internet access, printing, and computing resources. If you are just arriving to ICERM, please take a moment to read through the rest of this page for a brief overview of the technical resources available. General IT Resources Wireless Access, Printing, Brown ID Cards, and Office Technology Oscar HPC Usage of Brown's High-Performance Computing Cluster Virtual Workshop Resources Resources for running successful virtual and hybrid events at ICERM. AV Systems Audio-visual Systems User Guides Cube The Cube User Guide Policies ICERM and Brown IT Policies Internet Access Short-term/Workshop Visitors For attendees of ICERM workshops and other short-term visits of less than two weeks, the Brown-Guest wireless network is available for use without a password. Please be aware that Brown’s guest wireless network is unencrypted and bandwidth is limited. You cannot access library resources and some other Brown resources using Brown-Guest, and some types of traffic are restricted. The eduroam network is also available here at ICERM. Participants must set up eduroam first through their home institutions in order to use it at ICERM and other Brown facilities. Long-term/Semester Visitors All long-term visitors who will be at ICERM for at least two weeks are provided with a Brown account and ID card. Along with access to various Brown University services, this Brown user account will provide you with access to Brown's secure wireless network Brown. See the Wireless Access page for step-by-step setup instructions. Printing & Scanning Public Printing Terminals Printing is available for visitors from the IGEL thin client terminals by the reception desk on the 11th floor and across from the 10th floor classroom. The thin clients will allow you to print from any website or from a USB drive. Basic instructions for using the thin clients are available in the IGEL Thin Clients section of this wiki. Printing from your Laptop ICERM's three public printers are also enabled for wireless printing and are accessible from the Brown, Brown-Guest, and eduroam wireless networks. Detailed information about our printers and their locations and capabilities are available on the Printing at ICERM page. In addition, operating system specific instructions are available for macOS, Windows, and Linux. Scanning The ICERM copy machine (located behind the reception desk) is a multi-function copier that's able to scan papers to PDF and email them directly to you. Feel free to ask any staff for assistance with using the scanner. Computing Resources Office Technology ICERM provides thin clients in all 10th floor offices as well as in the common areas for visitor use. The IGEL thin clients run a custom thin version of Linux and provide open access to a web browser, SSH terminal and printing capability. Thin clients in the 10th floor offices also have the Oscar VNC client available for access to the Oscar High-Performance Computing Cluster (HPC). High-Performance Computing Long-term visitors to ICERM are provided with an exploratory account on the Oscar high performance computing cluster maintained by Brown's Center for Computation and Visualization. Oscar access may also be provided to short-term visitors on a case-by-case basis with justification and advance notice. See the Oscar High-Performance Computing Cluster (HPC) section of this site for details on how to use Oscar. Actions Toggle Details Dark Mode ICERM Homepage Cube Email IT Support Back to top