Skip to Main Content Brown University Dean of the Faculty Secondary Navigation Navigation Announcements Events Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Our Staff Departments, Centers and Programs Faculty Data Searches & Hiring Regular Faculty Search Regular Faculty Preselect Non-regular Faculty Search Non-regular Faculty Preselect Making Secondary Appointments Using Interfolio Background Check and Employment Verification Tenure & Promotion Standards, Criteria and Reviews Tenure Probation Extension Sabbatical & Leave Guidelines for Eligibility Sabbatical Research Newsletter Resources Joining the Faculty Handbook of Academic Administration Support for Families Research & Funding Teaching Support For Chairs and Directors Faculty Leadership Program Search Dean of the Faculty Sabbatical & Leave Sub Navigation In This Section Guidelines for Eligibility Sabbatical Research Newsletter Sabbatical & Leave Giving faculty the chance to step away from their normal duties to focus on research projects, fieldwork, artistic projects, and other professional opportunities. At Brown, we believe that sabbaticals open the door to crucial professional growth. While on sabbatical, Brown’s faculty apply their creativity and intellectual curiosity in exciting ways, ultimately contributing crucial new insights to academic literature and driving stimulating discussion in the classroom. Sabbaticals are available to all tenured faculty, junior sabbaticals are available to all tenure-track assistant professors, and scholarly leaves are available to full-time regular lecturers who do not hold staff appointments. Visiting, adjunct, research, clinical and other non-regular faculty are not eligible for sabbaticals. More details on the leave policy can be found in the Guidelines for Leave Eligibility section of this website, and the policies governing leaves can be found in the Handbook of Academic Administration, chapter thirteen. Applications for Leave Faculty members should make applications for leaves of any type (including unpaid leaves of absence) should be made through the chair of the faculty member’s unit in the January preceding the academic year in which the leave is to be taken. All leaves are subject to the approval of the Dean. Course Buyouts Course buyouts are governed by a separate policy, covered in chapter seven of the Handbook. To request a course buyout, use the course buyout form (PDF). Note that funds used to buy out courses do not accrue as GIF balances. Medical Leave Brown understands the uniqueness of every faculty member’s circumstances. Medical leave options are available for those who need to take time away from Brown to focus fully on their health and well-being. For information concerning medical leaves, contact Senior Associate Dean Revill. Parental teaching relief is not considered a leave of absence, as the faculty member is expected to continue with research, student advising and participation in University and departmental affairs. To apply for teaching relief, complete the Parental Teaching Relief form. Sabbatical Eligibility and Request Form Salary (semester/year) Eligibility Junior Sabbatical 100%/ 50% Untenured Assistant and Associate Professors Post-Tenure Sabbatical 100%/ 75% Tenured faculty in second year after tenure Sabbatical 75%/ n.a. Tenured faculty with 6 semesters of credit accrued Sabbatical (12 semesters) 100%/ 75% Tenured Faculty with 12 semesters of credit accrued Scholarly Leave 100%/ 50% Lecturers and senior lecturers with 12 semesters of credit accrued Download the Sabbatical Request Form (PDF) Sabbatical Research Newsletter University faculty on sabbatical are always finding creative ways to solve societal problems, collaborate across disciplines and make a positive impact. An annual Dean of the Faculty newsletter highlights research conducted by faculty during sabbatical leaves. Learn More Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Our Staff Departments, Centers and Programs Faculty Data Searches & Hiring Regular Faculty Search Regular Faculty Preselect Non-regular Faculty Search Non-regular Faculty Preselect Making Secondary Appointments Using Interfolio Background Check and Employment Verification Tenure & Promotion Standards, Criteria and Reviews Tenure Probation Extension Sabbatical & Leave Guidelines for Eligibility Sabbatical Research Newsletter Resources Joining the Faculty Handbook of Academic Administration Support for Families Research & Funding Teaching Support For Chairs and Directors Faculty Leadership Program Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Announcements Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Sabbatical & Leave Open details for Sabbatical & Leave Bookmark this Page