Skip to Main Content Brown University Dean of the Faculty Secondary Navigation Navigation Announcements Events Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Our Staff Departments, Centers and Programs Faculty Data Searches & Hiring Regular Faculty Search Regular Faculty Preselect Non-regular Faculty Search Non-regular Faculty Preselect Making Secondary Appointments Using Interfolio Background Check and Employment Verification Tenure & Promotion Standards, Criteria and Reviews Tenure Probation Extension Sabbatical & Leave Guidelines for Eligibility Sabbatical Research Newsletter Resources Joining the Faculty Handbook of Academic Administration Support for Families Research & Funding Teaching Support For Chairs and Directors Faculty Leadership Program Search Dean of the Faculty Regular Faculty Search Breadcrumb Home Searches & Hiring Sub Navigation In This Section Regular Faculty Search Regular Faculty Preselect Non-regular Faculty Search Non-regular Faculty Preselect Making Secondary Appointments Using Interfolio Background Check and Employment Verification Regular Faculty Search A step-by-step guide to conducting a search for regular faculty — including assistant, associate and full professors and lecturers, senior lecturers and distinguished senior lecturers. Step 1. Search Authorization Time The spring before the search is to be conducted Actions to take Emailed response to the search authorization memo sent to departments in late spring. A link to your Interfolio search site will be included. Documents required None Step 2. Hiring Plan Time Summer, after your search has been authorized Actions to take None if using Interfolio; otherwise, the Hiring Plan for Faculty Searches (submit to Faculty Personnel). Documents required Hiring Plan (for departments that do not use Interfolio). Step 3. Interfolio Setup Time Summer Actions to take Set up your search in Interfolio, but leave it unpublished. Some things to remember: Leave the closing date blank. In the "Internal Notes" section, list your search committee members and identify the Diversity Representative and the Committee Chair. In the General Notes section, discuss advertising venues/ plans for generating a robust candidate pool. If your search is open or senior rank, you must include the "associate and full background check" form as a required form. Documents required None Step 4. Search Approval Time Summer Actions to take Email the Dean's office when your Interfolio setup is ready to be reviewed. Leave the "apply now" page unpublished until you receive approval. Once you do receive approval, set the search status to "accepting applications." Documents required None Step 5. Longlist (required for pools of 100 applicants or more) Time After the deadline for applications Actions to take Mark longlisted candidates using the "status" feature in Interfolio. Documents required None Step 6. Interim Pool Report Time After the committee has agreed upon a short-list of candidates for invitation to campus Actions to take Submit an Interim Pool Report form via the search web form. Be sure to include both the candidates you'd like to interview, and a second tier of an equal number of candidates who will not be interviewed. Once it is approved, you may continue with the search process. Units not using Interfolio should use the Pool Report Form. The Diversity Rep should submit the initial Diversity Report at this time using the Faculty Hiring web form. Non-Interfolio units can use the form below. Documents required Interim Pool Report Form (For non Interfolio units only). Step 6. Diversity Representative Report Time None Actions to take The DR is required to submit a diversity report to the relevant dean before any on-campus interviews will be approved. Documents required Automatically generated DR for Interfolio units. For others use the Diversity Report form. Step 7. Hiring Report Time Once you have settled on a final ranking of candidates Actions to take Submit the Compliance Report using the Faculty Hiring web form. Minutes from relevant faculty meetings, a memo from the department or committee chair, and any additional letters that have arrived since the Interim Pool Report should be attached via Interfolio. Documents required Automatically generated reports for Interfolio units. Compliance report and Diversity Update for non Interfolio units. Step 8. Letters of Reference (senior candidates only) Time After you have chosen a finalist, before the candidate appears before TPAC Actions to take Tenure evaluators for senior candidates must be vetted with the Dean of the Faculty's office before requests for references can be sent. This process takes place by email. Send a list of all prospective referees, making note of whether they were suggested by the candidate or the department to the office of the DOF. Documents required None Step 9. Offer Letter Time After all steps in the hiring process are completed Actions to take Financial details of regular faculty offer letters must be approved by the Dean of the Faculty and the offer letter itself will be written by the Dean. Documents required None Step 10. Closing the Search Time After an offer has been accepted Actions to take Add a closing date to your search (after the last application came in, but before the day on which you take this action) in Interfolio, set "hired" status to anyone who was hired, and then close the search. Documents required None Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Our Staff Departments, Centers and Programs Faculty Data Searches & Hiring Regular Faculty Search Regular Faculty Preselect Non-regular Faculty Search Non-regular Faculty Preselect Making Secondary Appointments Using Interfolio Background Check and Employment Verification Tenure & Promotion Standards, Criteria and Reviews Tenure Probation Extension Sabbatical & Leave Guidelines for Eligibility Sabbatical Research Newsletter Resources Joining the Faculty Handbook of Academic Administration Support for Families Research & Funding Teaching Support For Chairs and Directors Faculty Leadership Program Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Announcements Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Regular Faculty Search Open details for Regular Faculty Search Bookmark this Page