Jump to navigation Princeton University Academic Jobs Faculty Voting Terms & Definitions Whom to Contact Quick Links Information Warehouse Labor Accounting PeopleSoft Davis International Center Human Resources McGraw Center for Teaching and Learning Postdoctoral Council University League Information Technology Policy Institutional Equity and Diversity Records Management University Archives University Library Office of theDean of the Faculty Search form Search About Our Office Faculty & Academic Professionals Directory of Academic Units, Chairs, Directors & Managers Endowed Professorships, Preceptorships & Fellowships Clerk of the Faculty: Committees & Meetings Working at Princeton Apply for an Academic Job Benefits, Compensation & Resources Learning & Professional Development Diversity & Inclusion Faculty Search Process Presidential Postdoctoral Research Fellows Presidential Visiting Scholars Program Additional Resources Policies & Procedures Policy Library Rules & Procedures Publications Guide to Academic Unit and Library Administration Faculty Retirement Guidelines Faculty Pay Schedules Forms & Data Submission Memos & Dates Dates to Remember Announcement Archive Numbered Memo Archive DOF Timeline Faculty and Academic Professionals Princeton University is a community devoted to learning through both teaching and research. As a community, we respect the dignity, distinctiveness, and freedom of each individual yet, at the same time, we strive to be a place where individuals and groups learn with and from each other. We remain unwavering in our commitment to both diversity and community in a context of academic excellence. The Faculty We actively wish to seek and retain faculty of exceptional ability and who share in our commitment to excellence in teaching and scholarship. All faculty members at Princeton are expected to teach, as well as engage in research. Faculty members work closely with undergraduates in the supervision of junior-year independent work and senior theses. Updated news and announcements regarding our faculty can be found here. In fall 2020, the faculty (including visitors and part-time faculty) totaled 1295, including 520 professors, 123 associate professors, 181 assistant professors, 18 instructors, 330 lecturers, 27 senior lecturers, 7 lecturers w/rank of Professor, and 89 visitors. Seventy-eight percent of the professorial faculty is tenured. Excluding visitors, 455 members of the faculty are women, and 114 self-identified as members of minority groups. There were 190 tenured women on the faculty in fall 2020. Academic Professionals Princeton scientists, scholars, and librarians are involved in a wide rage of intellectual investigation and research. Opportunities for many levels of independent research and collaboration across the University are available--including postdoctoral research opportunities, as well as visiting and fellowship appointments. In fall 2020, the academic professional population totaled 1530, including 1027 professional researchers (inclusive of 705 postdoctoral researchers), 195 professional specialists, 72 professional librarians, and 236 visitors. Our Office Faculty & Academic Professionals Directory of Academic Units, Chairs, Directors & Managers Endowed Professorships, Preceptorships & Fellowships Clerk of the Faculty: Committees & Meetings Office of the Dean of the Faculty Princeton University 9 Nassau Hall, Princeton, NJ 08544-5264 Phone: 609-258-3020 Fax: 609-258-2168 Email: dof@princeton.edu Photos: Office of Communications, Denise Applewhite Ask a Question Give Feedback Request Data Rules & Procedures of the Faculty Rights, Rules, and Responsibilities University-Wide Policies Employer Obligation Regarding Records Workplace Notices © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University