Jump to navigation Princeton University Academic Jobs Faculty Voting Terms & Definitions Whom to Contact Quick Links Information Warehouse Labor Accounting PeopleSoft Davis International Center Human Resources McGraw Center for Teaching and Learning Postdoctoral Council University League Information Technology Policy Institutional Equity and Diversity Records Management University Archives University Library Office of theDean of the Faculty Search form Search About Our Office Faculty & Academic Professionals Directory of Academic Units, Chairs, Directors & Managers Endowed Professorships, Preceptorships & Fellowships Clerk of the Faculty: Committees & Meetings Working at Princeton Apply for an Academic Job Benefits, Compensation & Resources Learning & Professional Development Diversity & Inclusion Faculty Search Process Presidential Postdoctoral Research Fellows Presidential Visiting Scholars Program Additional Resources Policies & Procedures Policy Library Rules & Procedures Publications Guide to Academic Unit and Library Administration Faculty Retirement Guidelines Faculty Pay Schedules Forms & Data Submission Memos & Dates Dates to Remember Announcement Archive Numbered Memo Archive DOF Timeline Announcements Gene A. Jarrett Appointed Dean of the Faculty August 05, 2021 Gene A. Jarrett was appointed dean of the faculty effective August 1, 2021. Read more here. October Faculty Meeting Canceled September 15, 2020 In accordance with the Rules & Procedures of the Faculty, no meeting will be held in October, 2020, because there was neither a request for nor approval of one at the September, 2020 meeting. New Postdoctoral Researchers Website July 07, 2020 The DOF has created a new website, postdocs.princeton.edu, for Postdocs (including PDRA, PDRF, PGRA and SRA ranks). It focuses on providing relevant information such as academic resources, campus resources, academic positions, career guidance, policies, etc for incoming postdocs, Partial Resumption of Campus Operations and Workplace July 06, 2020 COVID-19 update March 22, 2020 To: All DOF appointees From: Sanjeev R. Kulkarni Date: March 22, 2020 Subject: COVID-19 update Dear Colleagues, Holding Classes during Weather Events January 23, 2020 As we move into the winter months and try to plan around the inevitable bad weather, we write to provide some guidance regarding the conditions under which it would be appropriate to hold or cancel your classes. January Faculty Meeting Canceled December 03, 2019 In accordance with the Rules & Procedures of the Faculty, no meeting will be held in January, 2020, because there was neither a request for nor approval of one at the December, 2019 meeting. Presidential Postdoctoral Research Fellows Program October 15, 2019 To: Assistant, Associate and Full Professors From: Sanjeev R. Kulkarni Date: October 9, 2019 Re: Presidential Postdoctoral Research Fellows Program October Faculty Meeting Canceled September 24, 2019 In accordance with the Rules & Procedures of the Faculty, no meeting will be held in October, 2019, because there was neither a request for nor approval of one at the September, 2019 meeting. New policy regarding consensual relations with students April 02, 2019 To: Members of the Faculty From: Sanjeev R. Kulkarni Date: April 2, 2019 Subject: New policy regarding consensual relations with students January Faculty Meeting Canceled January 03, 2019 In accordance with the Rules & Procedures of the Faculty, no meeting will be held in January, 2019, because there was neither a request for nor approval of one at the December, 2018 meeting. Two New Diversity Initiatives (Postdoctoral Research Fellows and Visiting Scholars Programs) December 07, 2018 Click on the following link to see the announcement of Two New Diversity Initiatives (Postdoctoral Research Fellows and Visiting Scholars Program). Policies Governing Sexual Misconduct by Faculty Members September 24, 2018 Click on the following link to see a letter on Policies Governing Sexual Misconduct by Faculty Members sent to Members of the Faculty by President Eisgruber and Dean Kulkarni. October Faculty Meeting Canceled September 20, 2018 In accordance with the Rules & Procedures of the Faculty, no meeting will be held in October, 2018, because there was neither a request for nor approval of one at the September, 2018 meeting. Upcoming Benefits Orientations for new DOF Hires August 07, 2018 The Office of Human Resources is going to offer two special benefit orientations for new DOF hires on the 7th floor of New South in the Training Room. These sessions will be an opportunity to learn about the numerous benefits offered at Princeton and how to enroll. The sessions will be offered Thursday, August 30th at 1:00pm or Friday, September 7th at 9:30am. Oliver Avens joins the Deans Office as Associate Dean for Academic Affairs August 01, 2018 It is our pleasure to welcome Oliver Avens as Associate Dean of Academic Affairs, effective August 1. Oliver’s responsibilities will focus on the faculty in all four divisions of the University, with oversight of tenured and tenure-track faculty searches, including approval of ads, search plans, short lists and EEO compliance. He will manage the recruitment and appointment processes of new assistant professors, instructors and senior lecturers, and review and approve their offer letters. Alice Seneres joins the Dean's Office as Assistant Dean for Academic Affairs July 17, 2018 Alice Seneres joined the Office of the Dean of the Faculty on June 13th, 2018. Read more about Alice here. Karen Haskin joins the Dean's Office as Associate Dean for Academic Affairs July 17, 2018 Karen Haskin joined the Office of the Dean of the Faculty on April 1st, 2018. Read more about Karen here. Holding Classes during Weather Events March 26, 2018 As we move into the winter months and try to plan around the inevitable bad weather, we write to provide some guidance regarding the conditions under which it would be appropriate to hold or cancel your classes. Jessica Mathewson joins the Dean's Office as Senior Associate Director for Governance February 19, 2018 Jessica Mathewson joined the Office of the Dean of the Faculty on February 5, 2018. As Senior Associate Director for Governance, Jessica is responsible for overseeing faculty governance processes, organizing and reporting the resulting information to University constituents, and serving as a resource for academic departments on faculty governance issues. Among her responsibilities are the oversight and management of the work of the Faculty Advisory Committee on Appointments and Advancements (C/3) and Office of the Dean of the Faculty trustee reporting. John Scanlon joins the Dean’s Office as Associate Dean for Data Analysis and Operations August 08, 2017 John Scanlon joined our office as Associate Dean for Data Analysis and Operations on July 31st. John joins us from Harvard University where he was Assistant Director in the Office of Institutional Research. Prior to his work at Harvard, he worked in Institutional Research and Data Management positions at MIT and Columbia. Kulkarni Appointed Dean of the Faculty June 05, 2017 Sanjeev Kulkarni was appointed dean of the faculty effective July 1, 2017. >> Search Authorization Request Form Now Open May 13, 2017 UPDATE (6/1/2017): REQUESTS ARE NOW CLOSED FOR THE 2017-18 ACADEMIC YEAR; THE APPLICATION CAN STILL BE USED TO VIEW PREVIOUSLY SUBMITTED REQUESTS The Office of the Dean of the Faculty is now accepting all requests for faculty searches for 2017-18 via an online web application. The application, which replaces the PDF form used in previous years, is available here: Search Authorization Request Application New Appointment, Reappointment, and Promotion Forms for RSL and Non-Teaching Visiting Ranks May 01, 2017 We have updated our forms for appointing, reappointing, and promoting those in the RSL and non-teaching visiting ranks. Please use the new versions of the forms for any actions that are submitted to our office after May 1st. Detailed submission information can be found on our website: https://dof.princeton.edu/forms-submission/chairs-directors-managers Postdoctoral Policies Have Been Changed March 17, 2017 Policy changes relating to the terms of eligibility for postdoctoral researchers, particularly in the natural sciences and engineering, have become effective as of March 1, 2017. In summary, the changes are as follows: Dear Colleagues: Executive Order on Immigration January 27, 2017 Dear Colleagues, Scott McGoldrick Joins the Dean's Office as Associate Dean for Finance January 19, 2017 Scott McGoldrick joined our office as Associate Dean for Finance in January 2017. Scott is returning to Princeton from Rutgers University where he was Associate Dean for Finance and Administration in The School for Social Work. In our office, Scott will ensure that the full range of the financial resources and operations of the Office of the Dean of the Faculty (ODOF) are effectively designed, allocated and managed in support of our priorities and needs. He will be responsible for developing and implementing ODOF and University-wide financial policies and procedures, and he will identify and implement best practices and innovative methods of financial management to enhance the overall effectiveness and productivity of ODOF financial operations. Scott received his B.A. from Harvard College, and his M.B.A. from Boston University Graduate School of Management. Welcome to Our New Website! December 13, 2016 As you explore the pages, please let us know what you think and feel free to ask questions. No Faculty Meeting in January, 2017 December 07, 2016 In accordance with the Rules & Procedures of the Faculty, no meeting will be held in January, 2017 because there was neither a request for nor approval of one at the December, 2016 meeting. New Online Faculty Leave Request Platform Launched November 02, 2016 Beginning this year, all faculty leave requests will be submitted and managed through a new online system. All leave requests must be initiated by individual faculty members in the HR Self-Service portal (www.princeton.edu/selfservice). Managers and Chairs will review the request and send their recommendation to the DOF via the online system. The DOF will review all leave requests in a timely manner and send out notification as soon as possible. Alan Patten Appointed Vice Dean for Strategic Initiatives July 01, 2016 Alan W. Patten, Howard Harrison and Gabrielle Snyder Beck Professor of Politics, has joined the Dean's office as Vice Dean of the Faculty for Strategic Initiatives. In this new role, Alan will provide support in defining, evaluating, and implementing the objectives that are emerging from the University’s strategic planning process. He will work closely with faculty leaders and administrative colleagues to develop and implement strategic new initiatives and to mobilize faculty constituencies behind these initiatives. Drew Allen Joins the Dean's Office as Associate Dean of Data Analysis and Operations December 14, 2015 Drew Allen joined our office as Associate Dean for Data Analysis and Operations in December 2015. Kate Baxter Joins the Dean's Office as Assistant Dean September 01, 2015 Kate Baxter joined our office as Assistant Dean of the Faculty in September 2015. Lisa Scalice Joins the Dean's Office as Assistant Dean July 01, 2015 Lisa Scalice has joined our office as Assistant Dean of the Faculty. In this new role, Lisa will be responsible for academic professional staff and visitor matters in the four University academic divisions, as well as the University Library and the Art Museum, including the search process, their appointments and advancements, salaries, leaves, and terminations. She will also manage the appointment and reappointment process for academic advisory councils, acting as liaison with the Development office and academic departments. Tamara Thatcher Joins the Dean's Office as Assistant Dean November 03, 2014 Tamara Thatcher joined our office as Assistant Dean of the Faculty. In this role, Tamara will have primary responsibility for monitoring and managing the University’s teaching budget and will represent our office in conversations related to the teaching budget. She will review all lecturer and visitor appointments and reappointments prior to approval; manage the faculty leave process; and work to ensure faculty assignments are accurately recorded in the University’s Labor Accounting system. Deborah Prentice Selected as Dean of the Faculty June 04, 2014 Deborah Prentice, Princeton's Alexander Stewart 1886 Professor of Psychology and Public Affairs and chair of the Department of Psychology, will become dean of the faculty on July 1. Read in Princeton University News Generic Announcement September 07, 2010 Dates to Remember Announcement Archive Numbered Memo Archive DOF Timeline Office of the Dean of the Faculty Princeton University 9 Nassau Hall, Princeton, NJ 08544-5264 Phone: 609-258-3020 Fax: 609-258-2168 Email: dof@princeton.edu Photos: Office of Communications, Denise Applewhite Ask a Question Give Feedback Request Data Rules & Procedures of the Faculty Rights, Rules, and Responsibilities University-Wide Policies Employer Obligation Regarding Records Workplace Notices © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University