Skip to Main Content Brown University Dean of the Faculty Secondary Navigation Navigation Announcements Events Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Our Staff Departments, Centers and Programs Faculty Data Searches & Hiring Regular Faculty Search Regular Faculty Preselect Non-regular Faculty Search Non-regular Faculty Preselect Making Secondary Appointments Using Interfolio Background Check and Employment Verification Tenure & Promotion Standards, Criteria and Reviews Tenure Probation Extension Sabbatical & Leave Guidelines for Eligibility Sabbatical Research Newsletter Resources Joining the Faculty Handbook of Academic Administration Support for Families Research & Funding Teaching Support For Chairs and Directors Faculty Leadership Program Search Dean of the Faculty Non-regular Faculty Search Breadcrumb Home Searches & Hiring Sub Navigation In This Section Regular Faculty Search Regular Faculty Preselect Non-regular Faculty Search Non-regular Faculty Preselect Making Secondary Appointments Using Interfolio Background Check and Employment Verification Non-regular Faculty Search Non-regular faculty members — such as adjunct, visiting or research faculty — hold appointments other than those in the professorial ranks or lecturer categories. Step 1. Setting up Interfolio Actions to take Once you have started your search in Interfolio, email the Office of Faculty Personnel to request approval. Do not publish or launch your search until you have received approval from the Dean of the Faculty's office. Some things to remember: Leave the closing date blank or use the rolling closing date option. In the “Internal Notes” section, list your search committee members and identify the Diversity Representative and the Committee Chair. If your department does not use Interfolio, fill out a Hiring Plan. Documents required Hiring plan for units not using Interfolio. Step 2. Search Approval Actions to take Email DOF Faculty Personnel when your Interfolio setup is ready to be reviewed. Once you receive approval by email, you can publish the search and set the search status to “accepting applications.” Documents required None Step 3. Interim Pool Report Actions to take Submit an Interim Pool Report form via the search web portal. Once it is approved, you may continue with the search process. Units not using Interfolio should use the Pool Report Form. The Diversity Rep should submit the initial Diversity Report at this time using the web portal. Non-Interfolio units can use the forms below. Documents required Interim Pool Report Form and Diversity Report Form for non-interfolio units. Step 4. FAF and Compliance Report Actions to take Complete your compliance report (via the portal) and fill out the Faculty Action Form in Workday. The Diversity Rep should submit the Diversity Update at this time. Units not using Interfolio can use the forms below. Documents required Compliance report and Diversity Update. Step 5. Offer Letter Actions to take Once your compliance report has been approved, you may make an informal offer. Note when making offers: RI law forbids you to ask a candidate their current salary before you have made an initial offer. Our office will prepare a formal offer letter once we have received and approved a compliance report and a Faculty Action Form via Workday. All offer letters are sent to the hiring unit for delivery to the candidate. Documents required None Step 6. Closing the Search Actions to take Add a closing date to the search in Interfolio, then change the status to “archive.” Use a closing date before the day you take the action, but after the last application came in. Documents required None Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Our Staff Departments, Centers and Programs Faculty Data Searches & Hiring Regular Faculty Search Regular Faculty Preselect Non-regular Faculty Search Non-regular Faculty Preselect Making Secondary Appointments Using Interfolio Background Check and Employment Verification Tenure & Promotion Standards, Criteria and Reviews Tenure Probation Extension Sabbatical & Leave Guidelines for Eligibility Sabbatical Research Newsletter Resources Joining the Faculty Handbook of Academic Administration Support for Families Research & Funding Teaching Support For Chairs and Directors Faculty Leadership Program Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Announcements Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Non-regular Faculty Search Open details for Non-regular Faculty Search Bookmark this Page