Jump to navigation Princeton University Academic Jobs Faculty Voting Terms & Definitions Whom to Contact Quick Links Information Warehouse Labor Accounting PeopleSoft Davis International Center Human Resources McGraw Center for Teaching and Learning Postdoctoral Council University League Information Technology Policy Institutional Equity and Diversity Records Management University Archives University Library Office of theDean of the Faculty Search form Search About Our Office Faculty & Academic Professionals Directory of Academic Units, Chairs, Directors & Managers Endowed Professorships, Preceptorships & Fellowships Clerk of the Faculty: Committees & Meetings Working at Princeton Apply for an Academic Job Benefits, Compensation & Resources Learning & Professional Development Diversity & Inclusion Faculty Search Process Presidential Postdoctoral Research Fellows Presidential Visiting Scholars Program Additional Resources Policies & Procedures Policy Library Rules & Procedures Publications Guide to Academic Unit and Library Administration Faculty Retirement Guidelines Faculty Pay Schedules Forms & Data Submission Memos & Dates Dates to Remember Announcement Archive Numbered Memo Archive DOF Timeline Faculty Advisory Committee on Diversity The Faculty Advisory Committee on Diversity (FACD) is composed of tenured faculty members representing all four academic divisions of the University. They advise the President, Provost, and Dean of the Faculty on issues and initiatives relating to diversity and inclusion, including faculty hiring, policies, curriculum, and campus climate. Resources are available to support the efforts of academic departments to diversify the faculty through the Target of Opportunity Program (ToO). The Dean of the Faculty is specifically interested in supporting faculty candidates who can contribute to the University’s diversity, broadly defined, including members of groups that have been historically and are presently underrepresented in the academy or in particular disciplines, such as racial and ethnic minorities and women in STEM. Department nominations are reviewed and approved by the FACD. Members serve three-year terms. Ex Officio: Christopher L. Eisgruber, Chair; Gene Jarrett, Secretary; Deborah A. Prentice Sits with Committee: Jill S. Dolan; Cole Crittenden Is it a ?: Faculty Committees Award entries: Faculty Member Department Division Rank Term Ends Duneier, Mitchell Sociology II Tenured 6/30/22 Dunkley, Jo Physics III Tenured 6/30/24 Lew-Williams, Beth History II Tenured 6/30/24 Meira Monteiro, Pedro Spanish & Portuguese I Tenured 6/30/23 Ponce de Leon, Monica Architecture I Tenured 6/30/22 Priestley, Rodney Chemical & Biological Engineering IV Tenured 6/30/24 Shelton, J. Nicole Psychology III Tenured 6/30/22 Stone, Howard A. Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering IV Tenured 6/30/23 * NT at time of election. Office of the Dean of the Faculty Princeton University 9 Nassau Hall, Princeton, NJ 08544-5264 Phone: 609-258-3020 Fax: 609-258-2168 Email: dof@princeton.edu Photos: Office of Communications, Denise Applewhite Ask a Question Give Feedback Request Data Rules & Procedures of the Faculty Rights, Rules, and Responsibilities University-Wide Policies Employer Obligation Regarding Records Workplace Notices © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University