Skip to Main Content Brown University Dean of the Faculty Secondary Navigation Navigation Announcements Events Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Our Staff Departments, Centers and Programs Faculty Data Searches & Hiring Regular Faculty Search Regular Faculty Preselect Non-regular Faculty Search Non-regular Faculty Preselect Making Secondary Appointments Using Interfolio Background Check and Employment Verification Tenure & Promotion Standards, Criteria and Reviews Tenure Probation Extension Sabbatical & Leave Guidelines for Eligibility Sabbatical Research Newsletter Resources Joining the Faculty Handbook of Academic Administration Support for Families Research & Funding Teaching Support For Chairs and Directors Faculty Leadership Program Search Dean of the Faculty Guidelines for Eligibility Breadcrumb Home Sabbatical & Leave Sub Navigation In This Section Guidelines for Eligibility Sabbatical Research Newsletter Guidelines for Eligibility Eligibility guidelines for sabbaticals and leaves of absence for faculty. A tenured faculty member is eligible for a sabbatic leave of absence for one semester at 75% salary after six semesters in residence. The faculty member may choose instead to continue teaching for an additional six semesters, after which time the sabbatical leave may be taken for two semesters at 75% of the academic year salary or for one semester with full salary. It is presumed that a faculty member on sabbatical leave is not receiving compensation for services in another institution or organization. Exceptions to this general rule must be approved in advance by the Dean. Faculty are expected to return to Brown (for at least a year) following sabbatical leave. Leaves, whether paid (sabbatical, leaves on special assignment, or leave with "top-up") or unpaid (leaves of absence), may be taken for a semester or a year. Only in exceptional cases may a leave be extended beyond a single year, but under no circumstances may it extend beyond two years. If a faculty member on leave with support from Brown (whether salary or top-up) requests a second year of leave, it will be granted only with the understanding that no support from Brown will be given. Faculty are required to have four semesters of service between any two leaves, with the exception of junior faculty, who are required to have three semesters of service between any two leaves. To help avail themselves of fellowships that only provide partial salary, faculty may request to advance or delay a sabbatical by up to one year (two semesters) without affecting the timing of the next one. This flexibility with the sabbatical schedule should be used whenever possible to combine such awards with sabbatical leaves. If a year-long prestigious fellowship is combined with a one-semester sabbatical and still doesn’t cover full salary, funds to top up the award will continue to be available, up to a maximum of 50% of a semester’s salary. If external funds are used to cover part of the sabbatical salary that would have been covered by Brown, the faculty member will receive a research fund equal to 70% of the sabbatical savings. No more than four semesters of leave of any kind is ordinarily possibly during a seven year period. Normally no more than 15% of an academic unit's faculty will be granted sabbatical in a given semester. Lecturers and Senior Lecturers are eligible to apply for a scholarly leave of one semester at full salary (or one year at half salary) following twelve semesters in residence. Leave guidelines for junior faculty will differ somewhat from those for tenured faculty: Junior faculty can seek one semester of paid leave at any time during their probationary period. This may be taken as a year at half salary, or combined with internal support (e.g. Wriston fellowship) or external support (grant or fellowship, possibly with top-up), to have the full year for research. Junior faculty are expected to teach for at least three semesters between any two leaves. Because leaves decrease teaching time, department chairs should advise untenured colleagues about the importance of establishing a good teaching record as well as an active research program. Additional Information Sabbatical & Leave Giving faculty the chance to step away from their normal duties to focus on research projects, fieldwork, artistic projects, and other professional opportunities. Sabbatical Research Newsletter Published by the Dean of the Faculty's office, the annual Brown Sabbatical Research Newsletter highlights research conducted by faculty during sabbatical leaves. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Our Staff Departments, Centers and Programs Faculty Data Searches & Hiring Regular Faculty Search Regular Faculty Preselect Non-regular Faculty Search Non-regular Faculty Preselect Making Secondary Appointments Using Interfolio Background Check and Employment Verification Tenure & Promotion Standards, Criteria and Reviews Tenure Probation Extension Sabbatical & Leave Guidelines for Eligibility Sabbatical Research Newsletter Resources Joining the Faculty Handbook of Academic Administration Support for Families Research & Funding Teaching Support For Chairs and Directors Faculty Leadership Program Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Announcements Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Guidelines for Eligibility Open details for Guidelines for Eligibility Bookmark this Page