Jump to navigation Princeton University Academic Jobs Faculty Voting Terms & Definitions Whom to Contact Quick Links Information Warehouse Labor Accounting PeopleSoft Davis International Center Human Resources McGraw Center for Teaching and Learning Postdoctoral Council University League Information Technology Policy Institutional Equity and Diversity Records Management University Archives University Library Office of theDean of the Faculty Search form Search About Our Office Faculty & Academic Professionals Directory of Academic Units, Chairs, Directors & Managers Endowed Professorships, Preceptorships & Fellowships Clerk of the Faculty: Committees & Meetings Working at Princeton Apply for an Academic Job Benefits, Compensation & Resources Learning & Professional Development Diversity & Inclusion Faculty Search Process Presidential Postdoctoral Research Fellows Presidential Visiting Scholars Program Additional Resources Policies & Procedures Policy Library Rules & Procedures Publications Guide to Academic Unit and Library Administration Faculty Retirement Guidelines Faculty Pay Schedules Forms & Data Submission Memos & Dates Dates to Remember Announcement Archive Numbered Memo Archive DOF Timeline Presidential Postdoctoral Research Fellows The Presidential Postdoctoral Research Fellows Program encourages early-career scholars to pursue a career in academia by supporting their postdoctoral work at Princeton University. The program recognizes and supports scholars who can contribute to the University’s diversity, broadly defined, including members of groups underrepresented in the academy or in particular disciplines, ranging from racial and ethnic minorities to women in STEM. The program aims to appoint an average of twelve postdoctoral fellows/associate research scholars per year, each holding a one-year appointment renewable for a second year. Candidates must be nominated by a member of the Faculty who will serve as their sponsor or PI. All assistant, associate and full professors may nominate a candidate and serve as their sponsor/PI. A call for nominations, along with the guidelines of the program, is distributed annually and nominations may be submitted on the DoF website during the nomination period. The Faculty Advisory Committee on Diversity is responsible for the review of nominations and the selection of the Fellows. The Presidential Postdoctoral Research Fellows program activities are led by three faculty directors: Mala Murthy, Professor of Neuroscience Rodney D. Priestley, Professor of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Vice Dean for Innovation Howard A. Stone, Donald R. Dixon '69 and Elizabeth W. Dixon Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering. Chair, Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering. The Faculty Directors serve as resources to the fellows, meeting with them monthly as a group to discuss their work and to provide them with opportunities for further exchange and professional development. The Office of the Dean of the Faculty provides administrative infrastructure for the program. Regan Mumolie, Academic Affairs Administrator in the Office of the Dean of the Faculty is the central point of contact for the program. She is responsible for administering the nomination, selection, and recruitment processes, and fields inquiries and requests for assistance from prospective nominees, from faculty interested in the nomination process, from PIs, from department managers and other department staff, and from the postdocs themselves. Renita Miller Renita Miller, Associate Dean for Access, Diversity and Inclusion, in The Graduate School provides program development and community building for the program. Renita works closely with the faculty co-directors to develop meaningful programming, focused on supporting the fellow’s professional development. Related Links: Twelve scholars named Presidential Postdoctoral Research Fellows with aim to enhance diversity in academia Sixteen scholars named Presidential Postdoctoral Research Fellows with aim to enhance diversity in academia Twelve scholars named Princeton’s first Presidential Postdoctoral Research Fellows Current Presidential Postdoctoral Research Fellows 2019 Cohort SamaHeadshot.jpg Sama Ahmed holds a bachelor’s degree in engineering from the University of Pennsylvania and a Ph.D. in neuroscience from the University of California-San Francisco (UCSF). Ahmed’s research at the Princeton Neuroscience Institute focuses on how neural activity related to locomotion modulates the patterns of other behaviors. In addition to his work in the lab, Ahmed is passionate about science communication, establishing the Carry the One Radio podcast at UCSF, focused on bringing the latest advances in science to the public. Ahmed is advised by Mala Murthy, professor of neuroscience. Christien Allen-Blanchette (3).png Christine Allen-Blanchette joins the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, building upon her expertise in constraining models from machine learning to maintain compatibility with the underlying structure of variation in visual images. Allen-Blanchette obtained her Ph.D. in computer and information science from the University of Pennsylvania and holds dual bachelor’s degrees in computer engineering and mechanical engineering from San Jose State University. Allen-Blanchette is advised by Naomi Leonard, the Edwin S. Wilsey Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, director of the Council on Science and Technology and associate director of the Program in Robotics and Intelligent Systems. Melissa Ball (2).jpeg Melissa Ball joins the Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, focusing on developing chemistries to realize new forms of hybrid organic-inorganic perovskites. Ball obtained her Ph.D. in chemistry from Columbia University. Prior to pursuing chemistry, Ball worked as an economist and equity strategy analyst. She holds a master’s degree in economics from the London School of Economics and bachelor’s degrees in economics and political science from the City University of New York. In addition to her research in chemical and biological engineering, Ball plans to assess the economic implications of rapid decarbonization through the Andlinger Center for Energy and the Environment. Ball is advised by Lynn Loo, the Theodora D. ’78 and William H. Walton III ’74 Professor in Engineering, professor of chemical and biological engineering and director of the Andlinger Center. cesarcolon-montijo0919_0010 (2).jpg César Colón-Montijo joins the Department of Spanish and Portuguese from Columbia University, where he obtained a Ph.D. in ethnomusicology. Colón-Montijo holds a master’s degree in anthropology and audiovisual communication from the University of Barcelona and a bachelor’s degree in communications from the University of Puerto Rico. His research spans Puerto Rican, Caribbean and Latinx media and cultural studies, and is focused on the production and reception of popular song, music, print and non-print texts and their role in shaping communities and social movements. In addition to his scholarly work, Colón-Montijo is a journalist and documentary filmmaker with experience in radio and television. Colón-Montijo is advised by Pedro Meira Monteiro, the Arthur W. Marks ’19 Professor of Spanish and Portuguese and chair of the Department of Spanish and Portuguese. sha li (2).png Sha Li holds a Ph.D. in physiology from Cornell University and a bachelor’s degree in biology from the University of Science and Technology of China. Li’s research at Princeton focuses on how genetic information controls the embryonic patterning decisions that lead to specific phenotypes. Li is advised by Ricardo Mallarino, assistant professor of molecular biology. Benjamin Rice.jpg Benjamin Rice joins the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology and obtained a Ph.D. from the department of organismic and evolutionary biology at Harvard University. He earned a bachelor’s degree in microbiology from Arizona State University. Rice’s work seeks to bridge fundamental scientific questions in ecology and evolutionary biology to highly applied questions of human health, in particular, for infectious disease. His postdoctoral research centers on genomic and serological analysis as part of a large-scale survey that Rice and collaborators coordinated across a wide diversity of community and ecosystem settings in Madagascar. With others in the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Rice focuses on developing statistical approaches to analyze temporal, spatial and demographic drivers of acquisition of immunity to provide a window onto pathogen diversity and its determinants in a resource-poor setting. Rice is advised by Jessica Metcalf, assistant professor of ecology and evolutionary biology and public affairs, Woodrow Wilson School. kathrin stark (2).jpg Kathrin Stark joins the Department of Computer Science, utilizing her education and research experience in the theory of programming languages and logics as the foundation of her research to design, build and verify a foreign function interface for verified programs. Stark has a passion for hard technical problems that require a mix of theoretical insight and engineering. She obtained her Ph.D. in computer science from Saarland University in Saarbrücken, Germany. Stark holds a master’s degree in advanced computer science from the University of Cambridge and a bachelor’s degree in computer science from Saarland University. Stark is advised by Andrew Appel, the Eugene Higgins Professor of Computer Science. Cynthia Ursino holds a Ph.D. and Licenciatura (equivalent to B.A. and M.A.) in biological sciences from the University of Buenos Aires. In the course of her Ph.D. studies, Ursino trained in genetics for two years at Harvard University. Her research focuses on the evolution of reproductive behaviors in birds, especially on coevolutionary interactions between brood parasitic birds and their hosts. Ursino joins the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, where her postdoctoral research brings together a rare set of samples collected in Argentina with cutting-edge genetic techniques. Ursino is advised by Christina Riehl, assistant professor of ecology and evolutionary biology. valentin.jpg Rafael Valentin joins the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology. Valentin holds a Ph.D. in ecology and evolution from Rutgers University. He obtained a bachelor’s degree in ecology, evolution and natural resources from Rutgers and is a combat veteran of the United States Armed Forces. Using cutting-edge molecular methods, Valentin has developed new techniques for assessing and monitoring the state of biological invasions, which have the potential to mitigate the impact and spread of invasive agricultural pests through early detection. At Princeton, Valentin uses related tools to fuse applied questions about species detection with theoretical inquiry regarding how species introductions influence emergent properties of communities. Valentin is advised by Rob Pringle, associate professor of ecology and evolutionary biology. Xiaohui Xu Xiaohui Xu joins the Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, focusing her postdoctoral research on developing near-infrared-responsive core-shell microgels and amorphous solid dispersions for controlled drug release. Xu’s research has provided significant contributions to the synthesis of photothermal materials and core-shell and yolk-shell nanoparticles, as well as their application in drug delivery, sensing and catalysis. She obtained her Ph.D. this spring from the College of Environmental Science and Engineering at Chang’an University in Xi’an, China, while undertaking thesis research at the Institute of Soft Matter and Functional Materials at Helmholtz-Zentrum Berlin für Materialien und Energie in Germany. Xu holds a master’s degree in applied chemistry from Chang’an University and a bachelor’s degree in chemistry from the Zhengzhou University of Light Industry. Xu is advised by Rodney Priestley, associate professor of chemical and biological engineering. 2020 cohort konane (2).jpg R. Kōnane Bay will join the Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, where she intends to develop a new class of materials within the emerging field of engineered living materials. Bay holds a Ph.D. in polymer science and engineering from the University of Massachusetts-Amherst and a bachelor’s degree in materials engineering from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. Bay received multiple awards for her Ph.D. research, including the ACS Eastman Chemical Student Award in Applied Polymer Science in 2019 and Best Poster Award at the Annual Meeting of the Adhesion Society in 2019. She was an APS Frank J. Padden Jr. Award finalist in 2020. Bay will be advised by Sujit Datta, assistant professor of chemical and biological engineering. Bailey Brown Bailey Brown will join the Department of Sociology, with a focus on how structural and cultural social processes limit opportunities and outcomes for families and contribute to the persistence of inequality, as exemplified by families’ school selection processes for their kindergarteners. Brown is completing her Ph.D. in sociology from Columbia University, where she previously earned a M.Phil. and an M.A. She holds a bachelor’s degree in sociology from the University of Pennsylvania. Brown will be advised by Jennifer Jennings, professor of sociology and public affairs, Woodrow Wilson School. Kofi Christie Kofi Christie will join the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, with a research objective to design and produce a novel, multifunctional polymer membrane that can be used in applications that leverage renewable forms of energy to generate clean water. Christie hold a Ph.D. in environmental engineering from Vanderbilt University and a bachelor’s degree in physics from Morehouse College. Christie will be advised by Z. Jason Ren, professor of civil and environmental engineering and the Andlinger Center for Energy and the Environment. Rodrick Kuate Defo Rodrick Kuate Defo will join the Department of Electrical Engineering. His proposed research will answer several open questions in the field of nanophotonics and provide new tools and design insights in the area of materials engineering. Kuate Defo completed his Ph.D. in physics with a secondary field in computational science and engineering at Harvard University. His bachelor’s degree in math and physics is from McGill University. Kuate Defo will be advised by Alejandro Rodriguez, associate professor of electrical engineering and director of the Program in Material Science and Engineering. Paola Estrada (2).jpeg Paola Estrada is a postdoctoral research associate in the Department of Molecular Biology, where she studies how small molecules are made by the human microbiome and how these molecules are involved in mediating interactions with the host and surrounding microbes. Estrada holds a Ph.D. in biochemistry from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, master’s credits in biochemistry from Hunter College, and a bachelor’s degree in forensic science from John Jay College of Criminal Justice. She is advised by Mohamed Abou Donia, assistant professor of molecular biology. Javier Masís will join the Princeton Neuroscience Institute, studying the phenomenon of learning within the framework of bounded optimality, working toward a broader, more comprehensive theory of cognition. Masís holds a Ph.D. in neuroscience from Harvard University, a master’s degree in biology from Harvard and a bachelor’s degree in molecular biology from Princeton. He will be advised by Jonathan Cohen, the Robert Bendheim and Lynn Bendheim Thoman Professor in Neuroscience, professor of psychology, and co-director of the Princeton Neuroscience Institute. Samantha McBride Samantha McBride will join the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering. Her research combines materials science, fluid physics and water chemistry toward developing antifouling materials for improving sustainability and lowering costs associated with water treatment. McBride holds a Ph.D. in mechanical engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, a master’s degree in chemical engineering from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute and a bachelor’s degree in environmental engineering from the University of Nevada. She will be advised by Howard Stone, the Donald R. Dixon ’69 and Elizabeth W. Dixon Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering and chair of the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering. Diogo Melo Diogo Melo will join the Lewis-Sigler Institute for Integrative Genomics, with a focus on the general problem of mapping genotype to phenotype for complex traits, and understanding how genetic networks drive phenotypic evolution. Melo’s degrees are from the Universidade de São Paulo, from which he has a Ph.D. in genetics and evolutionary biology and bachelor’s degrees in evolutionary biology and in biology and applied mathematics. He will be advised by Julien Ayroles, assistant professor of ecology and evolutionary biology and the Lewis-Sigler Institute for Integrative Genomics. Ravaris Moore Ravaris Moore will join the Department of Sociology, advancing research that quantifies the effects of community gun violence and school shootings on children’s educational trajectories. Moore is an assistant professor of sociology at Loyola Marymount University in Los Angeles. He completed his graduate training at UCLA, earning master’s degrees in sociology and economics, as well as a Ph.D. in sociology. Moore also holds a bachelor’s degree in economics and mathematics from Morehouse College. Prior to matriculating at UCLA, Moore contributed to several national evaluations as a research programmer in the Human Services division of Mathematica Policy Research, Inc. Moore will be jointly advised by three faculty members: Patrick Sharkey, professor of sociology and public affairs, Woodrow Wilson School; Yu Xie, the Bert G. Kerstetter ’66 University Professor of Sociology and the Princeton Institute for International and Regional Studies, and director of the Center on Contemporary China; and Tod Hamilton, associate professor of sociology, and a Charles G. Osgood University Preceptor. lotanna.jpg Lotanna Micah Nneji will join the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, where he will conduct the first DNA metabarcoding analyses of the diet composition and niche relationships of herbivorous birds—ostrich, guineafowl, spurfowl and bustard — at Princeton’s Mpala Research Centre in Kenya. Nneji holds a Ph.D. in genetics from the University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, a master’s degree in zoology from the University of Ibadan, Nigeria, and a bachelor’s degree in biology from the University of Abuja, Nigeria. He will be advised by Robert Pringle, associate professor of ecology and evolutionary biology. Eziaku-Nwokocha- (2).jpg Eziaku Nwokocha will join the Department of Religion as a scholar of Africana religions with expertise in the ethnographic study of Vodou in Haiti and the Haitian diaspora. Her research is grounded in thorough understanding of religions in Africa, the Caribbean, and the United States, in gender and sexuality studies, and Africana studies generally. Nwokocha holds a Ph.D. in Africana studies from the University of Pennsylvania and was a Ford Foundation Predoctoral Fellow. She has a master’s degree in theological studies from Harvard Divinity School and a bachelor’s degree in Black studies and feminist studies from the University of California-Santa Barbara, where she was a Ronald E. McNair scholar. Nwokocha will be advised by Judith Weisenfeld, the Agate Brown and George L. Collord Professor of Religion and chair of the Department of Religion. Elizabeth Paul (2).jpg Elizabeth Paul will join the Department of Astrophysical Sciences, with interests in problems at the intersection of advanced numerical methods and plasma physics applications. She is completing her Ph.D. in physics from the University of Maryland-College Park. Paul holds a bachelor’s degree in astrophysical sciences from Princeton. She will be advised by Amitava Bhattacharjee, professor of astrophysical sciences. 20190822-jose_roque (4).jpg Jose Roque will join the Department of Chemistry, focused on broadening his scientific repertoire to include transition metal catalysis, particularly with Earth abundant metals such as iron and cobalt. Roque is completing his Ph.D. in chemistry from the University of California-Berkeley, where he worked under Professor Richmond Sarpong. He holds a bachelor’s degree in chemistry from Florida International University. Roque will be advised by Paul Chirik, the Edwards S. Sanford Professor of Chemistry. Anthony Urena Anthony Urena will join the Department of Sociology. He is completing his Ph.D. in sociology from Columbia University and holds a bachelor’s degree in sociology and human biology from Brown University. Urena employs qualitative methodologies to examine the social dimensions of disease risk perception within disproportionately affected communities. At Princeton, Urena’s postdoctoral research will focus on how Black and Latino men who have sex with men make sense of the contemporary HIV epidemic in the United States. Urena will be advised by Frederick Wherry, the Townsend Martin, Class of 1917 Professor of Sociology. 2021 Cohort Aala Abdelgadir Aala Abdelgadir will join the Department of Politics, with a focus the legacy of initial government responses to newly arrived Muslim immigrants to Europe, and the extent to which early policies governing the settlement of immigrants determined Muslims’ opportunities to become incorporated into the host society and thereby shaped their socioeconomic outcomes. Abdelgadir holds a Ph.D. in political science from Stanford University and a B.A. from Yale University. She will be advised by Rafaela Dancygier, professor of politics and international affairs and director of the Mamdouha S. Bobst Center for Peace and Justice. Chelsey Carter Chelsey R. Carter will join the Department of Anthropology. Her research takes an interdisciplinary lens to explore the ways structural inequities constrain the lives of Black people in the United States. Methodologically and theoretically, she draws on cultural anthropology (particularly Black feminist anthropology and medical anthropology), Black studies, Women, Gender, Sexuality and Queer studies, public health, and medicine to explore the contours of Black people’s experiences with neurodegenearative diseases (like ALS) and the consequences of anti-Black racism. Carter is interested in how the everyday experiences of Black patients, those often deemed inconsequential to doctors, may help us understand Black people’s relationships to their own subjectivities, space, survival, community and care. Carter holds a Ph.D. in sociocultural anthropology and master of public health from Washington University in St. Louis. She received a B.A. from Emory University. Carter will be advised by Laurence Ralph, professor of anthropology. Esteban Cisneros Garibay Esteban Cisneros-Garibay will join the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering. His research focuses on simulation-oriented prediction for efficient combustion-system design; state-of-the-art reactive flow simulation via reduced chemistry; and uncertainty quantification to guide sub-grid moment methods. Cisneros-Garibay is currently completing his PhD in Theoretical and Applied Mechanics at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and received a MS in Aerospace Engineering at the University of Texas at Arlington and a BS in mechatronics engineering at Universidad Panamericana. Cisneros-Garibay will be advised by Michael Mueller, associate professor of mechanical and aerospace engineering. Ashley Fidler Ashley Fidler is a postdoctoral research associate in the Department of Chemistry, advised by Marissa Weichman, assistant professor of chemistry. Fidler holds a PhD in chemistry from the University of California, Berkeley, a MPhil in chemical engineering and biotechnology from the University of Cambridge, and a BS in chemistry and biology from The College of William and Mary. Fidler is interested in applying tailored spectroscopic techniques to answer fundamental scientific questions with far-reaching implications. In the Weichman lab, she utilizes her previous experience developing novel spectroscopic techniques for the study of ultrafast electronic dynamics in the Leone and Neumark Groups at UC Berkeley/LBNL to design and execute experiments controlling benchmark, condensed-phase chemical reactions via strong light-matter coupling in optical microcavities. Jahmour Givans Jahmour Givans will join the Department of Astrophysical Sciences, where he will focus on cosmology theory and use observations of the universe to measure the masses of tiny neutrino particles. Givans holds a PhD in physics from The Ohio State University and a BS in astrophysics from Brown University. He is advised by Jo Dunkley, professor of physics and astrophysical sciences. Philip McHarris Philip V. McHarris will join the Department of African American Studies and the Ida B. Wells Just Data Lab. Philip’s main areas of research include racial inequality, housing, and policing. His current research focuses on the experiences of residents of a high-rise public housing development in Brooklyn, NY as they navigate concerns surrounding safety, policing, building conditions, and cycles of poverty. He holds a PhD in sociology and African American studies from Yale University and a BA in sociology from Boston College. McHarris will be advised by Ruha Benjamin, professor of African American Studies and the founding director of the Ida B. Wells Just Data Lab. Elise Mitchell Elise A. Mitchell joins the Department of History. She holds a Ph.D. in history from New York University and a B.A. in history from the University of Pennsylvania. Her work examines the social and cultural histories of enslaved Africans and their descendants, focusing on the history of the body, gender, public health, and medicine in the early modern Caribbean and Atlantic World before 1800. Mitchell is working on a book manuscript about enslaved Africans' social, political, and therapeutic responses to smallpox epidemics and how they endured and contested European public health and medical interventions in the Caribbean region. She is also developing a digital history project based on her research database of over 300 smallpox outbreaks, which occurred among enslaved people in Spanish, Portuguese, French, and British ships and Caribbean islands and coastal territories between roughly 1518 and 1806. Mitchell is advised by Keith Wailoo, Henry Putnam University Professor of History and Public Affairs. Angie Ocampo Angie Ocampo joins the Department of Sociology. She is an interdisciplinary scholar studying race relations, immigration, and how these are shaped by politics, with research and teaching interests centering on innovative ways to study multiple actors in the racial hierarchy, specifically the multifaceted nature of the Latino population. Ocampo holds a PhD in sociology from the University of Pennsylvania and BA from Brown University in sociology and ethnic studies. She is advised by Filiz Garip, professor of sociology and public affairs. Diego Reinero Diego Reinero joins the Department of Psychology, where his interdisciplinary research investigates how people's moral and political views change through conversations and social networks, and why such changes can be so difficult. Reinero holds a Ph.D. in social psychology from New York University and a B.S. in both psychology and business from Skidmore College. He is advised by Alin Coman, associate professor of psychology and public affairs. Tommy Rock Tommy Rock joins the Department of Geosciences where he will initiate a program to expand the identification, monitoring, and communication of environmental hazards related to legacy uranium mining and ongoing oil and gas exploration in the Navajo Nation. Rock holds a Ph.D. in earth science and environmental sustainability and a M.A. in sustainable community from Northern Arizona University, and a B.A. in interdisciplinary studies from Arizona State University. He is advised by John Higgins, associate professor of geosciences, Mark Zondlo, professor of civil and environmental engineering, and Eduardo Cadava, Philip Mayhew Professor of English. Lucia Stein-Montalvo Lucia Stein-Montalvo joins the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering where she will apply her mechanics expertise to adaptive architectural design, aimed at reducing energy needs and improving ventilation in urban landscapes. Stein-Montalvo holds a Ph.D. in mechanical engineering from Boston University and B.S. in mathematics from Davidson College. She is advised by Sigrid Adriaenssens, associate professor of civil and environmental engineering, and Elie Bou-Zeid, professor of civil and environmental engineering. Mathurin Wamba Mathurin Wamba joins the Department of Geosciences. With a focus on the volcanic plumes underlying the French Polynesian Islands, Wamba seeks to understand their geodynamical role and relationships with oceanic plates and continents. Wamba holds a Ph.D. in seismology from the University of Paris, a M.S. in geophysics from the University of Paris Cité Sorbonne, and from the University of Dschang a M.S. and B.S. in physics. He is advised by Frederik Simons, professor of geosciences. Faculty Search Process Presidential Postdoctoral Research Fellows Presidential Visiting Scholars Program Additional Resources Office of the Dean of the Faculty Princeton University 9 Nassau Hall, Princeton, NJ 08544-5264 Phone: 609-258-3020 Fax: 609-258-2168 Email: dof@princeton.edu Photos: Office of Communications, Denise Applewhite Ask a Question Give Feedback Request Data Rules & Procedures of the Faculty Rights, Rules, and Responsibilities University-Wide Policies Employer Obligation Regarding Records Workplace Notices © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University