Jump to navigation Princeton University Academic Jobs Faculty Voting Terms & Definitions Whom to Contact Quick Links Information Warehouse Labor Accounting PeopleSoft Davis International Center Human Resources McGraw Center for Teaching and Learning Postdoctoral Council University League Information Technology Policy Institutional Equity and Diversity Records Management University Archives University Library Office of theDean of the Faculty Search form Search About Our Office Faculty & Academic Professionals Directory of Academic Units, Chairs, Directors & Managers Endowed Professorships, Preceptorships & Fellowships Clerk of the Faculty: Committees & Meetings Working at Princeton Apply for an Academic Job Benefits, Compensation & Resources Learning & Professional Development Diversity & Inclusion Faculty Search Process Presidential Postdoctoral Research Fellows Presidential Visiting Scholars Program Additional Resources Policies & Procedures Policy Library Rules & Procedures Publications Guide to Academic Unit and Library Administration Faculty Retirement Guidelines Faculty Pay Schedules Forms & Data Submission Memos & Dates Dates to Remember Announcement Archive Numbered Memo Archive DOF Timeline Presidential Visiting Scholars Program Announced in December 2018, the Presidential Visiting Scholars Program will support up to four visitors from academia or relevant professional fields per academic year, each holding appointments for the full academic year. The program is intended to recognize and support scholars who can contribute to the University’s diversity, broadly defined, including members of groups that have been historically and are presently underrepresented in the academy or in particular disciplines, such as racial and ethnic minorities and women in STEM. Darell Fields, a designer and inventor, and physicist Clifford Johnson have been named Presidential Visiting Scholars at Princeton University for the 2021-22 academic year. Darell Fields joins the School of Architecture as an accomplished teacher, designer and scholar. He has taught design, urbanism and theory at several universities, including Harvard Graduate School of Design (GSD), California College of the Arts in San Francisco and the University of California-Berkeley. His designs and artistic works have been exhibited at the Whitney Museum of Art, the Studio Museum in Harlem, the August Wilson Center for African American Culture in Pittsburgh, CentralTrak in Dallas, the Yerba Buena Center for the Arts in San Francisco and Princeton’s School of Architecture. Fields will teach a graduate design studio this fall and a graduate seminar in the spring. He also will participate in thesis advising for Master of Architecture candidates and will contribute to in-class discussions related to architectural theory and the formal analysis of buildings. Clifford Johnson is a professor in the Physics and Astronomy Department at the University of Southern California. In addition to research and teaching, he gives public talks on science, art, movies and related topics, and has appeared on many TV and web shows such as “The Universe,” “Nova,” “Screen Junkies” and “Fail Lab.” His research focuses on the development of theoretical tools for the description of the basic fabric of nature. At Princeton, Johnson will interact closely with faculty, postdocs and students of the theoretical high energy physics group. His primary focus will be on research into aspects of certain special formulations of quantum gravity — random matrix models and string theory — and applying some of his research to recent breakthroughs in understanding the nature of quantum black holes. In the spring, he will give a short series of pedagogical lecture-workshops on techniques in this area of quantum gravity. He will also mentor graduate students interested in this area of research. For more information about this important program, please contact Deputy Dean of the Faculty Toni Turano. Related links: Designer and inventor Darell Fields and physicist Clifford Johnson named Presidential Visiting Scholars at Princeton Pulitzer Prize-winning critic Hilton Als named Presidential Visiting Scholar at Princeton Diversity Initiatives Memo December 5, 2018 Faculty Search Process Presidential Postdoctoral Research Fellows Presidential Visiting Scholars Program Additional Resources Office of the Dean of the Faculty Princeton University 9 Nassau Hall, Princeton, NJ 08544-5264 Phone: 609-258-3020 Fax: 609-258-2168 Email: dof@princeton.edu Photos: Office of Communications, Denise Applewhite Ask a Question Give Feedback Request Data Rules & Procedures of the Faculty Rights, Rules, and Responsibilities University-Wide Policies Employer Obligation Regarding Records Workplace Notices © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University