Jump to navigation Princeton University Academic Jobs Faculty Voting Terms & Definitions Whom to Contact Quick Links Information Warehouse Labor Accounting PeopleSoft Davis International Center Human Resources McGraw Center for Teaching and Learning Postdoctoral Council University League Information Technology Policy Institutional Equity and Diversity Records Management University Archives University Library Office of theDean of the Faculty Search form Search About Our Office Faculty & Academic Professionals Directory of Academic Units, Chairs, Directors & Managers Endowed Professorships, Preceptorships & Fellowships Clerk of the Faculty: Committees & Meetings Working at Princeton Apply for an Academic Job Benefits, Compensation & Resources Learning & Professional Development Diversity & Inclusion Faculty Search Process Presidential Postdoctoral Research Fellows Presidential Visiting Scholars Program Additional Resources Policies & Procedures Policy Library Rules & Procedures Publications Guide to Academic Unit and Library Administration Faculty Retirement Guidelines Faculty Pay Schedules Forms & Data Submission Memos & Dates Dates to Remember Announcement Archive Numbered Memo Archive DOF Timeline Apply for an Academic Job Our world-class scholars are engaged with and accessible to students and are devoted to the thorough integration of teaching and research. The University strives for the highest levels of quality in research and education and for significant and lasting impact in pursuing its mission of service to the nation and humanity. Thank you for your interest in joining Princeton University's faculty and research community! AHIRE: For Academic Postings For non-academic staff positions, please visit Princeton Careers. Hiring managers and application administrators/reviewers should log in to the system here. At Princeton University, all recruitment for faculty and academic professionals (including lecturers, professional researchers and postdocs, professional specialists, and professional librarians) is managed by each individual department, program, the Art Museum or the University Library. For a list of Princeton's academic departments and contact information, please link to the following list of current academic chairs and managers. All Applicants: Due to changes in federal reporting requirements, all applicants will be asked to voluntarily and confidentially disclose their status as a veteran and/or person with a disability. You will be required to review and certify your application before applying for a position. Princeton University is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer and all qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to age, race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, national origin, disability status, protected veteran status, or any other characteristic protected by law. EEO IS THE LAW Princeton University's Annual Security Report and Fire Safety Report outlines our campus safety and security policies and contains important tips to help every member of our community be safe and avoid becoming a victim of crime. The Report includes sections relating to crime prevention, the reporting of crimes, alcohol and drug use, sexual misconduct, and other matters. The Report also contain fire-safety policies and prevention efforts for on-campus student housing. In addition, it includes statistics for the previous three years concerning reported crimes that occurred: on campus; in certain off-campus buildings owned or controlled by Princeton University or its students; and on public property within or immediately adjacent to and accessible from Princeton University. A paper copy of the report is available from Public Safety by request. Apply for an Academic Job Benefits, Compensation & Resources Learning & Professional Development Office of the Dean of the Faculty Princeton University 9 Nassau Hall, Princeton, NJ 08544-5264 Phone: 609-258-3020 Fax: 609-258-2168 Email: dof@princeton.edu Photos: Office of Communications, Denise Applewhite Ask a Question Give Feedback Request Data Rules & Procedures of the Faculty Rights, Rules, and Responsibilities University-Wide Policies Employer Obligation Regarding Records Workplace Notices © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University