Skip to main content Stanford University Topics View and Search All Topics All Topics by Category Policies & Resources Policies & Resources Overview Policy Manuals Research Policy Handbook Faculty Handbook Graduate Academic Policies & Procedures Administrative Guide Policy Manuals (col 2) Property Management Manual Service Center Manual Space Inventory University Wide Policy Documents Resources How To Tools & Documents Glossary Offices & People Research Units View All Independent Laboratories, Centers, and Institutes View All Research Support Offices People Search All People Funding Training Compliance Training Training Courses Announcements Search search open menu My Dor Click to open the Omnibar Menu Research at Stanford DoResearch Central Offices Office of the Vice Provost & Dean of Research Environmental Health & Safety Industrial Contracts Office Office of Research Administration Office of Technology Licensing Research Compliance Office Research Policy and Integrity Science Outreach Stanford Research Computing Center Stanford Research Development Office Business Affairs Office of the Chief Risk Officer Global Business Services Postdoctoral Affairs Sexual Harassment Policy Office University Corporate and Foundation Relations University IT Vice Provost for Graduate Education School Research Offices Engineering Research Administration Research Management Group Independent Laboratories, Centers & Institutes Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences Chemistry, Medicine and Engineering for Human Health E.L. Ginzton Laboratory Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies Geballe Laboratory for Advanced Materials Kavli Institute for Particle Astrophysics and Cosmology Precourt Institute for Energy PULSE Institute for Ultrafast Energy Science Stanford Bio-X Stanford Center On Longevity Stanford Human-Centered Artificial Intelligence Stanford Humanities Center Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research Stanford Institute for Materials and Energy Sciences Stanford Woods Institute for the Environment W.W. Hansen Experimental Physics Laboratory Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute Research Partners Stanford and SLAC Key: You are here Training Courses Select filters below to narrow your results. Subjects, Programs, & Audiences Subject AllAnimal Care and UseConflicts of InterestEnvironmental Health & SafetyExport ControlsFinanceHuman Subjects & Good Clinical PracticeIndustry Sponsored Clinical Trial Financial AdministrationInternational ActivitiesNational Institutes of Health (NIH)NIH K AwardsNIH NRSAPlshipPrivacy & SecurityProperty ManagementResearch AdministrationResponsible Conduct of ResearchSexual Harassment PreventionShared Scientific Facilities/Cores & Service CentersSpace Inventory Certificate Program AllCardinal Curriculum Level ICardinal Curriculum Level IIDPA Property Certification Audience AllAdministratorsFacultyPI and Research TeamResearcher Keyword Order By: A - ZZ - A 36 Courses All Finance Courses Gain the knowledge and confidence to navigate Stanford's Financial Systems. Keep your skills sharp and your financial acumen strong and focused. Choose from a wide variety of training courses to Animal Care and Use Training Program Faculty, staff, and students who will be involved in the use of laboratory animals are expected to complete the web-based Animal Care and Use Training Program (VSC-PROG-0001), which provides an VSC-PROG-0001 CRISP Training The Clinical Research Invoicing System for Participants (CRISP) supports tracking patient events and is the invoicing process used for industry sponsored clinical trials. CRISP resources include a User Guide; this Department Property Administrator Training Comprehensive course required for all DPAs, recommended for anyone assisting with capital equipment and other property issues. PMO-1000 DPA Property Certification Program DPA's are required to enroll and complete the DPA Property Certification course - PMO-1000 offered by the Office of Research Administration's Property Management Office (PMO). PMO-1000 EH&S Training Opportunities As a part of EH&S’ commitment to sustaining a culture of safety on campus, they have developed and teach specialty and trainings to educate personnel and staffers of the hazards Expenditure Statement Reconciliation and Review This course is part of Cardinal Curriculum Level II Certification. Financial and research administrators have an important role in implementing Stanford University policy and federal regulations. Whenever we perform a FIN-0160 Export Controls: An Overview This class is a guide for all faculty and staff who administer international research and foreign students at Stanford, export materials and equipment, work with disclosure-restricted technical information, travel internationally DOR-1130 FUNDamentals of Funds: Introduction to Funds Management Take this course after completing DOR-1101 Understanding Cost Policy. This course covers the fundamentals of funds. Fund accounting allows us to track University activity in a meaningful way. This is FIN-0170 Gift Administration At Stanford This course is part of Cardinal Curriculum Level II Certification. About This Course This course s required for staff who process gifts. You will learn how to distinguish a gift DOR-1128 Global Activity Planning Global Business Services (GBS) provides faculty and staff with training and resources to plan your research actvities abroad. iLab for Stanford Administrators Stanford Shared Scientific Facilities provide specialized scientific services, instruments, equipment, supplies, technologies, and technical expertise to support research. iLab is a web application some Stanford Shared Scientific Facilities have adopted DOR-6001 Introduction to iJournals Take this course after completing DOR-1101 Understanding Cost Policy. This class (FIN-0210) is designed for staff who will be creating expense, revenue, or salary journals. The course demonstrates the iJournals FIN-0210 Managing Sponsored Projects This course is part of Cardinal Curriculum Level II Certification. Take this course after completing DOR-1101 Understanding Cost Policy, DOR-1102 Overview of Research and the Regulatory Environment, DOR-1103 Overview of DOR-1126 NIH K Award Application Workshop This lab 3-hour computer lab session workshop is offered before each standard NIH deadline via Zoom meeting. It is available for Stanford researchers and is required for postdoctoral fellows submitting DOR-1219 NIH NRSA Fellowship Workshop NRSA F Series Individual Postdoctoral and Pre-doctoral Fellowships Required computer lab sessions - Zoom Workshops (DOR-1218) Highlights: Required NIH NRSA F Series Computer Lab Sessions-especially for those submitting (or resubmitting) DOR-1218 Overview of Research and the Regulatory Environment This course is part of Cardinal Curriculum Level I Certification. Take this course after completing DOR-1101 Understanding Cost Policy. Course Summary This course is an introduction to research administration at DOR-1102 Overview of Stanford University Service Center Policies and Practices This course is part of Cardinal Curriculum Level II Certification. This course will help you get familiar with the policies and practices for Stanford service centers. Take this course if DOR-1125 PI Training: Stewardship and Compliance for Principal Investigators Stanford requires individuals new to the position of Principal Investigator (PI) to understand the regulatory environment in which sponsored research is conducted. This course outlines the regulatory environment for sponsored DOR-0680 Privacy and Security Training Training on data security and protection such as GDPR and HIPAA. Proposal and Budget Preparation This course is part of Cardinal Curriculum Level II Certification. Take this course after completing DOR-1101 Understanding Cost Policy, DOR-1102 Overview of Research and the Regulatory Environment, and DOR-1103 Overview DOR-1120 Proposal and Budget Preparation - Companion Workshop 1 - Proposal Prep This course is part of Cardinal Curriculum Level II Certification. Take this course after completing DOR-1120 Proposal and Budget Preparation. After you complete the Proposal and Budget Preparation (DOR-1120) course DOR-1501 Proposal and Budget Preparation - Companion Workshop 2 - Budget Prep This course is part of Cardinal Curriculum Level II Certification. Take this course after completing DOR-1120 Proposal and Budget Preparation. After you complete the Proposal and Budget Preparation (DOR-1120) course DOR-1502 RECR Training Responsible and Ethical Conduct of Research (RECR) applies to all researchers and research staff engaged in scholarly research. While written with all researchers in mind, special consideration has been given Required Tutorial on Human Subject Research Protection This tutorial fulfills the requirement set for in RPH 5.7 Training in the Protection of Human Subjects in Research Sexual Harrasssment Prevention Training The Sexual Harassment Policy Office offers three different customized training programs for faculty and staff at Stanford, including those in non-faculty teaching positions. SUHT Space Inventory Certification Training - Academic The Stanford space inventory system is called "iSpace", which is a perpetual data system that can be updated on a constant basis. The Space Inventory Certification Training - Academic (ORA-1403) ORA-1403 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Next page Next Last page Last » Stanford University Stanford Home Search Stanford Maps & Directions Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Topics View and Search All Topics All Topics by Category Policies & Resources Policies & Resources Overview Policy Manuals Research Policy Handbook Faculty Handbook Graduate Academic Policies & Procedures Administrative Guide Policy Manuals (col 2) Property Management Manual Service Center Manual Space Inventory University Wide Policy Documents Resources How To Tools & Documents Glossary Offices & People Research Units View All Independent Laboratories, Centers, and Institutes View All Research Support Offices People Search All People Funding Training Compliance Training Training Courses Announcements