Skip to main content Admission Admission back Apply Admitted Undergraduate Undergraduate back Academics Experiential and Applied Learning Advising Undergraduate Diversity Career Pathways Life in LA Pre-Health Pre-Law Pre-Graduate School Graduate Graduate back Academics Admission Graduate Diversity Special Programs Online Programs Progressive Degree Programs Graduate Resources Research Research back Investigators Research Briefs Blog Student Research Research Administration Postdoctoral Fellows Institutes & Centers News & Events News & Events back Event Calendar News from USC Dornsife USC Dornsife in the News Videos Faculty Recognition Publications Office of Communication About About back USC Dornsife Leadership Administrative Offices Dana and David Dornsife Campus Resources Teaching at Dornsife Office of Diversity Alumni Dornsife Global Depts/Centers/Institutes Search Faculty & Staff Give Now Give Now back Commencement Commencement back DISCOVER USC DORNSIFE The future belongs to creative thinkers. At USC Dornsife, the academic core of USC in the heart of Los Angeles, we enable creativity to flourish. Watch Video Discover ALUMNI SPOTLIGHT ‘We were young, … Remember us.’ Alumnus helped create the first national memorial for World War I veterans, part of a career telling stories of America’s military. Read the story >> AWARDS AND HONORS Sociologist Manuel Pastor Honored Renowned scholar studying economic, environmental and social issues is elected a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Read the story >> News Headlines From Nairobi to L.A. War in Ukraine Hits Home Protecting Cells from Stressful Forces On the Path, Paying it Forward view all news USC DORNSIFE MAGAZINE The Cosmos Issue: Out of This World - USC Dornsife scholars explore the mysteries of the universe. Read the magazine >> OWN TOMORROW We have an audacious goal. USC Dornsife is creating the first new model for a leading research university in more than 50 years by bringing the university into the public square in ways never imagined. Learn More Own Tomorrow Our new initiative connects our world-leading scholars with public and private sector leaders to work hand in hand, bringing a new way of thinking to complex issues. Learn More contact us privacy policy notice of non-discrimination sitemap RSS 365 web access mydornsife emergency contacts © 2022 University of Southern California