Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Department of Student Support and Transitions Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home Offices Case Management Services Investigations & Assessment New Student & Family Programs Office of Accessibility Services Victim Advocate Program Withdrawal Services Resources Family Connection Finding Help, Getting Connected Student Handbook ADA Information Reporting Discrimination and Grievances Reporting Descriptions & Routing Info Grievance/Complaint Procedures for Persons with Disabilities Hazing Prevention kNOw More: Sexual Violence Prevention Faculty & Staff Emergency Guide How to Assist a Student of Concern-PDF How to Assist a Student of Concern-DOCX Food for Thought Pantry Interfaith Council at FSU The Seminole Creed Contact Us Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Department of Student Support and Transitions Florida State University Toggle navigation Home Offices Case Management Services Investigations & Assessment New Student & Family Programs Office of Accessibility Services Victim Advocate Program Withdrawal Services Resources Family Connection Finding Help, Getting Connected Student Handbook ADA Information Reporting Discrimination and Grievances Reporting Descriptions & Routing Info Grievance/Complaint Procedures for Persons with Disabilities Hazing Prevention kNOw More: Sexual Violence Prevention Faculty & Staff Emergency Guide How to Assist a Student of Concern-PDF How to Assist a Student of Concern-DOCX Food for Thought Pantry Interfaith Council at FSU The Seminole Creed Contact Us Home Victim Advocate Program Contact Information University Center A, Suite 4100, Tallahassee, FL 32306-2440 Victim Advocate services are available 24 hours a day, including holidays. To reach a confidential advocate day or night please call: 850.644.7161 24/7 text line: 850.756.4320 Victims-Advocate@fsu.edu Fax: 850.644.0687 If you have an EMERGENCY or need IMMEDIATE ASSISTANCE, please call FSUPD at (850) 644-1234. Victim Advocate Home About Us Contact Us Services & Presentations Victim Resources Frequently Asked Questions Helpful Links FSU Toolkit on Healthy Relationships FSU Police Department For Family & Friends of Victims Date Rape Drug Information University Victim Advocate Programs in the State of Florida For Victims and Survivors Support Victim Advocacy Evaluate our Services Victim Advocate Program Contact VAP Call 24/7: (850) 644-7161 or TEXT (850) 756-4320 EMAIL: Victims-Advocate@fsu.edu Advocates are available 24/7 but if necessary leave a message with your name and a safe way to contact you and we will reach out to you before the end of the day. If you have an EMERGENCY or need IMMEDIATE ASSISTANCE, please call FSUPD at (850) 644-1234. If you or someone you care about has been the victim of a crime… …you may need to talk with someone about your options. It is not uncommon to experience a broad range of emotions including fear, confusion, anger, guilt, frustration, and tremendous sense of loss. These are all NORMAL reactions to what has happened. You do not have to go through this alone… A confidential advocate is on call twenty-four hours a day to respond to FSU students, faculty, and staff who are victimized anywhere or at any time, as well as any other person who is victimized on our campus, at an FSU sponsored event, or by an FSU community member. Services offered include emotional support, instructor notification, referrals, crisis intervention and assistance in student conduct, legal and medical matters. Confidential support is available… Federal law (Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972) requires FSU to ensure an educational environment free from sex discrimination, sexual harassment, and sexual violence. If an employee at FSU becomes aware of an incident, they must report to the Title IX Coordinator. However, the Victim Advocate Program is confidential and is therefore exempt from the reporting requirement, but can help file a report upon request. The Department of Student Support and Transitions supports, connects, and empowers all students as they navigate their academic and personal journeys. We welcome students and family members to connect with the Department of Student Support and Transitions if you are experiencing a crisis or just need someone to talk through a problem or experience you are having at Florida State University. Department of Student Support AND Transitions Part of the Division of Student Affairs University Center A, Suite 4100 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306 Phone: 850.644.2428 Fax: 850.644.0687 Email: dsst@fsu.edu Department of Student Support and Transitions Office: Office of Accessibility Services: Connect with Us: © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media