Skip to Content Department of Public Safety Open Close primary navigation Search Search AboutExpand Collapse section Accreditations Campus Safety and Emergency Management Services Contact Us DPS News Mission and Vision Statement What We Do Who We Are Work With Us Compliments/Complaints Crime PreventionExpand Collapse section Bicycle Registration Bystander Intervention Strategies Contact Crime Prevention Distracted Driving and Traffic Stops Rape Aggression Defense (R.A.D.) Classes Run. Hide. Fight. Safety Strategies Sexual and Relationship Violence Emergency ManagementExpand Collapse section Building Coordinator Program Business Continuity Contact Emergency Management Current Weather Conditions Emergency Preparedness Committee (EPC) Emergency Procedures Reference Guide For Faculty and Staff For Students For Parents Frequently Asked Questions SU Status Webpage University Incident Management Team (UIMT) Fire SafetyExpand Collapse section Contact Fire Safety Evacuation Drill Schedule Evacuation Procedures Fire Safety Compliance Report Food Sanitation Procedures and Guidelines Forms and Permits Student Housing Fire Safety Systems Special Events Policy Student Housing Fire Log Training Law EnforcementExpand Collapse section Body-Worn Camera Program Contact Law Enforcement DPS Jurisdiction InvestigationsExpand Collapse section Investigative Steps Local Active Warrants Patrols in Near-Campus Neighborhoods Policies / Reviews / Records Report a Crime Syracuse Police Department Partnership Policies and Procedures Public InfoExpand Collapse section Annual Security Report Bias Incident Reports Blue Lights Daily Incident and Crime Log DPS Communications Loretta Lynch Report Recommendations – Status Updates Orange Alert Public Safety Notices Rave Guardian Safety Mobile App Responding to Student Activism Sex Offender Registry Synthetic Drug Facts The Jeanne Clery ActExpand Collapse section Alerts and Timely Warnings CSA Quick Reference Guide Clery Crime Report Form Clery Maps Helpful Clery Links U.S. Department of Education Campus Safety and Security ServicesExpand Collapse section Assembly Permit Applications Bicycle Registration Fingerprinting Service Lost and Found Rape Aggression Defense (R.A.D.) Classes Rave Guardian Safety Mobile App Residential Safety Program Ride-Along Program Safety Escort Services Talk to the Chief Victim and Witness Assistance Threat Assessment and Management TeamExpand Collapse section TAMT Policy and Mission Statement The TAMT Process Preventing and Recognizing Threats Reporting to the TAMT TAMT Web Report Form TAMT Confidentiality The TAMT Team Search Search Home Public Information Orange Alert Orange Alert <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start"></span> Orange ALERT is Syracuse University’s crisis notification system, designed to provide rapid notification and instruction to SU students, faculty and staff, and SUNY College of Environmental Science and Forestry students in the event of a crisis in progress — an instance in which there is immediate threat of physical harm to members of the campus community. When activated, ORANGE ALERT uses e-mail, text messaging and cell/landline phone calls to send a brief notice about the situation and instructions of what to do. A typical message might read: “There is a (type of crisis) on campus at (a specific location); evacuate the area immediately and remain away until further instructed.” After the ORANGE ALERT message, more detailed follow-up information is provided through the University’s website, e-mail, phone, and campus radio and television resources, among others. ORANGE ALERT contact information for students, faculty and staff is drawn from the MySlice online information system. To review and/or modify your contact information: If you are a Syracuse University student or staff or faculty member, go to MySlice, log in using your NetID and Password, select Student Home or Employee Home depending on your primary affiliation with Syracuse University, select the Personal Profile tile, select “Orange Alert Contacts” from the navigation menu, and then review your information. If you need to add, update, or delete contact information, select the “Add/Update/Delete Contact Details” link. If you are an ESF student, use the ESF emergency contact information page to update your information. Questions about Orange Alert? Check out our FAQ below. You can also contact dpsadmin@syr.edu. Who decides when an ORANGE ALERT message is to be sent? Department of Public Safety command staff determine the circumstances in which the system is used and then initiate the process. The system is used for crisis situations in which there is immediate threat of physical harm to members of the campus community. Can I change my emergency contact information? Yes. It’s very simple to change your contact information. If you are a Syracuse University student: Go to MySlice Log in using your NetID and Password. Click on the “ORANGE ALERT” link. Review/modify your information. Save your information. If you are a SUNY ESF student, please go to the ESF emergency contact information page. How do I know I’m receiving an ORANGE ALERT message? “ORANGE ALERT” will be in the subject line of an e-mail and will be vocalized in a phone message. The Caller I.D. on a phone call from ORANGE ALERT will appear as 888-286-1252; similarly, a text message will appear from the number 226787 or 67283; you may want to program these numbers into your wireless device as “SU ORANGE ALERT.” When I receive a text message, will I get charged? Standard text messaging rates apply, depending on your mobile phone service plan. When will my subscription to ORANGE ALERT be deactivated? When there is a change in your affiliation with SU or SUNY-ESF (for students-graduation; for faculty/staff-change in employment status), you will be removed from the ORANGE ALERT system. More from this Section Annual Security Report DPS Communications Loretta Lynch Report Recommendations – Status Updates Rave Guardian Safety Mobile App Responding to Student Activism Daily Incident and Crime Log LiveSafe Mobile App Blue Lights Bias Incident Reports Public Safety Notices The Jeanne Clery Act Synthetic Drug Facts Internal Affairs Investigations 130 College Place, 005 Sims Hall | 315.443.2224 Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter Subscribe to Us on YouTube Follow Us on Instagram © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy