Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Public Safety Search Menu Site Navigation Home About The Chief’s Welcome Mission Statement Core Values Staff Directory Police Transparency & Accountability DPS Career Opportunities Newsletter Social Media Alerts Weekly Incident Summaries & Crime Map Clery & Crime Reporting Reporting a Crime or Incident Understanding DPS Response to Sexual Assault Clery Center CSA Video Crime Prevention Safety Tips Blue-Light Phones & Yellow Jackets Operation Identification (ID) Property Registration Residential Security Vulnerability Assessment Brown Building Security Initiative Stalking Awareness Information Programs & Services Programs & Outreach Brown Guardian App Fingerprinting Event Security Safewalk Transaction Safe Space Find a Lost Item Crime Victim Assistance Personal Safety Alarms Events Past Events Search Department of Public Safety Safewalk Safewalk provides members of the Brown community with point-to-point walking escorts— and peace of mind. Breadcrumb Home Programs & Services Sub Navigation In This Section Programs & Outreach Brown Guardian App Fingerprinting Event Security Safewalk Transaction Safe Space Find a Lost Item Crime Victim Assistance Personal Safety Alarms Safewalk Safewalk provides members of the Brown community with point-to-point walking escorts— and peace of mind. What is Safewalk? Safewalk was formed by DPS in 1988 in response to women's safety concerns on campus. Over time, we have come to realize that safety is an important issue for all members of the community - students, staff, and faculty of all genders. Safewalk is a DPS program staffed by student employees who provide point-to-point walking escorts free of charge) for their fellow community members. Each two-person team patrols the campus, along the Brown safeRID shuttle route, acting as additional “eyes and ears” for community safety. The teams can be identified by their distinctive Safewalk vests with reflective strips. Each SW team is equipped with a two-way portable radio to communicate to DPS dispatch at anytime. If you see a Safewalk team on campus, feel free to ask them to walk with you! Who are Safewalkers? Safewalkers are Campus Security Authorities (CSAs) under the Clery Act. CSAs are required to report to the Department of Public Safety allegations of Clery Act crimes that the CSA receives. If a victim does not want the report to go any further than the CSA, the CSA is still required to submit the report for statistical purposes, but it can be submitted without identifying the victim. How do I get a Safewalk? One of three ways Call us! (401) 863-1079 Reserve in advance by filling out this form! Just ask one of our teams! When are Safewalks Available? Academic year: Weekdays 9pm-2:15am and Weekends 10:15pm- 2:15am Outside our hours? Check out the Brown onCall Program or the Brown Evening Shuttle. We’d Love to Hear From You! Post-Walk Feedback Form General Feedback Form 2021 Summer Staff Coordinator: Charis Edwards Supervisors: Amit Kundra, Jonathan Leite, Zachary Baytosh, Thomas Castleman, Bailey Hunton, Quinn Maloney For inquiries, email: safewalk@brown.edu Connect with us on Facebook: Safewalk at Brown Interested in working with us? Fill out our Walker Interest Form! Map of Areas Served by Safewalk Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About The Chief’s Welcome Mission Statement Core Values Staff Directory Police Transparency & Accountability DPS Career Opportunities Newsletter Social Media Alerts Weekly Incident Summaries & Crime Map Clery & Crime Reporting Reporting a Crime or Incident Understanding DPS Response to Sexual Assault Clery Center CSA Video Crime Prevention Safety Tips Blue-Light Phones & Yellow Jackets Operation Identification (ID) Property Registration Residential Security Vulnerability Assessment Brown Building Security Initiative Stalking Awareness Information Programs & Services Programs & Outreach Brown Guardian App Fingerprinting Event Security Safewalk Transaction Safe Space Find a Lost Item Crime Victim Assistance Personal Safety Alarms Events Past Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Safewalk Open details for Safewalk Bookmark this Page