Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Public Safety Search Menu Site Navigation Home About The Chief’s Welcome Mission Statement Core Values Staff Directory Police Transparency & Accountability DPS Career Opportunities Newsletter Social Media Alerts Weekly Incident Summaries & Crime Map Clery & Crime Reporting Reporting a Crime or Incident Understanding DPS Response to Sexual Assault Clery Center CSA Video Crime Prevention Safety Tips Blue-Light Phones & Yellow Jackets Operation Identification (ID) Property Registration Residential Security Vulnerability Assessment Brown Building Security Initiative Stalking Awareness Information Programs & Services Programs & Outreach Brown Guardian App Fingerprinting Event Security Safewalk Transaction Safe Space Find a Lost Item Crime Victim Assistance Personal Safety Alarms Events Past Events Search Department of Public Safety Operation Identification (ID) Property Registration Operation Identification is a nationally recognized property identification program open to all members of the Brown University community. As a crime prevention program, its goal is to deter the thefts and aid in the recovery of stolen property. Breadcrumb Home Crime Prevention Sub Navigation In This Section Safety Tips Blue-Light Phones & Yellow Jackets Operation Identification (ID) Property Registration Residential Security Vulnerability Assessment Brown Building Security Initiative Stalking Awareness Information Operation Identification (ID) Property Registration Operation Identification is a nationally recognized property identification program open to all members of the Brown University community. As a crime prevention program, its goal is to deter the thefts and aid in the recovery of stolen property. Operation Identification is a nationally recognized property identification program open to all members of the Brown University community. As a crime prevention program, its goal is to deter the thefts and aid in the recovery of stolen property. This is accomplished by applying decals to mark valuable property and tracking important identifying information about such property. Marked items are difficult for a thief to resell, and these items can be traced to the rightful owner. Register your Laptop, Cell Phone or Tablet with the DPS Laptops, tablets, cell phones other items of value may be registered with DPS. A numbered decal will be applied to each item for easy identification. To make an appointment to have your items registered, please contact our Crime Prevention Offices at 863-1438 or 863-1379 during normal business hours. Register your Bicycle Online Registering your bicycle online is quick and easy. Follow this link to the registration form, enter details about your bicycle, and hit submit. It is that easy! Once the form is received by the Crime Prevention Unit, they will assign you a registration number and send you a decal and a certificate of registration. Once you receive the decal, it is to be placed on the upper support bar just below the gooseneck of the handlebars. If your bicycle should need to be removed from a location, or if the lock needs to be cut off because you lost your key or forgot your lock combination, registration facilitates this process. Property Registration Drives on Campus The DPS regularly hosts events to register valuables in person. This event series is advertised in our newsletter, on our Facebook page, and via Today@Brown. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About The Chief’s Welcome Mission Statement Core Values Staff Directory Police Transparency & Accountability DPS Career Opportunities Newsletter Social Media Alerts Weekly Incident Summaries & Crime Map Clery & Crime Reporting Reporting a Crime or Incident Understanding DPS Response to Sexual Assault Clery Center CSA Video Crime Prevention Safety Tips Blue-Light Phones & Yellow Jackets Operation Identification (ID) Property Registration Residential Security Vulnerability Assessment Brown Building Security Initiative Stalking Awareness Information Programs & Services Programs & Outreach Brown Guardian App Fingerprinting Event Security Safewalk Transaction Safe Space Find a Lost Item Crime Victim Assistance Personal Safety Alarms Events Past Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Operation Identification (ID) Property Registration Open details for Operation Identification (ID) Property Registration Bookmark this Page