Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Public Safety Search Menu Site Navigation Home About The Chief’s Welcome Mission Statement Core Values Staff Directory Police Transparency & Accountability DPS Career Opportunities Newsletter Social Media Alerts Weekly Incident Summaries & Crime Map Clery & Crime Reporting Reporting a Crime or Incident Understanding DPS Response to Sexual Assault Clery Center CSA Video Crime Prevention Safety Tips Blue-Light Phones & Yellow Jackets Operation Identification (ID) Property Registration Residential Security Vulnerability Assessment Brown Building Security Initiative Stalking Awareness Information Programs & Services Programs & Outreach Brown Guardian App Fingerprinting Event Security Safewalk Transaction Safe Space Find a Lost Item Crime Victim Assistance Personal Safety Alarms Events Past Events Search Department of Public Safety The Chief’s Welcome Welcome to the Brown University Department of Public Safety website. On behalf of the dedicated men and women of DPS, I would like to thank you for visiting our website. Breadcrumb Home About Sub Navigation In This Section The Chief’s Welcome Mission Statement Core Values Staff Directory Police Transparency & Accountability DPS Career Opportunities Newsletter Social Media The Chief’s Welcome Welcome to the Brown University Department of Public Safety website. On behalf of the dedicated men and women of DPS, I would like to thank you for visiting our website. Welcome to the Brown University Department of Public Safety website. It is my distinct honor to serve as your Vice President for Campus Safety. It is my hope that this site will provide you with valuable insight into our department, its operations, and our role within the academic environment at Brown. As it is with all of our work, we value your feedback and input. I personally believe that you cannot effectively provide safety to a community in which you are not an active member. To that end, we place a heavy emphasis on engagement with our community. Police and safety services should not be doled out onto the communities we serve but rather we should strive for collaboration and partnership in all aspects of our work. We recognize and acknowledge that safety and well-being mean far more than the actual number of crimes that do or do not occur. Our approach is rooted in the belief that respect for the dignity of all persons is the goal. As it relates to public safety, our goal is to provide an environment where all members of our community truly know that they are welcomed. Our sworn and civilian staff strive to be a resource for all faculty, staff, students, parents, and visitors. This is your department of public safety. I am confident that together we can become the standard-bearer for all campus law enforcement. Go Bruno! Sincerely, Rodney Chatman Vice President for Campus Safety Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About The Chief’s Welcome Mission Statement Core Values Staff Directory Police Transparency & Accountability DPS Career Opportunities Newsletter Social Media Alerts Weekly Incident Summaries & Crime Map Clery & Crime Reporting Reporting a Crime or Incident Understanding DPS Response to Sexual Assault Clery Center CSA Video Crime Prevention Safety Tips Blue-Light Phones & Yellow Jackets Operation Identification (ID) Property Registration Residential Security Vulnerability Assessment Brown Building Security Initiative Stalking Awareness Information Programs & Services Programs & Outreach Brown Guardian App Fingerprinting Event Security Safewalk Transaction Safe Space Find a Lost Item Crime Victim Assistance Personal Safety Alarms Events Past Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search The Chief’s Welcome Open details for The Chief’s Welcome Bookmark this Page