Skip to Content Department of Public Safety Open Close primary navigation Search Search AboutExpand Collapse section Accreditations Campus Safety and Emergency Management Services Contact Us DPS News Mission and Vision Statement What We Do Who We Are Work With Us Compliments/Complaints Crime PreventionExpand Collapse section Bicycle Registration Bystander Intervention Strategies Contact Crime Prevention Distracted Driving and Traffic Stops Rape Aggression Defense (R.A.D.) Classes Run. Hide. Fight. Safety Strategies Sexual and Relationship Violence Emergency ManagementExpand Collapse section Building Coordinator Program Business Continuity Contact Emergency Management Current Weather Conditions Emergency Preparedness Committee (EPC) Emergency Procedures Reference Guide For Faculty and Staff For Students For Parents Frequently Asked Questions SU Status Webpage University Incident Management Team (UIMT) Fire SafetyExpand Collapse section Contact Fire Safety Evacuation Drill Schedule Evacuation Procedures Fire Safety Compliance Report Food Sanitation Procedures and Guidelines Forms and Permits Student Housing Fire Safety Systems Special Events Policy Student Housing Fire Log Training Law EnforcementExpand Collapse section Body-Worn Camera Program Contact Law Enforcement DPS Jurisdiction InvestigationsExpand Collapse section Investigative Steps Local Active Warrants Patrols in Near-Campus Neighborhoods Policies / Reviews / Records Report a Crime Syracuse Police Department Partnership Policies and Procedures Public InfoExpand Collapse section Annual Security Report Bias Incident Reports Blue Lights Daily Incident and Crime Log DPS Communications Loretta Lynch Report Recommendations – Status Updates Orange Alert Public Safety Notices Rave Guardian Safety Mobile App Responding to Student Activism Sex Offender Registry Synthetic Drug Facts The Jeanne Clery ActExpand Collapse section Alerts and Timely Warnings CSA Quick Reference Guide Clery Crime Report Form Clery Maps Helpful Clery Links U.S. Department of Education Campus Safety and Security ServicesExpand Collapse section Assembly Permit Applications Bicycle Registration Fingerprinting Service Lost and Found Rape Aggression Defense (R.A.D.) Classes Rave Guardian Safety Mobile App Residential Safety Program Ride-Along Program Safety Escort Services Talk to the Chief Victim and Witness Assistance Threat Assessment and Management TeamExpand Collapse section TAMT Policy and Mission Statement The TAMT Process Preventing and Recognizing Threats Reporting to the TAMT TAMT Web Report Form TAMT Confidentiality The TAMT Team Search Search Home Public Information Blue Lights Blue Lights Blue Light Phone and Alarm System Link The Department of Public Safety offers a number of safety and security initiatives and has developed strategies to create an environment where the educational process can take place relatively free from the fear of crime. One such crime prevention initiative is the Blue Light Alarm System. The Blue Light System is a series of emergency alarm stations strategically located throughout the campus to provide assistance to anyone in distress. A blue beacon is positioned above each alarm station. When an individual presses the alarm button, they can communicate directly with the communications center at the Department of Public Safety, to notify the dispatcher of the emergency. An officer or an emergency team will be dispatched to respond effectively to the situation. There are severe penalties for tampering with a Blue Light Alarm or generating a false alarm, including being prosecuted and/or a judicial affairs hearing. A map of Blue Light locations is embedded below, or you can view the map on Google Maps. More from this Section Annual Security Report DPS Communications Loretta Lynch Report Recommendations – Status Updates Orange Alert Rave Guardian Safety Mobile App Responding to Student Activism Daily Incident and Crime Log LiveSafe Mobile App Bias Incident Reports Public Safety Notices The Jeanne Clery Act Synthetic Drug Facts Internal Affairs Investigations 130 College Place, 005 Sims Hall | 315.443.2224 Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter Subscribe to Us on YouTube Follow Us on Instagram © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy