Skip to Content Department of Public Safety Open Close primary navigation Search Search AboutExpand Collapse section Accreditations Campus Safety and Emergency Management Services Contact Us DPS News Mission and Vision Statement What We Do Who We Are Work With Us Compliments/Complaints Crime PreventionExpand Collapse section Bicycle Registration Bystander Intervention Strategies Contact Crime Prevention Distracted Driving and Traffic Stops Rape Aggression Defense (R.A.D.) Classes Run. Hide. Fight. Safety Strategies Sexual and Relationship Violence Emergency ManagementExpand Collapse section Building Coordinator Program Business Continuity Contact Emergency Management Current Weather Conditions Emergency Preparedness Committee (EPC) Emergency Procedures Reference Guide For Faculty and Staff For Students For Parents Frequently Asked Questions SU Status Webpage University Incident Management Team (UIMT) Fire SafetyExpand Collapse section Contact Fire Safety Evacuation Drill Schedule Evacuation Procedures Fire Safety Compliance Report Food Sanitation Procedures and Guidelines Forms and Permits Student Housing Fire Safety Systems Special Events Policy Student Housing Fire Log Training Law EnforcementExpand Collapse section Body-Worn Camera Program Contact Law Enforcement DPS Jurisdiction InvestigationsExpand Collapse section Investigative Steps Local Active Warrants Patrols in Near-Campus Neighborhoods Policies / Reviews / Records Report a Crime Syracuse Police Department Partnership Policies and Procedures Public InfoExpand Collapse section Annual Security Report Bias Incident Reports Blue Lights Daily Incident and Crime Log DPS Communications Loretta Lynch Report Recommendations – Status Updates Orange Alert Public Safety Notices Rave Guardian Safety Mobile App Responding to Student Activism Sex Offender Registry Synthetic Drug Facts The Jeanne Clery ActExpand Collapse section Alerts and Timely Warnings CSA Quick Reference Guide Clery Crime Report Form Clery Maps Helpful Clery Links U.S. Department of Education Campus Safety and Security ServicesExpand Collapse section Assembly Permit Applications Bicycle Registration Fingerprinting Service Lost and Found Rape Aggression Defense (R.A.D.) Classes Rave Guardian Safety Mobile App Residential Safety Program Ride-Along Program Safety Escort Services Talk to the Chief Victim and Witness Assistance Threat Assessment and Management TeamExpand Collapse section TAMT Policy and Mission Statement The TAMT Process Preventing and Recognizing Threats Reporting to the TAMT TAMT Web Report Form TAMT Confidentiality The TAMT Team Search Search Home Law Enforcement Syracuse Police Department Partnership Syracuse Police Department Partnership The DPS enjoys an excellent working relationships with the Syracuse Police Department (SPD). Syracuse University is a private institution, but SPD officers routinely patrol the streets that intersect and are adjacent to the University. SPD officers do come on campus when required to investigate crimes, but they make every attempt to notify the DPS prior to doing so and are accompanied by DPS officers when on campus. Additionally, DPS and SPD routinely engage in joint crime suppression patrols on and off campus through the University Area Crime-control Team. DPS utilizes a communications system which is interoperable with all local and regional law enforcement agencies and shares incident reporting systems with those agencies. Annual trainings for the use of this system are held with the SPD and other law enforcement agencies. DPS operates under a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the Syracuse Police Department that outlines both agencies’ responsibilities for investigating alleged crimes and offenses in the University area. When a Syracuse University student is involved in an off-campus incident or offense, DPS officers may be asked to assist with the investigation, or they may conduct a parallel investigation in cooperation with local, state, or federal law enforcement. As a result of the DPS investigation, a student found responsible for a University Code of Student Conduct violation may be referred to the University’s Office of Student Rights and Responsibilities (OSRR), in addition to any criminal process initiated by any outside law enforcement agency. The jurisdiction of DPS does not extend to buildings or property owned or controlled by student organizations, or to public property. Therefore, DPS’s role in investigating criminal activity at these locations is limited to sharing information, cooperating, and coordinating with the investigating local law enforcement agency. With this in mind, please read more about our patrolling in near-campus neighborhoods. More from this Section DPS Jurisdiction History of the Challenge Coin Investigations Report a Crime Patrols in Near-Campus Neighborhoods Policies / Reviews / Records Body-Worn Camera Program Contact Law Enforcement 130 College Place, 005 Sims Hall | 315.443.2224 Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter Subscribe to Us on YouTube Follow Us on Instagram © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy