Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Public Safety Search Menu Site Navigation Home About The Chief’s Welcome Mission Statement Core Values Staff Directory Police Transparency & Accountability DPS Career Opportunities Newsletter Social Media Alerts Weekly Incident Summaries & Crime Map Clery & Crime Reporting Reporting a Crime or Incident Understanding DPS Response to Sexual Assault Clery Center CSA Video Crime Prevention Safety Tips Blue-Light Phones & Yellow Jackets Operation Identification (ID) Property Registration Residential Security Vulnerability Assessment Brown Building Security Initiative Stalking Awareness Information Programs & Services Programs & Outreach Brown Guardian App Fingerprinting Event Security Safewalk Transaction Safe Space Find a Lost Item Crime Victim Assistance Personal Safety Alarms Events Past Events Search Department of Public Safety Blue-Light Phones & Yellow Jackets Blue Light Phones are stationed in strategic points on campus. They can be used to directly call the DPS and allow officers to quickly determine your location so that they can more quickly assist you. Brown also contracts Allied Security (“Yellow Jackets”) to serve as additional eyes and ears for DPS. Breadcrumb Home Crime Prevention Sub Navigation In This Section Safety Tips Blue-Light Phones & Yellow Jackets Operation Identification (ID) Property Registration Residential Security Vulnerability Assessment Brown Building Security Initiative Stalking Awareness Information Blue-Light Phones & Yellow Jackets Blue Light Phones are stationed in strategic points on campus. They can be used to directly call the DPS and allow officers to quickly determine your location so that they can more quickly assist you. Brown also contracts Allied Security (“Yellow Jackets”) to serve as additional eyes and ears for DPS. There are approximately 150 outdoor phones located on or near the exterior of all residence halls and most university buildings. They are also located on the campus walkways and in parking garages. There are 45 elevator phones in various campus buildings. Outdoor emergency phones are housed in gray or yellow Lexan cases, are mounted directly to buildings or stanchions, and have a blue light above them. These phones can be used for calling within the university phone system and have a direct speed calling button (marked in red) with an automatic identifier so that the Communications Officer will know your locations when the call is answered. When getting acquainted with the campus, try to note the locations of these phones. How to Use the Blue Light Phone To activate the Emergency Blue Light Phone Press the RED emergency button and the phone will automatically dial the Department of Public Safety. Wait for the dispatcher to answer and explain the problem. A blue light will flash at the phone so that responding personnel can more easily locate you. To activate keypad Press the black button and wait for a dial tone Dial extension number Press the black button when completed Maps Locations of our Blue-Light phones can be viewed on the campus map. See a combined map of Blue- Light phones and Yellow Jacket security posts. Yellow Jackets Have you seen the "Yellow Jacket" security personnel across campus? They are working with DPS to help keep you and our community safe. Brown contracts Allied Security (“Yellow Jackets”) to monitor heavy traffic areas and serve as additional eyes and ears for the Department of Public Safety. They are equipped with radios and are able to communicate with DPS personnel. Hours of Operation: Sunday-Thursday 4 pm to 2 am Friday-Saturday 7 pm to 3 am See locations for Yellow Jacket posts or this combined map that includes both Blue- Light phones and Yellow Jacket security posts. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About The Chief’s Welcome Mission Statement Core Values Staff Directory Police Transparency & Accountability DPS Career Opportunities Newsletter Social Media Alerts Weekly Incident Summaries & Crime Map Clery & Crime Reporting Reporting a Crime or Incident Understanding DPS Response to Sexual Assault Clery Center CSA Video Crime Prevention Safety Tips Blue-Light Phones & Yellow Jackets Operation Identification (ID) Property Registration Residential Security Vulnerability Assessment Brown Building Security Initiative Stalking Awareness Information Programs & Services Programs & Outreach Brown Guardian App Fingerprinting Event Security Safewalk Transaction Safe Space Find a Lost Item Crime Victim Assistance Personal Safety Alarms Events Past Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Blue-Light Phones & Yellow Jackets Open details for Blue-Light Phones & Yellow Jackets Bookmark this Page