Ohio State nav bar Skip to main content The Ohio State University Help BuckeyeLink Map Find People Webmail Search Ohio State Department of Public Safety Main menu Divisions Police Emergency Management Central Campus Security Services Communications and Security Technology Wexner Medical Center Security Crime Clery Act Daily Crime Log Public Safety Notice Report a Crime Community Crime Log Safety Programs Community Police Academy Self-Defense Stay Safe Buckeyes Resources Jobs News Contact Plan an Event Radio Request Recognize a staff member Request a Report Request Security Design Services Search form Search Go Displaying 1 - 2 of 2 Community Crime Map A Crime Can Happen Anytime Home Emergency: 9-1-1 Non-emergency: 614-292-2121 Keeping Buckeyes Safe Additional Resources Clery Act | Daily Crime Log | Fire Log | Safety Tips | Community Feedback DPS News See All News Displaying 1 - 3 of 3 April 29, 2022 In the News: Surveillance Cameras at Parking Garages As reported by NBC4i, new safety measures are in place on and around the campus of The Ohio State University. Crews are in the process of installing surveillance cameras at the vehicle and pedestrian entrances and exits of every parking garage on campus. Full Story ... April 27, 2022 Introducing The City of Ohio State Podcast The Ohio State University hosts more than 100,000 students, faculty, staff and visitors each day. The "City of Ohio State" podcast takes a deep dive into the support services that keep OSU's Columbus campus running 24/7. Hear from industry experts in the fields of facilities, construction, real estate, public... April 26, 2022 Eyes in the Sky Video of DPS Surveillance Cameras/LPRs Ohio State continues its commitment to add safety and security resources both on and off campus. Crews are installing surveillance cameras at all campus parking garages to expand on the more than 4,000 existing campus surveillance cameras. Separately, a pilot program installed license plate... Twitter content feed Department of Public Safety Michael Blankenship Hall | 901 Woody Hayes Dr. | Columbus, Ohio 43210 Phone: 614-247-6300 Recognize a Staff Member Staff Resources Request an Alternate Format. Privacy Statement