Skip to Content Department of Public Safety Open Close primary navigation Search Search AboutExpand Collapse section Accreditations Campus Safety and Emergency Management Services Contact Us DPS News Mission and Vision Statement What We Do Who We Are Work With Us Compliments/Complaints Crime PreventionExpand Collapse section Bicycle Registration Bystander Intervention Strategies Contact Crime Prevention Distracted Driving and Traffic Stops Rape Aggression Defense (R.A.D.) Classes Run. Hide. Fight. Safety Strategies Sexual and Relationship Violence Emergency ManagementExpand Collapse section Building Coordinator Program Business Continuity Contact Emergency Management Current Weather Conditions Emergency Preparedness Committee (EPC) Emergency Procedures Reference Guide For Faculty and Staff For Students For Parents Frequently Asked Questions SU Status Webpage University Incident Management Team (UIMT) Fire SafetyExpand Collapse section Contact Fire Safety Evacuation Drill Schedule Evacuation Procedures Fire Safety Compliance Report Food Sanitation Procedures and Guidelines Forms and Permits Student Housing Fire Safety Systems Special Events Policy Student Housing Fire Log Training Law EnforcementExpand Collapse section Body-Worn Camera Program Contact Law Enforcement DPS Jurisdiction InvestigationsExpand Collapse section Investigative Steps Local Active Warrants Patrols in Near-Campus Neighborhoods Policies / Reviews / Records Report a Crime Syracuse Police Department Partnership Policies and Procedures Public InfoExpand Collapse section Annual Security Report Bias Incident Reports Blue Lights Daily Incident and Crime Log DPS Communications Loretta Lynch Report Recommendations – Status Updates Orange Alert Public Safety Notices Rave Guardian Safety Mobile App Responding to Student Activism Sex Offender Registry Synthetic Drug Facts The Jeanne Clery ActExpand Collapse section Alerts and Timely Warnings CSA Quick Reference Guide Clery Crime Report Form Clery Maps Helpful Clery Links U.S. Department of Education Campus Safety and Security ServicesExpand Collapse section Assembly Permit Applications Bicycle Registration Fingerprinting Service Lost and Found Rape Aggression Defense (R.A.D.) Classes Rave Guardian Safety Mobile App Residential Safety Program Ride-Along Program Safety Escort Services Talk to the Chief Victim and Witness Assistance Threat Assessment and Management TeamExpand Collapse section TAMT Policy and Mission Statement The TAMT Process Preventing and Recognizing Threats Reporting to the TAMT TAMT Web Report Form TAMT Confidentiality The TAMT Team Search Search Home Public Information Rave Guardian Safety Mobile App Rave Guardian Safety Mobile App Syracuse University students, faculty, and staff are encouraged to download Rave Guardian, a free app created by Rave Mobile Safety, which the University already uses to send Orange Alerts via platforms such as email, phone and text, provides a number of safety tools designed to keep you safe. With Rave Guardian, users can stay connected and receive important campus notifications, communicate with campus safety, and gain access to resources needed most. Features of the App Include: Link Easy Emergency Communication: With a push of a button, you can directly connect to 9-1-1 or DPS in an emergency. Guardians and Safety Timers: Access an extra layer of safety when walking alone. As a registered user, you can add friends and family members as “Guardians” and send a text message when you begin an activity—say, a walk home from class or to a friend’s residence hall. You can set a timer with your current location, plus a note of where you are going and when you should arrive; you then can share that journey with your “Guardian,” who can track your progress on a GPS map in real time. In the event you do not make it to your destination and deactivate the timer, your “Guardians” will be immediately alerted. Anonymous Tip Reporting and Real-Time Chat: Prevent dangerous situations by submitting a tip—anonymously or associated with your profile—and have real-time chat interactions with a member of the DPS dispatch team. This way, dispatchers and police can get the information they need about suspicious behavior, unsafe situations, or crimes and you can be sure the issue is being reported without drawing attention from those around you. The app allows you to text suspicious activity to DPS, using photos or video. Push Notifications: Rave Guardian offers a seamless notification process in the event of an emergency. In extreme circumstances, phone lines may prevent some messages from going through quickly; Rave Guardian’s push notifications allow you to get the message almost instantaneously, even if you don’t have cellular service, such as in the basement of a building. (Wi-Fi access would be necessary.) Quick Access to Critical Resources: Beyond being able to contact DPS or 911 with the touch of a button, you can also access important phone numbers and websites for safety and wellness resources—on campus and beyond. Download the free Guardian app today at the Apple store or Google Play. Explore the app features at Rave Guardian. Frequently Asked Questions Link Who can use Rave Guardian? Link The application is available for use by all current Syracuse University students, faculty and staff who are registered with the Orange Alert system. Is the Rave Guardian app always tracking me? Link No. Your privacy is of the utmost importance. You can only be located if you have asked for help. Rave Guardian location information is only enabled when you choose to make an emergency call or when you do not select the "Go Anonymous" feature when submitting tips. Will this app allow DPS to track me anytime they want? Link No, DPS does not have the ability to track or monitor the location of the app users. Any voluntary location that is shared will only be available during that specific call or chat session. Does Rave Guardian have the Safe Walk feature that LiveSafe had? Link Yes, the Safe Walk feature in Rave Guardian is a safety timer. Much like LiveSafe, you can invite friends or family ("Guardians") to watch you virtually walk to your destination. Your "Guardian," will be sent a link and does not need the app to watch you walk safely to your destination. What if I forget to turn off my safety timer? Link When using the safety timer, the user will receive a reminder text message 5 minutes before expiring. If it expires, a message immediately goes to your chosen guardian(s) and they can call your cell phone. Are the tips sent through Rave Guardian anonymous? Link You can choose whether to send a tip anonymously each time you send in a text or photo tip. To send text or photo tips anonymously, tap the “Submit Tips” button and turn on the “Go Anonymous” feature at the top of the page before you select your tip type. If you choose to send a tip anonymously, DPS will not be able to see your name, phone number or any other identifying information about you. Who receives the tips that I submit? Link Tips submitted are monitored 24/7 by the dispatchers in our Emergency Communications Center. In case DPS requires further information on any tips, dispatchers will follow-up and live chat with the user. Do I have to have “push notifications” turned on for the Rave Guardian? Link We recommend that you allow notifications from Rave Guardian. This will alert you when your safety timer is about to expire; when you have received a response from DPS during a chat session; or when someone has requested you as a Guardian. Is my profile information listed in Rave Guardian secure? Link Yes. Rave Mobile Safety (the provider of Rave Guardian) uses the latest in security technologies and processes to ensure that all of your information is kept secure and private. Rave also undergoes regular security audits to ensure the information security of data. Does Rave Guardian work off-campus? Link Yes, the Submit Tips feature works whether you are on or off campus; however, if you have an emergency at an off-campus location, you should dial 9-1-1. If you send a tip that is not on campus, the information will be forwarded to the off campus law enforcement agency. How does my profile information get collected and sent to DPS? Link Your profile information is generated from the contact information you enter in the "Orange Alert" section of your MySlice. Be sure to always keep this data as up to date as possible. More from this Section Annual Security Report DPS Communications Loretta Lynch Report Recommendations – Status Updates Orange Alert Responding to Student Activism Daily Incident and Crime Log LiveSafe Mobile App Blue Lights Bias Incident Reports Public Safety Notices The Jeanne Clery Act Synthetic Drug Facts Internal Affairs Investigations 130 College Place, 005 Sims Hall | 315.443.2224 Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter Subscribe to Us on YouTube Follow Us on Instagram © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy