Skip to Content Department of Public Safety Open Close primary navigation Search Search AboutExpand Collapse section Accreditations Campus Safety and Emergency Management Services Contact Us DPS News Mission and Vision Statement What We Do Who We Are Work With Us Compliments/Complaints Crime PreventionExpand Collapse section Bicycle Registration Bystander Intervention Strategies Contact Crime Prevention Distracted Driving and Traffic Stops Rape Aggression Defense (R.A.D.) Classes Run. Hide. Fight. Safety Strategies Sexual and Relationship Violence Emergency ManagementExpand Collapse section Building Coordinator Program Business Continuity Contact Emergency Management Current Weather Conditions Emergency Preparedness Committee (EPC) Emergency Procedures Reference Guide For Faculty and Staff For Students For Parents Frequently Asked Questions SU Status Webpage University Incident Management Team (UIMT) Fire SafetyExpand Collapse section Contact Fire Safety Evacuation Drill Schedule Evacuation Procedures Fire Safety Compliance Report Food Sanitation Procedures and Guidelines Forms and Permits Student Housing Fire Safety Systems Special Events Policy Student Housing Fire Log Training Law EnforcementExpand Collapse section Body-Worn Camera Program Contact Law Enforcement DPS Jurisdiction InvestigationsExpand Collapse section Investigative Steps Local Active Warrants Patrols in Near-Campus Neighborhoods Policies / Reviews / Records Report a Crime Syracuse Police Department Partnership Policies and Procedures Public InfoExpand Collapse section Annual Security Report Bias Incident Reports Blue Lights Daily Incident and Crime Log DPS Communications Loretta Lynch Report Recommendations – Status Updates Orange Alert Public Safety Notices Rave Guardian Safety Mobile App Responding to Student Activism Sex Offender Registry Synthetic Drug Facts The Jeanne Clery ActExpand Collapse section Alerts and Timely Warnings CSA Quick Reference Guide Clery Crime Report Form Clery Maps Helpful Clery Links U.S. Department of Education Campus Safety and Security ServicesExpand Collapse section Assembly Permit Applications Bicycle Registration Fingerprinting Service Lost and Found Rape Aggression Defense (R.A.D.) Classes Rave Guardian Safety Mobile App Residential Safety Program Ride-Along Program Safety Escort Services Talk to the Chief Victim and Witness Assistance Threat Assessment and Management TeamExpand Collapse section TAMT Policy and Mission Statement The TAMT Process Preventing and Recognizing Threats Reporting to the TAMT TAMT Web Report Form TAMT Confidentiality The TAMT Team Search Search Help DPS Keep Syracuse University Safe Participate in your community and report anything suspicious to 315.443.2224. Featured Pages Rave Guardian Safety Mobile App New Safety App! Download Today! Orange Alert University's crisis notification system Safety Strategies Simple steps to stay safe on campus Bias Incident Reports Most recent reports available here. Public Safety Notices Timely warnings Previous slide Next slide News & Headlines Eight New Recruits Begin Campus Peace Officer Academy May 19, 2022 Seven new recruits were sworn into the Syracuse University campus peace officer academy today by Syracuse Police Chief Joe Cecile. Cecile performed the swearing in of the academy recruits as an official welcome and endorsement of the joint law enforcement efforts in the University area, and to provide these campus peace officers with authority to… Public Safety Update: Gunshots on South Crouse Ave May 15, 2022 As a follow up the to the Public Safety Notice we sent a short time ago, the Syracuse Police Department (SPD), with the help of the Department of Public Safety (DPS), are still on the scene and continue to actively investigate a report of gunshots near 734 South Crouse Ave. We ask that you continue… Public Safety Notice: Gunshots May 15, 2022 On Sunday, May 15th, 2022 at approximately 1:20 a.m., the Onondaga County Emergency 911 Center received a report of an gunshot at 734 South Crouse Avenue. The Department of Public Safety and the Syracuse Police Department are investigating. Stay away from the area until further notice. If you have any information related to this event… April 2022 Updates From the Department of Public Safety May 4, 2022 Dear Students, Faculty and Staff: I recently concluded my first month as a member of the Syracuse University community. I have enjoyed my time meeting with so many of you, including the Graduate Student Organization, Student Association, University Senate and Resident Association Advisory Board just to name a few, and look forward to connecting with… Read More News Also of Interest Threat Assessment and Management Team Evaluates potential physical threats. Annual Security Report In accordance with the Jeanne Clery Act. Media/Interview Inquiries Please complete our form. Bicycle Safety Tips on keeping you and your bike safe! Daily Incident and Crime Log For incidents occurring in the past 60 days Previous slide Next slide 130 College Place, 005 Sims Hall | 315.443.2224 Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter Subscribe to Us on YouTube Follow Us on Instagram © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy