Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Public Safety Search Menu Site Navigation Home About The Chief’s Welcome Mission Statement Core Values Staff Directory Police Transparency & Accountability DPS Career Opportunities Newsletter Social Media Alerts Weekly Incident Summaries & Crime Map Clery & Crime Reporting Reporting a Crime or Incident Understanding DPS Response to Sexual Assault Clery Center CSA Video Crime Prevention Safety Tips Blue-Light Phones & Yellow Jackets Operation Identification (ID) Property Registration Residential Security Vulnerability Assessment Brown Building Security Initiative Stalking Awareness Information Programs & Services Programs & Outreach Brown Guardian App Fingerprinting Event Security Safewalk Transaction Safe Space Find a Lost Item Crime Victim Assistance Personal Safety Alarms Events Past Events Search Department of Public Safety Making Commendations, Complaints, & Inquiries The Department of Public Safety (DPS) is committed to providing quality services to the community in a professional and courteous manner. We encourage members of the community to submit and share information about their experiences and interactions they have had with DPS personnel. Breadcrumb Home About Police Transparency & Accountability Sub Navigation In This Section Making Commendations, Complaints, & Inquiries Public Safety Oversight Committee Making Commendations, Complaints, & Inquiries The Department of Public Safety (DPS) is committed to providing quality services to the community in a professional and courteous manner. We encourage members of the community to submit and share information about their experiences and interactions they have had with DPS personnel. Complaints The Chief of Police/Executive Director of Public Safety reviews every complaint. It is the policy of the Department of Public Safety to accept and investigate all complaints regarding the conduct of department members or department services. You can file a complaint online or by obtaining and submitting a complaint form at the Public Safety Headquarters front lobby at 75 Charlesfield Street. Please note that this form should not be used for emergencies or to file a report regarding a crime. Once a complaint is received, it is thoroughly investigated by a person designated by the Chief/Executive Director of Public Safety. The investigation will include a review of all applicable reports, policies and procedures, any related evidence, and interviews with all parties and witnesses. Some inquiries and/or complaints may be misunderstandings of department policies or procedures and may be resolved after receiving an explanation of procedures. More complex investigations may take several weeks to complete. If the Chief/Executive Director determines that an officer violated department policies or procedures, appropriate corrective action will be taken. The Chief/Executive Director's review will also include exploring ways to improve departmental policies, procedures, and training. Complaint Flow Chart Citizen Complaint Report 2020 Citizen Complaint Report 2019 For more information, please contact the Professional Standards Bureau at 401-863-3313. Questions About Being Stopped By a DPS Officer If you have been stopped by a member of the Department of Public Safety and you are unsure of the reason why or if you have questions on the validity of the stop, we invite you to inquire about it. You may do so by submitting a Pedestrian or Motor Vehicle Stop Inquiry Form which will provide us with details of the stop and a way to contact you. Commendations The Department of Public Safety (DPS) is committed to providing quality services to the community in a professional and courteous manner. Day-to-day, our officers and staff members perform commendable acts of service. We encourage members of the community to submit and share information about positive experiences and interactions they have had with DPS personnel. You may do so by completing a Commendation Recommendation Form. The officer or staff member and their supervisor will be notified of the compliment which will be noted in their personnel file. The compliment will then be forwarded to the DPS Commendation Board for consideration. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About The Chief’s Welcome Mission Statement Core Values Staff Directory Police Transparency & Accountability DPS Career Opportunities Newsletter Social Media Alerts Weekly Incident Summaries & Crime Map Clery & Crime Reporting Reporting a Crime or Incident Understanding DPS Response to Sexual Assault Clery Center CSA Video Crime Prevention Safety Tips Blue-Light Phones & Yellow Jackets Operation Identification (ID) Property Registration Residential Security Vulnerability Assessment Brown Building Security Initiative Stalking Awareness Information Programs & Services Programs & Outreach Brown Guardian App Fingerprinting Event Security Safewalk Transaction Safe Space Find a Lost Item Crime Victim Assistance Personal Safety Alarms Events Past Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Making Commendations, Complaints, & Inquiries Open details for Making Commendations, Complaints, & Inquiries Bookmark this Page