Skip to Content Department of Public Safety Open Close primary navigation Search Search AboutExpand Collapse section Accreditations Campus Safety and Emergency Management Services Contact Us DPS News Mission and Vision Statement What We Do Who We Are Work With Us Compliments/Complaints Crime PreventionExpand Collapse section Bicycle Registration Bystander Intervention Strategies Contact Crime Prevention Distracted Driving and Traffic Stops Rape Aggression Defense (R.A.D.) Classes Run. Hide. Fight. Safety Strategies Sexual and Relationship Violence Emergency ManagementExpand Collapse section Building Coordinator Program Business Continuity Contact Emergency Management Current Weather Conditions Emergency Preparedness Committee (EPC) Emergency Procedures Reference Guide For Faculty and Staff For Students For Parents Frequently Asked Questions SU Status Webpage University Incident Management Team (UIMT) Fire SafetyExpand Collapse section Contact Fire Safety Evacuation Drill Schedule Evacuation Procedures Fire Safety Compliance Report Food Sanitation Procedures and Guidelines Forms and Permits Student Housing Fire Safety Systems Special Events Policy Student Housing Fire Log Training Law EnforcementExpand Collapse section Body-Worn Camera Program Contact Law Enforcement DPS Jurisdiction InvestigationsExpand Collapse section Investigative Steps Local Active Warrants Patrols in Near-Campus Neighborhoods Policies / Reviews / Records Report a Crime Syracuse Police Department Partnership Policies and Procedures Public InfoExpand Collapse section Annual Security Report Bias Incident Reports Blue Lights Daily Incident and Crime Log DPS Communications Loretta Lynch Report Recommendations – Status Updates Orange Alert Public Safety Notices Rave Guardian Safety Mobile App Responding to Student Activism Sex Offender Registry Synthetic Drug Facts The Jeanne Clery ActExpand Collapse section Alerts and Timely Warnings CSA Quick Reference Guide Clery Crime Report Form Clery Maps Helpful Clery Links U.S. Department of Education Campus Safety and Security ServicesExpand Collapse section Assembly Permit Applications Bicycle Registration Fingerprinting Service Lost and Found Rape Aggression Defense (R.A.D.) Classes Rave Guardian Safety Mobile App Residential Safety Program Ride-Along Program Safety Escort Services Talk to the Chief Victim and Witness Assistance Threat Assessment and Management TeamExpand Collapse section TAMT Policy and Mission Statement The TAMT Process Preventing and Recognizing Threats Reporting to the TAMT TAMT Web Report Form TAMT Confidentiality The TAMT Team Search Search Home Law Enforcement Patrols in Near-Campus Neighborhoods Patrols in Near-Campus Neighborhoods University Area Crime-control Team (UACT) Link The University Area Crime-control Team (UACT), staffed jointly by the SU Department of Public Safety (DPS) and the Syracuse Police Department (SPD), patrols in the immediate off-campus and fraternity/sorority neighborhoods focused on robbery and burglary suppression. The primary mission of the UACT is to further enhance the safety and security of SU community members on campus and in designated areas closest to the University’s campus. Both enforcement agencies patrol areas in the campus area on Thursday, Friday and Saturday nights in cars from both departments A supervision team consisting of one SPD supervisor and one DPS supervisor will coordinate the UACT. SPD officers assigned to the UACT will carry their full police authority throughout the neighborhoods adjacent to campus. Combined patrols will enable UACT to further protect the greater campus community and deter crime. This collaborative initiative strengthens our partnership with local law enforcement and builds on the wide range of enhanced safety and security measures that we have implemented in recent years combining increased patrols and technological advancements. Neighborhood Safety Patrol (NSP) Link The University formed the Neighborhood Safety Patrol program in response to student safety concerns and quality of life issues brought to our attention by residents of the neighborhoods bordering the eastern edge of our campus. This program is a partnership between the residents, the University, and the Syracuse Police Department. The Department of Public Safety designates one or two patrol units to respond to incidents involving Syracuse University students that occur in the patrol area. When necessary, DPS officers will document student violations of the law and the Syracuse University Code of Student Conduct. DPS officers will respond at the request of the Syracuse Police Department officers assigned to the Neighborhood Patrol. DPS also patrols the east neighborhoods, reporting safety issues and suspicious incidents directly to the Syracuse Police Department. The designated patrol area consists of the area within the following boundary: Westcott Street to the east; Comstock Avenue to the west; Broad Street to the south; and Clarendon Avenue to the north. The Neighborhood Patrol boundaries have been extended to include the Greek houses in the Walnut Park area bounded by Walnut Avenue to the east, Walnut Place to the West, Harrison Street to the north, and Waverly Avenue to the south. Orange Watch Link Orange Watch is a DPS program that provides an expanded DPS presence in key areas on North and South campuses and in the neighborhoods north and east of campus. The program expands DPS peace officers’ hours of armed walking, bicycle and vehicle patrol coverage. It supplements DPS’ and other law enforcement agencies’ current activities in areas frequented by students, faculty and staff. Orange Watch officers are on patrol throughout the year, with increased presence between the hours of 7 p.m. and 5 a.m. and on weekends — times when students have the most serious concerns about safety, according to DPS surveys. Orange Watch places five additional peace officers and a supervisor on patrol in these areas at night on weekends. During the summer months and on weekdays during the academic year Orange Watch provides three additional peace officers. As a result, patrols in these areas during these times increases by nearly 40 percent on weekdays and more than 60 percent on weekends. As they perform their duties, Orange Watch officers are highly visible; interact in community building, problem solving and crime prevention; and provide services to students, faculty, staff and residents in need of law enforcement assistance. Orange Watch officers promote the safety of students found walking alone or in small groups; use DPS’ radio network to report on any signs of criminal activity or other safety and security concerns; and assist Syracuse Police Department officers on request. More from this Section DPS Jurisdiction History of the Challenge Coin Investigations Report a Crime Syracuse Police Department Partnership Policies / Reviews / Records Body-Worn Camera Program Contact Law Enforcement 130 College Place, 005 Sims Hall | 315.443.2224 Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter Subscribe to Us on YouTube Follow Us on Instagram © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy