Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Public Safety Search Menu Site Navigation Home About The Chief’s Welcome Mission Statement Core Values Staff Directory Police Transparency & Accountability DPS Career Opportunities Newsletter Social Media Alerts Weekly Incident Summaries & Crime Map Clery & Crime Reporting Reporting a Crime or Incident Understanding DPS Response to Sexual Assault Clery Center CSA Video Crime Prevention Safety Tips Blue-Light Phones & Yellow Jackets Operation Identification (ID) Property Registration Residential Security Vulnerability Assessment Brown Building Security Initiative Stalking Awareness Information Programs & Services Programs & Outreach Brown Guardian App Fingerprinting Event Security Safewalk Transaction Safe Space Find a Lost Item Crime Victim Assistance Personal Safety Alarms Events Past Events Search Department of Public Safety RAD Basic Self-Defense Programs This dynamic program has the ability to empower ANY woman by providing her with the skills necessary to avoid, resist and defend against an attack if she so chooses. Breadcrumb Home Programs & Services Programs & Outreach Sub Navigation In This Section RAD Basic Self-Defense Programs First Aid Training Officer/Student Dialogue Program Student Listening Session Initiative Car Care Check The MET High School Community Service Projects RAD Basic Self-Defense Programs This dynamic program has the ability to empower ANY woman by providing her with the skills necessary to avoid, resist and defend against an attack if she so chooses. The RAD program is not currently running due to COVID-19 policy. Please check back in the future for updates regarding this program. To see our most recent remote safety program offerings, please navigate to our events page. Rape Aggression Defense (RAD) is a nationally-known self-defense program. RAD's program objective is to develop and enhance the options of self-defense so they may become viable considerations to the woman who is attacked. The program consists of lecture, discussion, instruction, and hands-on simulation. This dynamic program has the ability to empower ANY woman by providing her with the skills necessary to avoid, resist and defend against an attack if she so chooses. The course is 12 hours and is offered with four three-hour classes (nights). The course is suitable for women of all physical abilities, and you will be encouraged to go at your own pace. What to expect Session 1 Session 2 Session 3 Simulation Exercise Session 1 Introduction to RAD, paperwork, warm up, and physical instruction of self-defense moves by trained instructors. This class is mandatory to complete the RAD training. Session 2 Warm-up, review of self-defense moves from the previous session, and additional training of new moves. Detailed manuals distributed. Session 3 Warm-up, review of all moves. Preparation for simulation exercise. Simulation Exercise A trained instructor in a padded suit is used in this exercise to practice all you have learned in three simulated scenarios. Additional instructors set up the scenarios, explain what is happening, and coach you through the process. The scenarios are filmed and played back to the group for review – then erased for privacy. Food and refreshments are provided during this session for the recap. “ It’s not the moves that stuck with me the most, it’s the mentality that was taught. We were reminded again and again to take charge of the situation, believe in our strength and let nobody judge us for taking ourselves seriously. ” Loretta Tsang exchange student RAD for Women Certified Instructors Patricia Fortier Campus Police Officer Kelly Mitchell Sergeant Pao Yang Officer RAD for Men The RAD for Men program offers participants an opportunity to raise their awareness of aggressive behavior, recognize how aggressive behavior impacts their lives, learn steps to avoid aggressive behavior, consider how they can be part of reducing aggression and violence, and practice hands-on self-defense skills to resist and escape aggressive behavior directed toward them. The program is designed to empower participants to make safer choices when confronted with aggressive behavior. RAD for Men Certified Instructor Antonio "Tony" Bento Campus Police Officer Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About The Chief’s Welcome Mission Statement Core Values Staff Directory Police Transparency & Accountability DPS Career Opportunities Newsletter Social Media Alerts Weekly Incident Summaries & Crime Map Clery & Crime Reporting Reporting a Crime or Incident Understanding DPS Response to Sexual Assault Clery Center CSA Video Crime Prevention Safety Tips Blue-Light Phones & Yellow Jackets Operation Identification (ID) Property Registration Residential Security Vulnerability Assessment Brown Building Security Initiative Stalking Awareness Information Programs & Services Programs & Outreach Brown Guardian App Fingerprinting Event Security Safewalk Transaction Safe Space Find a Lost Item Crime Victim Assistance Personal Safety Alarms Events Past Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search RAD Basic Self-Defense Programs Open details for RAD Basic Self-Defense Programs Bookmark this Page