Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Public Safety Search Menu Site Navigation Home About The Chief’s Welcome Mission Statement Core Values Staff Directory Police Transparency & Accountability DPS Career Opportunities Newsletter Social Media Alerts Weekly Incident Summaries & Crime Map Clery & Crime Reporting Reporting a Crime or Incident Understanding DPS Response to Sexual Assault Clery Center CSA Video Crime Prevention Safety Tips Blue-Light Phones & Yellow Jackets Operation Identification (ID) Property Registration Residential Security Vulnerability Assessment Brown Building Security Initiative Stalking Awareness Information Programs & Services Programs & Outreach Brown Guardian App Fingerprinting Event Security Safewalk Transaction Safe Space Find a Lost Item Crime Victim Assistance Personal Safety Alarms Events Past Events Search Department of Public Safety Programs & Services The Department of Public Safety offers a variety of resources to our community in order to make the campus a safer place to learn, teach, work, and live. Sub Navigation In This Section Programs & Outreach Brown Guardian App Fingerprinting Event Security Safewalk Transaction Safe Space Find a Lost Item Crime Victim Assistance Personal Safety Alarms Programs & Services The Department of Public Safety offers a variety of resources to our community in order to make the campus a safer place to learn, teach, work, and live. The Department of Public Safety provides the community with the resources and the education necessary to make informed choices about their safety. Department personnel participates in a wide range of campus events to include University orientations, resource fairs, and other special campus events in an effort to provide all members of the community with valuable and practical safety information. This information is also imparted through a variety of services and programs. Brown Guardian App The Guardian App offers safety resources that are optimized for mobile devices, like two-way texting and safety timers. Fingerprinting The DPS offers a free fingerprinting service by appointment. Event Security The Department of Public Safety offers security services for on-campus events. Safewalk Safewalk provides members of the Brown community with point-to-point walking escorts— and peace of mind. Transaction Safe Space We offer a safe space for secure transactions organized online. Find a Lost Item Need help locating a lost item? The Department of Public Safety might have recovered it. Crime Victim Assistance The Department of Public Safety works alongside other campus agencies to offer comprehensive resources to victims. Personal Safety Alarms The Department of Public Safety distributes PALs that protect its users by drawing attention to unsafe situations. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About The Chief’s Welcome Mission Statement Core Values Staff Directory Police Transparency & Accountability DPS Career Opportunities Newsletter Social Media Alerts Weekly Incident Summaries & Crime Map Clery & Crime Reporting Reporting a Crime or Incident Understanding DPS Response to Sexual Assault Clery Center CSA Video Crime Prevention Safety Tips Blue-Light Phones & Yellow Jackets Operation Identification (ID) Property Registration Residential Security Vulnerability Assessment Brown Building Security Initiative Stalking Awareness Information Programs & Services Programs & Outreach Brown Guardian App Fingerprinting Event Security Safewalk Transaction Safe Space Find a Lost Item Crime Victim Assistance Personal Safety Alarms Events Past Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Programs & Services Open details for Programs & Services Bookmark this Page