Ohio State nav bar Skip to main content The Ohio State University Help BuckeyeLink Map Find People Webmail Search Ohio State Michael V. Drake Institute for Teaching and Learning Main menu News About Director's Message Mission, Vision, Values and Goals Staff Institute Affiliates Mentors Instructional Support Instructional Redesign Teaching Endorsements New Faculty FIT Program Curriculum Design Course Design Institute Consultations Using Feedback to Improve Teaching Research Support Research and Implementation Grant Program SoTL and DBER Learning Community SoTL/DBER Conferences at OSU GTA Support Teaching Tools and Resources GTA Toolkit Graduate Teaching Orientation Planning for an Academic Job Search Consultations Resources Teaching@OS How Are You Teaching? How Are You Learning? Drake Institute Reading List Constructing a Syllabus Classroom Assessment Techniques Course Assessment Plan Development Teaching Portfolio Development Inclusive Teaching Ohio State Programs and Resources Conferences and Journals Events Recorded Events Contact Search form Search Go Displaying 1 - 6 of 6 How Are You Teaching? Ohio State faculty share effective, evidence-based instructional strategies Instructional Redesign Initiative Improving student learning and enhancing student experience Michael V. Drake Institute for Teaching and Learning Ohio State Board of Trustees renames institute to recognize outgoing president Grant Awards Drake Institute support for Scholarship of Teaching and Learning Teaching Endorsements Discover professional learning programs offered by UITL About the Drake Institute Institute mission, strategic goals, and signature programs Home Instructional Redesign Teaching Endorsements New Faculty FIT Program Research Initiatives Our Featured Articles Displaying 1 - 3 of 201 Drake Institute, registrar launch summer formative feedback pilot May 25, 2022 This summer, the Michael V. Drake Institute for Teaching and Learning and the Office of the Registrar have launched a formative feedback survey pilot to determine an opt-in method for instructors to collect early feedback can be deployed to for all who teach. The Drake Institute has always recommended that instructors use formative feedback to support teaching excellence—most often through individual administration of questions or through SGIDs (Small Group Instructional Diagnoses) -- but recently the Institute and Office of the Registrar leadership have worked with Blue (Explorance) to consider a more scalable solution, allowing Ohio State teachers... Teaching Information Literacy endorsement pathways expand May 16, 2022 Are you interested in learning more about information literacy and how to teach it? Consider completing the Teaching Information Literacy teaching endorsement from the Drake Institute for Teaching and Learning. Developed and facilitated by the University Libraries, Teaching Information Literacy is intended to provide participants with an enhanced understanding of information literacy as a concept and introduce strategies and resources that instructors can use to incorporate information literacy into their courses. The Teaching Information Literacy endorsement is available to all faculty, instructors, staff, and graduate teaching/research associates at Ohio State. Beginning this summer, there are now two... Course coordinators invited to scientific teaching institute April 19, 2022 The Michael V. Drake Institute for Teaching and Learning seeks a dynamic and motivated group of course coordinators and others responsible for planning and overseeing the instruction that occurs across multiple sections of large enrollment STEM courses (e.g., math, chemistry, physics). Selected coordinators will be invited to participate in an incentivized, collaborative working group to be held during the Mobile Summer Institute on Scientific Teaching (MoSI). This in-person institute begins at noon on Monday, May 16, runs through May 20. This engagement is intended to help participants develop a plan to introduce... See News Archive Upcoming Events Displaying 1 - 8 of 11 May 31 Designing for Justice: Backward Designing a Course with DEIJ Principles (for GTAs) Jun 2 Teaching Reflective and Critical Evaluation Strategies Jun 8 Course Design Institute @ CarmenZoom Tags: Course Design Institute Jun 9 Teaching Responsible and Ethical Information Practices Jun 13 Designing Your Online Course Jun 15 Better Research through Better Mentoring – Part 1 @ 350 Research Commons, Eighteenth Avenue Library Jun 16 Information Literacy in the Disciplinary Context Jun 21 Course-based Undergraduate Research (CURE) Institute @ Virtual 1 of 2 Go to next › page Submit your event for consideration to the Institute events list. View All Events Follow Us content feed INSTITUTE CONSULTANTS are available Monday through Friday. Contact us to schedule an appointment. HOW ARE YOU TEACHING? We invite faculty to share information about how they're teaching. We're interested in innovative solutions, teaching tips, amd recommended methods for boosting student engagement or achievement of learning outcomes. INSTITUTE SIGNATURE PROGRAMS The Institute for Teaching and Learning provides extensive services to all committed to instructional excellence at Ohio State from one-on-one consultations to curriculum design support. This brochure summarizes programs. It is designed to be downloaded and shared. Join Our Mailing List Institute Spotlight Displaying 1 - 1 of 1 Elizabeth Sharpe, DNP, APRN, NNP-BC, FAANP, FAAN Associate Professor of Clinical Nursing College of Nursing How Are You Teaching? Complications Rounds to spark critical thinking Elizabeth Sharpe, associate professor of Clinical Nursing, knows that the creativity of clinical educators “is being called upon like never before,” having spent the last year and a half “innovating to enrich nurse practitioner student knowledge” in the fact of “diminishing or uncertain clinical...Learn more Our Partners Michael V. Drake Institute for Teaching and Learning 4138 Smith Laboratory | 174 W. 18th Ave. | Columbus, Ohio 43210 Phone: 614-292-3644 Email: drakeinstitute@osu.edu Privacy Statement