Skip to content University of Southern California School of Dramatic Arts Menu School of Dramatic Arts Flickr Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Search Dramatically Different For more than 75 years, we have fostered the talents of artist-scholars who are willing to imagine the future of the entertainment industry and bring it to life. The agile nature of our interdisciplinary and entrepreneurial approach exposes students to diverse styles and multiple mediums, and they graduate prepared with the tools necessary for sustainable and thriving careers. explore sda In the News USC School of Dramatic Arts 2022-23 season of plays announced This rich and exciting season encompasses the full range of theatrical experiences and highlights the multidisciplinary talents of SDA students. 2022-23 Photo gallery and full videos of the SDA commencement ceremonies Missed the undergraduate or graduate ceremony? Watch a recording of the live event on YouTube or view a photo recap of the event. Commencement 2022 SDA among fine and performing arts colleges embracing equity, diversity and inclusion on a deeper level An article in Insight Into Diversity magazine that discusses the USC School of Dramatic Arts’ work in broadening its teaching, training, casting practices, among others. read Associate Professor Takeshi Kata nominated for Drama Desk Award The Head of Design was nominated for Outstanding Scenic Design for a Play for his work on ‘Clyde’s.’ Drama Desk For these Trojans, commencement is a family affair USC alumni return to their alma mater to watch their children receive degrees of their own. #USCGrad Alumni Memories: May 16 Alumna Cheryl Wolder shares a fond NBC Live! memory from her time as a student. in three, two… Class of 2022 recognized for their creativity and accomplishment Graduating students from the USC School of Dramatic Arts celebrate commencement with keynote addresses from artists BD Wong and Charlayne Woodard. Commencement 2022 Student playwrights draw inspiration from the world’s largest LGBTQ materials repository An SDA playwriting class gets creative after a visit to the ONE Archives at the USC Libraries, writing scenes based on a photo collection of a gay wedding that took place in the 1950s in Philadelphia. inspiration SDA faculty member Nicholas Hussong earns a Tony Award nomination for best scenic design The theatrical designer received a nod for Best Scenic Design of a Play for his work on Skeleton Crew, which was announced on Monday. The Tonys Faculty Q&A: Dan Shaner The Associate Professor of Theatre Practice shares about his role as director of the SDA Professional Development Center, what programming new students should take advantage of and more. getting to know Student Q&A: Naveen Bhatia The BS ’22 student, who doubled as a sound designer at SDA, discusses why he decided to work in SDA’s sound program, his favorite theatre projects at USC and more in Q&A series with current students. 10 questions Congratulations to the 2021-22 School of Dramatic Arts Award Recipients On May 6, the USC School of Dramatic Arts recognized the outstanding achievements of several of our students at the 29th annual Awards Ceremony. excellence SDA’s Sibyl Wickersheimer among honorees at Academic Honors Convocation The associate professor of scenic design received the USC Associates Award for Artistic Expression. distinguished SDA student-designed collaboration provides a peaceful, safe space to USC community A collaborative project with the School of Dramatic, Jimmy Iovine and Andre Young Academy, and Open Paths Counseling Center, the Peace Pods provide solitary space for people to decompress from everyday life. transitional spaces Original ‘for colored girls’ cast reunites to celebrate the Broadway revival A sweet return for the 1976 Broadway cast, including SDA Professor of Theatre Practice Michele Shay, in support of the new generation performing Ntozake Shange’s play at the Booth Theatre. back on Broadway Apply Programs On Stage News Faculty Alumni Giving About Searchsearch Flickr Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Search For Current Students For Parents For Faculty & Staff USC School of Dramatic Arts Contact Information Employment Emergency Information Location and Directions Privacy Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination Send website feedback to sdaweb@usc.edu