Skip to main content Give to UH Libraries Digital Research Commons About Who We Are Space and Technology Research Services Tutorials and resources Grant Partnership Opportunities Programs Digital Research Institute DH@UH Research Communities of Practice Projects Program Overview and Documentation Current and Past Projects Take 5 minutes to help us improve our website. The DRC exists to encourage and facilitate interdisciplinary research and build communities of practice around modern digital research methodologies. Our staff partners with faculty and students in the humanities, social sciences, and experimental sciences on digital research projects of all sizes. We will work with you from the earliest stages of formulating a research question to publication and beyond. Contact the DRC Services View all Group Study Group rooms are available in MD Anderson Library and the Music Library. Individual Study There are over 150 carrels for individual study in MD Anderson Library. Computer Labs There are computer labs in every branch of the Libraries. Some labs are restricted to certain students. Faculty Study MD Anderson Library provides both carrels and private rooms for private individual use by faculty Projects View all The SYRIOS Project Black. Migration. Houston. 1771: Genres and Temporalities in Four Cities National Women’s Conference, 1977-2027 Russian War Letters Updates All updates Recent Posts test 2 Hello world! Events All events MD Anderson Library 4333 University Drive Houston, TX 77204-2000 (713) 743-1050 Research Projects Calendar About DRC Staff Privacy Policy Give to UH Libraries Accessibility Help UH Home facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies Your browser does not support JavaScript! Your browser does not support JavaScript!