Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Support DRCLAS Timeline Search Where We Work Andes & Southern Cone Brazil Central America & the Caribbean Cuba Mexico What We Do Art, Film, & Culture Lectures, Seminars, and Conferences Thematic Initiatives Student Opportunities Faculty Grants Visiting Scholars Revista Faculty Voices Center-Wide Impact Reports Who We Are Leadership Our Team Faculty Leadership Visiting Scholars & GSAs Advisory Committee History Get Involved Partner with Us Intern with DRCLAS Write for ReVista Support DRCLAS Calendar HOME / WHERE WE WORK / Mexico The Mexico Program, which includes the DRCLAS Mexico Office, is committed to deepening Harvard's engagement with Mexico through an active portfolio of events and activities, academic and internship opportunities for students, and support for faculty research. Faculty Leadership Under the leadership of its faculty co-chairs, the Mexico Faculty Committee leads the vision, priorities and projects undertaken by the program, both in Cambridge and in Mexico. Meet the Mexico Faculty Committee Student Opportunities January Programs DRCLAS collaborates with organizations in Mexico City to provide internship opportunities for undergraduate and graduate students through the Winternship Program. Additionally, a partnership with the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, produces a course for HSPH students focusing on Mexico’s historic health reform, the Seguro Popular. About January Programs Summer Programs A wide range of programs for undergraduate and graduate students are offered during the summer including; the eight-week Summer Internship Program (SIP), summer study abroad at El Colegio de México, and a Director's Internship through Harvard's Institute of Politics. About Summer Programs Student Funding DRCLAS offers a variety of travel grants for summer research, conferences, and internships in Latin America. Student Group Grants are also available to Harvard student groups working with a Harvard faculty member for publications, workshops, conferences, and/or events at Harvard University related to Latin America, the Caribbean, or Latinx populations. About Student Funding Faculty Opportunities Mexico Innovation Fund The Mexico Innovation Fund was established through the generous contributions of Harvard alumni and friends and is dedicated to deepening ties between Harvard and Mexican academia in order to address some of the most important issues facing Mexico. About Mexico Innovation Fund Visiting Scholars Become a Visiting Scholar The Fundación México en Harvard-Antonio Madero Visiting Scholar fellowship is open to Mexican scholars with Mexican citizenship, from top research universities in Mexico working in the field of education and related areas. Apply to be a Visiting Scholar Current Visiting Scholars In the 2021-2022 academic year, DRCLAS will welcome 11 Visiting Scholars in a variety of disciplines including anthropology, literature, international relations, public policy, and visual culture. Meet our Visiting Scholars Collaborative Opportunities Partner with DRCLAS Through dynamic collaboration with organizations and educational institutions, DRCLAS seeks to program a wide variety of events, lectures, and exhibitions relevant to the Harvard community, the academic mission, and Latin America. About Partnerships Recent News David Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies (DRCLAS) Announces 2022-23 Visiting Scholars and Robert F. Kennedy Visiting Professors Friday, May 20, 2022 Statement on the CIDE in Mexico Wednesday, December 15, 2021 Protests, inequality, and brutal crackdowns in Latin America Monday, November 8, 2021 1 of 8 » DRCLAS Mexico Office Edificio Balmori Orizaba 101, Interior 102 Col. Roma Norte, Del. Cuauhtémoc CP 06700, Ciudad de México Tel: +52 (55) 6821-0251 Email: drclas_mexico@fas.harvard.edu a13d9a9e7a6fe73caccea4b7c039b946 David Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies 1730 Cambridge Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Tel.: 617-495-3366 Fax: 617-496-2802 Contact Us Twitter: @HarvardDRCLAS Facebook: @HarvardDRCLAS Instagram: @HarvardDRCLAS styles css Where We Work Andes & Southern Cone Brazil Central America & the Caribbean Cuba Mexico What We Do Faculty Grants Student Opportunities Visiting Scholars ReVista subscribe newsletter tab Join our Email List Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement