Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Support DRCLAS Timeline Search Where We Work Andes & Southern Cone Brazil Central America & the Caribbean Cuba Mexico What We Do Art, Film, & Culture Lectures, Seminars, and Conferences Thematic Initiatives Student Opportunities Faculty Grants Visiting Scholars Revista Faculty Voices Center-Wide Impact Reports Who We Are Leadership Our Team Faculty Leadership Visiting Scholars & GSAs Advisory Committee History Get Involved Partner with Us Intern with DRCLAS Write for ReVista Support DRCLAS Calendar Visiting Scholars & Fellows 2022 - 2023 The David Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies announces its 2022–2023 Visiting Scholars and Fellows and Robert F. Kennedy Visiting Professors, a group of scholars and practitioners who bring multidisciplinary perspectives to the challenges facing Latin America, the Caribbean and Latinx communities in the United States. Learn More The Battle Against Fake News in Brazil’s 2022 Elections What needs to be done so that we don’t see a repetition of the “Big Lie” of US elections play out in Brazil? On April 13th, this panel will discuss what needs to be done to ensure free and fair elections in Brazil. Learn More DRCLAS Podcast: Faculty Voices Alisha Holland, Associate Professor in Harvard’s Government Department, looks at the upcoming Colombian elections on May 29. Listen Here Apply to be a Graduate Student Associate Graduate Student Associate (GSA) positions are designed to facilitate and supplement a student’s independent research toward the PhD or advanced professional degree on topics related to Latin America. Deadline extended: May 1, 2022. Learn More DRCLAS YouTube Channel Have you miss any of our events? Catch up on the latest lectures and seminars on the official DRCLAS YouTube Channel. Watch Now Explore Our Work What We Do Through programs, grants, fellowships, and activities, DRCLAS strives to provide support and resources for students, faculty, and scholars working in and on Latin America. About What We Do Where We Work With offices located in Santiago, São Paulo, Mexico City, as well as Cambridge, DRCLAS offers programs covering all of Latin America. About Where We Work OUR MISSION The David Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies (DRCLAS) at Harvard University works to increase the knowledge of the cultures, economies, histories, environment and contemporary affairs of Latin America; foster cooperation and understanding among the peoples of the Americas; and contribute to democracy, social progress and sustainable development throughout the hemisphere. RECENT NEWS David Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies (DRCLAS) Announces 2022-23 Visiting Scholars and Robert F. Kennedy Visiting Professors Friday, May 20, 2022 Rubén Blades (finally!) receives Harvard Arts Medal Tuesday, May 3, 2022 Más que una gota Tuesday, April 26, 2022 More News curator Powered by Curator.io a13d9a9e7a6fe73caccea4b7c039b946 styles css David Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies 1730 Cambridge Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Tel.: 617-495-3366 Fax: 617-496-2802 Contact Us Twitter: @HarvardDRCLAS Facebook: @HarvardDRCLAS Instagram: @HarvardDRCLAS Where We Work Andes & Southern Cone Brazil Central America & the Caribbean Cuba Mexico What We Do Faculty Grants Student Opportunities Visiting Scholars ReVista subscribe newsletter tab Join our Email List Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement