Skip to content Digital Scholarship Boston College Libraries Primary Menu About Who We Are Our Mission What is DS? What We Do Instruction Projects Publishing Research Portfolio Featured Projects OA Journals The Digital Studio About Reservations Software Equipment 3D & Immersive About 3D & Immersive Technologies 3D Modeling Station 3D Printing Resources DS Handbook GitHub Repository Learning LibGuides Multimedia Production Guide Tools List News BC Libraries Search Search for: Search Welcome to Catch Starter Make things as simple as possible but no simpler. Continue readingWelcome to Catch Starter Boston College Digital Scholarship Boston College Libraries’ Digital Scholarship Group facilitates data-driven research, digital project creation, and digital scholarship instruction and pedagogy. We see ourselves as teachers, consultants, and collaborators who aim to cultivate and support the community of digital scholarship practices at Boston College. News What are Digital Scholarship and Digital Humanities? Melanie Hubbard April 13, 2022 To develop a complete mind: Study the science of art; Study the art of science. Learn how to see. Realize that everything connects to everything … Read MoreWhat are Digital Scholarship and Digital Humanities? Read More How Open is Open? Gabe Feldstein April 5, 2022 A closer look at Transformative Agreements, Hybrid Journals, and OpenAPC For approximately the past two decades, with a sharp increase over the past five years … Read MoreHow Open is Open? Read More New Digital Studio Equipment Melanie Hubbard April 5, 2022 This semester the Digital Studio (O’Neill Library, room 205) has been upgrading the equipment in the Podcasting Room and Sound Room, some of which is … Read MoreNew Digital Studio Equipment Read More BCDS Faculty Summer Incubator Melanie Hubbard January 22, 2022 This summer BC Libraries’ Digital Scholarship Group is holding a week-long incubator that will guide twelve BC faculty members through an exploration of digital scholarship … Read MoreBCDS Faculty Summer Incubator Read More New: On-Demand Workshops Melanie Hubbard January 21, 2022 In the past, the Digital Scholarship Group hosted a series of preprogrammed workshops every fall and spring semester. We have changed this approach to on-demand … Read MoreNew: On-Demand Workshops Read More 3D Models in the Classroom: Every Rock has a Story Matt Naglak January 20, 2022 In collaboration with CDIL, the DS team digitized a series of rock specimens utilized in Prof. Ethan Baxter’s Fall 2021 Earth and Environmental Sciences class, … Read More3D Models in the Classroom: Every Rock has a Story Read More Highlights Apple’s Reality Composer, a Free AR App In collaboration with the Center for Digital Innovation in Learning (CDIL), Digital Scholarship and the BC Libraries have begun exploring the use of AR experiences … Read MoreApple’s Reality Composer, a Free AR App Read More Digital Accessibility What is Digital Accessibility? Being able to access the web means having access to the modern economy, crucial social spaces, and, of course, vast information. … Read MoreDigital Accessibility Read More Graduate Certificate in Digital Humanities The Digital Scholarship team is partnering with the English and History departments to offer graduate students a Certificate in the Digital Humanities. Courses will be … Read MoreGraduate Certificate in Digital Humanities Read More Search for: Search Quick Links Instruction Data Services Digital Projects Digital Pedagogy OA Publishing DS Tutorials Forms Contact & Follow News What are Digital Scholarship and Digital Humanities? How Open is Open? New Digital Studio Equipment BCDS Faculty Summer Incubator New: On-Demand Workshops Copyright © 2022 Digital Scholarship. All Rights Reserved. Catch Starter by Catch Themes Scroll Up