Skip to content Digital Scholarship Boston College Libraries Primary Menu About Who We Are Our Mission What is DS? What We Do Instruction Projects Publishing Research Portfolio Featured Projects OA Journals The Digital Studio About Reservations Software Equipment 3D & Immersive About 3D & Immersive Technologies 3D Modeling Station 3D Printing Resources DS Handbook GitHub Repository Learning LibGuides Multimedia Production Guide Tools List News BC Libraries Search Search for: Search Digital Studio / About The Digital Studio endeavors to facilitate the discovery and use of digital methods and tools for members of the BC community. Hours: The Digital Studio hours follow those of the O’Neill Library Location: O’Neill Library, Rm. 205 Contact: digitalstudio@bc.edu Reserve: Podcasting Room, Sound Room, 3D Modeling Station, Conference Table Guidelines The Digital Studio (DS) in the O’Neill Library is dedicated to ensuring the health and safety of our patrons in the Boston College community while still providing access to specialized software and other resources. To this end, the following guidelines are currently in effect within the space. If you need to reserve a specific computer or if you need any special accommodations, email us at digitalstudio@bc.edu. Walk-ins are welcome to use the various spaces in the Digital Studio as long as they have not be previously reserved. (Make a reservation.) Printing is available within the DS in both color and b/w using your BC EagleID cards. Users are asked to clean their computer and/or workspace before and after use. Cleaning supplies are clearly marked within the DS, and cleaning directions will be available at each workstation. For the sake of cleanliness, we are asking that patrons refrain from eating in the space; drinks are allowed but must have lids. Search for: Search Quick Links Instruction Data Services Digital Projects Digital Pedagogy OA Publishing DS Tutorials Forms Contact & Follow News What are Digital Scholarship and Digital Humanities? How Open is Open? New Digital Studio Equipment BCDS Faculty Summer Incubator New: On-Demand Workshops Copyright © 2022 Digital Scholarship. All Rights Reserved. Catch Starter by Catch Themes Scroll Up