Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links About UWSL Our leadership Our units Equity Action Plan For staff Committees Pro Staff Hiring Toolkit Resources for managers of student employees Student Care Report Form For faculty Center for Teaching and Learning Disruptive behavior in the classroom Supporting student mental health Supporting students with disabilities Supporting student veterans Resources for Challenging Times Building Community in Challenging Times Campus Food Pantry Communicating about Challenging Issues Emergency Aid Resources in the Event of a Student Death Blog Office of the VP for Student Life Menu About UWSL Our leadership Our units Equity Action Plan For staff Committees Pro Staff Hiring Toolkit Resources for managers of student employees Student Care Report Form For faculty Center for Teaching and Learning Disruptive behavior in the classroom Supporting student mental health Supporting students with disabilities Supporting student veterans Resources for Challenging Times Building Community in Challenging Times Campus Food Pantry Communicating about Challenging Issues Emergency Aid Resources in the Event of a Student Death Blog Home Office of the VP for Student Life Welcome, Student Life staff Dr. Denzil J. Suite Here at the University of Washington, the departments and units within the Division of Student Life are committed to supporting the intellectual, physical and emotional development of all of our students. As a division, we understand that student success is not solely defined by grades. Through clubs and activities, leadership and service opportunities, and a driven network of mentors, students at the UW grow as individuals and learn to invest in their communities. Led by a passionate, student-focused staff, Student Life serves as a hub for a variety of programs, services, facilities and operations that are all designed to enrich the Husky experience for every student on campus. We are committed to providing students every opportunity to make the most of their time at the UW. This website is dedicated to providing resources, professional development opportunities and other information for UW Student Life staff and its partners across campus. Together we will build upon our shared goal to support the success of our students, both here at the UW and beyond. Sincerely, Denzil J. Suite Vice President for Student Life Denzil on Twitter @DenzilJS I'm completely heartbroken!!! I don't know what it will take before we as a society stand up and demand that these kinds of things never happen again! #RobbElementary #Uvalde @DenzilJS Great to see our @UW ROTC students in front of #SuzzalloLibrary in their dress whites at 6am this morning. Your service is truly appreciated! https://t.co/duXBPDaFq9 @DenzilJS I'm just blown away by the amazing @UW undergraduate research by our Huskies here at Mary Gates Hall. https://t.co/o54R2Tu901 @uwnews After two years of online-only presentations, the @UW Undergraduate Research Symposium — now in its 25th year — returns as a hybrid event, with some in-person and online presentations this Friday. #HuskyResearch https://t.co/Hj0Aqo2VUB Retweeted by @DenzilJS @DenzilJS Among the many heart-wrenching and painful things that the families in #Buffalo will have to endure is the fact that this will quickly be forgotten by many. More University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA