Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Residential Portal Staff Directory About Calendar Search Incoming Students Timeline Orientation Transitioning to Harvard Living at Harvard Expectations Related to COVID-19 On Campus Housing Living Off-Campus Residential Dates & Deadlines Move-In/Move-Out Summer Housing Gender Inclusive Housing Leaving and Returning Rising Sophomore Lottery Transferring Houses Proctors & Tutors Get Involved Student Activities Student Organizations Hosting Events Harvard Traditions Talk with Us Inclusion & Belonging Site Search Class of 2026 Pre-Orientation Register by May 23 About the programs The Dean of Students Office is dedicated to building a campus residential and social community that is welcoming, open and accessible to all students. About Us Welcome Class of 2026! We're here to guide you as you transition from high school to college. We can't wait to welcome you to Harvard! Incoming student resources Meet the Staff Alejandra Rincon Equity and Diversity Program Coordinator, Harvard Foundation for Intercultural and Race Relations As the Equity and Diversity Program Coordinator, I will be supporting the Senior Director to develop programs, training, and special projects related to... Read more about Alejandra Rincon Harvard Foundation Grays Hall 011 alejandrarincon@fas.harvard.edu Lindsey Baglione Coordinator for Student Organizations and Resources As the Coordinator for Student Organizations and Resources, I enjoy finding new ways to help student organizations grow and succeed. I attended DePaul... Read more about Lindsey Baglione lindseybaglione@fas.harvard.edu Jason Meier Associate Dean for Student Engagement As the Associate Dean for Student Engagement, I have the honor to guide and support the Student Engagement team in their efforts in partnering with... Read more about Jason Meier University Hall jason_meier@fas.harvard.edu p: 617-496-5005 Find a staff member Upcoming Dates and Events View the Harvard College Calendar BLACK LIVES MATTER Anti-Racism: Learning, Healing, and Taking Action We offer the following resources for all DSO staff or Harvard College community members who want to educate themselves about this complex and painful reality and how you can take action. These resources are sourced from Harvard College students, student organizations, DSO staff, and offices within the DSO. View anti-racism resources Take Action: Fighting Anti-Blackness The Harvard College Women's Center has a list of resources dedicated to fighting anti-Black racism. There is also a Google form for you to submit additional resources that the Women's Center will then post to their website for all community members to access. View the resource bank 2020-21 Dean of Students Office Goals This year the Dean of Students Office will work intentionally to become an antiracist organization. View our goals The Houses The Houses serve as the foundation for the undergraduate experience at Harvard College. Ninety-eight percent of all undergraduates live in one of the twelve residential Houses. Each House accommodates 350-500 students with its own dining hall, common rooms, and facilities for academic, recreational, and cultural activities. LEARN MORE ABOUT THE 12 HOUSES About Our Teams Stay Connected Policies Professional Positions Contact Us Calendar Staff Directory FAQ Incoming Students Timeline Transitioning to Harvard Gap Year Students Transfer Students Living at Harvard Community Expectations Related to COVID-19 Move In Summer Housing Gender Inclusive Housing Rising Sophomore Lottery Proctors & Tutors Get Involved Student Activities Student Organizations Hosting Events Harvard Traditions Talk with Us Work with Us Inclusion & Belonging BGLTQ Student Life Diversity Education and Support Harvard Foundation Harvard College Title IX Harvard College Women's Center dso@fas.harvard.edu 617-496-7700 google font css styles fdf6669e1e08e793115def92d8ee698e Search in Menu Script Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement