Jump to navigation About the House W.E.B. Du Bois House History Photos People Academic Resources Scholarships College House Research Fellowships College House Dean's Integrated Knowledge Award Program Community Zulu in Residence Signature Programs Cultural Production & Political Power Du Bois FIT OUR STORY Mentoring Program Du Bois Amenities Room Reservations Room Reservation Protocol Multi-Purpose Room Seminar Room - A Du Bois Computer Lab Paul Robeson Library Sonia L. Elliott Recreation Room Du Bois Fitness Centers Guest Suite Laptop Loan Program Policies & Information Poster and Flyering Policies Collection Box Policy Residential Handbook Covid-19 House Office Procedures Room Selection Upperclass Room Selection Incoming First-Year Students Room Rates & Policies Room Layouts Du Bois FAQs Getting Assistance Contact Us AiM Maintenance Request CAPS Du Bois Laundry Alert PennPortal Cultural Centers College House Computing Calendar PennKey Login You are here Front Page About The Photo Du Bois residents were spooked at their annual trip to "Terror Behind the Walls" at the historic Eastern State Penitentiary. About The Photo Du Bois residents visit the newly inaugurated African American Museum of History and Culture in Washington, DC. About The Photo Du Bois’ Annual Village Celebration and Senior Toast recognizes the residents who have made a difference all year long. About The Photo Du Bois students enjoy an exclusive tour of the newly inaugurated Perry World House. Welcome "The Du Bois College House experience is as dynamic as jazz and hip hop, as penetrating as poetry and the pursuit of justice." - Rev. Will Gipson, Faculty Director The students, faculty, and staff at the W.E.B. Du Bois College House are committed to a Penn experience that advances the legacy of Dr. W.E.B. Du Bois in a college house setting. We invite you to share in that experience with us through our practice of community, intellectual explorations, civic engagement, and programs and events on important contemporary topics through art, theatre, discussions, and in many other ways. Dr. Du Bois, who was a pre-eminent scholar, activist, and one of the most significant intellectuals and social change agents of the twentieth century, is the inspiration for "The House." The House was established in 1972 as a result of student activists who wanted a living/learning experience at Penn that provided a space for students interested in Black culture. Du Bois College House is available to any Penn undergraduate. Black culture, of course, is an implicit and explicit constitutive factor of American life and history as well as of our stunningly interconnected global reality. Du Bois College House serves to bring these confluent strands to scale, providing a particular lens through which The House community can observe, interpret, encounter, imagine, and form perspectives both individually and collectively about the world in which we live. The lens for this experience is as dynamic as jazz and hip hop, as deep as poetry and the pursuit of justice. All residents of Du Bois, or "The Village," are encouraged to participate in the various opportunities afforded by an impressive GA staff, faculty fellows, house dean, faculty director, and the student leadership of The House. Du Bois boasts a championship residential basketball team, an art gallery, frequent house sponsored trips (locally and beyond), a library, four lounges, and easy access to the movie theatre, grocery store, and SEPTA bus, trolley, and rail lines. So, please come and join us as a resident or a guest at one of our events. We're delighted to welcome you to Du Bois! Click the link below for more about our namesake W.E.B. Du Bois: https://penncurrent.upenn.edu/2016-02-18/features/times-and-life-web-du-bois-penn About the House W.E.B. Du Bois House History Photos People Academic Resources Scholarships College House Research Fellowships College House Dean's Integrated Knowledge Award Program Community Zulu in Residence Signature Programs Cultural Production & Political Power Du Bois FIT OUR STORY Mentoring Program Du Bois Amenities Room Reservations Room Reservation Protocol Multi-Purpose Room Seminar Room - A Du Bois Computer Lab Paul Robeson Library Sonia L. Elliott Recreation Room Du Bois Fitness Centers Guest Suite Laptop Loan Program Policies & Information Poster and Flyering Policies Collection Box Policy Residential Handbook Covid-19 House Office Procedures Room Selection Upperclass Room Selection Incoming First-Year Students Room Rates & Policies Room Layouts Du Bois FAQs Getting Assistance Contact Us AiM Maintenance Request CAPS Du Bois Laundry Alert PennPortal Cultural Centers College House Computing Calendar PennKey Login PennKey Login Search W.E.B. Du Bois College House Office Phone (215) 898-3677 In case of an emergency, call Penn Police at (215) 573-3333 or dial 511 from a campus telephone. Office Email Contact dubois@collegehouses.upenn.edu Office Hours Monday-Friday, 9AM-5PM House Address 3900 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 View on Map Copyright ©2016 Office of College Houses & Academic Services | Privacy | Disclaimer | Send Feedback | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help