Dartmouth Undergraduate Journal of Science Skip to content Home About DUJS Aims & Scope DUJS Advisory Board DUJS Editorial Board DUJS Alumni DUJS Recognition Online Articles Applied Sciences Biological Sciences Computer Science Health Sciences Neuroscience News Physical Sciences STEM Guide Print Journals Fall 2021 Spring & Summer 2021 Winter 2021 Fall 2020 Summer 2020 Spring 2020 Earlier Issues Submissions Contact Us Facebook Twitter Building the Modern MD | High School Competition Letter to Prospective Candidates Overview Goals Timeline Deadlines and Forms to Submit Trainings Category Descriptions and Examples Resources A Rigid Brain: The Effects of Anesthesia in Young Children Evan Accatino ’25, Health Sciences, 22S Figure 1: When children are placed under general anesthesia, they enter a state in which brain activity remains relatively constant. This finding was not observed in anesthetized adults. Image Source: Wikimedia Commons Daily human life is characterized by a continuous cycling between periods of... The Vaping Epidemic Namitha Alluri ’25, Health Sciences, 22S Figure Source: Wikimedia Commons Recently, vaping has become an increasingly popular activity throughout the whole world – and, with this increase in popularity, there also has been an increase in concerns. But before recognizing the issues associated with vaping, it is important to understand... Toys and Treatment – Usage of Legos in Medical Procedure Preparation Krista Schemitsch ’24, Health Sciences, 22W Figure: Legos are being utilized as a resource for medical procedure preparation with children. Image Source: Pixabay Going to the doctor can be a scary experience filled with uncertainty and apprehension, especially for a young child. Now, imagine that same child is also expected... Exercise Reduces Risk of Developing Alzheimer’s and Other Neurological Illnesses Kwabena Boahen Asare ’25, Health Sciences, 22W Figure: Several older men and women performing aerobics in Funsi, Ghana. Image Source: Wikimedia Commons Reports from the Mayo Clinic, the Alzheimer’s Association, and other leading institutions in medicine have found that many neurological disorders can be attributed to a combination of genetic,... New Insight into Effectiveness of COVID-19 Monoclonal Antibodies Given During Pregnancy Evan Accatino ‘25, Applied Sciences, 22W Figure: The virus that causes COVID-19 attaches to host cells in the human body as a means of replication and reproduction. Image Source: Wikimedia Commons A January 2022 study from Chang et al. (based in Albert Einstein College of Medicine, NY) provides promising evidence... Children and COVID-19 – Effects of the Pandemic on Youth Mental Health Krista Schemitsch ’24, Health Sciences, 22W Figure: The mental health of children has and is continuing to be influenced by changes resulting from the COVID-19 virus. Image Source: Wikimedia Commons Despite the physical pathology of COVID-19 generally having a lower severity in youth as opposed to adults, the psychological effects... Disorganized or Traumatized – The Misdiagnosis of ADHD Evan Accatino, Applied Sciences, Winter 2022 Figure: Adjectives such as these (scattered, disorganized, forgetful, etc.) are often used to describe individuals who have been diagnosed with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder. Image Source: Wikimedia Commons The effects of severe early childhood adversity are being increasingly mislabeled as attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) by medical professionals.... The Biochemistry and Broad Utility of Pfizer’s New COVID-19 Drug: Paxlovid Frankie Carr ‘22, Biological Sciences, Fall 2021 Figure 1: A photo of a Pfizer facility in Italy. Image Source: Wikimedia Commons On November 5th, 2021, Pfizer announced that it would seek FDA approval for its new drug, called Paxlovid. On December 22nd, 2021, FDA gave it. It is given to... Neurograins – the Future of Neuroscience Asha Dees, Biological Sciences, Fall 2021 Figure: An image of a brain split into two segments: one of which is composed of tissues and another one which is interconnected by wires.Image Source: Wikimedia Commons In August of 2021, a research team at Brown University published a paper describing advanced technology... How the James Webb Space Telescope Will Find Habitable Planets Outside the Solar System Rohan Menezes, Physical Sciences, Fall 2021 Figure: This Image from NASA is an illustration of an exoplanet with an atmosphere, similar to those JWST will soon be analyzing. Image Source: Public Domain When the James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) launches in December this year, it will surpass Hubble as the... Featured Categories Biological Sciences Read More » Physical Sciences Read More » Applied Science Read More » No comments A Rigid Brain: The Effects of Anesthesia in Young Children May 14, 2022 Health Sciences Evan Accatino ’25, Health Sciences, 22S Figure 1: When children are placed under general anesthesia, they enter a state in which brain activity remains relatively constant. This finding was not observed in anesthetized adults. Image Source: Wikimedia Commons Daily human life is characterized by a continuous cycling between periods of … Continue reading No comments The Vaping Epidemic May 10, 2022 Health Sciences Namitha Alluri ’25, Health Sciences, 22S Figure Source: Wikimedia Commons Recently, vaping has become an increasingly popular activity throughout the whole world – and, with this increase in popularity, there also has been an increase in concerns. But before recognizing the issues associated with vaping, it is important to understand … Continue reading No comments Toys and Treatment – Usage of Legos in Medical Procedure Preparation February 20, 2022 Health Sciences Krista Schemitsch ’24, Health Sciences, 22W Figure: Legos are being utilized as a resource for medical procedure preparation with children. Image Source: Pixabay Going to the doctor can be a scary experience filled with uncertainty and apprehension, especially for a young child. Now, imagine that same child is also expected … Continue reading No comments Exercise Reduces Risk of Developing Alzheimer’s and Other Neurological Illnesses February 16, 2022 Health Sciences Kwabena Boahen Asare ’25, Health Sciences, 22W Figure: Several older men and women performing aerobics in Funsi, Ghana. Image Source: Wikimedia Commons Reports from the Mayo Clinic, the Alzheimer’s Association, and other leading institutions in medicine have found that many neurological disorders can be attributed to a combination of genetic, … Continue reading No comments New Insight into Effectiveness of COVID-19 Monoclonal Antibodies Given During Pregnancy January 27, 2022 Applied Sciences Evan Accatino ‘25, Applied Sciences, 22W Figure: The virus that causes COVID-19 attaches to host cells in the human body as a means of replication and reproduction. Image Source: Wikimedia Commons A January 2022 study from Chang et al. (based in Albert Einstein College of Medicine, NY) provides promising evidence … Continue reading No comments Children and COVID-19 – Effects of the Pandemic on Youth Mental Health January 27, 2022 Health Sciences Krista Schemitsch ’24, Health Sciences, 22W Figure: The mental health of children has and is continuing to be influenced by changes resulting from the COVID-19 virus. Image Source: Wikimedia Commons Despite the physical pathology of COVID-19 generally having a lower severity in youth as opposed to adults, the psychological effects … Continue reading No comments Disorganized or Traumatized – The Misdiagnosis of ADHD January 11, 2022 Applied Sciences Evan Accatino, Applied Sciences, Winter 2022 Figure: Adjectives such as these (scattered, disorganized, forgetful, etc.) are often used to describe individuals who have been diagnosed with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder. Image Source: Wikimedia Commons The effects of severe early childhood adversity are being increasingly mislabeled as attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) by medical professionals. … Continue reading No comments The Biochemistry and Broad Utility of Pfizer’s New COVID-19 Drug: Paxlovid December 8, 2021 Biological Sciences Frankie Carr ‘22, Biological Sciences, Fall 2021 Figure 1: A photo of a Pfizer facility in Italy. Image Source: Wikimedia Commons On November 5th, 2021, Pfizer announced that it would seek FDA approval for its new drug, called Paxlovid. On December 22nd, 2021, FDA gave it. It is given to … Continue reading Events Calendar • Links • RSS Feeds • Log In Copyright © 2018 DUJS Online. All rights reserved. Powered by Paяabola & WordPress.