Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search University of Notre Dame du Lac: A Guide to Student Life Home Search Menu Introduction › University Mission and Vision University Mission and Vision Blessed Basil Moreau, founded the Congregation of Holy Cross in 1837 to minister to and educate the people of France devastated by the French Revolution. Moreau called on his priests and brothers to be "educators in the faith," in the education, parish and mission settings that the Congregation would soon establish around the world. We shall always place education side by side with instruction; the mind will not be cultivated at the expense of the heart. While we prepare useful citizens for society, we shall likewise do our utmost to prepare citizens for heaven. - Blessed Basil Moreau, Circular Letters 36, 1849 The University of Notre Dame was founded in 1842 by Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., a priest from the Congregation of Holy Cross who was directed by Father Moreau to establish a university in northern Indiana. The Holy Cross tradition continues to inform the comprehensive approach to education and student development at the University of Notre Dame. As stated by Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C., President, “We have a much more challenging mission than most universities. Most universities strive simply to be excellent educational institutions by the accepted standards of the profession. We do this at Notre Dame, and we have had great success. But we also foster and celebrate a distinctive mission to be a Catholic university, inspired and guided by a great spiritual tradition.” In an effort to achieve its overall aspiration of becoming a preeminent research university with a distinctive Catholic mission and an unsurpassed undergraduate education, the University of Notre Dame strives to meet five institutional goals: Ensure that our Catholic character informs all our endeavors Offer an unsurpassed undergraduate education that nurtures the formation of mind, body, and spirit Advance human understanding through scholarship, research, and post-baccalaureate programs that seek to heal, unify, and enlighten Foster the University’s mission through superb stewardship of its human, physical, and financial resources Engage in external collaborations that extend and deepen Notre Dame’s impact Resources of Interest University of Notre Dame Mission Statement The Spirit of Inclusion at Notre Dame Notice of Non-Discrimination Office of the President of the University Introduction University Mission and Vision The Spirit of Inclusion at Notre Dame Notice of Non-Discrimination University of Notre Dame Mission Statement Academic Resources Campus Life Community Standards ND A to Z Speak Up: Reporting an Incident The Spirit of Inclusion at Notre Dame Notice of Non-Discrimination University of Notre Dame Mission Statement du Lac: A Guide to Student Life Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA duLac@nd.edu © 2022 University of Notre Dame Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn