skip to main content 2022 Commencement Visit our commencement page for links to 2022 ceremony recordings. Spring 2022 Commencement Close Google Tag Manager USC University of Southern California USC Suzanne Dworak-Peck School of Social Work Search Search dworakpeck.usc.edu Search Menu Main-Topical Admissions Toggle Accepted Students Admissions Events How To Apply Contact Admissions FAQ Tuition and Financial Aid Types of Students Academics Toggle Master of Social Work PhD Program Doctorate of Social Work Master of Science in Nursing Research Toggle Administration Center Publications by Faculty Research Centers Military and Veterans Programs Research Admin Portal Student Life Toggle Learning in LA Student Organization Student Resources Commencement About Toggle Dean Sarah Gehlert Board of Councilors Faculty Directory Staff Directory Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Campus Locations Contact Us Media Toggle In the Media Webinars Podcasts Awards and Recognition Press Releases Faculty Books Newsletter Information For Main-Audience V2 Alumni Faculty and Staff Affiliations Main-Tactical Give News Events Faculty Directory COVID-19 Apply On the Frontline of Change in Los Angeles An inclusive, tightly-knit campus set directly within the communities we serve. Our Community In the Sweet Spot Between Scholarship and Community Learn from nationally recognized expert faculty whose research is embedded and tested within Los Angeles communities. Learn About Our Faculty Investing in Bright Ideas The solutions of the past cannot solve the challenges of the future. Our flexible MSW program gives students the confidence to break from convention when necessary to better support populations in need. Academic Programs A Family Culture The Trojan Family is real. The supportive, hands-on academic environment that students experience remains strong throughout their careers. Alumni and Career Development Class of 2022 Graduates DSW graduate John Oberg is a third-generation Trojan who turned to social work to address chronic health care. Class of 2022 Graduates From humble beginnings in El Salvador to Los Angeles County leader, DSW graduate Laura Trejo will receive her fourth USC degree in May 2022. Class of 2022 Graduates MSW graduate Jennifer Weck named School Social Work Intern of the Year by the San Diego County Department of Education. Class of 2022 Graduates MSW graduate Jacob Cepollina is helping the next generation of trans youth. Our Commitment to Racial Justice The school is dedicated to eliminating racial injustice and promoting an ongoing process of healing and reconciliation to dismantle racism. Upcoming Events Join us on June 1 at 12pm PT for Pride Month Celebration, with President Carol L. Folt together with faculty, staff, students, and community members as we kick-off the University's month-long celebration of Pride Month and the Power of Community. Who is Suzanne Dworak-Peck? Learn about the life and career of the woman affectionately known as the “social worker’s social worker.” Class of 2022 Graduates MSW graduate Yvonne Elliott calls on her personal history to advocate for federal domestic violence legislation. Four Ways to Earn Your MSW Whether you want to graduate as quickly as possible or study on nights and weekends, we have options that will work around your schedule. Accelerated 12 months Traditional 24 months Working Professionals 28 months Online Variable Compare MSW Formats Accelerated 12 months Traditional 24 months Working Professionals 28 months Online Variable Compare Compare Close Modal window Accelerated 12 months Perfect for people already working in a social services setting who want to get their MSW credential as quickly as possible. Graduate faster and get your credential quickly to advance in your career One internship Heavy course load Learn More Show More Traditional 24 months Perfect for those who want to find their calling within the field and explore different facets of social work. More experiences, broader employment options Two internships Moderate course load Learn More Show More Working Professionals 28 months Perfect for working professionals who want a flexible way to pursue their master’s degree. Some online coursework + two evenings a week on campus Second year of study requires one internship during daytime hours Lighter course load overall Learn More Show More Online Variable Perfect for students who live further away or cannot get to campus regularly. Time commitment varies based on course load and courses offered One internship Learn More Show More Our Heroes in Social Work Michael Washington, MSW ’19, is a retired Marine and firefighter. Now, as a social worker and therapist he uses his personal story to help his fellow veterans and first responders address issues of stress, PTSD and suicide. Washington was featured in “Honoring our Kings, Celebrating Black Fatherhood,” a special on OWN hosted by Oprah Winfrey and Sterling K. Brown. USC Suzanne Dworak-Peck School of Social Work The Suzanne Dworak-Peck School of Social Work champions social justice for the well-being of individuals, families, and communities through innovative teaching of evidence-based practice and practice-based skills, pioneering transformative research, and cultivating leadership for social change. Connect with us Reach out today to learn more about our world class programs, visit our campus or apply now to begin your educational journey at USC. Request Information Apply Now USC Suzanne Dworak-Peck facebook twitter youtube gplus linkedin pinterest instagram print Why USC? Academic Calendar Career Notice of Non-Discrimination Centers and Affiliations Alumni Give Contact Us © 2022 University of Southern California Suzanne Dworak-Peck School of Social Work