Skip to main content Link to TU homepage × Close Menu About Board Members Partners Staff Stories Newsletter Contact The World of Bob Dylan Dylan and the Beats Dylan and the Beats Program Announced Friday, June 3: Rich with Possibility Saturday, June 4th: Road Music Sunday, June 5th: Legacies Old Crow Medicine Show, June 5th Keynote Announcement: Steve Earle Keynote Announcement: Regina Weinreich Keynote Announcement: Douglas Brinkley Keynote Announcement: David Hajdu Keynote Announcement: Anne Waldman Hotel Recommendations Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page The TU Institute for Bob Dylan Studies Bob Dylan Studies Symposium Register “I came out of the wilderness and just naturally fell in with the Beat scene, the bohemian, Be Bop crowd. … I got in at the tail end of that and it was magic … it had just as big an impact on me as Elvis Presley.” --Bob Dylan News Read All News Old Crow Medicine Show, June 5th Keynote Announcement: Steve Earle Keynote Announcement: Regina Weinreich 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent. Cookie SettingsAccept All Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT