Skip to main content Primary Navigation About About Legacy Programs All Programs Undergraduate Graduate Executive Education Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Speaker Series Videos Staff Papers Outreach Outreach Smart Marketing Newsletter Extension Bulletins Alumni Activate Search Form Activate Menu and Search Form Close Search Form Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management at the SC Johnson College of Business Welcome Back to Campus Welcome students, faculty, and staff! We’re thrilled to have our community back on campus after successful remote semesters. Stay up-to-date on how all of us on campus can keep each other safe from COVID-19. THE LATEST ON COVID-19 Jinhua Zhao Named New Dean of Dyson School Jinhua Zhao has been named the David J. Nolan Dean of the Charles H. Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management, beginning his appointment July 1. Read the announcement Dyson's commitment to antiracism Dyson joined college leadership in outlining preliminary action steps across the areas of measurement and accountability; representation; curriculum; culture, community, and support; and research and external impact. Learn More About Our Action Plan Academic Programs in Applied Economics and Management Undergraduate Graduate Why Dyson? The size of the business program is small and class sizes are small, so this makes for a very individualized learning experience. It also allows students to know most of the students in their class year... Grace Zhao ’18 Dyson sets you up to work with and meet all of these incredible people. Lifelong friends and connections are made. There is a sense of community within Dyson. Sam Kaner ’16 Dyson is great because we are accepted into the program as a group, not as individuals. We have an atmosphere where everyone wants each other to succeed, which is why I love Dyson. Madison Madrid ’17 Dyson BusinessFeed News & Features June 1, 2022 Fintech at Cornell hosts symposium advancing research in financial economics The meeting brought together 80 academic participants from across the globe to help advance theoretical research in financial economics. May 31, 2022 Nolan Gift and Challenge Funds Boost Scholarships for SC Johnson College Students More than $66 million in scholarship funds are opening up possibilities for students across the Cornell SC Johnson College of Business. May 23, 2022 Cornell SC Johnson College Graduates Next Generation of Business Leaders The Cornell SC Johnson College of Business community is celebrating the achievements and success of the Class of 2022. Undergraduate and graduate students across the college’s robust catalog of degree […] Quick Links Visit Library News Articles & Features The Latest COVID-19: Insights from our experts Contact Charles H. Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management Warren Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-6201 Faculty, Staff, and Students Faculty & Staff Intranet SC Johnson College of Business Dyson Nolan School Johnson Make a Gift Site Info Privacy Notice Web Accessibility Assistance © 2022 All Rights Reserved. Cornell Dyson Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Instagram Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on YouTube Back to top of page.