Skip to main content Primary Navigation About About Legacy Programs All Programs Undergraduate Graduate Executive Education Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Speaker Series Videos Staff Papers Outreach Outreach Smart Marketing Newsletter Extension Bulletins Alumni Activate Search Form Activate Menu and Search Form Close Search Form Undergraduate Program in Applied Economics & Management Home Programs Undergraduate The Dyson Distinction Dyson students believe anything worth doing is worth doing to the very highest standards. They use their academic accomplishments to thrive in the school’s respectful, accepting, small and collegial community. They enthusiastically embrace Dyson’s can-do attitude to make a positive—sometimes transformational—impact in our communities and the world. Our business is a better world. As a result, when the market for new full-time hires and interns heats up, the world’s top employers look for graduates of Cornell’s Charles H. Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management. Here’s why. We’re Ivy League Smart. We’re Cornell Visionary. Cornell University broadens perspectives like nowhere else. From its founding, Cornell has embraced a revolutionary, egalitarian “… any person … any study” approach to education, reflected by its 7 undergraduate colleges, nearly 100 departments, more than 4,000 courses, 80 undergraduate majors and 90 minors, and 108 graduate fields of study. Dyson School undergraduates major in applied economics and management (AEM), whose flexible degree requirements give students ample opportunities to enrich their top-ranked business and applied economics education. Because of the Dyson School’s unique location in Cornell’s College of Agriculture and Life Sciences (CALS), one of the world’s leading land-grant colleges, students can easily combine their AEM major with a focus or double major in the life sciences, environmental sciences, agricultural sciences, or applied social sciences. It’s not unusual, for example, for a Dyson School student to also be majoring or minoring in a biological science, information science, communication, environmental and sustainability sciences, biometry and statistics, animal science, or food science. And that’s just 7 of the 21 majors in CALS in which a Dyson School student can double major or minor. This unbounded exposure keeps Dyson School students one step ahead of the competition by preparing them to lead in a future where the sciences, social sciences, and the arts will increasingly converge. We’re Applied. The Charles H. Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management and its AACSB International-accredited undergraduate program have an over 100-year legacy of students and professors applying practical, applied economics and management tools on every continent to solve the world’s most significant business and social issues. Whether our faculty’s focus is on trade agreements with the European Union, emerging markets and the eradication of poverty in Africa, oil production in the Middle East, financial institutions in New York City, agribusinesses in New York State, or the economics of biofuels and wind power, they conduct relevant research whose results have a profound impact on business leaders, policy makers, management scholars, and their students. We Believe in the Power of Collaboration. Because the Dyson School offers one of the smallest, most selective 4-year undergraduate business programs in the United States, our students know each other. They develop lasting mutual respect for each other’s talents and views. They work closely together and with professors, alumni, and employers in the Dyson School’s non-cutthroat culture to achieve results. We’re “Big Red” Energized. Almost no university demands as much of its students and rewards them as strongly with personal achievement, lifetime friendships, powerful worldwide connections, and a sense of belonging to something of great meaning. The Dyson School’s highly ranked undergraduate business program opens eyes and doors for lifetimes of accelerated success and meaningful accomplishment. Play video Student Spotlight Dyson has developed a tightly knit community where anyone can make a friend and feel comfortable in classes. The faculty, administrative staff, and students are really a one-of-a-kind, outgoing, and compassionate group of people. Michael Herman '15 Open Sidebar Menu Secondary Navigation Degree Requirements AEM Concentration Requirements AEM Core Requirements Distribution Requirements Grand Challenges Requirements Double Major Minors AEM Minors Business Minor for Engineers Business Minor for Life Sciences Majors Admissions External Transfer Applicants Internal Transfer Applicants Frequently Asked Questions Tuition & Financing Applied Economics and Management Course Offerings Frequently Asked Questions First-Year Course Schedule Careers Career Preparation Resources and Videos Applied Economics and Management Employment Statistics Internships International Opportunities Leadership by Design@Dyson Dyson Leadership Minor Dyson Leadership Fellows Research Opportunities Honors Research Program Student Services and Advising Student Organizations and Programs Dyson Scholars Program Contact Us Apply Visit Quick Links Visit Library News Articles & Features The Latest COVID-19: Insights from our experts Contact Charles H. Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management Warren Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-6201 Faculty, Staff, and Students Faculty & Staff Intranet SC Johnson College of Business Dyson Nolan School Johnson Make a Gift Site Info Privacy Notice Web Accessibility Assistance © 2022 All Rights Reserved. Cornell Dyson Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Instagram Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on YouTube Back to top of page.