Skip to main content Primary Navigation About About Legacy Programs All Programs Undergraduate Graduate Executive Education Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Speaker Series Videos Staff Papers Outreach Outreach Smart Marketing Newsletter Extension Bulletins Alumni Activate Search Form Activate Menu and Search Form Close Search Form Home Faculty & Research Faculty Publications Faculty Publications Impact: Dyson This publication was developed to communicate recent scholarly research, teaching, and engagement activities. Impact: Dyson will expand as we navigate changing waters, providing one lens to focus on developments that strengthen our school’s cohesiveness, as a member of both the Cornell SC Johnson College of Business and the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences. Our faculty examine the workings of the world and develop innovations in management and policies in order to understand and to improve organizational performance and people’s lives across New York State, the United States, and the world. Impact: Dyson April 2022 Impact: Dyson April 2021 Impact: Dyson October 2020 In 2020, Dyson’s diverse and engaged faculty produced research contributions including 113 peer-reviewed journal articles, one scholarly book, and nine book chapters, in addition to peer-reviewed proceedings, paper presentations, seminars, extension bulletins, articles and op-eds in major media outlets, and more. Our faculty’s 2020 publications are listed below, organized by the Cornell SC Johnson College of Business’s seven academic content areas: Accounting; Applied Economics and Policy; Finance; Management and Organizations; Marketing and Management Communications; Operations, Technology, and Information Management; and Strategy and Business Economics. Within each content area, publications are then listed alphabetically by faculty author. Applied Economics and Policy Finance Management and Organizations Marketing and Management Communication Operations, Technology, and Information Management Strategy and Business Economics Applied Economics and Policy Peer-Reviewed Journal Articles Christopher Barrett, A stochastic dominance approach to program evaluation with an application to child nutritional status in Kenya, Agricultural Economics, 51, 6, November 2020. With Naschold, Felix. Christopher Barrett, Does smallholder maize intensification reduce deforestation? Evidence from Zambia, Global Environmental Change, 63, July (3rd Quarter/Summer) 2020. With Pelletier, Johanne; Ngoma, Hambulo; Mason, Nicole M. Christopher Barrett, The intertemporal evolution of agriculture and labor over a rapid structural transformation: Lessons from Vietnam, Food Policy, 94, July (3rd Quarter/Summer) 2020. With Liu, Yanyan; Pham, Trinh; Violette, William. Christopher Barrett, Actions now can curb food systems fallout from COVID-19, Nature Food, 1, 6, May 2020. Christopher Barrett, Close to the edge: High productivity at plot peripheries and the inverse size-productivity relationship, Journal of Development Economics, 143, March 2020. With Bevis, Leah E. Linda Barrington, Job Change, Earnings, and Recalibration: Reemployment, Unemployment, or Retirement?, Public Policy & Aging Report, 30, 3, 2020. With Enayati, Hassan. Linda Barrington, Gender Pay Equity Analytics: A Case Study of a Large Multinational Company, Journal of Total Rewards, 29, 1, January (1st Quarter/Winter) 2020. With Hallock, Kevin. Arnab Basu, Offshoring to a Developing Nation with a Dual Labor Market, Federal Reserve Bank of Saint Louis Review, 102, 3, July (3rd Quarter/Summer) 2020. With Bandyopadhyay, Subhayu; Chau, Ho Y.; Mitra, Devashish. Arnab Basu, Paying for Freedom: Indentured Labor and Strategic Default, Economic Modelling, 89, July (3rd Quarter/Summer) 2020. With Bose, Pinaki; Compton, Ryan A. Arnab Basu, Consequences of offshoring to developing nations: labor‐market outcomes, welfare, and corrective interventions, Economic Inquiry, 58, 1, January (1st Quarter/Winter) 2020. With Bandyopadhyay, Subhayu; Chau, Ho Y.; Mitra, Devashish. Nancy Chau, Offshoring to a Developing Nation with a Dual Labor Market, Federal Reserve Bank of Saint Louis Review, 102, 3, July (3rd Quarter/Summer) 2020. With Bandyopadhyay, Subhayu; Basu, Arnab; Mitra, Devashish. Nancy Chau, Consequences of offshoring to developing nations: labor‐market outcomes, welfare, and corrective interventions, Economic Inquiry, 58, 1, January (1st Quarter/Winter) 2020. With Bandyopadhyay, Subhayu; Basu, Arnab; Mitra, Devashish. Jon Conrad, A Bayesian State-Space Approach for Invasive Species Management: The Case of Spotted Wing Drosophila, American Journal of Agricultural Economics, 102, 4, August 2020. With Fan, Xiaoli; Gomez, Miguel; Atallah, Shady S. Mark Constas, Maternal Capabilities Are Associated with Child Caregiving Behaviors Among Women in Rural Zimbabwe, Journal of Nutrition, November 2020. With Matare, Cynthia R.; Mbuya, Mduduzi N. N.; Dickin, Catherine L.; Pelto, Gretel; Chasekwa, Bernard; Humphrey, Jean H.; Stoltzfus, Rebecca J. Mark Constas, Maternal Decision-Making Autonomy, Mental Health, Gender Norm Attitudes, and Social Support During Pregnancy Predict Child Care-Giving and Stunting in Rural Zimbabwe, Current Developments in Nutrition, 4, Supplement_2, June 2020. With Matare, Cynthia; Tome, Joice; Makasi, Rachel; Dickin, Katherine; Pelto, Gretel; Chasekwa, Bernard; Mbuya, Mduduzi; Ntozini, Robert; Prendergast, Andrew; Humphrey, Jean; Stoltzfus, Rebecca. Todd Gerarden, Federal Coal Program Reform, the Clean Power Plan, and the Interaction of Upstream and Downstream Climate Policies, American Economic Journal: Economic Policy, 12, 1, February 2020. With Reeder, W. Spencer; Stock, James H. Todd Gerarden, The Effects of Fuel Prices, Environmental Regulations, and Other Factors on U.S. Coal Production, 2008-2016, Energy Journal, 41, 1, January (1st Quarter/Winter) 2020. With Coglianese, John; Stock, James H. Miguel Gómez, Determining the Effect of Postharvest Cold Storage Treatment on the Survival of Immature Drosophila suzukii (Diptera: Drosophilidae) in Small Fruits, Journal of Economic Entomology, 113, 5, October (4th Quarter/Autumn) 2020. With Kraft, Laura J.; Yeh, D Adeline; Burrack, Hannah J. Miguel Gómez, Economic Costs of Sharing the Harvester in the Control of an Invasive Weed, Sustainability, 12, 21, October (4th Quarter/Autumn) 2020. With Pardo, Gabriel; Cirujeda, Alicia; Martinez, Yolanda. Miguel Gómez, A Bayesian State-Space Approach for Invasive Species Management: The Case of Spotted Wing Drosophila, American Journal of Agricultural Economics, 102, 4, August 2020. With Fan, Xiaoli; Atallah, Shady S.; Conrad, Jon M. Miguel Gómez, Understanding soil health and associated farmers’ perceptions in Colombian coffee systems, Journal of Soil and Water Conservation, 75, 4, July (3rd Quarter/Summer) 2020. With Rekik, Fatma; van Es, Harold; Hernandez-Aguilera, J. Nicolas. Miguel Gómez, The Economic Impacts and Management of Spotted Wing Drosophila (Drosophila Suzukii): The Case of Wild Blueberries in Maine, Journal of Economic Entomology, 113, 3, June 2020. With Yeh, D. Adeline; Drummond, Francis A.; Fan, Xiaoli. Miguel Gómez, Food Sustainability and Waste Reduction in Spain: Consumer Preferences for Local, Suboptimal, And/Or Unwashed Fresh Food Products, Sustainability, 12, 10, May 2020. With Gracia, Azucena. Miguel Gómez, Crop Varietal Mixtures as a Strategy to Support Insect Pest Control, Yield, Economic, and Nutritional Services, Frontiers in Sustainable Food Systems, 4, 60, May 2020. With Snyder, Laura D.; Power, Alison G. Miguel Gómez, The Effect of Subjective and Objective Tasting Sheet Descriptors on Tasting Room Sales in New York State, Cornell Hospitality Quarterly, 61, 2, May 2020. With Li, Jie; Predic, Marina. Miguel Gómez, Blood β-hydroxybutyrate concentrations and early lactation management strategies on pasture-based dairy farms in Colombia, Preventive Veterinary Medicine, 174, January (1st Quarter/Winter) 2020. With Leal Yepes, Francisco A.; Mann, Sabine; Martens, Elizabeth M.; Velasco-Bolaños, Juan; Ceballos-Marquez, Alejandro; Puerto, Sergio; McArt, Jesica A.A. Miguel Gómez, The Robinson-Patman Act and Vertical Relationships, American Journal of Agricultural Economics, 102, 1, January (1st Quarter/Winter) 2020. With Yonezawa, Koichi; Richards, Timothy J. John Hoddinott, Social protection, household size and its determinants: Evidence from Ethiopia, Journal of Development Studies, 56, 10, 2020. With Mekasha, Tseday J. John Hoddinott, Shonjibon cash and counselling: a community-based cluster randomised controlled trial to measure the effectiveness of unconditional cash transfers and mobile behaviour change communications to reduce child undernutrition in rural Bangladesh, BMC Public Health, 20, November 2020. With Huda, Tanvir M.; Alam, Ashraful; Tahsina, Tazeen; Hasan, Mohammad M.; Iqbal, Afrin; Khan, Jasmin; Ara, Gulshan; Ali, Nazia B.; Al Amin, Saad U.; Kirkwood, Elizabeth K.; Laba, Tracey-Lea; Goodwin, Nicholas; Muthayya, Sumithra; Islan, Munirul; Agho, Kingsley E.; El Arifeen, Shams; Dibley, Michael J. John Hoddinott, Land Fragmentation and Food Insecurity in Ethiopia, American Journal of Agricultural Economics, 102, 5, October (4th Quarter/Autumn) 2020. With Knippenberg, Erwin; Jolliffe, Dean. John Hoddinott, Nutrition, Adult Cognitive Skills, and Productivity: Results and Influence of the INCAP Longitudinal Study, Food and Nutrition Bulletin, 41, 1S, June 2020. With Behrman, Jere R.; Maluccio, John A. John Hoddinott, Setting research priorities on multiple micronutrient supplementation in pregnancy, Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences, 1465, 1, April (2nd Quarter/Spring) 2020. With Gomes, Filomena; Bourassa, Megan W.; Adu-Afarwuah, Seth; Ajello, Clayton; Bhutta, Zulfiqar A.; Black, Robert; Catarino, Elisabete; Chowdhury, Ranadip; Dalmiya, Nita; Dwarkanath, Pratibha; Engle-Stone, Reina; Gernard, Alison D.; Goudet, Sophie; Kæstel, Pernille; Manger, Mari S.; McDonald, Christine M.; Mehta, Saurabh; Moore, Sophie E.; Neufeld, Lynnette M.; Osendarp, Saski J.M.; Ramachandran, Prema; Rasmussen, Kathleen M.; Stewart, Christine; Sudfeld, Christopher R.; West, Keith; Bergeron, Gilles. John Hoddinott, Food transfers, electronic food vouchers and child nutritional status among Rohingya children living in Bangladesh, PLoS ONE, 15, 4, April (2nd Quarter/Spring) 2020. With Dorosh, Paul; Filipski, Mateusz; Rosenbach, Gracie; Tiburcio, Ernesto. Jennifer Ifft, Corn Maze: Navigating Seed Corn Discounts, Journal of the American Society of Farm Managers and Rural Appraisers, 2020. With Fiechter, Chad. Jennifer Ifft, Following the Market? Hedonic Farmland Valuation Using Sales Prices versus Self-reported Values, Land Economics, 96, 3, August 2020. With Bigelow, Daniel; Kuethe, Todd. David Just, Economic Shocks and Lottery Sales: An Examination of Maine State Lottery Sales, Applied Economics, 52, 32, 2020. With Gabrielyan, Gnel. David Just, Fun Facts about Fruits and Vegetables Can Improve Consumption, Journal of Child Nutrition and Management, 44, 2, October (4th Quarter/Autumn) 2020. With Rajbhandari-Thapa, Janani; Vandellen, Michelle; Panda, Saswat. David Just, Producer Attitudes toward Output Price Risk: Experimental Evidence from the Lab and from the Field, American Journal of Agricultural Economics, 102, 3, May 2020. With Bellemare, Marc F.; Lee, Yu Na. David Just, Predicted Lifetime Third‐Party Costs of Obesity for Black and White Adolescents with Race‐Specific Age‐Related Weight Gain, Obesity, 28, 2, February 2020. With Schell, Robert C.; Levitsky, David A. David Just, Evidence Based Policy and Food Consumer Behavior: How Empirical Challenges Shape the Evidence, European Review of Agricultural Economics, 47, 1, February 2020. With Byrne, Anne T. Harry Kaiser, The Impact of Expiration Dates Labels on Hedonic Markets for Perishable Products, Food Policy, 93, May 2020. With Li, Tongzhe; Messer, Kent D. Ravi Kanbur, Social Progress and Global Governance, Global Summitry, 2020. With Fleurbay, Marc. Ravi Kanbur, Occupational arbitrage equilibrium as an entropy maximizing solution, European Physical Journal Special Topics, 229, July (3rd Quarter/Summer) 2020. With Venkatasubramanian, Venkat. Catherine Kling, Conservation cobenefits from air pollution regulation: Evidence from birds, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 117, 49, December 2020. With Liang, Yuanning; Rudik, Ivan; Zou, Yongchen E.; Johnston, Alison; Rodewald, Amanda D. Catherine Kling, Good Seeds Bear Good Fruit: Using Benefit-to-cost Ratios in Multiobjective Spatial Optimization under Epistasis, Land Economics, 96, 4, November 2020. With Lang, Zhengxin; Rabotyagov, Sergey; Cho, Se J.; Cambell, Todd. Catherine Kling, A Midwest USA Perspective on Von Cossel et al.’s Prospects of Bioenergy Cropping Systems for a More Social-Ecologically Sound Bioeconomy, Agronomy, 10, 11, October (4th Quarter/Autumn) 2020. With Moore, Kenneth J.; Raman, D R. Catherine Kling, Temporal Reliability of Welfare Estimates from Revealed Preferences, Journal of the Association of Environmental and Resource Economists, 7, 4, July (3rd Quarter/Summer) 2020. With Ji, Yongjie; Keiser, David. Catherine Kling, Revealed Preference Methods for Nonmarket Valuation: An Introduction to Best Practices, Review of Environmental Economics and Policy, 14, 2, June 2020. With Bateman, Ian J. Catherine Kling, The Response of Recreation Demand to Recessionary Forces: Evidence from Local Lake Usage, Land Economics, 96, 2, March 2020. With Hoque, Mohammad M.; Herriges, Joseph A. David Lee, Underground Knowledge: Estimating the Impacts of Soil Information Transfers Through Experimental Auctions, American Journal of Agricultural Economics, 102, 5, October (4th Quarter/Autumn) 2020. With Murphy, David M.A.; Roobroeck, Dries; Thies, Janice. Jie Li, The Effect of Subjective and Objective Tasting Sheet Descriptors on Tasting Room Sales in New York State, Cornell Hospitality Quarterly, 61, 2, May 2020. With Predic, Marina; Gomez, Miguel. Shanjun Li, Mobility as a Service (MaaS): The Importance of Transportation Psychology, Marketing Letters, 31, December 2020. With Tomaino, Geoff; Teow, Jasper; Carmon, Ziv; Lee, Leonard; Ben-Akiva, Mosh; Chen, Charlene; Leong, Wai Yan; Yang, Nan; Zhao, Jinhua. Shanjun Li, Transportation and the Environment in Developing Countries, Annual Review of Resource Economics, 12, October (4th Quarter/Autumn) 2020. With Xing, Jianwei; Yang, Lin; Zhang, Fan. Shanjun Li, The Marginal Cost of Traffic Congestion and Road Pricing: Evidence from a Natural Experiment in Beijing, American Economic Journal: Economic Policy, 12, 1, February 2020. With Yang, Jun; Purevjav, Avralt-od. Shanjun Li, Tightening Belts to Buy a Home: Consumption Responses to Rising Housing Prices in Urban China, Journal of Urban Economics, 1115, January (1st Quarter/Winter) 2020. With Waxman, Andrew; Liang, Yuanning; Barwick, Panle Jia; Zhao, Meng. C.-Y. Cynthia Lin Lawell, The Chinese Automobile Industry and Government Policy, Research in Transportation Economics, 84, December 2020. With Chen, Yuan; Wang, Yunshi. C.-Y. Cynthia Lin Lawell, Wind Turbine Shutdowns and Upgrades in Denmark: Timing Decisions and the Impact of Government Policy, Energy Journal, 41, 3, 2020. With Cook, Jonathan A. Clinton Neill, Estimating Potential Beggar-thy-neighbor Effects of State Branding Programs, Agribusiness, 36, 1, 2020. With Holcomb, R.B.; Lusk, J.L. Clinton Neill, Sensory and Consumer Studies in Plant Breeding: A Guidance for Edamame Development in the U.S., Frontiers in Sustainable Food Systems, 4, August 2020. With Carneiro, R.C.V; Duncan, S.E.; O’Keefe, S.F.; Yin, Y; Zhang, B. Clinton Neill, Masked Heterogeneity in Aggregation: Incorporating Beliefs and Geographic Information into Consumer Willingness to Pay for State Brands, Journal of Agricultural and Applied Economics, 52, 4, June 2020. With Osburn, M.; Holcomb, R.B. Ariel Ortiz-Bobea, The Role of Nonfarm Influences in Ricardian Estimates of Climate Change Impacts on US Agriculture, American Journal of Agricultural Economics, 102, 3, May 2020. Ariel Ortiz-Bobea, Temperature Shocks and Establishment Sales, Review of Financial Studies, 33, 3, March 2020. With Addoum, Jawad M.; Ng, David T. Prabhu Pingali, Exploring Aflatoxin Contamination and Household-Level Exposure Risk in Diverse Indian Food Systems, PLoS ONE, 15, 10, October (4th Quarter/Autumn) 2020. With Wenndt, Anthony J.; Sudini, Hari K.; Nelson, Rebecca. Prabhu Pingali, Are Women in India Really Consuming a Less Diverse Diet?, Food and Nutrition Bulletin, 41, 3, September 2020. With Gupta, Soumya; Sunder, Naveen. Prabhu Pingali, Pandemics and Food Systems: Towards a Proactive Food Safety Approach to Disease Prevention and Management, Food Security, 12, July (3rd Quarter/Summer) 2020. With Aiyar, Anaka. Prabhu Pingali, Market Access, Production Diversity and Diet Diversity: Evidence from India, Food and Nutrition Bulletin, 41, 2, June 2020. With Gupta, Soumya; Sunder, Naveen. Eswar Prasad, New Evidence on Cyclical Variation in Average Labor Costs in the United States, Review of Economics and Statistics, 102, 5, December 2020. With Gu, Grace W.; Moehrle, Thomas. Eswar Prasad, The Coming Wave: Where Do Emerging Market Investors Put Their Money?, Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, 55, 4, June 2020. With Karolyi, George A.; Ng, David T. Bradley Rickard, Wine consumers’ willingness to adopt environmentally friendly packaging practices at tasting rooms: An ECHAID analysis, British Food Journal, 122, 1, 2020. With Kelley, Kathleen M.; Bruwer, Johan; Zelinskie, Jennifer; Gardner, Denise; Govindasamy, Ramu; Hyde, Jeffrey. Bradley Rickard, How do consumers respond to fun wine labels?, British Food Journal, 122, 3, 2020. With Lunardo, Renaud. Bradley Rickard, COVID-19 impact on fruit and vegetable markets, Canadian Journal of Agricultural Economics, 68, 2, June 2020. With Richards, Timothy J. Bradley Rickard, Small is beautiful: The role of anticipated food waste in consumers’ avoidance of large packages, Journal of Business Research, 113, May 2020. With Petit, Olivia; Lunardo, Renaud. Bradley Rickard, Commercialization of a Demand-Enhancing Innovation: The Release of a New Apple Variety by a Public University, Economic Modelling, 86, April (2nd Quarter/Spring) 2020. With Akhundjanov, Sherzod B.; Gallardo, R. K.; McCluskey, Jill J. Ivan Rudik, Conservation cobenefits from air pollution regulation: Evidence from birds, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 117, 49, December 2020. With Liang, Yuanning; Zou, Yongchen E.; Johnston, Alison; Rodewald, Amanda D.; Kling, Catherine L. Ivan Rudik, Costs of Inefficient Regulation: Evidence from the Bakken, Journal of Environmental Economics and Management, 102, July (3rd Quarter/Summer) 2020. With Lade, Gabriel E. Ivan Rudik, Optimal Climate Policy When Damages are Unknown, American Economic Journal: Economic Policy, 12, 2, May 2020. Todd Schmit, A Descriptive Analysis of Milk Pricing Attribute Values for Cooperative and Independent Milk Handlers in New York State, Journal of Cooperatives, 35, 2020. With Munch, Daniel M.; Severson, Roberta. Todd Schmit, Assessing the Costs and Returns of On-Farm Food Safety Investments: A Survey of Good Agricultural Practices (GAPs) Training Participants, PLoS ONE, 15, 7, July (3rd Quarter/Summer) 2020. With Wall, Gretchen L.; Newbold, Elizabeth J.; Bihn, Elizabeth A. Roberta Severson, A Descriptive Analysis of Milk Pricing Attribute Values for Cooperative and Independent Milk Handlers in New York State, Journal of Cooperatives, 35, 2020. With Munch, Daniel M.; Schmit, Todd M. Loren Tauer, Economic Effects of a Potential Foodborne Disease: Potential Relationship Between Mycobacterium Avium Subs. Paratuberculosis (Map) In Dairy and Crohn’s in Humans, International Journal on Food Systems Dynamics, 11, 5, 2020. With Verteramo Chiu, Leslie; Smith, Rebecca L.; Grohn, Yrjo T. Loren Tauer, Economic effects of policy options restricting antimicrobial use for high risk cattle placed in U.S. feedlots, PLoS ONE, 15, 9, September 2020. With Lhermie, Guillaume; Sauvage, Pierre; Verteramo Chiu, Leslie; Kanyiamattam, Karun; Ferchiou, Ahmed; Raboisson, Didier; Scott, Harvey M.; Smith, David R.; Grohn, Yrjo T. Loren Tauer, Ranking of epidemiological control strategies with stochastic outcomes, Preventive Veterinary Medicine, 176, March 2020. With Verteramo Chiu, Leslie; Grohn, Yrjo T.; Smith, Rebecca L. Loren Tauer, Economics of reducing antibiotic usage for clinical mastitis and metritis through genetic selection, Journal of Dairy Science, 103, 1, January (1st Quarter/Winter) 2020. With Kaniyamattam, K.; De Vries, A.; Grohn, Y.T. Calum Turvey, Heterogeneous Demand and Supply for an Insurance-Linked Credit Product in Kenya: A Stated Choice Experiment Approach, Journal of Agricultural Economics, 72, 1, September 2020. With Shee, Apurba; Marr, Ana. Calum Turvey, Does Credit Influence Fertilizer Intensification in Rice Farming? Empirical Evidence from Côte D’Ivoire, Agronomy Journal, 10, 8, July (3rd Quarter/Summer) 2020. With Ouattara, N’Banan; Xiong, Xueping; Traore, Lacina; Sun, Ruiting; Ali, Abdelrahman; Ballo, Zie. Calum Turvey, Uptake of Insurance-Embedded Credit in Presence of Credit Rationing: Evidence from a Randomized Controlled Trial in Kenya, Agricultural Finance Review, 80, 5, June 2020. With Ndegwa, Michael K.; Shee, Apurba; You, Liangzhi. Calum Turvey, The Peer Effect of Training on Farmers’ Pesticides Application: A Spatial Econometric Approach, China Agricultural Economic Review, 12, 3, June 2020. With Zhou, Li. Joanna Upton, How the choice of food security indicators affects the assessment of resilience—an example from Northern Ethiopia, Food Security, 12, 1, 2020. With Vaitla, Bapu; Cisse, Jennifer D.; Tesfay, Girmay; Abadi, Nigussie; Maxwell, Daniel. Leslie Verteramo Chiu, Economic Effects of a Potential Foodborne Disease: Potential Relationship Between Mycobacterium Avium Subs. Paratuberculosis (Map) In Dairy and Crohn’s in Humans, International Journal on Food Systems Dynamics, 11, 5, 2020. With Tauer, Loren W.; Smith, Rebecca L.; Grohn, Yrjo T. Leslie Verteramo Chiu, Economic effects of policy options restricting antimicrobial use for high risk cattle placed in U.S. feedlots, PLoS ONE, 15, 9, September 2020. With Lhermie, Guillaume; Sauvage, Pierre; Tauer, Loren W.; Kanyiamattam, Karun; Ferchiou, Ahmed; Raboisson, Didier; Scott, Harvey M.; Smith, David R.; Grohn, Yrjo T. Leslie Verteramo Chiu, Ranking of epidemiological control strategies with stochastic outcomes, Preventive Veterinary Medicine, 176, March 2020. With Tauer, Loren W.; Grohn, Yrjo T.; Smith, Rebecca L. Christopher Wolf, #Eggs: social and online media-derived perceptions of egg-laying hen housing, Poultry Science, 99, 11, November 2020. With Widmar, Nicole; Bir, Courtney; Lai, John; Liu, Yangxuan. Christopher Wolf, Beverage milk consumption patterns in the United States: Who is substituting from dairy to plant-based beverages?, Journal of Dairy Science, 103, 12, October (4th Quarter/Autumn) 2020. With Malone, Trey; McFadden, Brandon R. Christopher Wolf, Online Procurement of Pet Supplies and Willingness to Pay for Veterinary Telemedicine, Preventive Veterinary Medicine, 181, August 2020. With Widmar, Nicole O.; Bir, Courtney; Slipchenko, Natalya; Hansen, Charlotte; Ouedrago, Frederic. Christopher Wolf, Public Perceptions of Veterinarians from Social and Online Media Listening, Veterinary Sciences, 7, 2, June 2020. With Widmar, Nicole; Bir, Courtney; Lai, John. Christopher Wolf, Benchmarking upper midwest dairy farm profitability, Agricultural Finance Review, 80, 5, May 2020. With Black, J. Roy; Stephenson, Mark W. Christopher Wolf, Familiarity and Use of Veterinary Services by US Resident Dog and Cat Owners, Animals, 10, 3, March 2020. With Bir, Courtney; Ortez, Mario; Widmar, Nicole O.; Hansen, Charlotte; Ouedraogo, Frederic. Christopher Wolf, Perceptions of Prominent Animal Welfare and Veterinary Care Organizations in the United States, Animals, 10, 3, March 2020. With Ortez, Mario; Bir, Courtney; Widmar, Nicole O. Christopher Wolf, US respondents’ willingness to pay for Cheddar cheese from dairy cattle with different pasture access, antibiotic use, and dehorning practices, Journal of Dairy Science, 103, 4, January (1st Quarter/Winter) 2020. With Bir, Courtney; Widmar, Nicole O.; Thompson, Nathanael M.; Townsend, Jonathan. Koichi Yonezawa, The Robinson-Patman Act and Vertical Relationships, American Journal of Agricultural Economics, 102, 1, January (1st Quarter/Winter) 2020. With Gomez, Miguel; Richards, Timothy J. Published Book Chapters Mathew Abraham, 2020, “Climate Change and Food Security”, in Population, Agriculture, and Biodiversity: Problems and Prospects, eds., Gustafson, P., Raven, P., Ehrlich, P., With Pingali, Prabhu. Mathew Abraham, 2020, “Transforming smallholder agriculture to achieve the SDGs”, in The role of smallholder farms in food and nutrition security, eds., Riesgo, L., Gomez-Y-Paloma, S., Louhichi, K., With Pingali, Prabhu. Miguel Gómez, 2020, “An Economic and Environmental Comparison of Conventional and Controlled Environment Agriculture (CEA) Supply Chains for Leaf Lettuce to US Cities”, in Food Supply Chains in Cities: Modern Tools for Circularity and Sustainability, eds., Aktas, E., Bourlakis, M., With Nicholson, Charles F.; Harbick, Kale; Mattson, Neil S. Ravi Kanbur, 2020, “Assessing Informality: Disaggregated Frameworks Matter”, in The Informal Economy Revisited: Examining the Past, Envisioning the Future, eds., Chen, M., Carré, F. C.-Y. Cynthia Lin Lawell, 2020, “Econometric Modeling of the World Oil Market as a Dynamic Game”, in Handbook of Energy Finance: Theories, Practices and Simulations, eds., Nguyen, D. K., Goutte, S., With Kheiravar, Khaled H. Prabhu Pingali, 2020, “Climate Change and Food Security”, in Population, Agriculture, and Biodiversity: Problems and Prospects, eds., Gustafson, P., Raven, P., Ehrlich, P., With Abraham, Mathew. Prabhu Pingali, 2020, “Transforming smallholder agriculture to achieve the SDGs”, in The role of smallholder farms in food and nutrition security, eds., Riesgo, L., Gomez-Y-Paloma, S., Louhichi, K., With Abraham, Mathew. Eswar Prasad, 2020, “China’s Role in the Global Financial System”, in China 2049: Economic Challenges of a Rising Global Power, eds., Dollar, D., Huang, Y., Yao, Y. Todd Schmit, 2020, “Rural wealth creation of intellectual capital from urban local food system initiatives: developing indicators to assess change”, in Local Food Systems and Community Economic Development, eds., Lamie, R. D., Deller, S. C., With Jablonski, Becca B.R.; Minner, Jennifer; Kay, David; Christensen, Libby. Published Scholarly Books Christopher Barrett, 2020, Overseas Research: A Practical Guide: Third Edition, Routledge. With Cason, Jeffery W.; Lentz, Erin C. Finance Peer-Reviewed Journal Articles Jawad Addoum, Local Bankruptcy and Geographic Contagion in the Bank Loan Market, Review of Finance, 24, 5, September 2020. With Kumar, Alok; Le, Nhan; Niessen-Ruenzi, Alexandra. Jawad Addoum, Equity Price Discovery with Informed Private Debt, Review of Financial Studies, 33, 8, August 2020. With Murfin, Justin. Jawad Addoum, Temperature Shocks and Establishment Sales, Review of Financial Studies, 33, 3, March 2020. With Ng, David T.; Ortiz-Bobea, Ariel. Byoung-Hyoun Hwang, Offsetting Disagreement and Security Prices, Management Science, 66, 8, August 2020. With Huang, Shiyang; Lou, Dong; Yin, Chengxi. Justin Murfin, Equity Price Discovery with Informed Private Debt, Review of Financial Studies, 33, 8, August 2020. With Addoum, Jawad M. Justin Murfin, Is the Risk of Sea Level Rise Capitalized in Residential Real Estate, Review of Financial Studies, 33, 3, March 2020. With Speigel, Matthew. David Ng, The Coming Wave: Where Do Emerging Market Investors Put Their Money?, Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, 55, 4, June 2020. With Karolyi, George A.; Prasad, Eswar S. David Ng, Temperature Shocks and Establishment Sales, Review of Financial Studies, 33, 3, March 2020. With Addoum, Jawad M.; Ortiz-Bobea, Ariel. Management and Organizations Peer-Reviewed Journal Articles Kevin Kniffin, The roles of reason and emotion in private and public responses to terrorism, Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization, 180, December 2020. With Yan, Jubo; Kunreuther, Howard; Schulze, William D. Kevin Kniffin, On Leading and Managing: Synonyms or Separate (and Unequal)?, Academy of Management Discoveries, 6, December 2020. With Detert, James R.; Leroy, Hannes L. Kevin Kniffin, Core design principles for nurturing organization-level selection, Scientific Reports, 10, August 2020. With Wilson, David S.; Philips, Melvin M.; MacDonald, Ian F.; Atkins, Paul W.B. Matt Marx, Reliance on science: Worldwide front‐page patent citations to scientific articles, Strategic Management Journal, 41, 9, September 2020. With Fuegi, Aaron. Matt Marx, Bridging Academia and Industry: How Geographic Hubs Connect University Science and Corporate Technology, Management Science, 66, 8, August 2020. With Bickard, Michael A. Laura Niemi, Moral values reveal the causality implicit in verb meaning, Cognitive Science, 44, 6, June 2020. With Hartshorne, J.; Gerstenberg, T.; Stanley, M.; Young, L. John Tobin, Catalyzing fisheries conservation investment, Frontiers in Ecology and the Environment, 18, 3, 2020. With Fitzgerald, Timothy P.; Higgins, Phoebe R.; Quilligan, Emma; Sethi, Suresh A. John Tobin, Innovative finance for conservation: roles for ecologists and practitioners, Issues in Ecology, 22, 2020. With Rodewald, A.D.; Arcese, P.; Sayer, J.; Hawkins, F.; Martin, B.; Guy, B.; Wachowicz, K. Marketing and Management Communication Peer-Reviewed Journal Articles Suzanne Shu, Consumer Decisions with Artificially Intelligent Voice Assistants, Marketing Letters, 31, August 2020. With Oppewal, Harmen; Dellaert, Benedict G. C.; Arentze, Theo A.; Baker, Tom; Diehl, Kristin; Donkers, Bas; Fast, Nathanael J.; Häubl, Gerald; Johnson, Heidi; Karmarkar, Uma R.; Schmitt, Bernd H.; Schroeder, Juliana; Spiller, Stephen A.; Steffel, Mary. Suzanne Shu, Impact of a Patient-Centered Behavioral Economics Intervention on Hypertension Control in a Highly Disadvantaged Population: A Randomized Trial, Journal of General Internal Medicine, 35, 1, January (1st Quarter/Winter) 2020. With Shapiro, Martin F.; Goldstein, Noah J.; Victor, Ronald G.; Fox, Craig R.; Tseng, Chi-Hong; Vangala, Sitaram; Mogler, Braden K.; Reed, Stewart B.; Villa, Estivali; Escarce, José J. Suzanne Shu, Application of Behavioral Economics Principles Improves Participation in Mailed Outreach for Colorectal Cancer Screening, Clinical and Translational Gastroenterology, 11, 1, January (1st Quarter/Winter) 2020. With Bakr, Omar; Afsar-Manesh, Nasim; Raja, Naveen; Dermenchyan, Anna; Goldstein, Noah J.; May, Folasade P. Nathan Yang, Threat of Entry and Organizational-Form Choice: The Case of Franchising in Retailing, Journal of Marketing Research, 57, 5, August 2020. With Nishida, Mitsukuni. Nathan Yang, How can machine learning aid behavioral marketing research?, Marketing Letters, 31, July (3rd Quarter/Summer) 2020. With Hagen, Linda; Uetake, Kosuke; Bollinger, Bryan; Chaney, Allison J.B.; Dzyabura, Daria; Etkin, Jordan; Goldfarb, Avi; Liu, Liu; Sudhir, K.; Wang, Yanwen; Wright, James R.; Zhu, Ying. Nathan Yang, Learning in Retail Entry, International Journal of Research in Marketing, 37, 2, June 2020. Books and Book Chapters Nathan Yang, 2020, “Convergence research and innovation digital backbone: Behavioral analytics, artificial intelligence, and digital technologies as bridges between biological, social, and agri-food systems”, in How is Digitization Affecting Agri-Food? New Business Models, Strategies, and Organizational Form, eds., Annosi, M. C., Brunetta, F., With Dube, Laurette; Wolfert, Sjaak; Zimmerman, Karen; Diaz-Lopez, Fernando; Arvanitis, Rigas; Schillo, Sandra; Hamalova, Sabina; Nie, Jian Yun; Brown, Shawn. Operations, Technology, and Information Management Peer-Reviewed Journal Articles Donna Haeger, Managing Leader and Member Influence in Organizations: The Impact of Exploring a Team Influence Experience Scale (TIES), International Journal of Business and Management, 4, 8, April (2nd Quarter/Spring) 2020. With Lingham, Tony; Richley, Bonnie. Strategy and Business Economics Peer-Reviewed Journal Articles Aija Leiponen, Dear Enemy: Conflict and Cooperation in a Mobile Phone Standard Development Organization, Strategic Management Review, 1, 2, 2020. With Jones, S.; Vasudeva, G. Aija Leiponen, Building an organizational digital twin, Business Horizons, 63, 6, November 2020. With Parmar, R.; Thomas, L. Aija Leiponen, Markets for Data, Industrial and Corporate Change, 29, 3, June 2020. With Koutroumpis, P.; Thomas, L. Aija Leiponen, Small Is Big in ICT: The Impact of R&D on productivity, Telecommunications Policy, 44, 1, February 2020. With Koutroumpis, Pantelis; Thomas, Llewellyn D.W. Published Book Chapters Michael Roach, 2020, “Are Foreign STEM PhDs More Entrepreneurial? Entrepreneurial Characteristics, Preferences and Outcomes of Native and Foreign Science & Engineering PhD Students”, in The Role of Immigrants and Foreign Students in Science, Innovation, and Entrepreneurship, eds., Ganguli, I., Kahn, S., MacGarvie, M., With Skrentny, John; Sauermann, Henry. Open Sidebar Menu Secondary Navigation Faculty Search Faculty Publications AEP Seminars Dyson Faculty Research Videos Working Papers Working Papers: 2010-2019 Working Papers: 2000-2009 Working Papers: 1988-1999 Research Bulletins Research Bulletins: 1958-1969 Research Bulletins: 1970-1979 Research Bulletins: 1980-1989 Research Bulletins: 1990-1999 Research Bulletins: 2000-2009 Staff Papers Staff Papers: 1963-1979 Staff Papers: 1980-1989 Staff Papers: 1990-1999 Staff Papers: 2000-2009 Research and Outreach Staff Faculty Awards Faculty Fellows, Distinguished Members, and Presidents Faculty Outreach, Extension, and Policy Awards Faculty Research and Publication Awards Faculty Teaching and Advising Awards Quick Links Visit Library News Articles & Features The Latest COVID-19: Insights from our experts Contact Charles H. Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management Warren Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-6201 Faculty, Staff, and Students Faculty & Staff Intranet SC Johnson College of Business Dyson Nolan School Johnson Make a Gift Site Info Privacy Notice Web Accessibility Assistance © 2022 All Rights Reserved. Cornell Dyson Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Instagram Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on YouTube Back to top of page.