Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Egyptology and Assyriology Search Menu Site Navigation Home Academics Undergraduate Honors The David Pingree Prize Graduate Student Handbook Research Award PhD Degrees Awarded People Faculty & Staff Postdoctoral Research Associate Program Graduate Students News Future Events Past Events About Contact Wilbour Studies Publication Series Courses Graduate Courses Undergraduate Courses Search Department of Egyptology and Assyriology Graduate Students Breadcrumb Home People Sub Navigation In This Section Faculty & Staff Postdoctoral Research Associate Program Graduate Students Graduate Students Vicky Almansa-Villatoro maria_almansa_villatoro@brown.edu Website Vicky is a Ph.D. candidate in Egyptology. She got her B.A. in History (University of Seville, Spain, '13) with a thesis on the Tomb of Meryra II in Amarna, providing a new archaeological-philological approach to the monument and its texts. She obtained her M.A. cum laude in Egyptology and Near Eastern Studies (University of Pisa, Italy,'15) with a thesis on the passive voice in the Ancient Egyptian Pyramid Texts. She is working on a dissertation on the social and ideological aspects of linguistic variation in Old Kingdom private letters and royal documents, and the relation between linguistic and soci0-political change between the end of the Old Egyptian and the First Intermediate Period. Vicky is using Psycholinguistics, Sociolinguistics, Pragmatics and Corpus Linguistics among other Social and Linguistic approaches to determine how social identity and royal ideology is subconsciously embedded in the language of Old Kingdom texts. Her doctoral research has been awarded highly competitive grants such as the Theodore N. Romanoff Prize (ARCE-CAORC) and the Stiftungsfonds für Postgraduates der Ågyptologie (former Hans Goedicke Foundation). She has several publications in Egyptology and Ancient History peer-reviewed journals ranging from literary, religious, to linguistic studies; some of her discoveries have attracted world-wide media attention. Vicky is currently working on the publication of Old Kingdom papyri from the Brooklyn Museum. Her archaeological and epigraphical experience started in 2007 as a pre-college student. Ever since, she has participated in excavations in Egypt (the Menkaure Valley Temple in Giza) and Italy, and studied collections of Egyptian and Egyptianizing scarabs in Italy and Spain. Vicky collaborates with external archaeological and philological projects on Egyptian sources including the Giza Plateau Mapping Project, and is a member of the AERA team. She has taught Egyptology at the Egyptian Museum of Turin, Brown University and the University of Arizona. Marc Chapuis marc_chapuis@brown.edu Marc Chapuis is a PhD student in History of the Exact Sciences in Antiquity. After learning Latin and Ancient Greek while writing his PhD in mathematics at the University Paris VI (defended in 2017), he got degrees in Indian Studies at Paris III (where he learned Sanskrit and Prakrit) and in Chinese Studies at the INALCO. His interests include ancient astronomy and mathematics, religious studies, and social history throughout the pre-modern world with a particular focus on Tang Dynasty China. Christopher Cox christopher_cox@brown.edu Christopher is a PhD student in Egyptology. He graduated summa cum laude with honors in both History and Classics from Whitman College in 2018. His thesis argued that anti-black racism existed in the ancient Greco-Roman world and is connected to racism found in the West during and after the Transatlantic Slave Trade. His research interests include ethnicity and race in ancient Egypt and reframing ancient Egypt as an ancient African civilization. Erica Meszaros erica_meszaros@brown.edu Erica is a Ph.D. student in History of Science. She earned an M.A. in Social Science with a History of Science focus from the University of Chicago, an M.A. in Linguistics and Graduate Certificate in Artificial Intelligence from Eastern Michigan University, and a B.A. in Classical Languages from the College of Wooster. Her research focuses on how the language we use to describe scientific knowledge and advancements changes over time, particularly as it is expressed through metaphor. She also works with NASA Langley Research Center on linguistic analysis to evaluate human/autonomous system teaming and interface design to aid in trusted autonomy. In her spare time, she trains for the circus. Sara Mohr sara_mohr@brown.edu Personal website Sara is a PhD candidate in Assyriology. She received her BA with Honors in Anthropology from the University of Chicago in 2015. Sara began her doctoral studies at Brown in 2017 and completed a Certificate in Public Humanities in 2020. She has extensive experience in museum education and outreach as well as in digital humanities methods. She has applied these skills in projects promoting the accessibility of cuneiform and cuneiform studies as well as in public scholarship. Sara is a co-founder and managing editor of the scholarship blog The Ratty, a platform by and for Brown graduate students. Her research interests lie in secrecy and hidden objects, digital approaches to studying the cuneiform record, and the intersection between anthropology and Near Eastern studies. Jonathan Price jonathan_price@brown.edu Jonathan is a PhD student in Assyriology. He is a 2019 graduate of Grove City College, where he majored in History and had the opportunity to participate in archeological conservation projects in Sardinia and central Italy. His chief area of interest is the first millennium BC Mesopotamia, particularly the Neo-Assyrian and Neo-Babylonian Empires. His topics of interest include the relationship between Mesopotamian scholarly community and imperial administration, the role of divination and religious ritual in the imperial regime, and the historical and geographical consciousness of both empires. More broadly, he is also interested in the rold Near Eastern empires played in the development of Western historiography through the perspectives of both historians and travelers to the region. J. Rafael Saade jose_rafael_saade@brown.edu ‘Rafa’ is a Ph.D. student in Egyptology. He holds an M.Sc. in Industrial Engineering from the University of Navarra and an M.A. in Egyptology from the Autonomous University of Barcelona. His master’s thesis focused on how the Demotic tales of Setne Khaemwaset reflect the Egyptians’ perception of their own relationship with the divine world. His research interests center on the cultural exchange between Egypt and other ancient Near Eastern civilizations during the second half of the first millennium BCE; more specifically, on how this cultural interaction transcended into the ideological and literary spheres. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Academics Undergraduate Honors The David Pingree Prize Graduate Student Handbook Research Award PhD Degrees Awarded People Faculty & Staff Postdoctoral Research Associate Program Graduate Students News Future Events Past Events About Contact Wilbour Studies Publication Series Courses Graduate Courses Undergraduate Courses This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Graduate Students Open details for Graduate Students Bookmark this Page