Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Egyptology and Assyriology Search Menu Site Navigation Home Academics Undergraduate Honors The David Pingree Prize Graduate Student Handbook Research Award PhD Degrees Awarded People Faculty & Staff Postdoctoral Research Associate Program Graduate Students News Future Events Past Events About Contact Wilbour Studies Publication Series Courses Graduate Courses Undergraduate Courses Search Department of Egyptology and Assyriology Wilbour Studies Publication Series Breadcrumb Home About Sub Navigation In This Section Contact Wilbour Studies Publication Series Wilbour Studies Publication Series A series of scholarly monographs in the areas of ancient Egyptian and ancient Near Eastern studies, with particular emphasis on recent PhD dissertations of distinction from North American universities. The Wilbour Studies in Egyptology and Assyriology Publication Series of scholarly monographs is named in honor of Charles Edwin Wilbour, an American amateur Egyptologist (1833–1896) whose estate provided a bequest for the establishment of the department. The series editors, James P. Allen (Egyptology) and John M. Steele (Assyriology), invite submissions of manuscripts from all areas of ancient Egyptian and ancient Near Eastern studies, with particular emphasis on recent PhD dissertations of distinction from North American universities. All submissions will be peer-reviewed. Manuscripts will be prepared for publishing and printed by Lockwood Press; guidelines for the preparation of manuscripts can be found on the press's website. Titles in the Series Vol. 1: The Ancient Egyptian Books of the Earth, by Joshua Aaron Roberson (February 2012) Vol. 2: Landscape Archaeology of the Western Nile Delta, by Joshua R. Trampier (March 2014) Vol. 3: Coping with Obscurity, edited by James Allen, Mark Collier and Andréas Stauder (May 2016) Vol. 4: The Theology of Hathor of Dendera, by Barbara A. Richter (2016) Vol. 5: The Abu Bakr Cemetery, by Edward Brovarski (2021) Wilbour Series Style Sheet Brown University’s Department of Egyptology and Assyriology and Lockwood Press are willing to work with authors whose manuscripts have been accepted for publication to achieve a publication that accommodates insofar as possible the author’s preferences within the overall design of the Wilbour Studies series. A number of general guidelines, however, should be observed. References The two guiding principles are to avoid interrupting the flow of thought within the text and to make the work as easy as possible for the reader to use. For that reason, references within the body of the text (Harvard style) are discouraged, and footnotes rather than endnotes should be used. Footnotes should be placed, wherever possible, after major punctuation marks (semicolons of periods). If a sentence has several items that need a footnote, combine them into a single footnote at the end of the sentence whenever possible. Guidelines for Footnotes References in the footnotes should follow a modified Harvard style: e.g. “Author 2010, 177.” Avoid the use of ibid., op.cit., and idem. For references of more than a single page, provide inclusive numbers: i.e. “Author 2010, 177–78” rather than “Author 2011, 177f.” Page numbers do not need to be preceded by “p.” or “pp.,” but plates should be indicated as such: e.g. “Author 2010, pls. 21–22.” Bibliography All footnote references need a corresponding bibliographical entry. The bibliography should be arranged alphabetically by the author’s last name. If more than one work of an author is cited, the works should be arranged chronologically from earliest to latest, with the author’s name replaced by a five-em dash after the initial entry. If there is more than one work for a given year, use letters to distinguish them (e.g., 2010a, 2010b). Journal and series titles should be given in full, unless abbreviations are provided in a separate list (see below). Templates to follow are: Author, Any. 2008. “Title of the article.” Journal Title 77, 80–84. _____. 2008a. Title of the Book. Series Title 4. London: Publisher. (The publisher may be omitted, but be consistent one way or the other). _____. 2010. “Title of the article.” In Title of the Book, ed. by Editor et al. (Series Title 7; London:Publisher), 177–90. Additional Material As a courtesy to the reader, every work should have a list of all but the most common abbreviations (typically, titles of journals and series), and one or more indices. The order for most books will be as follows: Front matter (paginated in Roman numerals beginning with i): Title page, dedication, contents, list of figures, list of tables, list of plates, foreword, preface, acknowledgements, introduction. Text (paginated in Arabic numerals beginning with 1): Chapters, appendices, bibliography, list of abbreviations, indices. Plates (paginated in Arabic numerals, beginning with 1). Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Academics Undergraduate Honors The David Pingree Prize Graduate Student Handbook Research Award PhD Degrees Awarded People Faculty & Staff Postdoctoral Research Associate Program Graduate Students News Future Events Past Events About Contact Wilbour Studies Publication Series Courses Graduate Courses Undergraduate Courses This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Wilbour Studies Publication Series Open details for Wilbour Studies Publication Series Bookmark this Page