Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Egyptology and Assyriology Search Menu Site Navigation Home Academics Undergraduate Honors The David Pingree Prize Graduate Student Handbook Research Award PhD Degrees Awarded People Faculty & Staff Postdoctoral Research Associate Program Graduate Students News Future Events Past Events About Contact Wilbour Studies Publication Series Courses Graduate Courses Undergraduate Courses Search Department of Egyptology and Assyriology All News News Archive 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 62 Results based on your selections. News from Egyptology and Assyriology Christopher Cox and Marko Vitas - OGE June 16, 2020 Open Graduate Education Scholars push academic boundaries through their scholarship. The 10 newest members of the Brown University Graduate School’s open education program will customize their Ph.D. studies by seeking a master’s degree in a secondary field. Read Article Open details for Christopher Cox and Marko Vitas - OGE News from Egyptology and Assyriology Two PhDs to announce! April 9, 2020 Despite the COVID-19 disruptions our wonderful students continue to achieve impressive goals. Congratulations to Margaret Geoga and Federico Zangani, who successfully defended their dissertations in the past month. Very well done, especially given the extraordinary pressures of this unique and challenging period. Read Article Open details for Two PhDs to announce! News from Egyptology and Assyriology Vicky Almansa's Class Featured by Graduate School April 3, 2020 Long before the spring semester transitioned to remote learning, doctoral student Victoria Almansa-Villatoro had developed and implemented Brown’s first online Egyptology course for undergraduates. Read Article Open details for Vicky Almansa&#039;s Class Featured by Graduate School Graduate School Dr. Silvia Štubňová awarded Deans Faculty Fellowship February 24, 2020 Silvia Štubňová was one of six PhD recipients across the disciplines to receive the honor of a Visiting Assistant Professorship for the Spring 2020 semester. Through this award Silvia was supported to design and teach her own class. Titled “Life on the Nile: Ancient Egypt beyond the Pharaohs", it has been well-received by her students and will be a strong addition to her curriculum vitae. You continue to develop your talents, Silvia, congratulations! Read Article Open details for Dr. Silvia Štubňová awarded Deans Faculty Fellowship News from Egyptology and Assyriology Presenting Dr. Silvia Štubňová December 10, 2019 Congratulations to Silvia, who successfully defended her dissertation today! With her are her committee members, Professors James Allen, Leo Depuydt, Matthew Rutz and, using the Zoom application to connect from EPHE (Paris), Andreas Stauder. Excellent work, Silvia! Read Article Open details for Presenting Dr. Silvia Štubňová News from Egyptology and Assyriology Shiyanthi Thavapalan's Book Launch Reception December 5, 2019 The department of Egyptology and Assyriology and the Joukowsky Institute for Archaeology and the Ancient World celebrated Professor Shiyanthi Thavapalan's first book "The Meaning of Color in Ancient Mesopotamia" (actually her second publication, as she co-edited "The Value of Colour. Material and Economic Aspects of the Ancient World" with David Warburton). Well done, Shiyanthi! Read Article Open details for Shiyanthi Thavapalan&#039;s Book Launch Reception News from Egyptology and Assyriology Passing of Lanny D. Bell August 31, 2019 It is with sadness the the Department of Egyptology and Assyriology shares the news of the passing of Professor Lanny D. Bell on August 26, 2019. Lanny was a kind and gifted teacher, researcher and friend to many and will be remembered long beyond that date. Read Article Open details for Passing of Lanny D. Bell News from Egyptology and Assyriology Shiyanthi Thavapalan Wins Prestigious Award August 14, 2019 The Department is very pleased to relay the news that Professor Shiyanthi Thavapalan received the International Association of Assyriologists (IAA) Dissertation award at this year's Rencontre Assyriologique Internationale (RAI) meeting in Paris July 8-12, 2019. Read Article Open details for Shiyanthi Thavapalan Wins Prestigious Award News from Egyptology and Assyriology Congratulations Margaret Geoga!! April 25, 2019 The Department of Egyptology and Assyriology is very pleased to announce that Margaret (Maggie) Geoga has been awarded the Best Student Paper at the 2019 Annual American Research Center in Egypt conference. We are not surprised, but definitely proud of you, Maggie! Congratulations. Read Article Open details for Congratulations Margaret Geoga!! News from Egyptology and Assyriology Vicky Almansa MES Research Award Report April 18, 2019 The following report from Vicky Almansa was submitted upon her return from working at an excavation site in Giza, with funding from the Brown University Middle East Studies: Read Article Open details for Vicky Almansa MES Research Award Report News from Egyptology and Assyriology Sara Mohr wins Digital Hammurabi Competition! April 4, 2019 We are delighted to share the news that second year graduate student Sara Mohr has been awarded funding for her work on 3D modeling of cuneiform tablets. The competition was organized by Digital Hammurabi, which was created to provide funding for current PhD students working on Ancient Near East-related topics. Read Article Open details for Sara Mohr wins Digital Hammurabi Competition! News from Egyptology and Assyriology Conference: The Allure of the Ancient March 6, 2019 We invite you to join a diverse range of scholars reviewing the reception, use, and misuse of the Ancient Near East in early modern art, literature, scholarship, and politics. Read Article Open details for Conference: The Allure of the Ancient News from Egyptology and Assyriology CSUSB selects its first W. Benson Harer Egyptology Scholar in Residence February 11, 2019 Jessica Tomkins '18 Ph.D. has been selected to be Cal State San Bernardino’s inaugural W. Benson Harer Egyptology Scholar in Residence for winter quarter. Read Article Open details for CSUSB selects its first W. Benson Harer Egyptology Scholar in Residence News from Egyptology and Assyriology Another Wonderful Print in Wilbour August 23, 2018 With sincere gratitude to Beatrice Parker, daughter of former Professor and Chair of Egyptology Richard Parker, we are pleased to share with you the lovely new wall hanging - a print of King Tut's funeral mask. Read Article Open details for Another Wonderful Print in Wilbour News from Egyptology and Assyriology NEH Grant to Professor Matthew Rutz May 18, 2018 NEH grant will enable Brown researcher to digitally preserve Syrian tablets. With ancient documents threatened by modern-day conflict in Syria, Matthew Rutz’s project will make the text of more than 1,800 cuneiform tablets available digitally. Read Article Open details for NEH Grant to Professor Matthew Rutz News from Egyptology and Assyriology E&A 2nd Annual Neugebauer Lecture: Prof. Mathieu Ossendriver April 5, 2018 We are pleased to announce that Professor Mathieu Ossendrijver (Humboldt University, Berlin) will present the second Annual Otto Neugebauer Lecture in the Exact Sciences in Antiquity, titled "Chaldeans on the Nile. Read Article Open details for E&amp;A 2nd Annual Neugebauer Lecture: Prof. Mathieu Ossendriver News from Egyptology and Assyriology Congratulations to Professor Laurel Bestock April 3, 2018 Please join us in congratulating Professor Laurel Bestock, recipient of the John Rowe Workman Award in Excellence in Teaching in the Humanities, 2018. Read Article Open details for Congratulations to Professor Laurel Bestock News from Egyptology and Assyriology PhD '15 Kathryn Howley Appointed to Tenure Track Position April 3, 2018 We are pleased to share the news that Kathryn Howley, PhD'15, has accepted a tenure-track position as Assistant Professor in Art and Architecture in Ancient Egypt at the Institute of Fine Arts, New York University. Congratulations, Kathryn, we look forward to seeing you either in NY or back for a visit at Brown! Read Article Open details for PhD &#039;15 Kathryn Howley Appointed to Tenure Track Position News from Egyptology and Assyriology WORKSHOP: Rethinking the Origins: The Departure of Ancient Egyptian as a Branch From the Afroasiatic Family? February 22, 2018 The Department of Egyptology and Assyriology at Brown University invites you to the interdisciplinary workshop Rethinking the Origins which will take place on April 13-15, 2018 at RI Hall 108, 60 George Street, Providence, RI 02912 (the Joukowsky Institute for Archaeology and the Ancient World). Read Article Open details for WORKSHOP: Rethinking the Origins: The Departure of Ancient Egyptian as a Branch From the Afroasiatic Family? News from Egyptology and Assyriology 2nd Annual Graduate Student Conference in Egyptology November 8, 2017 Read Article Open details for 2nd Annual Graduate Student Conference in Egyptology News from Egyptology and Assyriology E&A Weekly Seminar Oct. 31 L. Bestock October 25, 2017 Read Article Open details for E&amp;A Weekly Seminar Oct. 31 L. Bestock News from Egyptology and Assyriology 1st Annual Parker Lecture in Egyptology September 21, 2017 We are very pleased to announce the first annual Parker Lecture in Egyptology, Tuesday, September 26 at 5 PM in Petteruti Lounge of Faunce House. Brown PhD ['09] Ramadan Hussein, currently at the University of Tubingen, will present "Tending to the Dead: Rites, Texts and Embalming Workshop at Saqqara". Read Article Open details for 1st Annual Parker Lecture in Egyptology News from Egyptology and Assyriology John Steele and Guan Yuzhen August 31, 2017 A pleasant reunion at the International Congress of History of Science and Technology in Rio de Janeiro. Read Article Open details for John Steele and Guan Yuzhen News from Egyptology and Assyriology Brown Sweeps ARCE Honors April 26, 2017 Three Brown Students got Best Poster recognition at the Annual ARCE conference in Kansas City, MO: Christian Casey, Darcy Hackley and Martin Uildriks; meanwhile, two of three Best Papers went to Jen Thum and to Brendan Hainline (Brown BA, now working on PhD at Chicago). Well Done, Team! Read Article Open details for Brown Sweeps ARCE Honors News from Egyptology and Assyriology Jen Thum rocked her talk! April 25, 2017 Not surprisingly, Jen's talk, "Adventures in Living Rock Stelae" was extremely well attended, presented and received. Thank you, Jen. Read Article Open details for Jen Thum rocked her talk! News from Egyptology and Assyriology Inaugural Otto Neugebauer Lecture in the History of the Exact Sciences in Antiquity: Prof. Bill Mak, Kyoto University April 20, 2017 Read Article Open details for Inaugural Otto Neugebauer Lecture in the History of the Exact Sciences in Antiquity: Prof. Bill Mak, Kyoto University News from Egyptology and Assyriology First Annual Abraham Sachs Lecture - Chris Woods U Chicago April 12, 2017 Read Article Open details for First Annual Abraham Sachs Lecture - Chris Woods U Chicago News from Egyptology and Assyriology Jessica Tomkins - Interdisciplinary Opportunity Program Award! March 17, 2017 Congratulations are due to Jessica Tomkins for having received an Interdisciplinary Opportunities Program award! Read Article Open details for Jessica Tomkins - Interdisciplinary Opportunity Program Award! News from Egyptology and Assyriology Matthew Rutz Awarded Tenure March 17, 2017 Professor Matthew Rutz has been promoted to Associate Professor, with tenure, effective July 1, a well-deserved accomplishment which the department celebrated together with colleagues, friends and family on March 16. Read Article Open details for Matthew Rutz Awarded Tenure News from Egyptology and Assyriology Julia Troche Update March 17, 2017 Julia Troche, PhD '15 has been awarded a tenure-track Assistant Professorship in the History Department at Missouri State University. Well done, Julia, we knew you would do it. Looking forward to a visit sometime! Read Article Open details for Julia Troche Update News from Egyptology and Assyriology Assyriology Conference December 5, 2016 We are pleased to report that the Assyriology conference planned for February 27 is coming together nicely. The title and topic is "Ancient History: Assyriological Perspectives" and the field of participants is impressive. Read Article Open details for Assyriology Conference News from Egyptology and Assyriology Book Published: Steele, Ed., et al “The Circulation of Astronomical Knowledge in the Ancient World” April 28, 2016 We are pleased to share with you information about a just-published book edited by John Steele, with contributions by many of our department members: Yuzhen Guan, M. Willis Monroe, Matthew Rutz, Zackary Wainer and our former Post-Doc Andreas Winkler. Read Article Open details for Book Published: Steele, Ed., et al “The Circulation of Astronomical Knowledge in the Ancient World” News from Egyptology and Assyriology Zackary Wainer, PhD April 6, 2016 Zackary Wainer successfully defended his dissertation Monday, April 4, and the Egyptology and Assyriology Department happily gathered to congratulate him. We join his family in celebrating his achievements and in wishing him the very best going forward. Well Done, Zack! Read Article Open details for Zackary Wainer, PhD News from Egyptology and Assyriology Assyriology Conference March 3, 2016 The gathering of several preeminent Assyriologists at Brown on Saturday, February 27 resulted in a wonderful exchange of knowledge and ideas. Read Article Open details for Assyriology Conference News from Egyptology and Assyriology Newest Tenured Professor March 3, 2016 We are delighted to share with you that Laurel Bestock has been promoted to Associate Professor, with tenure, effective July 1, 2016. Read Article Open details for Newest Tenured Professor News from Egyptology and Assyriology Professional Updates - Guan, Howley, Monroe February 12, 2016 Congratulations to Yuzhen Guan, PhD ’15, for his position as a ResearchProfessor (tenure Track) at the University of Science and Technology of China, in the Department of History of Science and Scientific Archaeology. Read Article Open details for Professional Updates - Guan, Howley, Monroe News from Egyptology and Assyriology Celebrating Otto Neugebauer February 10, 2016 The life and work of Otto Neugebauer (1899-1990), founder of Brown's Department of History of Mathematics and recipient of Brown's most prestigious honor, the Rosenberger medal, in 1987, is examined in a newly published book, A Mathematicians Journey's: Otto Neugebauer and Modern Transformations of Ancient Science, co-edited by the department's John Steele. Read Article Open details for Celebrating Otto Neugebauer News from Egyptology and Assyriology M Willis Monroe PhD '16 December 14, 2015 On Thursday, December 10, Willis Monroe successfully defended his dissertation and department members were very pleased to gather to congratulate him. Willis is one of the first Dean of Faculty Fellowship recipients and will teach a class in our department next semester. Congratulations on both achievements, Willis! Read Article Open details for M Willis Monroe PhD &#039;16 News from Egyptology and Assyriology Impressive Award to Alumni Professor Ramadan Hussein December 10, 2015 Ramadan Hussein, PhD '09, has been awarded a prestigious grant by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG) for the conservation, documentation and publication of the Saite-Persian tombs in Saqqara. Read Article Open details for Impressive Award to Alumni Professor Ramadan Hussein News from Egyptology and Assyriology Andreas Winkler, PostDoc Research Associate 2014-15 November 18, 2015 Andreas is now at the University of Oxford, Faculty of Oriental Scientists, as Departmental Lecturer in Egyptology and Coptic. Nice for him that he is closer to ‘home’ in Sweden, yet enjoying milder weather! We are pleased to share the news that TWO of his recent proposals have been granted. Read Article Open details for Andreas Winkler, PostDoc Research Associate 2014-15 News from Egyptology and Assyriology Amanda Davis, PhD '15 November 18, 2015 We are very pleased to add Amanda Davis to our proud list of PhD recipients. Read Article Open details for Amanda Davis, PhD &#039;15 News from Egyptology and Assyriology Congratulations to our three new PhDs! May 18, 2015 The Department of Egyptology and Assyriology is very pleased to congratulate our three newest colleagues on their successful completion to candidacy and defense of their dissertations: Read Article Open details for Congratulations to our three new PhDs! News from Egyptology and Assyriology Julia Troche April 30, 2015 The department is very pleased to announce that PhD candidate Julia Troche for her outstanding presentation at ARCE last week, where she received Third Place of all the papers presented for her work, "On the Origins of Apotheosis in Ancient Egypt." Read Article Open details for Julia Troche SAW (CNRS & University Paris Diderot) and the Department of Egyptology and Assyriology at Brown University Conference “Scholars and Scholarship in Late Babylonian Uruk” March 23, 2015 March 23-24, 2015, University Paris Diderot, Paris Building Condorcet, Room 646A Mondrian. This international conference is co-organized by Christine Proust and John Steele and supported by the European project SAW (CNRS & University Paris Diderot) and the Department of Egyptology and Assyriology at Brown University. The city of Uruk was a major centre of scholarship in Late Babylonian Mesopotamia (second half of the first millennium BCE). Excavations in Uruk have provided a rich variety of documents, often available with some archaeological information, on the individuals and groups who practiced a range of scholarly activities such as mathematics, the astral sciences, medicine and rituals. Most of these documents were part of scholarly libraries. The goal of this conference is to understand mathematical practices in the broad context of scholarship in Uruk. To that end we encourage speakers to examine the interrelation of different genres of scholarship and the circulation of knowledge between individuals or communities of scholars (professions, families, clans, generations, etc) inside Uruk, and from Uruk to other scholarly centres. We expect cases studies grounded on well-delimited collections of tablets which also address broader questions which might include: Who were the scholars who wrote mathematical and other scholarly texts in Uruk? How do we identify and characterize mathematical practices in astral sciences, medicine, and rituals? Which relations can be established between these practices and those documented by mathematical texts? What are the specificities of erudition in Uruk? How did scientific texts fit into the organization of scholarly libraries and of professions? What was the influence of Urukian science in the Hellenistic world and vice versa? Read Article Open details for Conference “Scholars and Scholarship in Late Babylonian Uruk” News from Egyptology and Assyriology Graduate Student Kathryn Howley Featured in National Geographic Documentary September 5, 2014 Graduate student Kathryn Howley will be featured in the National Geographic documentary 'Rise of the Black Pharoahs' airing October 1, 2014 at 10:00PM on PBS. Read Article Open details for Graduate Student Kathryn Howley Featured in National Geographic Documentary News from Egyptology and Assyriology Prehistoric ‘bookkeeping’ continued long after invention of writing/M. Willis Monroe, Graduate Student, Participates in Research of Tokens August 4, 2014 An ancient token-based recording system from before the dawn of history was rendered obsolete by the birth of writing, according to popular wisdom. But now, latest excavations show that, in fact, these clay tokens were integral to administrative functions right across the Assyrian empire – millennia after this system was believed to have vanished. Read Article Open details for Prehistoric ‘bookkeeping’ continued long after invention of writing/M. Willis Monroe, Graduate Student, Participates in Research of Tokens News from Egyptology and Assyriology Professor John Steele honored with the title “Guest Professor” at Shanghai Jiao Tong University July 18, 2014 During a recent visit to China to give a series of lectures Professor John Steele was awarded the honorary title of Guest Professor in the School of History and Culture of Science at Shanghai Jiao Tong University. Read Article Open details for Professor John Steele honored with the title “Guest Professor” at Shanghai Jiao Tong University News from Egyptology and Assyriology M. Willis Monroe Awarded Fellowship from The American Academic Research Institute in Iraq (TAARII) March 14, 2014 M. Willis Monroe, a 4th year PhD student in Ancient Western Asian Studies, has been awarded a fellowship from The American Academic Research Institute in Iraq (TAARII) for his research project "Innovation in Seleucid Astrology: Re-investigating the Micro-Zodiac". Read Article Open details for M. Willis Monroe Awarded Fellowship from The American Academic Research Institute in Iraq (TAARII) News from Egyptology and Assyriology The Ancient Egyptian Language: an Historical Study (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2013) by James P. Allen December 9, 2013 New book by James P. Allen This book, the first of its kind, examines how the phonology and gram-mar of the ancient Egyptian language changed over more than three thousand years of its history, from the first appearance of written documents, ca. 3250 BC, to the Coptic dialects of the second century AD and later. Read Article Open details for The Ancient Egyptian Language: an Historical Study (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2013) by James P. Allen News from Egyptology and Assyriology Brown Daily Herald Article "Mentor program launches with mummy unwrapping" October 29, 2013 A mummy unwrapping party marked the launch of a mentoring partnership between the Egyptology-Ancient West Asian Studies Department Undergraduate Group and the Egyptology department’s graduate students Thursday night. Read Article Open details for Brown Daily Herald Article &quot;Mentor program launches with mummy unwrapping&quot; Previous 1 2 Next Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Academics Undergraduate Honors The David Pingree Prize Graduate Student Handbook Research Award PhD Degrees Awarded People Faculty & Staff Postdoctoral Research Associate Program Graduate Students News Future Events Past Events About Contact Wilbour Studies Publication Series Courses Graduate Courses Undergraduate Courses This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search All News Open details for All News Bookmark this Page