Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Office of International Education Education Abroad Breadcrumb Home Main navigation Home Apply Programs Georgia Tech Programs Global Research and Internships (GRIP) Graduate Opportunities International Travel Registry Non-GT Programs Scholarships FAQs Resources Diversity Abroad Financial Resources Health + Safety/ Insurance LGBTQIA Resources Parent Information Peer Advisors Returned Students Students with Disabilities Transient Students Faculty & Staff Education Abroad Policies Find Scholarships Campus Award vs. National - Any -College of DesignSchool of Civil & Environmental EngineeringModern LanguagesNational Scholarship AwardOIE Administered ScholarshipStamps Presidents Scholars Citizenship Requirements - Any -Non-US CitizenUS CitizenNo Restriction Country Specific - Any -AustraliaChinaFranceGermanyIrelandIrelandIsraelJapanNew ZealandSwitzerland Level - Any -GraduateUndergraduate Major Specific - Any -Architecture/DesignBiomedical EngineeringBusiness AdministrationChemical and Biomolecular EngineeringCivil and Environmental EngineeringInternational AffairsMechanical Engineering Mission Driven - Any -First-Generation College StudentsInterest in Becoming Foreign Service OfficerInterest in Working in an EmbassyLGBTQIA Students Program Specific - Any -Austria - Leadership for Social Good, Eastern and Central Europe Study Abroad ProgramChina (Mainland) - Tsinghua Beijing ExchangeEngland - LSE London ExchangeEngland - Sheffield ExchangeFrance - Georgia Tech—LorraineGermany - Exchanges in GermanyGermany - Stuttgart Exchange/Intern Abroad ProgramIsrael - GE3-Technion-Israel Institute of TechnologyJapan - Exchanges in JapanUnited Arab Emirates - AUD Dubai Exchange Region of the World - Any -AfricaAsiaAustraliaEuropeLatin AmericaUnited Kingdom Semester - Any -Regular (Fall, Spring, or Academic Year)Summer Types of Study - Any -Critical Language StudyLanguage Study (i.e.: Chinese, French, German, Japanese, Korean, etc.)ResearchService LearningStudy/Intern Abroad Title Summary Tags More information Alumni Scholarships Study abroad scholarship funding provided by the generous support of Georgia Tech Alumni, including the Class of 1957, Class of 1962, Class of 1968, and Class of 1983. No Restriction, Study/Intern Abroad, Undergraduate, OIE Administered Scholarship Apply Amgen Scholars Japan Program Amgen Scholars Japan Program provides selected sophomore and junior undergraduate students with the opportunity to engage in a hands-on research experience at two premier Japanese universities: The University of Tokyo or Kyoto University. Undergraduate participants benefit from undertaking a research project under top faculty, being part of a cohort-based experience of seminars and networking events, and taking part in a symposium in their respective region where they meet their peers, learn about biotechnology, and hear from leading scientists. Program duration is roughly June 11-August 6. Asia, Japan, No Restriction, Research, Summer, Undergraduate, National Scholarship Award Apply Baden-Wurttemberg Scholarship Funding amount varies and students are nominated by the University of Stuttgart. Participants on the Germany - Stuttgart Exchange/Intern Abroad Program will be considered. Contact Cassy McInnis for more information. Germany, Undergraduate, Modern Languages, Germany - Stuttgart Exchange/Intern Abroad Program Apply Blakemore Freeman Fellowships Blakemore Freeman Fellowships are awarded for one academic year of full-time, intensive language study of Chinese, Japanese, Korean, Thai, Vietnamese, Indonesian, Khmer or Burmese at the advanced level in approved language programs in East or Southeast Asia. Applicants must be American citizens or permanent residents of the United States. Asia, Graduate, Regular (Fall, Spring, or Academic Year), Study/Intern Abroad, National Scholarship Award Apply Boren Fellowship Funding for graduate US students studying abroad in areas of the world that are critical to US interests and underrepresented in study abroad. US Citizen, Critical Language Study, Graduate Apply Boren Scholarship Funding for undergraduate and graduate US students studying abroad in areas of the world that are critical to US interests and underrepresented in study abroad. US Citizen, Critical Language Study, Undergraduate Apply Bridging Scholarship Funding for American students who will participate in fall or spring semester study abroad program in Japan. Japan, Undergraduate, Japan - Exchanges in Japan Apply Bruce Eisenman Scholarship Fund The Bruce Eisenman Scholarship Fund was established in memory of Bruce Eisenman, a two-time Tech Alumnus from the College of Engineering in 1979 and 1980. This scholarship covers housing and flight expenses up to $5,000 for an undergraduate student registered with GT's GRIP (Global Research & Internship Program). The student must be interning in Panama (or Latin America) during a fall, spring, or summer semester. For more information, email: education.abroad@oie.gatech.edu. No Restriction, Study/Intern Abroad, Undergraduate, OIE Administered Scholarship Apply Campoamor Scholarship Administered by the School of Modern Languages. Award amounts vary. Applications are due by March 31st and awarded in the spring semester. Undergraduate, Modern Languages Apply Ced in the City Forever Scholarship The CedintheCity Scholars program was created to put feet to CedintheCity’s vision to change the face of travel by encouraging African American students to study abroad and supporting their quests to do so. We hope that this program will alleviate some of the financial burden and be a catalyst for African Americans to expand their horizons and deepen their connectivity to other cultures through global travel. Finalists for this year’s award will be asked to verify their study abroad status before a recipient is chosen. No Restriction, Regular (Fall, Spring, or Academic Year), Study/Intern Abroad, Undergraduate, National Scholarship Award Apply Charles B. Rangel International Affairs Program Fellowship funding for graduate study, in preparation for US Department of State foreign service. US Citizen, Graduate, Interest in Becoming Foreign Service Officer Apply Chateaubriand Fellowship Program Grant offered by the Embassy of France in the United States which allows doctoral students enrolled in American universities to conduct research in France for 4 to 9 months. France, Graduate, No Restriction, Research Apply Chinese Government Scholarship Administered by the School of Modern Languages providing full-ride scholarship support for students studying at a Chinese University for an academic year. Applicants must be non-Chinese citizens and in good health. Asia, China, No Restriction, Regular (Fall, Spring, or Academic Year), Undergraduate, Modern Languages Apply Colin Higgins Courage Awards The Colin Higgins Youth Courage Awards are bestowed each year to acknowledge remarkable young people who refuse to be silenced by societal norms and demonstrate profound courage in the face of hardship, intolerance and bigotry based on sexual orientation, gender identity and national origin. LGBTQIA Students Apply Congress Bundestag Youth Exchange (CBYX) for Young Professionals The Congress-Bundestag Youth Exchange for Young Professionals (CBYX) is a fellowship funded by the German Bundestag and U.S. Department of State, that annually provides 75 American and 75 German young professionals, between the ages of 18-24, the opportunity to spend one year in each other’s countries, studying, interning, and living with hosts on a cultural immersion program. US Citizen, Germany, Study/Intern Abroad, Undergraduate Apply Cowan Scholarship Awarded by the Georgia Tech Institute of Leadership and Entrepreneurship to students participating in the Eastern Europe Study Abroad Program for Social Good. Austria - Leadership for Social Good, Eastern and Central Europe Study Abroad Program, Summer Apply Critical Language Scholarship Fully-funded summer language institutes for US university students. Sponsored by the US Department of State. US Citizen, Critical Language Study, Summer, Undergraduate, National Scholarship Award Apply DAAD Funding available for semester study (4 months or longer) in Germany. International students are eligible to apply. To locate a Georgia Tech exchange program in Germany, visit the program search page. Germany, No Restriction, Undergraduate Apply DAAD Rise Open to sophomores and juniors from the USfor the opportunity to complete a summer research internship at top German universities and research institutions. Students are matched with a host university or institute according to their area of interest (BIO, CHEM, PHYS, earth sciences, engineering, or a closely related field). DAAD provides a monthly stipend, health insurance, housing assistance and a travel allowance to the three-day RISE Germany meeting in Heidelberg at the beginning of July. Europe, Germany, Study/Intern Abroad, Summer, National Scholarship Award Apply Federation of German-American Clubs (FGAC) Provides a €600 monthly stipend and other support, to be utilized towards an academic year program in Germany. To apply, contact Cassy McInnis, the German Exchange Program Advisor. US Citizen, Europe, Germany, Regular (Fall, Spring, or Academic Year), Undergraduate, Germany - Exchanges in Germany Apply Foreign Language and Area Studies (FLAS) Fellowships The FLAS fellowships assist undergraduate, graduate, and professional degree students in achieving competency in selected foreign languages in combination with international and area studies coursework. The Foreign Language & Area studies (FLAS) Fellowships are available for the less commonly taught languages of Arabic, Chinese, Korean, Hindi, Italian, Japanese, Persian/Farsi, Portuguese, Russian, and Swahili. Funding for advanced French, German, and Spanish languages may be available. FLAS fellowships can be used to study abroad (Summer) or on campus (academic year). US Citizen, Critical Language Study Apply Frederick Douglass Global Fellowship The Frederick Douglass Global Fellowship offers students of color a full scholarship to study abroad on a program that builds their leadership and intercultural communication skills. All program fees are covered, as well as airfare. Europe, Ireland, Study/Intern Abroad, Summer, Undergraduate, National Scholarship Award Apply Freeman ASIA Freeman-ASIA (Freeman Awards for Study in Asia) is designed to support U.S.-based undergraduates with demonstrated financial need who are planning to study overseas in East or Southeast Asia. The program’s goal is to increase the number of U.S. citizens and permanent residents with first-hand exposure to and understanding of Asia and its peoples and cultures. For more information on GT programs in Asia, please go here. US Citizen, Asia, Language Study (i.e.: Chinese, French, German, Japanese, Korean, etc.), Undergraduate, National Scholarship Award Apply Fund for Education Abroad Scholarships National awards up to $10,000 to support high-quality, rigorous, education abroad programs. Preference given to first-generation and minority students. US Citizen, First-Generation College Students, Study/Intern Abroad, Undergraduate, National Scholarship Award Apply Gamma Mu Foundation Scholarship The Gamma Mu Scholarships Program provides support to gay men who want to further their education at a college, university, or vocational or professional training program. LGBTQIA Students, Undergraduate Apply George International Study Abroad Scholarship Up to $5,000 to support undergraduate students on Georgia Tech study abroad programs. No Restriction, Study/Intern Abroad, Undergraduate, OIE Administered Scholarship Apply Georgia Tech - Lorraine Scholarships Funding options for students preparing to study abroad at Georgia Tech - Lorraine. Undergraduate, France - Georgia Tech—Lorraine Apply Gilman Scholarship Program Funding, up to $5,000, for Federal Pell Grant recipients to study abroad. Preference given to underrepresented students and non-traditional study abroad program locations. US Citizen, Study/Intern Abroad, Undergraduate, National Scholarship Award Apply GoOverseas Ireland Scholarship Go Overseas has partnered with Education Ireland to give a US undergraduate student a $15,000 USD scholarship to study abroad for a semester. To locate a Georgia Tech exchange program in Ireland, visit the program search page: http://atlas.gatech.edu/index.cfm?FuseAction=Programs.SimpleSearch. Please contact Ashlee Flinn (ashlee.flinn@oie.gatech.edu) when applying for this scholarship to ensure all requirements are met. Ireland, Regular (Fall, Spring, or Academic Year), Undergraduate, National Scholarship Award Apply GoOverseas New Zealand Scholarship Go Overseas has partnered with Education New Zealand to give one US student a full ride scholarship ($15,000) to study abroad with the kiwis. To locate a Georgia Tech exchange program in New Zealand, visit the program search page: http://atlas.gatech.edu/index.cfm?FuseAction=Programs.SimpleSearch. Please contact Ashlee Flinn (ashlee.flinn@oie.gatech.edu) when applying for this scholarship to ensure all requirements are met. New Zealand, Regular (Fall, Spring, or Academic Year), Undergraduate, National Scholarship Award Apply GoOverseas Scholarships Did you know that less than 10% of U.S. students study abroad? We want to change that! International experience can help you build language skills, gain cross cultural competencies, and can help you get a great job. The #GoStudyAbroad contest is part of the Generation Study Abroad initiative. Undergraduate, National Scholarship Award Apply Halle Foundation Scholarship Funding for study in Germany. Contact Prof. Britta Kallin for additional details. Europe, Germany, Undergraduate, Modern Languages Apply Higginbotham Beyond the Classroom Experience Fund Created in 2017 by alumnus Bill Higginbotham and his wife, Elizabeth, the fund supports outside-the-classroom experiences for a handful of students each year. That could include jobs or internships (domestic or international), research experiences, or other professional learning opportunities. Spring Semester Funding Deadline: October 1. Summer Semester Funding Deadline: March 1. Fall Semester Funding Deadline: June 1. No Restriction, Undergraduate, School of Civil & Environmental Engineering, Civil and Environmental Engineering Apply Inclusive Ireland Scholarships Education in Ireland is proud to partner with Diversity Abroad to announce the creation of the Inclusive Ireland Scholarship Programme. To locate a Georgia Tech exchange program in Ireland, visit the Atlas program search page. Please contact Ashlee Flinn (ashlee.flinn@oie.gatech.edu) when applying for this scholarship to ensure all requirements are met. Students must identify as BIPOC (Black, Indigenous, and People of Color), study abroad at one of the participating Irish exchange institutions, and have a 3.0 or higher GPA. Europe, Ireland, No Restriction, Regular (Fall, Spring, or Academic Year), Study/Intern Abroad, Undergraduate Apply International Plan (IP) Scholarship Up to $1,000 for travel for IP study abroad students completing an approved second term abroad. Only for students who already completed their first term abroad or will be studying abroad for the academic year. Undergraduate, OIE Administered Scholarship Apply Jack's Travel Grant 'Our vision is to remove barriers to travel, unlocking ways to make your travel goals happen, reaching places maybe you never thought possible and taking trips that tell stories.' The travel grant from Jack’s Flight Club is for all accredited college and University students undertaking placements connected to their course. Our aim is to help students achieve the most from their time away and if you can also help the communities you visit, then even better! No Restriction, Study/Intern Abroad, National Scholarship Award Apply James B. Feldman Study Abroad Endowment The James B. Feldman Study Abroad Endowment is a new opportunity for civil and environmental engineering students to supplement their study abroad plans with a non-academic experience that extends or enhances the meaning and perspective they receive from their overseas experience. No Restriction, Undergraduate, School of Civil & Environmental Engineering, Civil and Environmental Engineering Apply Japan Student Services Organization (JASSO) Funding for students participating in a Japanese Exchange Program. To locate a Georgia Tech exchange program in Japan, visit the program search page. http://atlas.gatech.edu/index.cfm?FuseAction=Programs.SimpleSearch Asia, Japan, Regular (Fall, Spring, or Academic Year), Undergraduate, National Scholarship Award, Japan - Exchanges in Japan Apply Japanese Government (MEXT) Scholarship Program at GSAPS, Waseda University This program is sponsored by the Japanese government and awards a full scholarship including a round trip air fee, tuition, entrance fee, and monthly stipend for 2 years of MA program and 3 years for Ph.D. program in Japan. The application period for September 2022 Entry is January 24 - February 2, 2022(JST). Asia, Graduate, Japan Apply Japanese Government Scholarship This scholarship program is sponsored by the Japanese government and awards a full scholarship including a round trip air fee, tuition, entrance fee, and monthly stipend for 2 years of MA program, and 3 years for PhD in Japan. Graduate, Japan Apply John C. Phelan Scholarship Funding up to £15,000 for semester study at the London School of Economics. Students participating on the London School of Economics Exchange Program are eligible to apply. Undergraduate, United Kingdom, England - LSE London Exchange Apply Julie B. and Kurt T. Eversole Overseas Culture Scholarship The Julie B. and Kurt T. Eversole Overseas Culture Scholarship is a scholarship in support of students pursuing study abroad experiences. This scholarship seeks to engage students in culturally diverse and enriching experiences that help them develop as leaders in a global community and add value to their degrees. US Citizen, Study/Intern Abroad, Undergraduate, OIE Administered Scholarship Apply Margaret Elizabeth O'Neal Study Abroad Scholarship This scholarship is made possible by the generosity of Marilyn and John O'Neal to enable Georgia Tech undergraduate students to study abroad. US Citizen, Study/Intern Abroad, Undergraduate, OIE Administered Scholarship Apply Marietta Rotary - Reinhard Scholarship for International Study $2000 scholarship for a US citizen and legal resident of Cobb County, Georgia who has completed as least 9 semester hours of college level study to study abroad. US Citizen, Study/Intern Abroad, Undergraduate Apply Masa Israel Journey Masa Israel Journey is the leader in immersive international experiences in Israel for young people ages 18-30. Students must be Jewish to be eligible for this opportunity. Asia, Israel, No Restriction, Study/Intern Abroad, National Scholarship Award, Israel - GE3-Technion-Israel Institute of Technology Apply Morgan Stanley Scholarship Funding up to $7,500 towards an academic-year study abroad program in Japan. US Citizen, Asia, Japan, Regular (Fall, Spring, or Academic Year), Undergraduate, Japan - Exchanges in Japan Apply Munchak Fellow Scholarship Awarded by the Georgia Tech Institute of Leadership and Entrepreneurship to students participating in the Eastern Europe Study Abroad Program for Social Good. Austria - Leadership for Social Good, Eastern and Central Europe Study Abroad Program, Summer, Undergraduate Apply Mundy Global Learning Experience Endowment Fund Administered by the School of Civil and Environmental Engineering and open to CEE majors. Undergraduate students are given priority, but graduate students are also eligible to apply. US Citizen, Undergraduate, School of Civil & Environmental Engineering, Civil and Environmental Engineering Apply Nadia A. and Robert W. Tyson Study Abroad Scholarship The Nadia A. and Robert W. Tyson Study Abroad Scholarship is a scholarship for students pursuing a degree in the School of Civil and Environmental Engineering, participating in a study or intern abroad program offered at Georgia Tech, and participating in one of the following campus organizations: the Baptist Student Union, the Catholic Center, Episcopal Campus Ministries, Lutheran Campus Ministries, or the Wesley Foundation. US Citizen, Study/Intern Abroad, Undergraduate, School of Civil & Environmental Engineering, Civil and Environmental Engineering Apply Nakatani RIES Scholarship The Nakatani RIES program sends up to 12 Georgia Tech biomedical engineering undergraduates to laboratories in Japan for 8-10 weeks starting in mid-May. Selected students are paid to perform research, get exposed to the latest technologies, and gain new cultural experiences while working in laboratories in Japan. Universities across Japan participate in this exchange including representation in Tokyo, Kyoto, and Osaka. US Citizen, Asia, Japan, Study/Intern Abroad, Summer, Undergraduate, Biomedical Engineering Apply Naramore-Chandler International Scholarship Up to $6,000 in study abroad scholarship funding for students pursuing an undergraduate or graduate degree program in the Scheller College of Business. For more information, please contact Craig Womack. US Citizen, Regular (Fall, Spring, or Academic Year), Business Administration Apply Nobel Week Dialogue Scholarship Program This a high-impact student program in Stockholm, Sweden. This interdisciplinary program is dedicated to including students from diverse backgrounds, and future leaders from all over the world are invited to apply. Applicants can be undergraduate or graduate students in good standing. This is a week-long program from Dec. 5-11, 2021. Only 10 students will be selected and selected attendees will be announced in July 2021. National Scholarship Award Apply OIE Administered Scholarships Award amounts, requirements, and deadlines vary. No Restriction, Study/Intern Abroad, Undergraduate, OIE Administered Scholarship Apply Out to Innovate™ Scholarship for LGBTQ+ Students in STEM These scholarships are intended for undergraduate and graduate students pursuing degrees in science, technology, engineering,or mathematics (STEM) programs who are either lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer or an active ally of the LGBTQ+ community. The scholarships are designed to promote academic excellence and increased visibility of talented LGBTQ+ students in STEM careers. LGBTQIA Students, National Scholarship Award Apply Pamela Harriman Fellowship Program Administered by the College of William & Mary. Three competitive fellowships, up to $5,000, to undergraduate interns working in the Office of the Secretary, the US Embassy in London, and the US Embassy in Paris. Eligible Georgia Tech students are welcome to apply. US Citizen, Europe, Interest in Working in an Embassy, Summer, Undergraduate, International Affairs Apply PFLAG National Scholarship Program Our scholarship program supports the next generation of leaders who have already been working tirelessly on numerous programs, projects, and activities aimed at making schools and communities safe and welcoming for all. PFLAG's scholarships are open to U.S. and non-U.S. citizens (Non-US citizens are eligible as long as they attend an accredited institution in the United States). LGBTQIA Students, Undergraduate Apply Point Foundation Scholarship Point Foundation (Point) is the nation’s largest scholarship-granting organization for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ) students of merit. Point promotes change through scholarship funding, mentorship, leadership development, and community service training. LGBTQIA Students, Undergraduate Apply Professor Winston C. Boteler Study Abroad Scholarship The Professor Winston C. Boteler Study Abroad Scholarship was created in memory of Winston C. Boteler (1921-2016). This scholarship shall continue his legacy at his alma mater and serve as inspiration to future generations of students as they pursue study abroad opportunities at Georgia Tech. US Citizen, Study/Intern Abroad, Undergraduate, OIE Administered Scholarship, Mechanical Engineering Apply Rainbow Scholarship The Rainbow Scholarship awards deserving lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ+) students who aim to participate in high-quality, rigorous education abroad programs. To be considered for the Rainbow Scholarship, applicants must self-identify on the Fund for Education Abroad (FEA) scholarship application. US Citizen, LGBTQIA Students Apply Robert L. Johnson International Study Abroad Scholarship Administered by the Georgia Tech School of Architecture. Funding for architecture majors to study abroad. Contact Ms. Robin Tucker for more information. Architecture/Design Apply Robert L. Minier Scholarship Scholarships for undergraduates who are pursuing degrees in the School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering and are participating in a study abroad or internship program. US Citizen, Undergraduate, Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, OIE Administered Scholarship Apply Rotary Global Grant Rotary offers prestigious international scholarships of $30,000 for graduate students pursuing careers in fields that support: -Peace and conflict prevention/resolution -Disease prevention and treatment -Water and sanitation -Maternal and child health -Basic education and literacy -Economic and community development The purpose of the Global Grant Scholarship is to forge a link between Rotary and the development of skilled professionals aligned with Rotary International’s Six Areas of Focus listed above. US Citizen, Graduate, Regular (Fall, Spring, or Academic Year), National Scholarship Award Apply Schwarzman Scholars The program will give the world’s best and brightest individuals the opportunity to develop leadership skills through a fully-funded one-year Master’s Degree at Tsinghua University in Beijing. China, Graduate, Study/Intern Abroad Apply Scott's Cheap Flights Study Abroad Scholarship The Scott’s Cheap Flights Study Abroad Scholarship is open to any citizen and/or resident of the United States (and its territories and possessions) is enrolled full-time at an accredited institution of higher learning. US Citizen, Study/Intern Abroad, National Scholarship Award Apply Shandong Partner Region Scholarship This program allows students to pick a university in a city in Shandong (China) to study at for a semester or academic year. The scholarship includes a 30000 RMB Yuan stipend that covers fees and basic living costs and a personal allowance of 1000 RMB Yuan per person per month. Please email Stella Xu for more information. Asia, China, Regular (Fall, Spring, or Academic Year) Apply Spurlock Scholarship Funding for study in Germany. Contact Prof. Britta Kallin for additional details. Germany, Undergraduate Apply Stang and Newdow Study Abroad Scholarship Administered by the Georgia Tech School of Architecture (https://arch.gatech.edu/study-abroad). Funding for architecture majors to study abroad. Architecture/Design, College of Design, Undergraduate Apply Stonewall Community Foundation Scholarships A Traub-Dicker Rainbow Scholarship is to be used for tuition to a nonprofit college or university, and is paid directly to the recipient’s school. Multiple scholarships between $1,500 and $3,000 will be awarded in early summer 2018 and are non-renewable. LGBTQIA Students Apply Toshizo Watanabe Study Abroad Scholarship The Toshizo Watanabe Endowed Scholarship Fund provides financial assistance to undergraduate and graduate students for a semester or year-long study abroad program in either the United States or Japan. A generous endowment gift of $10 million from Mr. Toshizo (Tom) Watanabe to the U.S.-Japan Council makes it possible to award scholarships to students for whom study abroad would not be possible without financial support. US Citizen, Asia, Japan, Study/Intern Abroad Apply Tyson Study Abroad Endowment The Nadia A. and Robert W. Tyson Study Abroad Fund provides support for undergraduate civil and environmental engineering students who plan to participate in a Georgia Tech-organized study abroad program or have arranged for an internship abroad. The Tysons particularly want to fund students planning to spend an entire semester or academic term overseas. Students must participate in one of the following organizations: Baptist Student Union, Catholic Center, Episcopal Campus Ministries, Lutheran Campus Ministries, or the Wesley Foundation. US Citizen, Regular (Fall, Spring, or Academic Year), Study/Intern Abroad, Undergraduate, School of Civil & Environmental Engineering, Civil and Environmental Engineering Apply University of Sheffield Scholarships Administered by the University of Sheffield. Students participating on the Sheffield Exchange Program are eligible to apply. http://atlas.gatech.edu/index.cfm?FuseAction=Programs.ViewProgram&Program_ID=10121 Europe, Regular (Fall, Spring, or Academic Year), Study/Intern Abroad, Undergraduate, England - Sheffield Exchange Apply Valerie H. and G.P. "Bud" Peterson Study Abroad Scholarship The Valerie H. and G.P. "Bud" Peterson International Study Abroad Scholarship seeks to support need-based study abroad scholarships for Georgia Tech undergraduate students participating in a Tech study abroad program. No Restriction, Study/Intern Abroad, Undergraduate, OIE Administered Scholarship Apply William Jefferson Clinton Scholars Program Full funding for tuition and housing at the American University in Dubai. US Citizen, Regular (Fall, Spring, or Academic Year), Undergraduate, United Arab Emirates - AUD Dubai Exchange Apply World Student Fund Up to $7,000 in scholarship funding for GT semester study abroad programs. US Citizen, Regular (Fall, Spring, or Academic Year), Study/Intern Abroad, Undergraduate, OIE Administered Scholarship Apply Office of International Education Georgia Institute of Technology 631 Cherry Street Suite 211 Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Office of International Education Map Campus Map © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN