Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Office of International Education Education Abroad Breadcrumb Home Main navigation Home Apply Programs Georgia Tech Programs Global Research and Internships (GRIP) Graduate Opportunities International Travel Registry Non-GT Programs Scholarships FAQs Resources Diversity Abroad Financial Resources Health + Safety/ Insurance LGBTQIA Resources Parent Information Peer Advisors Returned Students Students with Disabilities Transient Students Faculty & Staff Education Abroad Policies Graduate Student International Opportunities Graduate International Opportunities As a graduate student, there are many international opportunities available to you. Please use this page to learn more and connect to resources. Faculty-Led Study Abroad Faculty-Led Study Abroad (FLSA) programs are group programs which allow for students to study with their peers and faculty in an international setting. These programs change based on the department offering the program. For a current list of programs, visit: atlas.gatech.edu Graduate Faculty-Led Study Abroad Opportunities Finding an FLSA Program To find a program, please go to: atlas.gatech.edu. Navigate to "Programs" (top left) and select the advanced search. Using the advanced search, please select "Graduate" under program level to search all graduate study abroad opportunities. You can further narrow this by selecting your academic discipline. Because faculty-led study abroad opportunities are facilitated out of different colleges and/or schools, there may or may not be a program for your major. Costs & Funding When studying abroad as a graduate student, please note that graduate students will pay the in-state graduate tuition-rate based on the student's graduate program. There are a limited number of funding opportunities for graduate students. To search for funding, please go to: http://ea.oie.gatech.edu/find-scholarships. This is a scholarships database and you can find graduate funding by filtering by level. For more information, email: education.abroad@oie.gatech.edu. Exchanges Exchange programs take place during the academic year, fall, and/or spring. There are a number of graduate exchange opportunities at: atlas.gatech.edu. Graduate Exchanges Finding an Exchange Program To find a program, please go to: atlas.gatech.edu. Navigate to "Programs" (top left) and select the advanced search. Using the advanced search, please select "Graduate" under program level and university exchange under program type to search all graduate exchange opportunities. Exchanges are formal agreements between institutions and there are a limited number of graduate exchange opportunities. Costs & Funding When studying on exchange as a graduate student, please note that graduate students will pay the in-state graduate tuition-rate based on the student's graduate program. There are exceptions to this and more information can be found on the exchange page in atlas. There are a limited number of funding opportunities for graduate students. To search for funding, please go to: http://ea.oie.gatech.edu/find-scholarships. This is a scholarships database and you can find graduate funding by filtering by level. For more information, email: education.abroad@oie.gatech.edu. Global Research and Internship Program The Global Research and Internship Program (GRIP) allows students to intern internationally and provides Tech students professional experience in their field and develops valuable workplace and intercultural skills. GRIP Website GRIP Fast Facts Open to all majors and degree levels Intern in industry, non-profit, and research settings Intern for a fall, spring, summer, or academic year Many positions are paid Language proficiency is recommended, but not required Georgia Tech International Campuses Georgia Tech has a number of international campuses around the world. These are open to a variety of students and academic disciplines. Georgia Tech - Lorraine or GTL offers the following degree focuses: Aerospace Engineering Computer Science Electrical and Computer Engineering Mechanical Engineering Georgia Tech - Shenzhen offers the following degree focuses: MS Analytics MS Computer Science MS Electrical and Computer Engineering MS Environmental Engineering GT/Emory - PKU BME Joint Venture The Logistics Institute - Asia Pacific (TLI-AP) for Supply Chain Engineering Supply Chain and Logistics Institute (SLC) has a center in San Jose, Costa Rica Other International Opportunities IF the GT international options do not meet your specific needs, you can also find your own program or you can also register international academic or research work with OIE. International Academic Projects Non-GT Study Abroad If the GT international options do not meet your specific needs, you may need to find your own program- which is considered a Non-GT Program. You must have the approval of your Graduate Program to transfer any credit back toward your degree. International Academic Projects Participants in International Academic Projects are engaged in academic or research work that will be partially or wholly completed outside of the United States. This might mean going to a foreign university with your Faculty Advisor to conduct research, doing an independent study project, performing research in the lab of a faculty colleague abroad, etc. Talk to your Faculty Advisor about contacts and ideas. Financial Information There are a few scholarships available to graduate students. These opportunities are competitive and vary in their requirements (e.g.: some have service requirements). Some scholarships are based on financial need and some are based on academic merit. These can be found in the scholarship database filtered by level (graduate). In general, graduate students will pay the in-state graduate tuition rate based on the student's graduate program (along with program charges) to study abroad on a Georgia Tech study abroad program or exchange. Students who are looking to apply for a national fellowship should work with the Georgia Tech Fellowships Office. The Fellowships Office helps students identify and apply for nationally competitive awards. These awards can provide funding assistance for undergraduate and graduate study in the U.S. and abroad. Scholarship Database Office of International Education Georgia Institute of Technology 631 Cherry Street Suite 211 Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Office of International Education Map Campus Map © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN