Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Office of International Education Education Abroad Breadcrumb Home Main navigation Home Apply Programs Georgia Tech Programs Global Research and Internships (GRIP) Graduate Opportunities International Travel Registry Non-GT Programs Scholarships FAQs Resources Diversity Abroad Financial Resources Health + Safety/ Insurance LGBTQIA Resources Parent Information Peer Advisors Returned Students Students with Disabilities Transient Students Faculty & Staff Education Abroad Policies Health and Safety Study Abroad programs organized and managed by the Georgia Institute of Technology (GT) provide supplemental insurance to all participants. This supplemental insurance, provided by CISI (Cultural Insurance Services International), includes medical, medical evacuation, repatriation of remains, and security (political unrest/natural disaster) coverage. All students who participate in GT study abroad programs or International Academic Projects are required to have this study abroad insurance plan coverage. For more information and policy details, review the CISI Brochure & Claim Form. As this is supplemental insurance coverage, all students should retain their domestic coverage while they are abroad. The myCISI mobile app is an excellent way for student to view insurance cards and consulate letters, find providers abroad, view travel warnings and alerts, submit claims or check-in during an emergency. This video provides more information regarding the myCISI mobile app and checking in: PLEASE NOTE: GT study abroad programs do not provide other types of supplemental insurance coverage, such as theft insurance, trip cancellation insurance, etc. An optional CFAR/IFAR (Cancel For Any Reason) policy is available for students through CISI. These details have been provided by CISI regarding Worldwide Trip Protector (WTP) and Worldwide Trip Protector Plus (WTPP). (If you are interested in this policy, you must enrolled within 21 days of receiving your acceptance to your program.) The clearinghouse insuremytrip.com is an additional resource for cancellation policies and traveler insurance. Office of International Education Georgia Institute of Technology 631 Cherry Street Suite 211 Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Office of International Education Map Campus Map © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN