Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Office of International Education Education Abroad Breadcrumb Home Main navigation Home Apply Programs Georgia Tech Programs Global Research and Internships (GRIP) Graduate Opportunities International Travel Registry Non-GT Programs Scholarships FAQs Resources Diversity Abroad Financial Resources Health + Safety/ Insurance LGBTQIA Resources Parent Information Peer Advisors Returned Students Students with Disabilities Transient Students Faculty & Staff Education Abroad Policies Summer 2022 Summer 2022 FAQs Q: Is Georgia Tech planning to operate programs abroad during Summer 2022? A: Yes, Georgia Tech is planning to operate programs abroad during Summer 2022. The safety of our students, faculty, and staff is our top priority. Georgia Tech will continue to monitor the Covid-19 pandemic closely and will follow guidance from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the U.S. Department of State, and the University System of Georgia. Q: I have questions about GRIP (Global Research and Internship Program). Where can I find answers to my questions? A: More information and FAQs about GRIP can be found here. Q: If my Georgia Tech Summer 2022 faculty-led study abroad program cancels before departure, will I be refunded for the program charges paid to my program? A: Georgia Tech will determine a date to assess program viability based on the current information available and timing of vendor pre-payments. Georgia Tech will require each program to make a first round of decisions on cancellations before non-refundable program funds are due to vendors. The standard Georgia Tech study abroad cancellation policy will apply. This policy says that should the program cancel due to circumstances beyond Georgia Tech's control, only those funds recovered from vendors may be returned to students. Also, Georgia Tech cannot refund personal expenses incurred by students such as costs for visas, airfare, and other items not included in the program charge. Q: I have been accepted to a study abroad, an international internships, or an exchange program for Summer 2022, should I buy plane tickets? Will the program refund my airfare costs if the program is canceled? A: Students planning to go abroad for Summer 2022 are advised to wait to make large and/or non-refundable purchases such as airfare until closer to the program's departure date. Georgia Tech will not be able to refund students' airfare costs, so we recommend checking with airlines about cancellation policies, purchasing refundable/changeable tickets, and/or purchasing insurance from the airline directly to cancel the trip and receive a refund. Many airlines are being flexible about trip changes and cancellations, but students should know the airlines' policies in order to make the best financial decisions for their personal situations. Q: Does Georgia Tech provide Covid-19 testing for those who will work/travel/study abroad as a part of a Georgia Tech program? A: Yes, more information can be found here. Q: I am scheduled to work/study/travel abroad as part of a Georgia Tech program during Summer 2022. Will I have access to the vaccine through Georgia Tech before I travel? A: It is strongly recommended that you get vaccinated for Covid-19 before traveling internationally. Georgia Tech's vaccine distribution will continue on campus. More information can be found here. Study Abroad Covid-19 Vaccine Information • All USG students and faculty are strongly encouraged to be vaccinated. • USG institutions may not require a vaccine to participate in a study abroad program; however, students are strongly encouraged to assess how being unvaccinated will affect their study abroad experience. • If a third party, including a country or a host institution, requires a vaccine, students are responsible for complying in order to participate. • All students, regardless of vaccination status, must be aware that their time out of country may be negatively affected by the Covid-19 pandemic, which may include possible quarantine, isolation, testing, and cancelled experiences/activities. • Where there are different expectations/requirements for vaccinated and unvaccinated individuals in a country or the host institution, students must comply with those expectations/requirements. • A country or host institution may change their requirements before or during a study abroad program and the program may be impacted by any country or host institution requirements. • There is a risk to studying abroad during the Covid-19 pandemic that may include a variety of changes to the program. Participants should be prepared for a rapidly changing environment that may necessitate program changes. • Study abroad programs are encouraged to communicate factual updates to students, including changes to country and host institution requirements, to help students to make informed decisions. • Students who are unvaccinated will not receive an accommodation if they are unable to complete portions of the course due to being unvaccinated. This may affect their experience and evaluation of their academic participation. Last updated 8/16/21 Office of International Education Georgia Institute of Technology 631 Cherry Street Suite 211 Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Office of International Education Map Campus Map © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN