Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Office of International Education Education Abroad Breadcrumb Home Main navigation Home Apply Programs Georgia Tech Programs Global Research and Internships (GRIP) Graduate Opportunities International Travel Registry Non-GT Programs Scholarships FAQs Resources Diversity Abroad Financial Resources Health + Safety/ Insurance LGBTQIA Resources Parent Information Peer Advisors Returned Students Students with Disabilities Transient Students Faculty & Staff Education Abroad Policies Education Abroad Policy Library Education Abroad Policy Information This page consolidates relevant policies and guidance for Education Abroad Programs. Reach out to the Director of Education Abroad with any questions. Contact Name: Lorie Johns Paulez Contact Title: Director of Education Abroad Contact Email: lorie.paulez@oie.gatech.edu Policy Statements: Faculty-Led Study Abroad Programs (FLSA): Institute faculty and/or staff developing, proposing, and operating FLSA programs must seek approval and follow the guidelines set forth by the Institute, the Institute’s Study Abroad Committee (sub-committee of the IUCC/IGCC) and by the Office of International Education (OIE). [See Guidelines for FLSA programs.] Embedded Faculty-Led Study Abroad (FLSA): Embedded FLSA programs follow the same guidelines as specified in item #1: Embedded programs differ from other Faculty-led study abroad programs in that they are primarily Atlanta-based courses that include an international travel component, typically completed during an official break. [See Guidelines for FLSA Programs.] Global at Home Programs (G@H): G@H programs follow similar proposal guidelines as FLSA in item #1. These programs must be offered in a group format and must have a clear focus on global engagement and global competencies built into the programs’ learning outcomes. G@H programs may be offered either virtually, on the Atlanta campus, or may choose to include domestic field trips to complement in-class instruction. All travel must be course related with an academic focus, included for instructional purposes, and clearly tied to global learning outcomes. [See Guidelines for FLSA Programs.] Faculty leading programs: Teaching and leading a program abroad is considered a position of trust and thus must follow Institute policies outlined for such positions. [Per the Provost’s Memo on Study Abroad.] GT Exchange Programs: Bilateral and direct enroll student exchange programs are vetted and approved through VPII/OIE in collaboration with GT Legal Affairs and must be officially signed by VPII. Exchange programs are administered by OIE. [See Linkage Agreements.] [See Exchange Administrative Policies.] Global Research and Internship Program (GRIP): GT students should register global research or international internship assignments via OIE. Once registered, students receive pre-departure briefing information and are automatically enrolled in the USG-approved international insurance plan covering official dates of the international assignment. Enrollment in the insurance plan is mandatory for all students. [See the GRIP Registration.] Student International Travel Registry: Students who plan to travel internationally for Institute affiliated purposes (that are not official Study Abroad, GRIP, or GT Exchanges) must register their travel through OIE. Some examples include international travel for dual/double/joint degree program requirements, research abroad, service abroad, international conferences, international academic competitions, international senior design, and international athletic competitions. The International Travel Registry provides the Institute with critical information and contacts in case of emergency. Once registered, students receive pre-departure briefing information and are automatically enrolled in the USG-approved international insurance plan covering official dates of the Institute affiliated international travel. Enrollment in the insurance plan is mandatory, and students benefit from the Institute’s discounted rates for coverage. Insurance is billed directly to students through the GT Bursar account. [See GT Student International Academic Project Travel Registry.] Non-GT Programs: Students participating on programs through providers or other institutions not affiliated with the Institute should register their participation with OIE. [See Non-GT Program Registry.] Restricted Travel Appeal Committee: GT monitors the guidance and advice of experts on international travel from the US Department of State and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Students are not permitted to participate in Institute-affiliated travel to international locations with a level 3 or 4 alert from the US Department of State and/or a level 4 Travel Health Notice issued by the CDC. [See the GT Policy on Restricted Travel.] GT aligns international program policies with the guidelines set forth by the University System of Georgia (USG). [See the USG Business Procedures Manual section 21.0.] Office of International Education Georgia Institute of Technology 631 Cherry Street Suite 211 Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Office of International Education Map Campus Map © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN