Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Search Tool The Employee Assistance Program (EAP) is a confidential counseling service provided at no cost to MSU faculty, staff, retirees, graduate student employees, and their families. UPHYS Units Travel Clinic Occupational Health Health4U Program Food and Water Sanitarian Employee Assistance Program The Employee Assistance Program (EAP) is a confidential counseling service provided at no cost to MSU faculty, staff, retirees, graduate student employees, and their families. About Services Resources Articles Staff Contact Welcome to the Employee Assistance Program at Michigan State University The Employee Assistance Program (EAP) is a confidential counseling service provided at no cost to MSU faculty, staff, retirees, graduate assistants, and their families. To learn more about the services we offer, please visit: https://eap.msu.edu/services. Appointments Appointments continue to be available in-person or by ZOOM, a telehealth videoconferencing platform. For an appointment to meet with an EAP counselor, or for questions about the program, please contact us by: Calling 517-355-4506, Monday through Friday between 8:00am and 4:30pm. E-mailing us at eap@msu.edu. You are not required to email us from your MSU email address; please email us from the email address you are most comfortable with. The office is located in room 110 Linton Hall at 479 West Circle Drive. Parking is available in the Grand River Parking Ramp across the street from Linton. ZOOM Appointments The EAP uses Zoom for our telehealth sessions, which is an encrypted platform that is completely confidential and HIPAA compliant. You’ll need the Zoom platform downloaded to your devices in order to participate in Telehealth videoconferencing. For information regarding Zoom, please visit https://msu.zoom.us/. If you need assistance with setting up a Zoom account, please contact the MSU IT Service Desk at 517-432-6200. If you are experiencing a mental health crisis: please call 911, go to your nearest emergency room, or contact Community Mental Health at 517-346-8460. Additional crisis support lines that are available 24/7 include the Disaster Distress Helpline at 800-985-5990 or the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 800-273-8255. Michigan Department of Health and Human Services (MDHHS) has now launched a statewide, peer-run warmline during the Covid-19 pandemic. The warmline will operate 7 days a week from 10 a.m. to 2 a.m. daily and is intended to serve individuals living with persistent mental health challenges including anxiety, depression, and trauma. The warmline can be reached at: 888-733-7753. Who Is Eligible? The Employee Assistance Program (EAP) is a confidential short-term counseling and referral service provided at no cost to MSU faculty, staff, graduate assistants, retirees, and their insurance eligible dependents who are located within the state of Michigan. Due to licensing regulations in other states and countries, MSU EAP staff may be unable to provide counseling services to those who are located outside of Michigan. If you are living outside of Michigan, please contact the EAP to determine if you can be seen by a MSU EAP provider for short-term counseling. Referrals MSU is a proud partner of ThrivingCampus, an online platform that makes it easier for you to connect with off-campus mental health care and well-being services. With ThrivingCampus, you can: See community-based providers who are currently accepting new clients Browse and filter providers based on your needs and preferences Get answers to common questions Reach out to community providers and connect with mental health care and other services to support your well-being Visit https://eap.msu.edu/resources/thriving-campus to view more information about ThrivingCampus or visit https://msu.thrivingcampus.com/ to see area providers. In addition to ThrivingCampus, you can also schedule an appointment with Teladoc, or we can assist you by sharing referrals to community-based providers. ©2022 Office of the University Physician All Rights Reserved. Login Call us: (517) 353-8933 Contact Information Privacy Policy Site Accessibility Call MSU: (517) 355-1855 Visit: msu.edu MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer. Notice of Nondiscrimination Spartans Will. © Michigan State University