Skip to Main Content Brown University Cogut Institute for the Humanities Center for the Study of the Early Modern World Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About All News ORBIS: 2019-2021 Report People Events Recent Events Series: The Early Modern World in U.S. Libraries and Collections 2020–21 Events 2019-20 Events Concentration & Courses Current Courses Honors Program Research Faculty Digital Projects Early Modern World Graduate Colloquium Graduate Research Opportunities Hay Library Fellowship in Early Modern Studies Early Modern World Travel & Research Grant Connect Search Cogut Institute for the Humanities Center for the Study of the Early Modern World Graduate Research Opportunities Doctoral students are eligible for a broad range of grants and fellowships at Brown. Breadcrumb Home Research Sub Navigation In This Section Faculty Digital Projects Early Modern World Graduate Colloquium Graduate Research Opportunities Hay Library Fellowship in Early Modern Studies Early Modern World Travel & Research Grant Graduate Research Opportunities Doctoral students are eligible for a broad range of grants and fellowships at Brown. In addition to the Early Modern World Travel & Research Grant offered through the center, doctoral students are eligible for several fellowship opportunities and certificate programs on campus including the Cogut Collaborative Humanities Fellowship (for doctoral students entering the second to fourth year of their program) and the Cogut Institute Graduate Fellowship (for doctoral students entering the fourth to sixth year of their program). The Graduate School coordinates interdisciplinary opportunities in the humanities and social sciences for advanced graduate students entering their fifth or sixth year. Among these, fellowships offered by the John Carter Library and the John Hay Library are of particular relevance for students of the early modern world. At Brown John Hay Library Fellowship in Early Modern Studies The John Hay Library and the Center for the Study of the Early Modern World are, in most years, jointly able to host one fellow annually. Applicants are invited to propose an undergraduate course, exhibition, curatorial project, conference, or symposium that will promote collaboration between scholars of the early modern period and the John Hay Library. Learn more John Carter Brown Library Fellowships The J.M. Stuart Fellowship and the Interdisciplinary Opportunities Fellowship are open to Brown Ph.D. students in the humanities and social sciences whose dissertation work relates to the early history and culture of the Americas and whose research and writing would benefit from privileged and sustained access to the resources of the John Carter Brown Library. Learn More Beyond Brown The center maintains an active collaboration with the Folger Institute, which also offers research and writing fellowships. Several libraries and research institutions, such as the Hill Museum & Manuscript Library, support work on their collections. External opportunities, from call for abstracts to fellowship applications, are circulated via email and listed on this site. More research opportunities! News from the Center Book History and related events at the School of Advanced Study, University of London April 7, 2022 A range of book history and related events at the School of Advanced Study, University of London, April-May 2022. Short courses are fee-paying. All other events are free to attend with advance booking. Events marked * will take place in person; otherwise, events are online. Read Article Open details for Book History and related events at the School of Advanced Study, University of London News from the Center CFP (due 3-4-22): 2022 Harvard-Yale-Brown Conference in Book History February 24, 2022 For those of you who are interested in the history of the book/history of print/history of readership, Brown University has joined with Harvard and Yale in promoting a graduate conference in the history of the book, scheduled this year for Monday, May 2, 2022 (virtually, with Yale as the "host" institution). Read Article Open details for CFP (due 3-4-22): 2022 Harvard-Yale-Brown Conference in Book History News from the Center CFP (due 3-1-22): Intersectionality in the Early Global World February 16, 2022 Research on the premodern intersection of race, gender, and sexuality has steadily increased as a result of the efforts of a diverse group of scholars working across traditional periodization and geographic limits. Nevertheless, a great deal of work remains to be done to understand the many varieties of ways such aspects of identities intersected and were mobilized or challenged in the marking of difference. Read Article Open details for CFP (due 3-1-22): Intersectionality in the Early Global World Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About All News ORBIS: 2019-2021 Report People Events Recent Events Series: The Early Modern World in U.S. Libraries and Collections 2020–21 Events 2019-20 Events Concentration & Courses Current Courses Honors Program Research Faculty Digital Projects Early Modern World Graduate Colloquium Graduate Research Opportunities Hay Library Fellowship in Early Modern Studies Early Modern World Travel & Research Grant Connect Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Graduate Research Opportunities Open details for Graduate Research Opportunities Bookmark this Page