Skip to Main Content Brown University Cogut Institute for the Humanities Center for the Study of the Early Modern World Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About All News ORBIS: 2019-2021 Report People Events Recent Events Series: The Early Modern World in U.S. Libraries and Collections 2020–21 Events 2019-20 Events Concentration & Courses Current Courses Honors Program Research Faculty Digital Projects Early Modern World Graduate Colloquium Graduate Research Opportunities Hay Library Fellowship in Early Modern Studies Early Modern World Travel & Research Grant Connect Search Cogut Institute for the Humanities Center for the Study of the Early Modern World The Early Modern World in U.S. Libraries and Collections This unique series of interactive events showcases the resources of some of the world’s most prestigious libraries and special collections for research on the early modern period. Sub Navigation In This Section Recent Events Series: The Early Modern World in U.S. Libraries and Collections 2020–21 Events 2019-20 Events The Early Modern World in U.S. Libraries and Collections This unique series of interactive events showcases the resources of some of the world’s most prestigious libraries and special collections for research on the early modern period. On each occasion, representatives will speak from their institution to explain the nature of its holdings, offering orientations to potential first-time readers and new information valuable to regular visitors. Following the introductory presentations, there will be opportunities for questions and answers about practical matters – ranging from subject specialisms and reproduction permissions to programs and residence or fellowship opportunities. These events are organized exclusively for Brown graduates, faculty, and associate members of the Center: details of how to register will be made available through this website and through our circulars closer to the time. May 4, 2022 | The John Carter Brown Library, Providence, RI Dr. Karin Wulf (Beatrice and Julio Mario Santo Domingo Director and Librarian of the John Carter Brown Library), presented “Shouting from the Archives: The John Carter Brown Library and Navigating Silence and Volume in the Early Modern Record,” onnew initiatives and ideas about the direction of the John Carter Brown Library, an important resource for early modern scholarship in the Americas and beyond, on the Brown campus. March 24, 2021 | The Newberry Library, Chicago, IL Lia Markey, director of the Center for Renaissance Studies, Suzanne Karr Schmidt (George Amos Poole III Curator of Rare Books and Manuscripts, a Brown alum!), Jill Gage (Reference Librarian and Bibliographer for British Literature and History at the Newberry and Custodian of the John M. Wing Foundation on the History of Printing), and Will Hansen (Director of Reader Services and Curator of Americana) offered a joint presentation on the Collection and its resources, followed by a Q&A. February 24, 2021 | Nettie Lee Benson Library Latin American Collection, Austin, TX Daniel Arbino, the Benson’s Head of Collection Development, Dylan Joy, the Latin American Archivist, and Albert Palacios, the Benson’s Digital Scholarship Coordinator, offered a joint presentation on the Collection and its resources, followed by a Q&A. February 3, 2021 | Folger Institute and Folger Shakespeare Library, Washington, DC Caroline Duroselle-Melish, the Andrew W. Mellon Curator of Early Modern Books and Prints, Amanda Herbert, Associate Director for Research Fellowships, Owen Williams, Associate Director for Scholarly Programs, Heather Wolfe, Curator of Manuscripts and Associate Librarian for Audience Development, and Rachel B. Dankert, Learning and Engagement Librarian, discussed the Folger Collection and offered brief presentations on Folger opportunities for members of the Center and the Brown scholarly community. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About All News ORBIS: 2019-2021 Report People Events Recent Events Series: The Early Modern World in U.S. Libraries and Collections 2020–21 Events 2019-20 Events Concentration & Courses Current Courses Honors Program Research Faculty Digital Projects Early Modern World Graduate Colloquium Graduate Research Opportunities Hay Library Fellowship in Early Modern Studies Early Modern World Travel & Research Grant Connect Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search The Early Modern World in U.S. Libraries and Collections Open details for The Early Modern World in U.S. Libraries and Collections Bookmark this Page