Skip to Main Content Brown University Cogut Institute for the Humanities Center for the Study of the Early Modern World Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About All News ORBIS: 2019-2021 Report People Events Recent Events Series: The Early Modern World in U.S. Libraries and Collections 2020–21 Events 2019-20 Events Concentration & Courses Current Courses Honors Program Research Faculty Digital Projects Early Modern World Graduate Colloquium Graduate Research Opportunities Hay Library Fellowship in Early Modern Studies Early Modern World Travel & Research Grant Connect Search Cogut Institute for the Humanities Center for the Study of the Early Modern World Early Modern World The center brings together a range of expertise to focus on the multiple historical traditions of Africa, Asia, the Americas, and Europe — and on potent connections between them. Early Modern World The center brings together a range of expertise to focus on the multiple historical traditions of Africa, Asia, the Americas, and Europe — and on potent connections between them. The term "Early Modern" designates the historical period of globalization, during which sustained interaction between different regions of the world occurred as a result of exploration or conquest and colonization. Transfers and exchanges of ideas, arts, technologies, and human populations between those regions are an important object of study: material and visual culture, performance, languages and literatures, systems of belief, and narratives of the past can all be viewed from diverse vantage points. Concentration & Courses The Early Modern World concentration promotes interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary approaches to historical cultures around the world between the waning of feudalism and the arrival of global industrial capitalism, from the 1300s to the end of the 1800s. Visit Page Open details for Concentration &amp; Courses Graduate Colloquium The colloquium is a forum for all graduate students at Brown who profess an interest in the early modern period (broadly defined as 1400–1800) to meet and exchange ideas on topics of mutual interest in a convivial setting. As such, it is a highly diverse body with many different disciplinary and language backgrounds represented. Visit Page Open details for Graduate Colloquium Recent News News from the Center Book History and related events at the School of Advanced Study, University of London April 7, 2022 A range of book history and related events at the School of Advanced Study, University of London, April-May 2022. Short courses are fee-paying. All other events are free to attend with advance booking. Events marked * will take place in person; otherwise, events are online. Read Article Open details for Book History and related events at the School of Advanced Study, University of London University of Hawai'i Press Janine Anderson Sawada publishes Faith in Mount Fuji: The Rise of Independent Religion in Early Modern Japan. March 9, 2022 Long considered sacred, during the medieval era the mountain evolved from a venue for solitary ascetics into a well-regulated pilgrimage site. In Faith in Mount Fuji Janine Sawada asserts that the rise of the Fuji movement epitomizes a broad transformation in popular religion that took place in early modern Japan. Read Article Open details for Janine Anderson Sawada publishes Faith in Mount Fuji: The Rise of Independent Religion in Early Modern Japan. News from the Center Andrew Laird receives 2022 Loeb Classical Library Foundation Fellowship for "Humanism and Experience in 16th-century Mexico: The Early Latin Writing of Fray Cristóbal Cabrera." March 8, 2022 The project surveys the work of the first known European poet on the American continent, who wrote in Latin. Profoundly influenced by Erasmus of Rotterdam, Cabrera addressed contemporary concerns: his invectives against the corruption of the Spaniards in the Indies anticipated the stance that would be adopted later in the 1540s by Fray Bartolomé de las Casas. Read Article Open details for Andrew Laird receives 2022 Loeb Classical Library Foundation Fellowship for &quot;Humanism and Experience in 16th-century Mexico: The Early Latin Writing of Fray Cristóbal Cabrera.&quot; News from the Center CFP (due 3-4-22): 2022 Harvard-Yale-Brown Conference in Book History February 24, 2022 For those of you who are interested in the history of the book/history of print/history of readership, Brown University has joined with Harvard and Yale in promoting a graduate conference in the history of the book, scheduled this year for Monday, May 2, 2022 (virtually, with Yale as the "host" institution). Read Article Open details for CFP (due 3-4-22): 2022 Harvard-Yale-Brown Conference in Book History News from the Center CFP (due 3-1-22): Intersectionality in the Early Global World February 16, 2022 Research on the premodern intersection of race, gender, and sexuality has steadily increased as a result of the efforts of a diverse group of scholars working across traditional periodization and geographic limits. Nevertheless, a great deal of work remains to be done to understand the many varieties of ways such aspects of identities intersected and were mobilized or challenged in the marking of difference. Read Article Open details for CFP (due 3-1-22): Intersectionality in the Early Global World Department of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Faculty affiliate Onésimo Almeida received the Honorary Chairs’ Award for Lifetime Achievement in the Humanities. September 7, 2021 We are delighted to announce that this year's Chair's Award for Lifetime Achievement in the Humanities from the Rhode Island Humanities Council is Professor Onésimo Almeida! The Rhode Island Council for the Humanities’ annual Celebration of the Humanities event recognizes leadership, creative achievement, innovation, and scholarship. Each fall they host a Celebration of the Humanities to celebrate the people and projects that make Rhode Island a vital place to live and recognize the work of extraordinary members of Rhode Island’s public humanities community. Read Article Open details for Faculty affiliate Onésimo Almeida received the Honorary Chairs’ Award for Lifetime Achievement in the Humanities. News from the Center Erika Valdivieso Ph.D. '20 becomes assistant professor at Yale. September 1, 2021 Erika Valdivieso specializes in Latin poetry, book history, and the legacies of classical humanism in Spanish and Portuguese America. She holds a BA in Classics and an MAT in Latin from the University of Michigan and earned her Ph.D. in Classics at Brown University in 2020. Read Article Open details for Erika Valdivieso Ph.D. &#039;20 becomes assistant professor at Yale. News from the Center Erika Valdivieso Receives Joukowsky Outstanding Dissertation Prize. May 25, 2020 Erika Valdivieso (Classics Ph.D. ’20), a member of the Graduate Colloquium at the Center, receives the Joukowsky Outstanding Dissertation Prize in the Humanities. Read Article Open details for Erika Valdivieso Receives Joukowsky Outstanding Dissertation Prize. Durham University Tim Harris receives honorary professorship. April 2, 2019 Tim Harris, Munro-Goodwin-Wilkinson Professor in European History, has received an honorary professorship from Durham University. Read Article Open details for Tim Harris receives honorary professorship. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About All News ORBIS: 2019-2021 Report People Events Recent Events Series: The Early Modern World in U.S. Libraries and Collections 2020–21 Events 2019-20 Events Concentration & Courses Current Courses Honors Program Research Faculty Digital Projects Early Modern World Graduate Colloquium Graduate Research Opportunities Hay Library Fellowship in Early Modern Studies Early Modern World Travel & Research Grant Connect Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Early Modern World Open details for Early Modern World Bookmark this Page