Skip to Main Content Brown University Cogut Institute for the Humanities Center for the Study of the Early Modern World Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About All News ORBIS: 2019-2021 Report People Events Recent Events Series: The Early Modern World in U.S. Libraries and Collections 2020–21 Events 2019-20 Events Concentration & Courses Current Courses Honors Program Research Faculty Digital Projects Early Modern World Graduate Colloquium Graduate Research Opportunities Hay Library Fellowship in Early Modern Studies Early Modern World Travel & Research Grant Connect Search Cogut Institute for the Humanities Center for the Study of the Early Modern World Research The Center for the Study of the Early Modern World serves as the forum for a vibrant research community. Sub Navigation In This Section Faculty Digital Projects Early Modern World Graduate Colloquium Graduate Research Opportunities Hay Library Fellowship in Early Modern Studies Early Modern World Travel & Research Grant Research The Center for the Study of the Early Modern World serves as the forum for a vibrant research community. Graduate Research Graduate students play a vital part in the intellectual life of the center, which offers or relays a variety of interdisciplinary opportunities, including a research travel grant. The Early Modern World Graduate Colloquium is a forum for all graduate students at Brown who profess an interest in the early modern period (broadly defined as 1400–1800) to meet and exchange ideas on topics of mutual interest in a convivial setting. A highly diverse body with many different disciplinary and language backgrounds represented, the group meets three times a semester, and the purpose of individual meetings is decided collectively. The center’s graduate student representatives serve as the main coordinators. To receive announcements about the colloquium and for questions, please email the current representatives, Emily Hirsch (History of Art and Architecture) and Isa Velasco (Comparative Literature). Colloquium Schedule Faculty Research The Center for the Study of the Early Modern World serves as a research and teaching hub for a large group of faculty and staff members with diverse interests. The center also hosted Mellon Postdoctoral Fellow Jessica Stair from 2019 to 2021 in partnership with the Department of History of Art and Architecture and the Cogut Institute for the Humanities. Queries about affiliation, programming, and course cross-listing can be addressed to the director of the center. Browse research interests Faculty Reports and News View all University of Hawai'i Press Janine Anderson Sawada publishes Faith in Mount Fuji: The Rise of Independent Religion in Early Modern Japan. March 9, 2022 Long considered sacred, during the medieval era the mountain evolved from a venue for solitary ascetics into a well-regulated pilgrimage site. In Faith in Mount Fuji Janine Sawada asserts that the rise of the Fuji movement epitomizes a broad transformation in popular religion that took place in early modern Japan. Read Article Open details for Janine Anderson Sawada publishes Faith in Mount Fuji: The Rise of Independent Religion in Early Modern Japan. News from the Center Andrew Laird receives 2022 Loeb Classical Library Foundation Fellowship for "Humanism and Experience in 16th-century Mexico: The Early Latin Writing of Fray Cristóbal Cabrera." March 8, 2022 The project surveys the work of the first known European poet on the American continent, who wrote in Latin. Profoundly influenced by Erasmus of Rotterdam, Cabrera addressed contemporary concerns: his invectives against the corruption of the Spaniards in the Indies anticipated the stance that would be adopted later in the 1540s by Fray Bartolomé de las Casas. Read Article Open details for Andrew Laird receives 2022 Loeb Classical Library Foundation Fellowship for &quot;Humanism and Experience in 16th-century Mexico: The Early Latin Writing of Fray Cristóbal Cabrera.&quot; Department of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Faculty affiliate Onésimo Almeida received the Honorary Chairs’ Award for Lifetime Achievement in the Humanities. September 7, 2021 We are delighted to announce that this year's Chair's Award for Lifetime Achievement in the Humanities from the Rhode Island Humanities Council is Professor Onésimo Almeida! The Rhode Island Council for the Humanities’ annual Celebration of the Humanities event recognizes leadership, creative achievement, innovation, and scholarship. Each fall they host a Celebration of the Humanities to celebrate the people and projects that make Rhode Island a vital place to live and recognize the work of extraordinary members of Rhode Island’s public humanities community. Read Article Open details for Faculty affiliate Onésimo Almeida received the Honorary Chairs’ Award for Lifetime Achievement in the Humanities. News from the Center 2020 Research and Teaching Report: Adam Teller August 1, 2020 Read Article Open details for 2020 Research and Teaching Report: Adam Teller News from the Center 2020 Research and Teaching Report: Jessica Stair August 1, 2020 Read Article Open details for 2020 Research and Teaching Report: Jessica Stair News from the Center 2020 Research and Teaching Report: Holly Shaffer August 1, 2020 Read Article Open details for 2020 Research and Teaching Report: Holly Shaffer News from the Center 2020 Research and Teaching Report: Massimo Riva August 1, 2020 Read Article Open details for 2020 Research and Teaching Report: Massimo Riva News from the Center 2020 Research and Teaching Report: Richard Rambuss August 1, 2020 Read Article Open details for 2020 Research and Teaching Report: Richard Rambuss News from the Center 2020 Research and Teaching Report: Melinda Rabb August 1, 2020 Read Article Open details for 2020 Research and Teaching Report: Melinda Rabb News from the Center 2020 Research and Teaching Report: Tara Nummedal August 1, 2020 Read Article Open details for 2020 Research and Teaching Report: Tara Nummedal News from the Center 2020 Research and Teaching Report: Jeremy Mumford August 1, 2020 Read Article Open details for 2020 Research and Teaching Report: Jeremy Mumford News from the Center 2020 Research and Teaching Report: Jeffrey Muller August 1, 2020 Read Article Open details for 2020 Research and Teaching Report: Jeffrey Muller Show More Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About All News ORBIS: 2019-2021 Report People Events Recent Events Series: The Early Modern World in U.S. Libraries and Collections 2020–21 Events 2019-20 Events Concentration & Courses Current Courses Honors Program Research Faculty Digital Projects Early Modern World Graduate Colloquium Graduate Research Opportunities Hay Library Fellowship in Early Modern Studies Early Modern World Travel & Research Grant Connect Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Research Open details for Research Bookmark this Page