Skip to Main Content Brown University Cogut Institute for the Humanities Center for the Study of the Early Modern World Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About All News ORBIS: 2019-2021 Report People Events Recent Events Series: The Early Modern World in U.S. Libraries and Collections 2020–21 Events 2019-20 Events Concentration & Courses Current Courses Honors Program Research Faculty Digital Projects Early Modern World Graduate Colloquium Graduate Research Opportunities Hay Library Fellowship in Early Modern Studies Early Modern World Travel & Research Grant Connect Search Cogut Institute for the Humanities Center for the Study of the Early Modern World Date September 1, 2021 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Erika Valdivieso Ph.D. '20 becomes assistant professor at Yale. Erika Valdivieso specializes in Latin poetry, book history, and the legacies of classical humanism in Spanish and Portuguese America. She holds a BA in Classics and an MAT in Latin from the University of Michigan and earned her Ph.D. in Classics at Brown University in 2020. Before coming to Yale, she was a Presidential Postdoctoral Research Fellow at Princeton University. Valdivieso is a former fellow of the John Carter Brown Library, a member of the Institute of Andean Studies, and a junior fellow in the Rare Book School’s Society of Fellows in Critical Bibliography. Her research focuses on the overlap between classical education and colonialism in the early Americas. Valdivieso’s current book project examines four Latin epics from colonial Mexico and Brazil as a case study for the relation between the reading and writing of Virgilian epic, on the one hand, and the development of soft power, on the other. She has published on the early works of the Inca Garcilaso, a poetic textbook printed in seventeenth-century Mexico, and the Miccinelli documents. Valdivieso is particularly interested in how classical literature shaped early depictions of indigenous Americans. She is a cofounder of Hesperides, a scholarly organization which promotes the study of classical reception in the Luso-Hispanic world. Download CV. Interview with Erika Valdivieso in the Princeton Department of Classics Newsletter 2021 (pp. 10-11) Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About All News ORBIS: 2019-2021 Report People Events Recent Events Series: The Early Modern World in U.S. Libraries and Collections 2020–21 Events 2019-20 Events Concentration & Courses Current Courses Honors Program Research Faculty Digital Projects Early Modern World Graduate Colloquium Graduate Research Opportunities Hay Library Fellowship in Early Modern Studies Early Modern World Travel & Research Grant Connect Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Erika Valdivieso Ph.D. '20 becomes assistant professor at Yale. Open details for Erika Valdivieso Ph.D. '20 becomes assistant professor at Yale. Bookmark this Page