Skip to Main Content Brown University Cogut Institute for the Humanities Center for the Study of the Early Modern World Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About All News ORBIS: 2019-2021 Report People Events Recent Events Series: The Early Modern World in U.S. Libraries and Collections 2020–21 Events 2019-20 Events Concentration & Courses Current Courses Honors Program Research Faculty Digital Projects Early Modern World Graduate Colloquium Graduate Research Opportunities Hay Library Fellowship in Early Modern Studies Early Modern World Travel & Research Grant Connect Search Cogut Institute for the Humanities Center for the Study of the Early Modern World Early Modern World Travel and Research Grant Grants are intended to help graduate students at the center in undertaking travel necessitated by research, or to conferences for the purpose of giving a paper, both in the United States and abroad. Breadcrumb Home Research Graduate Research Opportunities Sub Navigation In This Section Faculty Digital Projects Early Modern World Graduate Colloquium Graduate Research Opportunities Hay Library Fellowship in Early Modern Studies Early Modern World Travel & Research Grant Early Modern World Travel and Research Grant Grants are intended to help graduate students at the center in undertaking travel necessitated by research, or to conferences for the purpose of giving a paper, both in the United States and abroad. Students may also apply for this grant to defray the costs associated with publication (such as expenses for new photography, or rights and reproduction). The grants are not likely to meet the full costs of travel, and should be regarded as supplementary. A typical award is approximately $350. Eligibility Graduate students working in Early Modern Studies are eligible to apply, and students may apply retrospectively for travel or expenses incurred between the calls for grants within the timeframe of the academic year. However, no requests for funding will be considered outside of the bi-annual calls for applications. Students at the dissertation stage, and students who have been active participants at the Center will be given priority. Application Call for applications are published twice a year, in the fall and in the spring: please check back for fall 2022 and spring 2023 application deadlines. An application shall consist of the following: A clear, 300-word (maximum) description of the project or reason for the request. An itemized budget. No letter of recommendation is necessary. Applications should be sent as PDFs, with the applicants name in the subject line, to early-modern-world@brown.edu. Awards are announced after the application deadline. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About All News ORBIS: 2019-2021 Report People Events Recent Events Series: The Early Modern World in U.S. Libraries and Collections 2020–21 Events 2019-20 Events Concentration & Courses Current Courses Honors Program Research Faculty Digital Projects Early Modern World Graduate Colloquium Graduate Research Opportunities Hay Library Fellowship in Early Modern Studies Early Modern World Travel & Research Grant Connect Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Early Modern World Travel and Research Grant Open details for Early Modern World Travel and Research Grant Bookmark this Page