Skip to content Intranet Becoming part of the Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability in Fall 2022 COVID-19 Info for Stanford Earth x Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences menu Menu list icon Menu list collapse toggle Main navigation Home About Departments & Programs Educational Farm Directory Our Community Our Values and Practices Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Commencement Visit Us Contact us History Academics Undergraduates Graduate Students Professional Development Careers Data Science Field Learning K-12 Outreach Working Professionals Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Groups Industrial Affiliate Programs Shared Analytical Facilities and Research Resources Undergraduate Research News & Events Stanford Earth Matters magazine School Highlights Media Mentions Events People Spotlights Search Search Energy Resources Engineering We teach courses and perform research relevant to the production and transformation of energy resources. Energy Resources Engineering Overview About Us Admissions Undergraduate Program Coterminal MS Program Graduate Program Current Student Resources Courses Alumni Programs Research Groups Events Professional Education Careers Publications Thesis Database News Undergraduate Program The Bachelor of Science degree provides a foundation for careers in many facets of the energy industry. The program represents an evolution toward a broader forward-looking energy curriculum, while still providing an Earth-sciences based engineering approach to energy resources. One of the goals of the program is to provide experience integrating the skills developed in individual courses to address a significant design problem. In ENERGY 199 Senior Capstone Project and Seminar in Energy Resources, taken in the senior year, student teams identify and propose technical solutions for an energy-resource related problem of current interest. In collaboration with their major advisor, students will develop their individual course of study. The curriculum is structured with flexibility that allows students to explore energy topics of particular individual interest and to study abroad. Please refer to the Stanford Bulletin for Energy Resources Engineering for degree requirements. How to declare Energy Resources Engineering Complete ERE Undergraduate Program Proposal. Schedule meeting with Director of Undergraduate Studies, Prof. Tony Kovscek to go over proposal and questions about the major. Submit program proposal to Student Services. Declare major in Axess. Transfer Credit Policy: Transfer credit for university-level course work completed outside Stanford must be approved by the University Registrar. Once approved, transfer credit can count towards major requirements with Director of Undergraduate Studies approval. For more information about the ERE major and minor, please contact Student Services. To connect with a Stanford Earth peer advisor, please visit their website. Learn moreL Undergraduate Admissions More information on how to apply as an undergraduate Navigate to item Stanford Earth Spotlights Meet some of the people in our community Navigate to item Need more information about our undergraduate programs? Contact Energy Resources Engineering Student Services. Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences Join us on Social Media Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Linkedin Linkedin Alumni Give to Stanford Earth Newsroom Contact Provide Website Feedback Report accessibility issues Login Subscribe to Stanford Earth Matters Our Monthly Research News AlertSubscribe Stanford HomeMaps & DirectionsSearch StanfordEmergency Info Terms of UsePrivacyCopyrightTrademarksNon-DiscriminationAccessibility© Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. IconsList of icons used on the site mail linkedin double carrot left arrow left double carrot player instagram close carrot quote facebook twitter plus minus search menu arrow cloud clock