Skip to content Intranet Becoming part of the Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability in Fall 2022 COVID-19 Info for Stanford Earth x Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences menu Menu list icon Menu list collapse toggle Main navigation Home About Departments & Programs Educational Farm Directory Our Community Our Values and Practices Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Commencement Visit Us Contact us History Academics Undergraduates Graduate Students Professional Development Careers Data Science Field Learning K-12 Outreach Working Professionals Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Groups Industrial Affiliate Programs Shared Analytical Facilities and Research Resources Undergraduate Research News & Events Stanford Earth Matters magazine School Highlights Media Mentions Events People Spotlights Search Search Understanding Earth We create knowledge to understand Earth and sustain its inhabitants. Challenges We Tackle Discovering our planet Navigate to item Securing the energy future Navigate to item Climate Solutions Navigate to item Food and Water Security Navigate to item Reducing Disaster Risks Navigate to item Exploring other worlds Navigate to item What Makes Stanford Earth DifferentW We do Field Learning On 7 Continents Navigate to item We Teach Sustainability for the future Navigate to item We use Data Science To Understand Earth Navigate to item Degree ProgramsD We offer BS, MS, MA, and PhD programs Undergraduate ProgramsU Expand card Geological Sciences follow link Energy Resources Engineering follow link Geophysics follow link Earth Systems Program follow link Collapse card Graduate ProgramsG Expand card Geological Sciences follow link Energy Resources Engineering follow link Geophysics follow link Earth Systems Program follow link Earth System Science follow link Emmett Interdisciplinary Program in Environment and Resources follow link Change Leadership for Sustainability follow link Collapse card Where Our Programs Can Lead YouW Our students leave Stanford for careers in the corporate, government, and nonprofit sectors. They work as scientists, engineers, data experts, conservationists, policy makers, attorneys, and physicians, among other professions. Landscape architect Earth Systems ’08 Navigate to item Astronaut Geological and Environmental Sciences '10 Navigate to item Washington lobbyist Geological and Environmental Sciences BS '93 PhD '98 Navigate to item Energy Engineer Energy Resources Engineering MS '16 Navigate to item Visit our Careers page Our academic departmentsO Earth System Science Navigate to item Geological Sciences Navigate to item Geophysics Navigate to item Energy Resources Engineering Navigate to item Our interdisciplinary academic programsO Earth Systems Program Navigate to item Change Leadership for Sustainability Navigate to item Emmett Interdisciplinary Program in Environment and Resources Navigate to item Our Impact in the WorldO We make an impact through faculty research that uncovers how our planet works, by teaching the next generation to understand and manage Earth’s resources, and by communicating our science to policy makers, influencers and the public. Research News Discoveries and insight about Earth, its resources, and its environment. Navigate to Research News Explore Research news School Highlights News about the School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences. Navigate to School Highlights Explore School Highlights Media Mentions Stanford Earth faculty and young scientists in the media. Navigate to Media Mentions See More Media Mentions Know Your Planet: Take a CourseK Spring quarter Geolsci 20 The (geo)science behind environmental (in)justice concepts Our planet is more or less habitable for humans, depending on their socio-economic status, race, and ethnicity. Learn the scientific fundamentals behind the main topics surrounding environmental justice. Navigate to item Upcoming EventsU 30May Say Their Names - No More Names Navigate to item 30May Responsive Structures: Ephemeral Navigate to item 30May Rise Up for Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders exhibit Navigate to item See All Earth Events Stanford Earth Matters Find our research and insights, organized into 9 categories, at our Stanford Earth Matters research news magazine. Climate Change Dynamic Earth Energy Food Agriculture Human Dimensions & Sustainability Natural Hazards Freshwater Resources Evolution Of Earth & Life Oceans View Stanford Earth Matters magazine Our CommunityO We are scientists! Undergraduates, graduate students, professors, educational staff, and alumni working professionals. We build community in our field trips, classes, and cocurriculars. We care about the Earth and making its resources available to people across the globe now and in the future. Students Together, we pursue science and build lifelong bonds. Navigate to item Large quotation icon for visual emphasis We face enormous hurdles as a society in dealing with a changing climate, over extraction of resources, and biodiversity loss. Still, I remain optimistic about our ability to identify and design solutions.Elsa M. OrdwayPhD '18 Faculty We discover and teach. Navigate to item Large quotation icon for visual emphasis I'm fascinated by the way our world works. I use technology to make visible what is not visible to the naked eye.Biondo BiondiGeophysics Professor. Alumni We connect and keep learning. Navigate to item Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences Join us on Social Media Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Linkedin Linkedin Alumni Give to Stanford Earth Newsroom Contact Provide Website Feedback Report accessibility issues Login Subscribe to Stanford Earth Matters Our Monthly Research News AlertSubscribe Stanford HomeMaps & DirectionsSearch StanfordEmergency Info Terms of UsePrivacyCopyrightTrademarksNon-DiscriminationAccessibility© Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. IconsList of icons used on the site mail linkedin double carrot left arrow left double carrot player instagram close carrot quote facebook twitter plus minus search menu arrow cloud clock