Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Earth Day Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Events Resources #ColumbiaBeautifulPlanet Shop Earth Day Home The first Earth Day ignited a movement to stop polluting our planet. Today, we are called to #InvestInOurPlanet by responding to the global climate crisis. Our scientists and experts are tackling the most pressing challenges to achieve real-world impact: decarbonization, food security, coastal resilience, disaster preparedness, and many more. This Earth Day, join us in our commitment to realizing a just and sustainable future for our planet. 5 Ways Columbia Climate School Is Working Toward a Better Planet To help advance our work, please consider supporting Columbia Climate School and Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory today. Support a Just and Sustainable Future: Earth Day 2022 Support the Future of Our Planet: Earth Day 2022 Investing in Our Planet Decarbonization is a buzzword, but what does it actually mean? Learn more in this animated infographic. What Is Decarbonization, and How Do We Make It Happen? Behind the Podcast ‘How We Got Here’ Reporting on the Climate Apocalypse: An Interview With Brian Kahn The Climate-Nutrition Connection in Food Security Putting People and Planet Before Profits: A Q&A With Martin Dietrich Brauch Sustainable Investing: How Effective Is It Really? Featured Events Climate Change and the Future of Our Cities: A Special Earth Day Presentation Climate and Environmental Justice in Harlem Earth Day Generations: Building Crosstalk for Climate Impact Haverstraw Earth Day Arts and Science Festival More Events Celebrating Earth Day Celebrate Earth Day by having Da Vinci, an artificial intelligence engine created by OpenAI, compose a haiku on the science or nature topic of your choice! Why Nature Is Good for Us: An Illustrated and Animated Guide Quiz: Earth Day and Environmentalism Things You Can Do to Make A Difference (And Have Fun) on Earth Day How You Can Help Restore Nature on Earth Day Why We Celebrate Earth Day #COLUMBIABEAUTIFULPLANET Enjoy some stunning photographs from a few of our many Columbia projects around the world. Horses on Island of Flakstadoya, Norway from Ancient Local Breeds (Kevin Krajick) Columbia Climate School · New York, NY Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close