Skip to content Intranet Becoming part of the Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability in Fall 2022 COVID-19 Info for Stanford Earth x Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences menu Menu list icon Menu list collapse toggle Main navigation Home About Departments & Programs Educational Farm Directory Our Community Our Values and Practices Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Commencement Visit Us Contact us History Academics Undergraduates Graduate Students Professional Development Careers Data Science Field Learning K-12 Outreach Working Professionals Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Groups Industrial Affiliate Programs Shared Analytical Facilities and Research Resources Undergraduate Research News & Events Stanford Earth Matters magazine School Highlights Media Mentions Events People Spotlights Search Search Undergraduate Experience Know your planet Every student should leave Stanford knowing something about the planet they live on and how it can be sustained for their lifetime and future generations. Undergraduates may take just one course, register for a field trip, or go on to major. Many of the most pressing problems facing humanity today involve Earth and its resources. At Stanford Earth, you can learn about processes and issues surrounding energy, freshwater and food, the impacts of climate change and natural hazards, the distribution of natural resources, and the history of our planet. You will also gain valuable data analytic skills along the way. Meet Stanford EarthM Our students make up a welcoming, diverse, and collaborative community. Researching climate education Navigate to item Computer modeling volcanoes Navigate to item Changes in the Amazon Navigate to item These guys do not mess around Navigate to item Undergraduate degree programsU At Stanford Earth, students may major in one of four undergraduate degree programs. Earth Systems Navigate to item Geological Sciences Navigate to item Geophysics Navigate to item Energy Resources Engineering Navigate to item What we offerW At Stanford Earth, undergraduates can engage in field learning on all 7 continents. They have access to a wide range of opportunities from one-credit intro classes to advanced computational geoscience instruction and research with faculty. Field learning Stanford students study the Earth on all seven continents and the oceans. Navigate to Field learning Research projects Undergraduates can participate in research with faculty year around. Navigate to Research projects Data science skills Students can learn data analytics and computational geoscience. Navigate to Data science skills Spring quarter coursesS We're excited to be seeing you on campus for Spring quarter. Check out our diverse selection of courses for Stanford students. Navigate to item Know your planet: Take a courseK Fall quarter Busting Energy Myths Deconstruct energy myths and misconceptions to understand a pathway for global energy transformation. Cover energy, heat, renewables, efficiency, transmission, and life cycle analysis. Navigate to item Fall quarter Chemistry of the Earth and Planets A geochemistry intro course about the origin of elements in the solar system and on Earth, the origin and structure of the Earth, its oceans, and atmosphere. Navigate to item A sampling of our introductory coursesA Coevolution of Earth and Life Navigate to item Know Your Planet: Big Earth Navigate to item Climate and Society Navigate to item Intro to Earth Systems Navigate to item Sustainability Challenges and Transitions Navigate to item Know Your Planet: Science Outside Navigate to item Feeding Nine Billion Navigate to item Farm and Garden Environmental Education Practicum Navigate to item Know Your Planet: Research Frontiers Navigate to item Feed the Change: Redesigning Food Systems Navigate to item Designing a Habitable Planet Navigate to item Earthquakes and Volcanoes Navigate to item Meet our undergraduate peer advisorsM Want to learn more about opportunities with Stanford Earth? Speak with a peer advisor! Navigate to item Water and Power in the Pacific Northwest A Sophomore College undergraduate field learning course Get involvedG Sustainable Stanford Navigate to item Stanford Energy Club Navigate to item Women in Earth Science Navigate to item Stanford Farmers Navigate to item CareersC A Stanford Earth education offers a versatile foundation. See where our programs can lead you. Navigate to item Challenges we tackle Discovering our planet Navigate to item Securing the energy future Navigate to item Climate Solutions Navigate to item Food and Water Security Navigate to item Reducing Disaster Risks Navigate to item Anahid Babekian For more information... ...about the Earth Systems Program, the largest undergraduate degree program in the School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences, contact student services officer Anahid Babekian at anahids@stanford.edu or +1 650-725-7427. Audrey Yau For more information... ...about our undergraduate majors in Geophysics, Geological Sciences, or Energy Resources Engineering, or our graduate degree programs, contact Audrey Yau, Educational Affairs Program Director in the School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences at audyau@stanford.edu or +1 650-497-0942. Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences Join us on Social Media Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Linkedin Linkedin Alumni Give to Stanford Earth Newsroom Contact Provide Website Feedback Report accessibility issues Login Subscribe to Stanford Earth Matters Our Monthly Research News AlertSubscribe Stanford HomeMaps & DirectionsSearch StanfordEmergency Info Terms of UsePrivacyCopyrightTrademarksNon-DiscriminationAccessibility© Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. IconsList of icons used on the site mail linkedin double carrot left arrow left double carrot player instagram close carrot quote facebook twitter plus minus search menu arrow cloud clock