Skip to content Intranet Becoming part of the Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability in Fall 2022 COVID-19 Info for Stanford Earth x Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences menu Menu list icon Menu list collapse toggle Main navigation Home About Departments & Programs Educational Farm Directory Our Community Our Values and Practices Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Commencement Visit Us Contact us History Academics Undergraduates Graduate Students Professional Development Careers Data Science Field Learning K-12 Outreach Working Professionals Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Groups Industrial Affiliate Programs Shared Analytical Facilities and Research Resources Undergraduate Research News & Events Stanford Earth Matters magazine School Highlights Media Mentions Events People Spotlights Search Search Geological Sciences The study of our planet and its neighbors, from their deep interiors to the surface, and through their multi-billion year history. Geological Sciences Overview Why major in Geological Sciences? About Us Undergraduate Program Research Opportunities Honor's Program Graduate Program Coterminal MS Program Research People News Events Resources Contact Us Undergraduate Program Geocorner Building Declaring Geological Sciences during Spring Quarter If you are interested in declaring Geological Sciences or simply want to know more about the major, minor, or co-term program, we are here to help. Please contact Prof. George Hilley in case you have questions. See more information below. Navigate to Declaring Geological Sciences during Spring Quarter The purpose of the undergraduate program in Geological Sciences is to provide students with a broad background in the fundamentals of the Earth and planetary sciences as well as the quantitative, analytical, and communications skills necessary to conduct research and think critically about questions involving the Earth and other planets. The major provides excellent preparation for graduate school and careers in geological and environmental consulting, land use and planning, law, teaching, and other professions in which an understanding of the Earth and a background in science are important. Undergraduate MajorU Why major in Geological Sciences? Navigate to item Honors ProgramH Interested in pursuing research during your senior year? Navigate to item Research OpportunitiesR Navigate to item A sampling of Undergraduate coursesA Do you want to understand how the world around you works, and what it means for our future? Do you want to acquire skills that can make a difference? Do you want to understand how Earth has maintained its habitability throughout time, and what this means for today? Check out some of our highly student-rated offerings. Your adventure starts here! Living on the Edge Navigate to item Coevolution of Earth and Life Navigate to item Landscapes and Tectonics of the Bay Area Navigate to item Data Science for Geoscience Navigate to item Introduction to Geology Navigate to item Diamonds Navigate to item Our Dynamic West Navigate to item Sediments: The Book of Earth's History Navigate to item Rivers: The Arteries of Earth's Continents Navigate to item GEOLSCI 20: Learn the (geo)science behind the environmental (in)justice concepts Navigate to item Tectonics Field Trip Navigate to item GeolSci42 See all Geological Sciences courses CoTerminal MS ProgramC Find out more about the opportunity to pursue a graduate research experience and earn an MS degree concurrently with or subsequent to your BS studies. Navigate to item Field CoursesF Want to get into the field? No experience required. Navigate to item For more information... ...about Geological Sciences courses and degrees, contact Lauren Mendonza-Tabinas at laurenlm@stanford.edu. Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences Join us on Social Media Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Linkedin Linkedin Alumni Give to Stanford Earth Newsroom Contact Provide Website Feedback Report accessibility issues Login Subscribe to Stanford Earth Matters Our Monthly Research News AlertSubscribe Stanford HomeMaps & DirectionsSearch StanfordEmergency Info Terms of UsePrivacyCopyrightTrademarksNon-DiscriminationAccessibility© Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. IconsList of icons used on the site mail linkedin double carrot left arrow left double carrot player instagram close carrot quote facebook twitter plus minus search menu arrow cloud clock