Skip to content Intranet Becoming part of the Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability in Fall 2022 COVID-19 Info for Stanford Earth x Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences menu Menu list icon Menu list collapse toggle Main navigation Home About Departments & Programs Educational Farm Directory Our Community Our Values and Practices Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Commencement Visit Us Contact us History Academics Undergraduates Graduate Students Professional Development Careers Data Science Field Learning K-12 Outreach Working Professionals Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Groups Industrial Affiliate Programs Shared Analytical Facilities and Research Resources Undergraduate Research News & Events Stanford Earth Matters magazine School Highlights Media Mentions Events People Spotlights Search Search Say Their Names - No More Names When: Monday, May 30, 2022 - 12:00 am - Saturday, May 21, 2022 - 10:16am More Info: Say Their Names - No More Names Audience: General Public Sponsors: Stanford University Libraries Say Their Names – No More Names is an online and in-person exhibit that highlights Black Americans who have been killed or impacted by police brutality and systemic racism. The exhibit originated in direct response to the global Black Lives Matter movement. The physical exhibition in Green Library includes names affixed to glass panels in the Bing Wing as well as banners throughout the first floor that contain the names and faces of the featured victims. The online exhibit displays the images and individual stories of victims, including Emmett Till, Kalief Browder, Salecia Johnson and Bettie Jones; it also calls attention to events like the Tulsa riots, the Tuskegee syphilis experiment and the Chicago Police Department Midnight Crew. Those who visit Stanford can also see a large banner featuring the words 'Know Justice Know Peace,' which was hung on the front entrance of Green Library commemorating the opening of the exhibit. Please note the physical exhibit in Green Library is currently limited to authorized Stanford ID cardholders due to COVID-19. However, the online exhibit, which also includes photos of the physical exhibit is available to everyone. The exhibit is sponsored by the Stanford Libraries and is a follow up to a statement of solidarity and support against systemic racism published by Stanford Libraries over the summer. It offers opportunities for learning, reflection and discussion. Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences Join us on Social Media Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Linkedin Linkedin Alumni Give to Stanford Earth Newsroom Contact Provide Website Feedback Report accessibility issues Login Subscribe to Stanford Earth Matters Our Monthly Research News AlertSubscribe Stanford HomeMaps & DirectionsSearch StanfordEmergency Info Terms of UsePrivacyCopyrightTrademarksNon-DiscriminationAccessibility© Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. IconsList of icons used on the site mail linkedin double carrot left arrow left double carrot player instagram close carrot quote facebook twitter plus minus search menu arrow cloud clock