Skip to content Intranet Becoming part of the Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability in Fall 2022 COVID-19 Info for Stanford Earth x Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences menu Menu list icon Menu list collapse toggle Main navigation Home About Departments & Programs Educational Farm Directory Our Community Our Values and Practices Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Commencement Visit Us Contact us History Academics Undergraduates Graduate Students Professional Development Careers Data Science Field Learning K-12 Outreach Working Professionals Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Groups Industrial Affiliate Programs Shared Analytical Facilities and Research Resources Undergraduate Research News & Events Stanford Earth Matters magazine School Highlights Media Mentions Events People Spotlights Search Search Geophysics Understanding Earth. Benefitting Society. Photo by Hailun Ni Geophysics Overview About Us Admissions Undergraduate Program Coterminal MS Program Graduate Programs & Resources Postdoctoral Program Research Groups Careers People News Events Contact Us There's only one Earth: We should know how it works Geophysicists study Earth and planetary processes through laboratory experiments, computational and theoretical modeling, remote imaging, and direct observation. At Stanford, our teaching and research focus on understanding systems critical to the future of civilization. Students apply expertise to fundamental research sustaining life on Earth, combining underlying science with studies of Earth’s environment and resource needs. Such breadth of exposure is highly sought after and leads to careers in academia, industry, and government. Degree programsD Majors, minors, careers Undergraduates Navigate to item MS, Coterm MS, PhD Graduate students Navigate to item Meet some of our Geophysics community membersM Cansu Culha, Ph.D. Student Navigate to item Jenny Suckale, Assistant Professor Navigate to item Greg Beroza, Professor Navigate to item Today's Earth science is data drivenT The satellite and supercomputer are the tools of modern geoscientists whose work spans from climate change projections to earthquake simulations and energy resources optimization. Stanford Earth scientists are as likely to be in front of an electronic screen, analyzing torrents of remote-sensing data as they are to be drilling ice cores in Antarctica. Navigate to item Geophysics researchG Learn more about our research groups Navigate to item Geophysics EventsG Upcoming EventsU 02Jun Geophysics P.h.D Defense - Karissa Pepin "On the Use of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar for Characterizing Navigate to item 02Jun Geophysics Seminar: Dr. Keith D. Koper "Forensic Seismology in the Intermountain West of the U.S." Navigate to item See More Geophysics Events A sampling of courses in GeophysicsA Earthquakes and Volcanoes Navigate to item Foundations of Contemporary Geophysics Navigate to item The Water Course Navigate to item Reflection Seismology Navigate to item Disasters, Decisions, Development in Sustainable Urban Systems Navigate to item Physical Volcanology Navigate to item Earthquake Seismology, Deformation, and Stress Navigate to item Predicting Volcanic Eruptions Navigate to item Man vs Nature: Coping with Disasters Using Space Technlogy Navigate to item Geophysics-related newsG Read the latest school highlights and research news in geophysics Stanford Earth Matters Earthquakes from oil field wastewater Underground disposal of wastewater from fossil fuel production in the nation’s largest oil field is causing long-dormant faults to slip in a way that could damage wells, according to new analyses of satellite and seismicity data. Navigate to Earthquakes from oil field wastewater Stanford News Thinking beyond the academic degree A new certificate program provides a framework for Stanford Earth graduate students and postdoctoral researchers to learn new skills, gain practical experience, and produce portfolio pieces that will broaden their professional preparedness. The program will be carried into the new school focused on climate and sustainability. Navigate to Thinking beyond the academic degree School Highlight Atilla Aydin, geologist, musician, chef, and devoted Cardinal fan, has died Aydin was a field geologist who loved nothing more than leading teams of researchers and students into remote locations – the Valley of Fire, Point Reyes, Zion National Park, a Hawaiian volcano, Sicily – to study prehistoric rock formations. Navigate to Atilla Aydin, geologist, musician, chef, and devoted Cardinal fan, has died Stanford Earth Matters Scientists model landscape formation on Titan, revealing an Earth-like alien world A new hypothesis reveals that a global sedimentary cycle driven by seasons could explain the formation of landscapes on Saturn’s moon Titan. The research shows the alien world may be more Earth-like than previously thought. Navigate to Scientists model landscape formation on Titan, revealing an Earth-like alien world See more Geophysics news Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences Join us on Social Media Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Linkedin Linkedin Alumni Give to Stanford Earth Newsroom Contact Provide Website Feedback Report accessibility issues Login Subscribe to Stanford Earth Matters Our Monthly Research News AlertSubscribe Stanford HomeMaps & DirectionsSearch StanfordEmergency Info Terms of UsePrivacyCopyrightTrademarksNon-DiscriminationAccessibility© Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. IconsList of icons used on the site mail linkedin double carrot left arrow left double carrot player instagram close carrot quote facebook twitter plus minus search menu arrow cloud clock