Skip to content Intranet Becoming part of the Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability in Fall 2022 COVID-19 Info for Stanford Earth x Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences menu Menu list icon Menu list collapse toggle Main navigation Home About Departments & Programs Educational Farm Directory Our Community Our Values and Practices Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Commencement Visit Us Contact us History Academics Undergraduates Graduate Students Professional Development Careers Data Science Field Learning K-12 Outreach Working Professionals Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Groups Industrial Affiliate Programs Shared Analytical Facilities and Research Resources Undergraduate Research News & Events Stanford Earth Matters magazine School Highlights Media Mentions Events People Spotlights Search Search Media MentionsM TIME The best stove for your health and the environment A TIME magazine feature covers the harmful health and climate effects of natural gas stoves and possible solutions based on a study led by Rob Jackson's research group. Navigate to The best stove for your health and the environment KPCC What should Southern Californians expect this fire season? "We're starting the season in a severe drought heading into the warm part of the year, and we know that the kinds of severe heat waves that have really amplified fire risk in recent years are much more likely now than they were previously in California's history," says Stanford climate scientist Noah Diffenbaugh. Navigate to What should Southern Californians expect this fire season? CNET To find alien life, scientists are unlocking mysteries of Saturn moon Titan After modeling Titan's landscape, researchers led by Stanford geologist Mathieu Lapôtre found the moon exhibits a special type of sedimentary process called sintering, which means neighboring grains smash together and fuse into a bigger, stronger piece that's less destructible by wind. Navigate to To find alien life, scientists are unlocking mysteries of Saturn moon Titan WBUR Life on Europa? Jupiter's moon may have the right ingredients According to Stanford geophysicist Dustin Schroeder's new research, similarities between Jupiter's moon Europa and Greenland suggest Europa might be able to sustain life. Navigate to Life on Europa? Jupiter&#039;s moon may have the right ingredients Anthropocene Magazine The energy requirements of a good life are surprisingly low “People in countries like the U.S. are starting to ask what all this extra stuff filling our lives gets us. The answer appears to be very little, perhaps nothing," says Rob Jackson on excessive energy use levels around the world. Navigate to The energy requirements of a good life are surprisingly low The Guardian Jupiter’s moon Europa may have water where life could exist, say scientists “Liquid water near to the surface of the ice shell is a really provocative and promising place to imagine life having a shot," says Stanford Earth geophysicist Dustin Schroeder. "The idea that we could find a signature that would suggest a promising pocket of water like this might exist, I think, is very exciting." Navigate to Jupiter’s moon Europa may have water where life could exist, say scientists Bloomberg World doesn't need more energy to end poverty, study says Billions of people could be lifted out of poverty without boosting global energy consumption, according to a new Stanford study that has deep implications for climate change. Navigate to World doesn&#039;t need more energy to end poverty, study says NPR How much energy powers a good life? Less than you're using, says a new report How much energy does it take to have a good and healthy life? A new study led by Earth system science professor Rob Jackson has found that the answer is far less than the average American is using. Navigate to How much energy powers a good life? Less than you&#039;re using, says a new report Axios Where the energy link to well-being starts fraying Human well-being is strongly tethered to energy access, but a new Stanford-led study finds high-consuming countries could scale back consumption without sacrificing health and happiness. Navigate to Where the energy link to well-being starts fraying MIT Technology Review A U.S. oil-drilling hotspot is kicking out more methane than we thought A new comprehensive survey by Stanford Earth's Yuanlei Chen, Evan Sherwin, and Adam Brandt shows active wells and pipelines in New Mexico are emitting methane at rates double the previous estimates. Navigate to A U.S. oil-drilling hotspot is kicking out more methane than we thought Eos Exploring subduction zone geohazards on land and at sea Stanford Earth professor George Hilley and coauthors write about a new initiative bringing together scientists to address fundamental questions about subduction zone geohazards, using the latest advances in observation technology and computational resources. Navigate to Exploring subduction zone geohazards on land and at sea Axios Study: Methane leaks from U.S. oil-and-gas region worse than estimates A Stanford-led study used sophisticated airborne imaging to analyze methane leaks on the New Mexico side of the prolific Permian Basin region. The results suggest leaks are far above the amount that nullifies the climate advantage over coal. Navigate to Study: Methane leaks from U.S. oil-and-gas region worse than estimates The New York Times Methane leaks in New Mexico far exceed current estimates, study suggests Startlingly large amounts of methane are leaking from wells and pipelines in New Mexico, according to a new analysis of aerial data from Stanford Earth's Yuanlei Chen, Evan Sherwin and Adam Brandt. “Aerial technology found high methane emissions,” Chen said, “but can also help fix them cost effectively.” Navigate to Methane leaks in New Mexico far exceed current estimates, study suggests National Geographic The deceptively simple plan to replenish California's groundwater The state pumps too much groundwater, especially during droughts. Now it's learning to refill the overdrawn bucket. "It's the simplest math in the world," says Stanford professor Rosemary Knight. Navigate to The deceptively simple plan to replenish California&#039;s groundwater Boston Globe An effort to ease fossil-fuel reliance by digging the deepest holes on Earth “New technologies that may enable deep drilling are exciting, but they will likely encounter surprises as they go deeper than we have been before," says Stanford geophysicist William Ellsworth. Navigate to An effort to ease fossil-fuel reliance by digging the deepest holes on Earth Eos What caused the Open Habitat Transition in the West-Central U.S.? Research by Page Chamberlain and PhD student Tyler Kukla presents a new hypothesis for the cause of a major forest dieback episode in the western U.S. It shows forests depended on winter moisture for millions of years. Navigate to What caused the Open Habitat Transition in the West-Central U.S.? Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page Next page Last page Last page Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences Join us on Social Media Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Linkedin Linkedin Alumni Give to Stanford Earth Newsroom Contact Provide Website Feedback Report accessibility issues Login Subscribe to Stanford Earth Matters Our Monthly Research News AlertSubscribe Stanford HomeMaps & DirectionsSearch StanfordEmergency Info Terms of UsePrivacyCopyrightTrademarksNon-DiscriminationAccessibility© Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. IconsList of icons used on the site mail linkedin double carrot left arrow left double carrot player instagram close carrot quote facebook twitter plus minus search menu arrow cloud clock