Skip to content Intranet Becoming part of the Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability in Fall 2022 COVID-19 Info for Stanford Earth x Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences menu Menu list icon Menu list collapse toggle Main navigation Home About Departments & Programs Educational Farm Directory Our Community Our Values and Practices Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Commencement Visit Us Contact us History Academics Undergraduates Graduate Students Professional Development Careers Data Science Field Learning K-12 Outreach Working Professionals Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Groups Industrial Affiliate Programs Shared Analytical Facilities and Research Resources Undergraduate Research News & Events Stanford Earth Matters magazine School Highlights Media Mentions Events People Spotlights Search Search Geological Sciences The study of our planet and its neighbors, from their deep interiors to the surface, and through their multi-billion year history. Geological Sciences Overview Why major in Geological Sciences? About Us Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Application Information Explore our Program Admission FAQs Coterminal MS Program Research People News Events Resources Contact Us Graduate Program Welcome to the Department of Geological Sciences Graduate studies in the Department of Geological Sciences (GS) involve academic course work and independent research. Students are prepared for careers as professional scientists in research or the application of the earth sciences to mineral, energy, and water resources. Programs lead to the M.S., Engineer, and Ph.D. degrees. Course programs in the areas of faculty interest are tailored to the student's needs and interests with the aid of his or her research adviser. Students are encouraged to include in their program courses offered in other departments in the School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences as well as in other departments in the University. Application deadline for Fall 2022: December 1, 2021 If you have additional questions, contact gs-admissions@stanford.edu. More university information and application system questions can be found on Stanford's Graduate Admissions website and the online application. In accordance with Stanford's Winter closure, the GS department will be closed starting December 20, 2021 to reopen January 3, 2022. Email access to staff will not be available during this time so plan accordingly. Stanford's graduate application Start your application online on Stanford's graduate application page here. Graduate degrees in Geological Sciences PhD PhD Minor Masters of Science Coterm MS Geological Sciences' commitment to diversity Our community of faculty, staff, students and alumni is committed to providing a safe, inclusive, supportive, diverse, and equitable environment which celebrates all cultures and backgrounds. Our students come with different backgrounds and thus contribute richness of our department's scholarly and scientific strides. We acknowledge that Earth Sciences has been one of the least diverse fields in STEM. Our department is actively planning to address this lack. More specifically: We recognize that students applying for Geological Sciences have diverse backgrounds with different preparation for undergraduate and graduate education We have committed to a holistic admission strategy, accounting for known biases, combining scientific merit with life experience/personality traits We are committed to fostering positive advisor-advisee experience We are committed to broadening participation in field-based science through virtual field trips We include DEI efforts in Faculty evaluations Application InformationA Start your application here Navigate to item Explore our programE Get to know our faculty and department research Navigate to item Admission FAQsA Review our frequently asked questions Navigate to item Lauren Mendoza-Tabinas For more information... ...about Geological Sciences courses and degrees, contact Assistant Director of Student Services Lauren Mendoza-Tabinas at laurenlm@stanford.edu. Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences Join us on Social Media Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Linkedin Linkedin Alumni Give to Stanford Earth Newsroom Contact Provide Website Feedback Report accessibility issues Login Subscribe to Stanford Earth Matters Our Monthly Research News AlertSubscribe Stanford HomeMaps & DirectionsSearch StanfordEmergency Info Terms of UsePrivacyCopyrightTrademarksNon-DiscriminationAccessibility© Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. IconsList of icons used on the site mail linkedin double carrot left arrow left double carrot player instagram close carrot quote facebook twitter plus minus search menu arrow cloud clock