Skip to content Intranet Becoming part of the Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability in Fall 2022 COVID-19 Info for Stanford Earth x Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences menu Menu list icon Menu list collapse toggle Main navigation Home About Departments & Programs Educational Farm Directory Our Community Our Values and Practices Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Commencement Visit Us Contact us History Academics Undergraduates Graduate Students Professional Development Careers Data Science Field Learning K-12 Outreach Working Professionals Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Groups Industrial Affiliate Programs Shared Analytical Facilities and Research Resources Undergraduate Research News & Events Stanford Earth Matters magazine School Highlights Media Mentions Events People Spotlights Search Search Alumni You are always part of Stanford Earth.Y As a Stanford Earth alum, you are a part of a global community of individuals who care about and for our planet. Together, we pursue discoveries, solve problems, and build lifelong relationships to support Earth and its inhabitants. Stanford's new schoolS Stanford is launching its first new school in more than 70 years dedicated to creating a future in which humans and nature thrive together in concert and in perpetuity. Find resources and register for upcoming alumni Town Halls here Navigate to item Getting startedG Attend an event Navigate to item Get involved Navigate to item Advance your career & education Navigate to item Make a gift Navigate to item Stanford Earth Alumni AwardsS “All of us have the opportunity to start something of very modest beginnings that makes a tremendous difference long into the future.” – Bradford Mills, '77, MS '79, 2019 Distinguished Alumni Award recipient Navigate to item Meet Stanford Earth alumniM Riya Mehta, '18 Earth Systems Program Aaron Palke, PhD '14 Geological Sciences Ellen Ward, MS '16, PhD '19 Earth System Science Maximillian Evans, MS-MBA '18 E-IPER See all spotlights Are you a recent graduate? We have some additional resources for you. Navigate to Are you a recent graduate? Top Links Access your free Stanford alumni email address Log in to the Stanford alumni directory Join a Stanford alumni group Alumni news & featuresA Stanford Earth students, alumni recognized by Forbes "30 under 30" Forbes' 2022 "30 under 30" feature includes two current Stanford University students and eight recent alumni developing energy- and sustainability-related technologies. Navigate to Stanford Earth students, alumni recognized by Forbes &quot;30 under 30&quot; Science Journalist Julia Rosen Recognized with 2021 Early- to Mid-Career Alumni Award In under a decade, the environmental journalist has reached a wide audience with her clear and compelling stories. Navigate to Science Journalist Julia Rosen Recognized with 2021 Early- to Mid-Career Alumni Award 2021 Distinguished Alumni Award Presented to Naomi Oreskes Stanford Earth’s highest alumni honor is awarded to a globally recognized voice on the role of science in society. Navigate to 2021 Distinguished Alumni Award Presented to Naomi Oreskes Geological sciences alumna receives 2021 Jamieson Award Sulgiye Park, PhD ’18, has been recognized for her PhD and postdoctoral work on understanding a wide array of functional materials at extreme environments. Navigate to Geological sciences alumna receives 2021 Jamieson Award See all school highlights Stanford Earth Alumni Diversity, Equity & InclusionS Stanford Earth is committed to building a diverse and inclusive community for all. As an alum, your voice is important to the conversation. Navigate to item Stay informedS Stanford Earth Insider View past issues of our quarterly e-newsletter with news, events, and stories from the Stanford Earth community. Stanford Earth Matters Dive deep into science and insights from across Stanford about Earth, its resources, and its environment. Stanford Magazine Keep current with this Stanford Alumni Association publication, produced five times a year. Stanford News Follow the most up-to-date daily news from across the university. For more information:F contact Nicholas Heinzen Associate Director of Annual Giving & Alumni Relations nheinzen@stanford.edu 650-725-5469 Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences Join us on Social Media Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Linkedin Linkedin Alumni Give to Stanford Earth Newsroom Contact Provide Website Feedback Report accessibility issues Login Subscribe to Stanford Earth Matters Our Monthly Research News AlertSubscribe Stanford HomeMaps & DirectionsSearch StanfordEmergency Info Terms of UsePrivacyCopyrightTrademarksNon-DiscriminationAccessibility© Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. IconsList of icons used on the site mail linkedin double carrot left arrow left double carrot player instagram close carrot quote facebook twitter plus minus search menu arrow cloud clock