Skip to content Intranet Becoming part of the Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability in Fall 2022 COVID-19 Info for Stanford Earth x Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences menu Menu list icon Menu list collapse toggle Main navigation Home About Departments & Programs Educational Farm Directory Our Community Our Values and Practices Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Commencement Visit Us Contact us History Academics Undergraduates Graduate Students Professional Development Careers Data Science Field Learning K-12 Outreach Working Professionals Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Groups Industrial Affiliate Programs Shared Analytical Facilities and Research Resources Undergraduate Research News & Events Stanford Earth Matters magazine School Highlights Media Mentions Events People Spotlights Search Search O'Donohue Family Stanford Educational Farm O'Donohue Family Stanford Educational Farm Overview About News Farm Events People Educate Engage Grow Contact Us The O'Donohue Family Stanford Educational Farm is OpenT The O'Donohue Family Stanford Educational Farm has reopened gates, welcoming the public starting in the Summer of 2021 and currently remains open! Volunteer opportunities have resumed (with required registration) but are subject to cancelation; check our news page for up to date volunteering information. General operating hours are Monday through Friday from 8:00am- 6:00pm and Saturdays from 9:00am-5:00pm. While we are taking measures to enhance the safety of our visitor and employees, an inherent risk of exposure to and infection with COVID-19 exists in any public place where people are present, and a visit to a Stanford Educational Farm may still pose a risk to your safety. By visiting The Stanford Educational Farm, you voluntarily assume all risks related to exposure of COVID-19. Vaccinated individuals are not required to wear masks while at the farm unless distances cannot safely be managed. We can't wait for you to join us once again! Welcome to our educational farmW The educational farm is Stanford's home for hands-on learning in sustainable agriculture. The farm is a living laboratory offering academic and experiential learning opportunities for the Stanford community and beyond. The farm utilizes agroecological relationships and natural diversity to grow over 200 varieties of vegetables, flowers, herbs, field crops and fruit. Students come to the farm to test new ideas about the biological, social and environmental aspects of farming and gain experience in the practice of sustainable agriculture. On-farm research provides students hands-on learning opportunities. What we doW Educate We provide hands-on learning experiences and student research opportunities in sustainable small-scale and urban agriculture. Navigate to Educate Engage We offer workshops, volunteer opportunities, wellness courses and a space for student sustainability groups. Navigate to Engage Grow We grow food, flowers and a new generation of leaders in sustainability. Navigate to Grow Upcoming EventsU See more information relating to events How to find us and our operating hours Satellite view of the Farm Address: 175 Electioneer Road Stanford, CA 94305 Entrance: The best place to enter the farm is from the Searsville Lot (L-22) entrance. Please note Fremont Rd. is closed to traffic. Parking: Payment is required, please read signs carefully. If you have a "C" or "WE" permit parking is available in the Searsville lot/ L-22. If you do not have a prepaid permit, download and use the ParkMobile mobile application to pay or parking. Operating Hours: Open year round (with the exception of University closures): Monday - Friday 8:00am - 6:00pm Saturday 8:00am - 5:00pm Sundays: Closed Volunteer information: Visit our engage tab. Due to COVID restrictions, registration is required and sessions are subject to cancelation. Stay informed Learn what's happening @ the Farm! Navigate to Stay informed Farm FAQsF Questions? See our FAQs. Navigate to item Healing relationships with the landH A course at Stanford Earth's educational farm aimed to create positive experiences with land while addressing the history and enduring effects of forced farm labor. Liberation Through Land: Organic Gardening and Racial Justice (Earthsys95) is offered in fall quarter. Navigate to item News related to Stanford O'Donohue Family Educational FarmN School Highlight Images from a fraught year Stanford Earth’s 2020 photo contest drew 156 photographs from faculty, students, and staff. The images captured experiences coping with COVID-19, as well as close encounters with nature from activities before the pandemic. Navigate to Images from a fraught year Eos Students learn new skills with scientist-in-training programs Jennifer Saltzman discussed her role in the Bright STaRS program, which has been influential for scholars at Stanford Earth including Farm intern Claire Valva, local high schooler Michael Wucher and alumni Daniel Ibarra and Jason Stuckey. Navigate to Students learn new skills with scientist-in-training programs The Stanford Daily Farm adjusts to shifting food supply chain in the midst of a pandemic “I think it’s harder for us knowing people are not able to be here when they want to be here," said Allison Bauer, facility and production coordinator at the O’Donohue Family Stanford Educational Farm. "We get calls from our volunteers all the time, and so I think hearing that is hard for us. We want them to be able to experience this place like us, too.” Navigate to Farm adjusts to shifting food supply chain in the midst of a pandemic School Highlight Farm donates extra produce to soup kitchen during pandemic Although the farm still sends produce to Lakeside Dining and Stanford Catering on campus, its main beneficiary is now Loaves & Fishes Family Kitchen – a local nonprofit soup kitchen. Navigate to Farm donates extra produce to soup kitchen during pandemic See more Farm news Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences Join us on Social Media Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Linkedin Linkedin Alumni Give to Stanford Earth Newsroom Contact Provide Website Feedback Report accessibility issues Login Subscribe to Stanford Earth Matters Our Monthly Research News AlertSubscribe Stanford HomeMaps & DirectionsSearch StanfordEmergency Info Terms of UsePrivacyCopyrightTrademarksNon-DiscriminationAccessibility© Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. IconsList of icons used on the site mail linkedin double carrot left arrow left double carrot player instagram close carrot quote facebook twitter plus minus search menu arrow cloud clock