Skip to content Intranet Becoming part of the Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability in Fall 2022 COVID-19 Info for Stanford Earth x Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences menu Menu list icon Menu list collapse toggle Main navigation Home About Departments & Programs Educational Farm Directory Our Community Our Values and Practices Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Commencement Visit Us Contact us History Academics Undergraduates Graduate Students Professional Development Careers Data Science Field Learning K-12 Outreach Working Professionals Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Groups Industrial Affiliate Programs Shared Analytical Facilities and Research Resources Undergraduate Research News & Events Stanford Earth Matters magazine School Highlights Media Mentions Events People Spotlights Search Search Planetary Science EXPLORING OTHER WORLDS Photo by NASA/JPL Why study planets?W Like pioneers, planetary scientists explore new worlds and push the boundaries of humankind’s reach in the universe. As planetary scientists, we lay eyes on landscapes never seen before, and use our observations to seek answers to some of the most fundamental and existential questions there are. Where do we come from? Where are we going? Are we alone in the universe? In addition to its fundamental and exploratory aspirations, planetary science has concrete applications to pressing issues for humankind. Earth is a planet, and by looking at other planets, we can get a glimpse at Earth’s past and potential futures. Humans are affecting Earth in ways that may threaten its long-term habitability. Other planets can teach us how to adjust our interactions with the natural world towards sustainable habitability, and potentially provide a source of raw materials and energy through in situ resource utilization. Why study planetary science at Stanford?W We have access to cutting-edge facilities and infrastructures at both the University main campus and at SLAC. Stanford sits at the heart of a vibrant community of planetary scientists around the Bay Area, including researchers at UC Berkeley, UC Santa Cruz, UC Davis, NASA Ames, the SETI Institute, and Lawrence Livermore National Lab. Our research also benefits from Silicon Valley’s long history and culture of data-driven science and innovation. NASA Ames Research Center Navigate to item SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory Navigate to item Stanford Kavli Institute for Particle Astrophysics and Cosmology Navigate to item SETI Institute Navigate to item Research areas Check out the RESEARCH THEMES WE PURSUE from planetary formation to exoplanets and remote sensing. Exoplanets Planetary atmospheres Planetary formation Planetary habitability Planetary magnetism Planetary materials Planetary surfaces Remote sensing Planetary Exploration Engineering Meet our communityM Faculty, researchers, postdocs, and external affiliates. Navigate to item A sampling of planetary science coursesA Earth & Planetary Processes & Mechanics Navigate to item Stars and Planets in a Habitable Universe Navigate to item Designing Science Fiction Planets Navigate to item The Space Mission to Europa Navigate to item Introduction to Planetary Science Navigate to item Formation and Dynamics of Planets Navigate to item Evolution of Terrestrial Planets Navigate to item Planetary Surface Processes: Shaping the Landscapes of the Solar System Navigate to item Planetary Atmospheres: Dynamics Navigate to item Atmospheric Evolution of Rocky Planets Navigate to item Ice Penetrating Radar Navigate to item Image Radar and Applications Navigate to item Planetary Science Reading Navigate to item Planetary science-related eventsP Join seminars and forums for planetary scientists. see all planetary science events Bay Area Planetary Science forumB Join our regional group of scientists, researchers, and academics working in planetary science. Watch for events on this page, contact Mathieu Lapôtre at mlapotre@stanford.edu or visit the BAPS website. Navigate to item Planetary Science NewsP Stanford Earth Matters Scientists model landscape formation on Titan, revealing an Earth-like alien world A new hypothesis reveals that a global sedimentary cycle driven by seasons could explain the formation of landscapes on Saturn’s moon Titan. The research shows the alien world may be more Earth-like than previously thought. Navigate to Scientists model landscape formation on Titan, revealing an Earth-like alien world Stanford Earth Matters Explanation for formation of abundant features on Europa bodes well for search for extraterrestrial life Ice-penetrating radar data from Greenland suggests that shallow water pockets may be common within Europa’s ice shell, increasing the potential habitability of the Jovian moon’s ice shell. Navigate to Explanation for formation of abundant features on Europa bodes well for search for extraterrestrial life Stanford Earth Matters A story written in mud Geologists have long assumed that the evolution of land plants enabled rivers to form snakelike meanders, but a review of recent research overturns that classic theory – and it calls for a reinterpretation of the rock record. Navigate to A story written in mud Stanford Earth Matters Mysterious Moon magnetism, explained New modeling suggests giant, cool blobs of titanium-rich rocks sinking down to the ancient Moon’s hot core could have produced intermittently strong magnetic fields for the first billion years of the Moon’s history. Navigate to Mysterious Moon magnetism, explained See all news related to planetary science Explore our other challenge areas Discovering Our Planet Navigate to item Securing The Energy Future Navigate to item Climate Solutions Navigate to item Food and Water Security Navigate to item Reducing Disaster Risks Navigate to item Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences Join us on Social Media Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Linkedin Linkedin Alumni Give to Stanford Earth Newsroom Contact Provide Website Feedback Report accessibility issues Login Subscribe to Stanford Earth Matters Our Monthly Research News AlertSubscribe Stanford HomeMaps & DirectionsSearch StanfordEmergency Info Terms of UsePrivacyCopyrightTrademarksNon-DiscriminationAccessibility© Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. IconsList of icons used on the site mail linkedin double carrot left arrow left double carrot player instagram close carrot quote facebook twitter plus minus search menu arrow cloud clock