Skip to content Intranet Becoming part of the Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability in Fall 2022 COVID-19 Info for Stanford Earth x Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences menu Menu list icon Menu list collapse toggle Main navigation Home About Departments & Programs Educational Farm Directory Our Community Our Values and Practices Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Commencement Visit Us Contact us History Academics Undergraduates Graduate Students Professional Development Careers Data Science Field Learning K-12 Outreach Working Professionals Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Groups Industrial Affiliate Programs Shared Analytical Facilities and Research Resources Undergraduate Research News & Events Stanford Earth Matters magazine School Highlights Media Mentions Events People Spotlights Search Search 2021 Commencement Photo by Andrew Brodhead Steve Graham (at right, with red sleeves) and other deans process into the stadium for commencement 2021, which returned to a live, but socially distanced, format. Congratulations to our 2021 graduates!C Dean Graham prepares for the procession at the 2021 commencement. (Photo credit: Andrew Brodhead) A commencement message from the dean In my youth I was a cave explorer. In entering a new cave, I didn’t know what lay ahead, what dangers, what pitfalls. Sometimes it involved miles of scrambling and crawling in isolation and total darkness other than the limited distance my headlamp would illuminate, trying to avoid dead-end passages, unsure if I’d find an exit to the bright sunlight. We are all now emerging from the dark foreboding cave that has been the COVID-19 pandemic. You graduates have been resilient and have persevered in the face of new challenges, isolation, and uncertainty. Your experience over the last year and a half has been unlike that of any graduating cohort in Stanford Earth’s history! You have succeeded, you have triumphed over unprecedented adversity to achieve your academic goals. You have broken into the sunlight, but the pandemic has changed the world in ways we do not yet fully understand. But as a result of what you’ve just experienced, you are armed with the skills and an understanding of the importance of perseverance that will allow you to face an uncertain future and make it your own. Congratulations! Stanford Earth is proud of you! Graduation and student awards Navigate to Graduation and student awards Teaching awards Navigate to Teaching awards Commencement slideshow Navigate to Commencement slideshow Class of 2021 graduatesC Check out the names of this year's graduates by department: Geological Sciences Navigate to item Earth System Science Navigate to item Geophysics Navigate to item Energy Resources Engineering Navigate to item E-IPER Navigate to item Earth Systems Program Navigate to item Change Leadership for Sustainability Program Navigate to item Welcome to alumni-hood!W Stay involved Explore events, services and resources on our alumni site. Navigate to item Get started Create your free Stanford alumni profile, email, and more Navigate to item Advanced degrees ceremony Undergraduate degree ceremony We are Stanford Earth Previous graduation yearP 2020's virtual celebration Navigate to item Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences Join us on Social Media Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Linkedin Linkedin Alumni Give to Stanford Earth Newsroom Contact Provide Website Feedback Report accessibility issues Login Subscribe to Stanford Earth Matters Our Monthly Research News AlertSubscribe Stanford HomeMaps & DirectionsSearch StanfordEmergency Info Terms of UsePrivacyCopyrightTrademarksNon-DiscriminationAccessibility© Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. IconsList of icons used on the site mail linkedin double carrot left arrow left double carrot player instagram close carrot quote facebook twitter plus minus search menu arrow cloud clock