Skip to content Intranet Becoming part of the Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability in Fall 2022 COVID-19 Info for Stanford Earth x Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences menu Menu list icon Menu list collapse toggle Main navigation Home About Departments & Programs Educational Farm Directory Our Community Our Values and Practices Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Commencement Visit Us Contact us History Academics Undergraduates Graduate Students Professional Development Careers Data Science Field Learning K-12 Outreach Working Professionals Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Groups Industrial Affiliate Programs Shared Analytical Facilities and Research Resources Undergraduate Research News & Events Stanford Earth Matters magazine School Highlights Media Mentions Events People Spotlights Search Search Undergraduate Research Be part of advancing science and new ideasB Stanford Earth offers undergraduates opportunities to participate in science and engineering research related to Earth's resources – from the oceans to climate change, energy resources and the evolution of life. Stanford Earth Summer Undergraduate Research Program S SESUR offers Stanford students opportunities to work closely with faculty to explore questions related to the environment, energy, and Earth during the summer. Navigate to item Summer Undergraduate Research in Geoscience and Engineering ProgramS SURGE offers students from any U.S. institution to mentored research experiences at Stanford in the geosciences and engineering. Navigate to item Meet some of our summer undergrad researchersM Computer modeling volcanoes Navigate to item Giving students a voice Navigate to item Researching climate education Navigate to item Learning by doing Navigate to item Scholarships and seed grants for your researchS Beagle II Award The Beagle II Award is named after H.M.S. Beagle, the ship that carried Charles Darwin on a voyage of scientific discovery in 1831. The Anthropology department grant funds undergraduate research that encourages learning through travel. Support ranges up to $12,000. Navigate to Beagle II Award Project grants Stanford Undergraduate Advising and Research (UAR) awards grants ranging from $1,500 to $7,000 for independent student projects from all disciplines. Small Grants fund projects during any quarter, while Major Grants typically support full-time summer research commitments. Navigate to Project grants More research opportunities at Stanford and elsewhereM Learn more about research and internships for rising Stanford sophomores, juniors and seniors. Navigate to item Stanford Earth honors programs S Learn more about our undergraduate honors programs in Earth Systems, Geophysics, Geological Sciences, and Energy Resources Engineering. Additional resourcesA Geophysics Navigate to item Geological Sciences Navigate to item Faculty Research F Explore the research our faculty conduct - from nanoparticle analysis in service to clean water and big data capture to explain the effect of climate change on polar ice sheets. Navigate to item Jenny Saltzman Associate Director of Educational Affairs Questions? For additional information, contact Jenny Saltzman at (650) 725-2410 or saltzman@stanford.edu. Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences Join us on Social Media Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Linkedin Linkedin Alumni Give to Stanford Earth Newsroom Contact Provide Website Feedback Report accessibility issues Login Subscribe to Stanford Earth Matters Our Monthly Research News AlertSubscribe Stanford HomeMaps & DirectionsSearch StanfordEmergency Info Terms of UsePrivacyCopyrightTrademarksNon-DiscriminationAccessibility© Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. IconsList of icons used on the site mail linkedin double carrot left arrow left double carrot player instagram close carrot quote facebook twitter plus minus search menu arrow cloud clock