Skip to content Intranet Becoming part of the Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability in Fall 2022 COVID-19 Info for Stanford Earth x Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences menu Menu list icon Menu list collapse toggle Main navigation Home About Departments & Programs Educational Farm Directory Our Community Our Values and Practices Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Commencement Visit Us Contact us History Academics Undergraduates Graduate Students Professional Development Careers Data Science Field Learning K-12 Outreach Working Professionals Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Groups Industrial Affiliate Programs Shared Analytical Facilities and Research Resources Undergraduate Research News & Events Stanford Earth Matters magazine School Highlights Media Mentions Events People Spotlights Search Search Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Overview About Prospective Students Student Resources Postdoctoral Resources Faculty & Staff Resources Alumni Resources DEI Library News Events People SURGE DEI Action Plan Land Acknowledgment Excellence in DEI Awards Land Acknowledgment A land acknowledgment is a traditional custom in many Native communities and nations to show respect to the people of the land since time immemorial. The importance of land acknowledgments for non-indigenous individuals and communities relies on the recognition of their relationship to the original inhabitants of a location and to the land. Furthermore, it is a way to show respect and gratitude to the traditional stewards of a specific location, while recognizing that colonialism is still an ongoing process. Best practice in land acknowledgment In order to be transformative, it is important to move away from “performative” acts, as Megan Red-Shirt Shaw says in her essay “Beyond the Land Acknowledgment: College "LAND BACK" or Free Tuition for Native Students,” into a mindful way to show awareness, create accountability, and actively disrupt colonial structures. The best way to create an appropriate land acknowledgement is to consult and collaborate local Tribal leaders, which Stanford University has done through the Native American Cultural Center, the university archaeologist's office, and the university president's office. The Stanford Native American Cultural Center describes the history of the land where the main campus was built as well as information about the current presences of different tribal members on campus. We invite the Stanford Earth community to actively participate in these acts of respect, by getting to know better the history and present context of the Indigenous communities of the land where you live, study, and work. Reflect on the kind of engagement you have with these groups and recognize your positionality in relation to that land. This is important when extending and personalizing a given acknowledgment statement. Stanford University land acknowledgmentS This acknowledgment may be written or may be spoken at the beginning of an event or program. If spoken, the order should be: (1) Welcome and words about the event, (2) Land Acknowledgment, (3) Move into regularly scheduled program. Large quotation punctuation icon We recognize that Stanford sits on the ancestral land of the Muwekma Ohlone Tribe. This land was and continues to be of great importance to the Ohlone people. Consistent with our values of community and inclusion, we have a responsibility to acknowledge, honor and make visible the university’s relationship to Native peoples. Stanford land acknowledgment Learn more about Stanford's history with the Ohlone L First peninsula inhabitants Facts about the Ohlone people Navigate to item Stanford’s Relationships with Native Peoples Honoring our relationship Navigate to item Additional resourcesA Native Governance Center. (2019). Indigenous Land Acknowledgment (includes a list of tips to create a land acknowledgment) Native Land Digital. Territories, Languages, and Treaties Digital Map (it allows to identify Indigenous territories around the world, with emphasize on North America). U.S. Department of Arts and Culture. Honor Native Land: A Guide and Call to Acknowledgment. Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences Join us on Social Media Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Linkedin Linkedin Alumni Give to Stanford Earth Newsroom Contact Provide Website Feedback Report accessibility issues Login Subscribe to Stanford Earth Matters Our Monthly Research News AlertSubscribe Stanford HomeMaps & DirectionsSearch StanfordEmergency Info Terms of UsePrivacyCopyrightTrademarksNon-DiscriminationAccessibility© Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. IconsList of icons used on the site mail linkedin double carrot left arrow left double carrot player instagram close carrot quote facebook twitter plus minus search menu arrow cloud clock