Skip to content Intranet Becoming part of the Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability in Fall 2022 COVID-19 Info for Stanford Earth x Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences menu Menu list icon Menu list collapse toggle Main navigation Home About Departments & Programs Educational Farm Directory Our Community Our Values and Practices Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Commencement Visit Us Contact us History Academics Undergraduates Graduate Students Professional Development Careers Data Science Field Learning K-12 Outreach Working Professionals Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Groups Industrial Affiliate Programs Shared Analytical Facilities and Research Resources Undergraduate Research News & Events Stanford Earth Matters magazine School Highlights Media Mentions Events People Spotlights Search Search Careers A sustainable fashion company cofounder, an environmental scientist, a green venture capitalist, an ocean advocate, and a water policy adviser share work experiences with faculty member Peter Vitusek (far left) and students. A versatile foundationA Stanford Earth students leave Stanford for careers in the corporate, government, and nonprofit sectors. They work as scientists, data experts, conservationists, policy makers, engineers, attorneys, academics, and physicians, among other professions. The data analytics and observational skills students acquire in our programs are in high demand across a variety of careers. Where our programs can lead youW Stanford Earth alumni talk about their careers Seismologist and Professor Geophysics MS '99 PhD '02 Navigate to item Legislative Assistant Earth Systems BS '18 Navigate to item Landscape architect Earth Systems ’08 Navigate to item Academic researcher, water policy expert Environment and Resources PhD ’10 Navigate to item Environmental lawyer Earth Systems ’04, MS ’06 Navigate to item Astronaut Geological and Environmental Sciences '10 Navigate to item Energy Engineer Energy Resources Engineering MS '16 Navigate to item Green Venture Capitalist MBA/MS Environment and Resources '08 Navigate to item Washington lobbyist Geological and Environmental Sciences BS '93 PhD '98 Navigate to item Product Designer Earth Systems BS '06 MS '10 Navigate to item Stanford Earth professional development programsS We want our students and postdocs to be ready for the next step when they finish their academics. We prepare them with three kinds of co-curricular training: Skillshares, Workshops, and Pro-Seminars, as well as personal development courses. Check out our offerings. Navigate to item Not your mother's mentorN Modern mentorship moves fast. How (and why) to join in. Stanford alumni advise, including Stanford Earth's Margot Gerritsen. Navigate to item When the career path takes a sharp leftW Three E-IPER alumni share what led them to take a chance on a less conventional job change. Navigate to item Networking N Search the Stanford Alumni directory for informational interview contacts. Navigate to item Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences Join us on Social Media Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Linkedin Linkedin Alumni Give to Stanford Earth Newsroom Contact Provide Website Feedback Report accessibility issues Login Subscribe to Stanford Earth Matters Our Monthly Research News AlertSubscribe Stanford HomeMaps & DirectionsSearch StanfordEmergency Info Terms of UsePrivacyCopyrightTrademarksNon-DiscriminationAccessibility© Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. IconsList of icons used on the site mail linkedin double carrot left arrow left double carrot player instagram close carrot quote facebook twitter plus minus search menu arrow cloud clock