Skip to content Intranet Becoming part of the Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability in Fall 2022 COVID-19 Info for Stanford Earth x Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences menu Menu list icon Menu list collapse toggle Main navigation Home About Departments & Programs Educational Farm Directory Our Community Our Values and Practices Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Commencement Visit Us Contact us History Academics Undergraduates Graduate Students Professional Development Careers Data Science Field Learning K-12 Outreach Working Professionals Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Groups Industrial Affiliate Programs Shared Analytical Facilities and Research Resources Undergraduate Research News & Events Stanford Earth Matters magazine School Highlights Media Mentions Events People Spotlights Search Search Using Data Science to Understand Earth We finally have the tools to explore earth in its real complexity Data has become cheaper, faster, and more central to analyzing the broad scope of work carried out by Earth scientists than ever before. Beginning with data acquisition, and on to processing, modeling, and analysis, advanced computing techniques are a core skill practiced by students and faculty. "These are skills in high demand across many disciplines and jobs today," says senior associate dean Margot Gerritsen. Today's Earth science is data drivenT The satellite and supercomputer are the tools of modern geoscientists whose research spans from climate change projections and earthquake simulations to energy resources optimization. They investigate causes of drought, design defenses against natural disasters, and blaze a path toward a renewable energy future. Stanford Earth scientists are as likely to be found in front of an electronic screen, analyzing torrents of remote-sensing data with algorithms or simulating nature with computer models, as they are to be drilling ice cores in Antarctica or gathering soil samples from mountains in Mongolia. Read on... Navigate to item Explore data science coursesE Undergraduate and graduate level courses Basic Earth Imaging Navigate to item Know Your Planet: Big Earth Navigate to item Ice Penetrating Radar Navigate to item Global Positioning Systems in Earth Sciences Navigate to item Remote Sensing of Hydrology Navigate to item Data Science for Geoscience Navigate to item Big Data for Biologists – Decoding Genomic Function Navigate to item Data for Sustainable Development Navigate to item Spatial Approaches to Social Science Navigate to item Computational Geoscience ProgramC A graduate degree track within the Institute of Computational and Mathematical Engineering that provides students with the skills to develop numerical solutions to Earth science problems. Navigate to item Stanford Geospatial CenterS The Stanford Geospatial Center, housed in Branner library, offers workshops on fundamentals of GIS, data management, data visualization tools, and spatial analysis. Navigate to item Take a look at our labs and facilitiesT Frozen secretsF How one geophysicist explores glaciers with radar. Navigate to item News related to data scienceN NVIDIA AI Prof. Margot Gerritsen a guest on NVIDIA's AI Podcast GTC Digital was held in March 2020. The event included several half-hour interviews with leaders across AI and accelerated computing. Navigate to Prof. Margot Gerritsen a guest on NVIDIA&#039;s AI Podcast School Highlight Outstanding research by outstanding women Women in Data Science (WiDS) and Stanford Earth hosted a symposium to highlight the research done by women who use data science to assess a range of topics in the geosciences, including Earth processes, hazards, climate, and sustainability. Navigate to Outstanding research by outstanding women Stanford Earth Matters Can a drone reveal the murky secrets of San Francisco Bay? Measurements of suspended sediment concentrations reveal a lot about the health of a waterway, but until now such data has been difficult to obtain. Navigate to Can a drone reveal the murky secrets of San Francisco Bay? Eos Machine learning in geoscience: Riding a wave of progress Greg Beroza writes about how machine learning offers a new way to use massive amounts of geoscience data to tackle complex, unsolved problems in the context of a March 2019 conference he helped organize. Navigate to Machine learning in geoscience: Riding a wave of progress Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences Join us on Social Media Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Linkedin Linkedin Alumni Give to Stanford Earth Newsroom Contact Provide Website Feedback Report accessibility issues Login Subscribe to Stanford Earth Matters Our Monthly Research News AlertSubscribe Stanford HomeMaps & DirectionsSearch StanfordEmergency Info Terms of UsePrivacyCopyrightTrademarksNon-DiscriminationAccessibility© Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. IconsList of icons used on the site mail linkedin double carrot left arrow left double carrot player instagram close carrot quote facebook twitter plus minus search menu arrow cloud clock