Skip to main content University of Pennsylvania School of Arts & Sciences College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Division College of Liberal and Professional Studies Department of Earth & Environmental Earth and Environmental Sciences Toggle navigation Main navigation About People Faculty Lecturers and Visiting Scholars Professors Emeriti Academic and Research Personnel Postdoctoral Fellows Administrative and Support Staff PhD Students Alumni Undergraduate Majors Minors Declaring a Major/Minor EASC and ENVS Major Courses Transfer Credit Undergraduate Research Penn Geology Society Undergraduate Advisory Board FAQs Graduate Doctoral Program Professional Masters Programs Courses Diversity Statement on Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Climate, Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Committee (CDEIC) Additional Diversity Resources Research Dynamics & Structure of Earth Materials Ocean, Atmosphere & Climate Biogeochemistry & Global Environmental Change Paleobiology & Geobiology The Water Center Research Facilities News Events Annual Geobiology Symposium EES Seminar Series Past Events Resources Contact Contact The Water Center Search Environmental Studies Home Undergraduate Programs Majors Environmental Studies Content Objectives of the Environmental Studies Major Upon graduation, Environmental Studies graduates understand how humans and ecosystems interact with the dynamic Earth. They understand the basic physical and chemical processes and are knowledgeable about the atmosphere and climate change, the rock cycle, natural hazards, and the earth’s hydrologic and biogeochemical cycles. Environmental Studies graduates also have knowledge and basic skills in environmental economics, environmental health, sustainability, renewable resources, and environmental management. In addition, they have an in-depth understanding of the human-environment interconnection, knowledge of international and domestic environmental issues, and are well-versed in environmental policies and how these policies are set and changed. Skill Set Objectives of the Environmental Studies Major Graduates are able to contribute to society and effectively work on challenging problems that face humanity (e.g., climate change, renewable resources). They are able to critically analyze scientific literature, interpret scientific data, understand the scientific process, and conduct a basic research project. Graduates can also develop basic models of geographic, environmental or geologic systems. Graduates can collect and manage a complex data set. They can also manipulate environmental data with computer software. They know which basic statistical and graphical tests should be used and how to perform them to interpret the results, and apply the results to solve a question. Graduates are able to communicate complex information in written and oral form, and make a clear and compelling presentation in front of both technical and non-technical audiences. They also have the skills and knowledge to achieve admission to graduate school, professional degree programs, or gain employment. Concentrations within the Environmental Studies Major Environmental History & Regional Studies Environmental Policy & Application Global Environmental Systems Sustainability & Environmental Management Individualized Concentration Main navigation Undergraduate Majors Environmental Studies Environmental History & Regional Studies concentration Environmental Policy & Application concentration Global Environmental Systems concentration Individualized concentration Sustainability and Environmental Management concentration Earth Science Minors Declaring a Major/Minor EASC and ENVS Major Courses Transfer Credit Undergraduate Research Penn Geology Society Undergraduate Advisory Board FAQs Donate Subscribe to our mailing list Useful Links The Water Center LPS Master of Environmental Studies Program Contact Us Department of Earth and Environmental Science University of Pennsylvania 251 Hayden Hall 240 South 33rd Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-6316 Map & Directions earth@sas.upenn.edu 215-898-5724 Brenda B. Casper Department Chair David L. Goldsby Graduate Chair Alain F. Plante Undergraduate Chair College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Division College of Liberal & Professional Studies Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Penn Weblogin