Skip to content Intranet Becoming part of the Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability in Fall 2022 COVID-19 Info for Stanford Earth x Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences menu Menu list icon Menu list collapse toggle Main navigation Home About Departments & Programs Educational Farm Directory Our Community Our Values and Practices Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Commencement Visit Us Contact us History Academics Undergraduates Graduate Students Professional Development Careers Data Science Field Learning K-12 Outreach Working Professionals Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Groups Industrial Affiliate Programs Shared Analytical Facilities and Research Resources Undergraduate Research News & Events Stanford Earth Matters magazine School Highlights Media Mentions Events People Spotlights Search Search Graduate Programs Participate in discovery and innovation As a master's or PhD student at Stanford Earth, you become part of a close-knit group of peers and faculty mentors engaged in groundbreaking research and its translation into solutions. You'll have access to exceptional analytical facilities and high performance computing that is expanding the frontiers of computational geoscience. Field research can take you anywhere in the world. Graduate degree programsG Explore MS and PhD degrees across seven departments and programs. Energy Resources Engineering Navigate to item Earth System Science Navigate to item Geological Sciences Navigate to item Geophysics Navigate to item Earth Systems Program Navigate to item Emmett Interdisciplinary Program in Environment and Resources Navigate to item Change Leadership for Sustainability Program Navigate to item Today's Earth science is data drivenT The satellite and supercomputer are the tools of modern geoscientists whose research spans from climate change projections and earthquake simulations to energy resources optimization. Navigate to item Challenges we tackle Discovering our planet Navigate to item Securing the energy future Navigate to item Climate Solutions Navigate to item Food and Water Security Navigate to item Reducing Disaster Risks Navigate to item Exploring other worlds Navigate to item Faculty and research groups F Explore our faculty and research groups. Navigate to item Take a look at our labs and facilitiesT Check out our offeringsC Spring courses We're back on campus. Check out our diverse course offerings for spring quarter. Navigate to Spring courses Field learning Explore our field learning, field research, and field trip opportunities, including virtual field experiences. Navigate to Field learning How our scientists workH Shaping the future The world will use 100 million barrels of oil a day for the next 50 years, despite the march toward renewable energy. Will we do that in an uncontrolled way? Our researchers are using advanced computer modeling to develop “green oil” practices. Navigate to Shaping the future Under Tibet Geophysicist Simon Klemperer and his research team work to solve a Himalayan research mystery in Tibet. Follow their experience in this video. Navigate to Under Tibet We prepare youW Professional development Maximize your skills during your academic experience by participating in our co-curricular offerings for personal and professional development. Navigate to Professional development Careers See where our programs can take you and the paths others have followed after Stanford Earth. Navigate to Careers Just for postdocs Learn more about the Stanford Science Fellows program for postdocs which helps early-career scientists develop academic leadership skills, interdisciplinary approaches, and science communication skills. Navigate to Just for postdocs We care about your whole self and our whole communityW Diversity, equity and inclusion Explore the diverse identities at Stanford Earth and engage with our DEI events and resources. Navigate to Diversity, equity and inclusion Wellness at Stanford Earth Learn more about our wellness peer advisors and programs. Navigate to Wellness at Stanford Earth Stanford Earth grad life resources Find support for your individual and academic needs. Navigate to Stanford Earth grad life resources Get involvedG Graduate Student Advisory Committee Navigate to item Women in Earth Sciences Navigate to item Stanford Energy Club Navigate to item Rising Environmental Leaders Program Navigate to item Meet Stanford Earth M Our graduate students represent diverse backgrounds and conduct a wide range of research. Bridging solutions for clean energy Navigate to item Simulating earthquakes Navigate to item Bringing electricity home Navigate to item From conservation to academia Navigate to item View all spotlights Alyssa Ferree For more information... ...about our coterm, MS, and PhD degree programs, contact Alyssa Ferree, assistant dean for student services in the School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences at aferree@stanford.edu or +1 (650) 723-4835. If you are a working professional looking for non-degree, short courses, please visit our Stanford Earth Working Professionals page, Stanford Online, or Stanford Executive Education. Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences Join us on Social Media Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Linkedin Linkedin Alumni Give to Stanford Earth Newsroom Contact Provide Website Feedback Report accessibility issues Login Subscribe to Stanford Earth Matters Our Monthly Research News AlertSubscribe Stanford HomeMaps & DirectionsSearch StanfordEmergency Info Terms of UsePrivacyCopyrightTrademarksNon-DiscriminationAccessibility© Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. IconsList of icons used on the site mail linkedin double carrot left arrow left double carrot player instagram close carrot quote facebook twitter plus minus search menu arrow cloud clock