Skip to content Intranet Becoming part of the Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability in Fall 2022 COVID-19 Info for Stanford Earth x Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences menu Menu list icon Menu list collapse toggle Main navigation Home About Departments & Programs Educational Farm Directory Our Community Our Values and Practices Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Commencement Visit Us Contact us History Academics Undergraduates Graduate Students Professional Development Careers Data Science Field Learning K-12 Outreach Working Professionals Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Groups Industrial Affiliate Programs Shared Analytical Facilities and Research Resources Undergraduate Research News & Events Stanford Earth Matters magazine School Highlights Media Mentions Events People Spotlights Search Search Earth System Science Earth System Science Overview About Us Undergraduate Program Graduate Program PostDoc Resources Admissions People Research Events News Contact Us Resources Graduate Program Deep and diverse areas of research The faculty members in Earth System Science have very strong graduate groups and premier research programs. Through its courses, seminars, and speaker series, ESS offers graduate students an opportunity to be part of an intellectual community with common or related interests and goals. You can learn about specific degree requirements below, or through the Stanford Bulletin/Explore Degrees. PhD programP PhD degree The objectives of the doctoral program are to enable students to develop the skills needed to conduct original investigations in environmental and Earth system sciences, to interpret the results, and to present the data and conclusions in a publishable manner. We also intend that our graduates obtain strong communication skills and leadership skills, with the ability to teach and communicate effectively with the public. Learn more about the program and course requirements for the ESS PhD degree. How to ApplyH Visit our ESS admissions page for graduate application information. Navigate to item More Questions? If you have questions, please contact our student service officer at essgradprogram@stanford.edu Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences Join us on Social Media Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Linkedin Linkedin Alumni Give to Stanford Earth Newsroom Contact Provide Website Feedback Report accessibility issues Login Subscribe to Stanford Earth Matters Our Monthly Research News AlertSubscribe Stanford HomeMaps & DirectionsSearch StanfordEmergency Info Terms of UsePrivacyCopyrightTrademarksNon-DiscriminationAccessibility© Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. IconsList of icons used on the site mail linkedin double carrot left arrow left double carrot player instagram close carrot quote facebook twitter plus minus search menu arrow cloud clock