Skip to content Intranet Becoming part of the Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability in Fall 2022 COVID-19 Info for Stanford Earth x Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences menu Menu list icon Menu list collapse toggle Main navigation Home About Departments & Programs Educational Farm Directory Our Community Our Values and Practices Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Commencement Visit Us Contact us History Academics Undergraduates Graduate Students Professional Development Careers Data Science Field Learning K-12 Outreach Working Professionals Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Groups Industrial Affiliate Programs Shared Analytical Facilities and Research Resources Undergraduate Research News & Events Stanford Earth Matters magazine School Highlights Media Mentions Events People Spotlights Search Search Emmett Interdisciplinary Program in Environment and Resources We train the next generation to help solve critical environmental and sustainability challenges. EIPER Overview About Us Our Community Careers Joint & Dual MS Degree Capstone Project Joint & Dual MS Admissions What students and alumni say PhD Degree Research People News Events Resources Joint and Dual MS Degree The E-IPER Joint Master of Science (MS) degree in Environment and Resources gives Stanford professional school students the opportunity to deepen their understanding of the science, technology and engineering that underlies current environmental problems. This understanding, integrated with their professional education, provides a unique lens for future leaders and innovators to influence and solve the world’s most challenging environmental and sustainability problems. E-IPER offers the Joint MS for M.B.A. students at Stanford's Graduate School of Business or J.D. students at Stanford Law School. E-IPER also offers a Dual MS degree for Master's students in the Ford Dorsey Master's in International Policy program, M.D. students at Stanford's School of Medicine, or students pursuing a Ph.D. in another Stanford school or department. For information about admission to the program, please see our Joint and Dual MS Admissions page. CurriculumC The Joint and Dual MS Degree program is designed to be rigorous yet flexible, providing opportunities for students to pursue the depth and breadth they desire to meet their academic interests and professional goals. Curriculum Navigate to Curriculum Learn more Pre-2021 Curriculum Navigate to Pre-2021 Curriculum Learn more Capstone projectC Learn more about Joint and Dual MS Capstone and see past presentations Navigate to item AdmissionsA Learn more about Joint and Dual MS admissions Navigate to item WellnessW Learn more about our graduate student wellness programs and peer liaisons. Navigate to item Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences Join us on Social Media Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Linkedin Linkedin Alumni Give to Stanford Earth Newsroom Contact Provide Website Feedback Report accessibility issues Login Subscribe to Stanford Earth Matters Our Monthly Research News AlertSubscribe Stanford HomeMaps & DirectionsSearch StanfordEmergency Info Terms of UsePrivacyCopyrightTrademarksNon-DiscriminationAccessibility© Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. IconsList of icons used on the site mail linkedin double carrot left arrow left double carrot player instagram close carrot quote facebook twitter plus minus search menu arrow cloud clock