Skip to content Intranet Becoming part of the Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability in Fall 2022 COVID-19 Info for Stanford Earth x Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences menu Menu list icon Menu list collapse toggle Main navigation Home About Departments & Programs Educational Farm Directory Our Community Our Values and Practices Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Commencement Visit Us Contact us History Academics Undergraduates Graduate Students Professional Development Careers Data Science Field Learning K-12 Outreach Working Professionals Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Groups Industrial Affiliate Programs Shared Analytical Facilities and Research Resources Undergraduate Research News & Events Stanford Earth Matters magazine School Highlights Media Mentions Events People Spotlights Search Search Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Overview About Prospective Students Student Resources Postdoctoral Resources Faculty & Staff Resources Alumni Resources DEI Library News Events People SURGE DEI Action Plan Land Acknowledgment Excellence in DEI Awards Be part of the changeB We aim to build a community that reflects the demographics of our society and that values empathy and well-being along with academic and professional achievement. Find here the information, programs and resources to support you and our aspiration for a community that recognizes, celebrates and embraces all worldviews. EducateE We educate our community about DEI issues and best practices. Courses We support Diversity in the Geosciences, a course that prepares students to address the participation and inclusion challenges uniquely faced in the geosciences, along with other courses in environmental justice. Navigate to Courses DEI library The first step toward a diverse and inclusive community is awareness. Dig into our DEI library to find articles and books on topics from equity in the classroom to land acknowledgment, anti-Black racism, sexual harassment, environmental justice, and more. Navigate to DEI library Best practice workshops Learn more about our workshops for faculty, staff and students on DEI best practices including inclusive teaching, upstander training, and anti-racism sensitivity. Navigate to Best practice workshops EnhanceE We support activities and connections to build an inclusive and equitable community. Stanford Earth Postdoc Fellowship program Learn more about postdoc positions for scholars who advance diversity in the Earth, energy, and environmental sciences. Navigate to Stanford Earth Postdoc Fellowship program Dean's Graduate Scholars program Find out about our first-year tuition for underrepresented students, along with other financial support for conferences and educational needs throughout the graduate career. Navigate to Dean&#039;s Graduate Scholars program Intersections: Identities @ Stanford Earth Our #StanfordEarthCelebrates interview series illuminates how our many identities intersect with our work in the geosciences. Navigate to Intersections: Identities @ Stanford Earth Professional development Learn more about our professional development programs. Navigate to Professional development Diversity and access Resources for individuals with disabilities. Navigate to Diversity and access Concerns and grievances If you encounter a problem, there are avenues for you to report it or express a concern. Navigate to Concerns and grievances EngageE We partner with minority-serving institutions, organizations, and diverse networks to recruit and share educational and career opportunities. SURGE Apply to our Summer Undergraduate Research in Geoscience and Engineering (SURGE) program for non-Stanford college students interested in Earth sciences and sustainability. Navigate to SURGE Community centers & affinity groups Engage with organizations across campus through expanded planning, events and resources. Or join an affinity group. Navigate to Community centers &amp; affinity groups Outreach beyond Stanford We reach out to targeted institutions and conferences to support diversity in student, faculty and staff recruitment. Navigate to Outreach beyond Stanford ExpectE We hold ourselves accountable across departments, programs, and administrative units. Our goals We have big goals. Read our complete strategic plan. Navigate to Our goals Our demographics Track our changing community on the Stanford IDEAL dashboard by using the pull down menu for Stanford Earth. Navigate to Our demographics Our Milestones Learn more about how we measure progress through our activities and processes. Navigate to Our Milestones DEI Upcoming EventsD Upcoming EventsU 31May Stanford Earth Community DEI Dialogue Townhall Navigate to item 31May Stanford Earth DEI Community Party Navigate to item See all events related to DEI Read our Stanford Earth policy on respect and inclusion Our Respectful and Inclusive Community Values Navigate to item Careers in GeoscienceC Navigate to item Diversity, Equity and Inclusion NewsD Stanford News Thinking beyond the academic degree A new certificate program provides a framework for Stanford Earth graduate students and postdoctoral researchers to learn new skills, gain practical experience, and produce portfolio pieces that will broaden their professional preparedness. The program will be carried into the new school focused on climate and sustainability. Navigate to Thinking beyond the academic degree School Highlight Molecular fossil hunter Geomicrobiologist Paula Welander has come to see microbes as a system for grappling with complex questions about life, evolution and ancient Earth. Navigate to Molecular fossil hunter School Highlight Q&A: Why discuss disability in the geosciences? As part of an effort to celebrate and discuss identity, four Stanford Earth community members talk about how disability, neurodivergence, and chronic illness have informed and impacted their careers. Navigate to Q&amp;A: Why discuss disability in the geosciences? The Stanford Daily Panel event probes hidden disabilities at Stanford Stanford Earth's Isabel Carrera, Rosie Ries and Allegra Scheirer discussed living with disabilities that might not be visually perceived and how the university could make campus more welcoming. Navigate to Panel event probes hidden disabilities at Stanford See all DEI News Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences Join us on Social Media Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Linkedin Linkedin Alumni Give to Stanford Earth Newsroom Contact Provide Website Feedback Report accessibility issues Login Subscribe to Stanford Earth Matters Our Monthly Research News AlertSubscribe Stanford HomeMaps & DirectionsSearch StanfordEmergency Info Terms of UsePrivacyCopyrightTrademarksNon-DiscriminationAccessibility© Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. IconsList of icons used on the site mail linkedin double carrot left arrow left double carrot player instagram close carrot quote facebook twitter plus minus search menu arrow cloud clock