Skip to content Intranet Becoming part of the Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability in Fall 2022 COVID-19 Info for Stanford Earth x Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences menu Menu list icon Menu list collapse toggle Main navigation Home About Departments & Programs Educational Farm Directory Our Community Our Values and Practices Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Commencement Visit Us Contact us History Academics Undergraduates Graduate Students Professional Development Careers Data Science Field Learning K-12 Outreach Working Professionals Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Groups Industrial Affiliate Programs Shared Analytical Facilities and Research Resources Undergraduate Research News & Events Stanford Earth Matters magazine School Highlights Media Mentions Events People Spotlights Search Search Energy Resources Engineering We teach courses and perform research relevant to the production and transformation of energy resources. Energy Resources Engineering Overview About Us Admissions Undergraduate Program Coterminal MS Program Graduate Program Current Student Resources Courses Alumni Programs Research Groups Events Professional Education Careers Publications Thesis Database News Graduate Program The Energy Resources Engineering curriculum provides a sound background in basic sciences and their application to practical problems to address the complex and changing nature of the field. Course work includes the fundamentals of chemistry, computer science, engineering, geology, geophysics, mathematics, and physics. Applied courses cover aspects of energy resources engineering in fields like oil and gas recovery, geothermal engineering, carbon sequestration, clean coal and renewable energy. The curriculum emphasizes the fundamental aspects of fluid flow in the subsurface of the Earth. These principles apply to optimizing oil recovery from petroleum reservoirs and remediating contaminated groundwater systems. The program also has a strong interest in renewable energy, global climate change, and CO2 sequestration. The Energy Resources Engineering department offers two distinct degree programs at both the MS and PhD levels. One program leads to the degrees of M.S. or Ph.D. in Petroleum Engineering, and the other leads to the degrees of MS or PhD in Energy Resources Engineering. Please refer to the Stanford Bulletin for Energy Resources Engineering course listings and requirements. Questions about our graduate programs? Contact Energy Resources Engineering Student Services. Learn moreL Check out a sampling of our Courses Navigate to item More about sequences and requirements Navigate to item Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences Join us on Social Media Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Linkedin Linkedin Alumni Give to Stanford Earth Newsroom Contact Provide Website Feedback Report accessibility issues Login Subscribe to Stanford Earth Matters Our Monthly Research News AlertSubscribe Stanford HomeMaps & DirectionsSearch StanfordEmergency Info Terms of UsePrivacyCopyrightTrademarksNon-DiscriminationAccessibility© Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. IconsList of icons used on the site mail linkedin double carrot left arrow left double carrot player instagram close carrot quote facebook twitter plus minus search menu arrow cloud clock