Skip to content Intranet Becoming part of the Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability in Fall 2022 COVID-19 Info for Stanford Earth x Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences menu Menu list icon Menu list collapse toggle Main navigation Home About Departments & Programs Educational Farm Directory Our Community Our Values and Practices Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Commencement Visit Us Contact us History Academics Undergraduates Graduate Students Professional Development Careers Data Science Field Learning K-12 Outreach Working Professionals Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Groups Industrial Affiliate Programs Shared Analytical Facilities and Research Resources Undergraduate Research News & Events Stanford Earth Matters magazine School Highlights Media Mentions Events People Spotlights Search Search K-12 Outreach Geoscience education is for everyoneG We offer K-12 programs for second-graders, high school students, and teachers aimed at supporting an appreciation of our planet and how it works. By working with budding scientists and current science students, we offer programs to broaden their understanding of the scientific process. The programs help students understand Earth and environmental sciences. Programs are free of cost to students and teachers in our local community. Geokids ProgramG What could be better than a morning of constructing fossils, soil painting and the lava game? Second grade students from local schools come on a field trip to explore and experience these fun and engaging activities at Stanford. Navigate to item Stanford Earth Young InvestigatorsS High school students spend the summer working in research laboratories. The students become involved in existing research projects and are supervised directly by graduate students, post docs and lab managers. Navigate to item Just for TeachersJ We are offering a Geoscape workshop for teachers in Winter 2020 about science understandings and practices in Earth, Energy and Environmental sciences for all high school science teachers. We offer periodic teacher workshops to help teachers understand and develop compelling curricula about climate change. Check out our curriculum at Climate Change Education. For more information, contact Outreach Education Director Jenny Saltzman. Navigate to item Virtual Field TripsV Students and teachers are invited to explore the world to understand how the Earth works through virtual field trips. They take a variety of forms- virtual field sites, self-guided virtual field trips, and virtual field exercises. Bring your students or friends on a virtual field trip! Navigate to item Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences Join us on Social Media Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Linkedin Linkedin Alumni Give to Stanford Earth Newsroom Contact Provide Website Feedback Report accessibility issues Login Subscribe to Stanford Earth Matters Our Monthly Research News AlertSubscribe Stanford HomeMaps & DirectionsSearch StanfordEmergency Info Terms of UsePrivacyCopyrightTrademarksNon-DiscriminationAccessibility© Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. IconsList of icons used on the site mail linkedin double carrot left arrow left double carrot player instagram close carrot quote facebook twitter plus minus search menu arrow cloud clock