Skip to content Intranet Becoming part of the Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability in Fall 2022 COVID-19 Info for Stanford Earth x Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences menu Menu list icon Menu list collapse toggle Main navigation Home About Departments & Programs Educational Farm Directory Our Community Our Values and Practices Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Commencement Visit Us Contact us History Academics Undergraduates Graduate Students Professional Development Careers Data Science Field Learning K-12 Outreach Working Professionals Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Groups Industrial Affiliate Programs Shared Analytical Facilities and Research Resources Undergraduate Research News & Events Stanford Earth Matters magazine School Highlights Media Mentions Events People Spotlights Search Search Earth System Science Earth System Science Overview About Us Undergraduate Program Graduate Program PostDoc Resources Admissions People Research Events News Contact Us Resources Understanding how our planet worksU Our goal is to understand, predict, and respond to human-caused and natural environmental change at local to global scales. Scientists in our Earth System Science department offer a strong graduate research program across a broad range of environmental and Earth science disciplines for students working toward a doctoral degree. Undergraduate and coterminal master's degrees are offered through the closely related and popular Earth Systems Program. Degree ProgramD Undergraduate program Navigate to item Graduate program Navigate to item Meet some of our community membersM A changing climate Navigate to item Photography at sea Navigate to item Tracking water changes Navigate to item Mentoring with authenticity Navigate to item Explore our research topics Earth system scientists research everything from climate dynamics to coral reefs, ice melt, soil contamination, nutrient cycling, food security, and more. Understanding Ice Planetary Science Geobiology and Paleontology Climate System Dynamics Contaminant and Nutrient Cycling Human Environment Interactions Sustainable Food and Water Ocean & Ecosystem Response Land Use Change Research groups in Earth system scienceR Learn more about our faculty labs and research groups ranging from ocean biogeochemistry to soil science and geohydrology. Navigate to item Shared analytical facilitiesS Students and faculty start their examination of specimens in our comprehensive Earth Materials Preparation lab. Our shared labs offer everything from gas, liquid, and solid analyses to isotopic analysis for geochronology and deciphering (bio)geochemical processes. Navigate to item Stanford Geospatial CenterS Housed in Branner library, the center offers workshops on Geographic Information Systems (GIS), data management, visualization tools, and spatial analysis. Navigate to item Events related to Earth system scienceE Upcoming EventsU 02Jun ESS Seminar Series: Dr. Laura Meredith" Sensitivity of soil microbial volatile organic compound metabolism to drought Navigate to item See more ESS Events Earth system science newsE Stanford Engineering How to fight climate change Environmental scientist Chris Field explains why taking on climate change will require that we continue to reduce emissions and adapt to the effects of increasing temperatures. (Source: Stanford Engineering) Navigate to How to fight climate change TIME The best stove for your health and the environment A TIME magazine feature covers the harmful health and climate effects of natural gas stoves and possible solutions based on a study led by Rob Jackson's research group. Navigate to The best stove for your health and the environment KPCC What should Southern Californians expect this fire season? "We're starting the season in a severe drought heading into the warm part of the year, and we know that the kinds of severe heat waves that have really amplified fire risk in recent years are much more likely now than they were previously in California's history," says Stanford climate scientist Noah Diffenbaugh. Navigate to What should Southern Californians expect this fire season? Stanford News Thinking beyond the academic degree A new certificate program provides a framework for Stanford Earth graduate students and postdoctoral researchers to learn new skills, gain practical experience, and produce portfolio pieces that will broaden their professional preparedness. The program will be carried into the new school focused on climate and sustainability. Navigate to Thinking beyond the academic degree See more ESS news Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences Join us on Social Media Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Linkedin Linkedin Alumni Give to Stanford Earth Newsroom Contact Provide Website Feedback Report accessibility issues Login Subscribe to Stanford Earth Matters Our Monthly Research News AlertSubscribe Stanford HomeMaps & DirectionsSearch StanfordEmergency Info Terms of UsePrivacyCopyrightTrademarksNon-DiscriminationAccessibility© Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. IconsList of icons used on the site mail linkedin double carrot left arrow left double carrot player instagram close carrot quote facebook twitter plus minus search menu arrow cloud clock