Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Earth Sciences About the banner image Department of Earth Sciences Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube Earth.Sciences@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major Minor Honors Curriculum Courses Careers Undergraduate Alumni Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview Prospective and Current Students Degree Requirements Graduate Student Resources Graduate Student Alumni Frequently Asked Question For Graduate Students Back to Top Nav Research Research Topics Earth Surface and Environmental Processes Climate and Cryospheric Sciences Earth & Planetary History Labs & Facilities Back to Top Nav The Stretch Overview Stretch Details & Upcoming Program Stretch Alternatives Back to Top Nav Inclusivity Commitment to Diversity Community Expectations Dispute Resolution Guidelines Guidance for Fieldwork Planning Resources Suggestions Back to Top Nav News & Events Overview Seminars Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Top Stories Previous Next Seminar on Sponge Sterol Lipid Fossils on May 5, 2022 Faculty Reacts to Dire Climate Report Experts say only a brief window of time is left to respond. Speaker Presentation on Submarine Glacier Melting, March 11, 2022 New Atlas Says Most Glaciers Hold Less Ice Than Thought Findings have implications for freshwater availability and sea levels. Research Challenges "Whiff" of Oxygen Present in Earth's Deep Past Recent research by Professor Sarah Slotznick challenges the view that scientists proposed in 2007 of a "whiff of oxygen" present before the Great Oxygenation Event more than 2 million years ago. Study Links Glaciers to Earth's 'Great Unconformity' Ancient ice action seems responsible for massive erosion of rock across the planet. Glaciologist Joins Arctic Engineering Cluster Mathieu Morlighem is the inaugural Evans Family Distinguished Professor of Earth Sciences. Alumni Update Our Alumni have taken the challenges of 2020-21 in stride and completed degrees, started new jobs, taught classes, removed dams, and produced fascinating research. Here, we have compiled a few updates from our ROX family across the globe. Graduate Students' research and classes amidst pandemic This fall's new students arrived at Dartmouth with backgrounds in biology, astrophysics, geology, civil engineering, and computer science. They arrived from Vermont, Connecticut, New Jersey, New York, Montana, and San Francisco in the midst of the pandemic. Justin Strauss awarded Sloan Research Fellowship Assistant Professor of Earth Sciences Justin V. Strauss won a 2021 Sloan Research Fellowship. The fellowship honors researchers whose creativity, innovation, and research accomplishments make them stand out as the next generation of scientific leaders. Recent Publications view all Mapping the Sensitivity of the Amundsen Sea Embayment to Changes in External Forcings Using Automatic Differentiation Mathieu Morlighem, Daniel Goldberg, Thiago Dias Dos Santos, Jane Lee, Max Sagebaum Geophysical Research Letters, 2021 Reexamination of 2.5-Ga "whiff" of oxygen interval points to anoxic ocean before GOE Sarah P. Slotznick, Jena E. Johnson, Birger Rasmussen, Timothy D. Raub, Samuel M. Webb, et al. Science Advances, Vol 8, Issue 1, 2022 Was Gale Crater (Mars) Connected to a Regionally Extensive Groundwater System? Victoria Roseborough, David Horvath, Marisa C. Palucis Geophysical Research Letters, 48 (6), 2021 Near-constant retreat rate of a terrestrial margin of the Laurentide Ice Sheet during the last deglaciation Thomas V. Lowell, Meredith A. Kelly, Jennifer A. Howley, Timothy G. Fisher, Peter J. Barnett, et al. Geology, 2021 Course Information Find course information for the upcoming academic year. Undergraduate Degree The Department of Earth Sciences offers much more than just classes. Undergraduate students play a vital role in cutting-edge research and everyday life. Learn more about research and career opportunities. Graduate Degree The Department offers both Master's and PhD degree in Earth Sciences, covering a wide range of topics. Learn more about the admissions process and requirements. Related DepartmentChemistryRelated DepartmentEnvironmental Studies Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Earth Science Undergraduate Overview Major Minor Honors Curriculum Courses Careers Undergraduate Alumni Graduate Overview Prospective and Current Students Degree Requirements Graduate Student Resources Graduate Student Alumni Frequently Asked Question For Graduate Students Research Research Topics Earth Surface and Environmental Processes Climate and Cryospheric Sciences Earth & Planetary History Labs & Facilities The Stretch Overview Stretch Details & Upcoming Program Stretch Alternatives Inclusivity Commitment to Diversity Community Expectations Dispute Resolution Guidelines Guidance for Fieldwork Planning Resources Suggestions News & Events Overview Seminars People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback