Skip to content Intranet Becoming part of the Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability in Fall 2022 COVID-19 Info for Stanford Earth x Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences menu Menu list icon Menu list collapse toggle Main navigation Home About Departments & Programs Educational Farm Directory Our Community Our Values and Practices Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Commencement Visit Us Contact us History Academics Undergraduates Graduate Students Professional Development Careers Data Science Field Learning K-12 Outreach Working Professionals Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Groups Industrial Affiliate Programs Shared Analytical Facilities and Research Resources Undergraduate Research News & Events Stanford Earth Matters magazine School Highlights Media Mentions Events People Spotlights Search Search Our Values and Practices Our Values and Practices Overview Core Values and policy Values into practice Field expectations Reporting structures and resources DEI Councils Stanford Earth Policy on Respectful and Inclusive BehaviorS This part of our website is dedicated to our revised and expanded school-wide Policy on Respectful and Inclusive Behavior (2020). This document represents an important next step in making actionable our long-standing commitment to inclusion and respect. The Stanford Earth Policy is anchored in the University Code of Conduct, extending and elaborating those ideas more specifically into our context at Stanford Earth. Why this is crucial to our community and the geosciencesW Some 15 years ago, our school community was among the first at Stanford to institute a Respectful Workplace training which all new faculty, staff, postdocs and graduate students take. But we have needed to take a next step. Never has it been more important to underscore the importance of equity, respect, diversity, and acceptance. This is especially true in STEM fields and the geosciences which have experienced less diversity than some other areas. We must "see" one another's differences, acknowledge, and understand them. This understanding is also key to the success of our educational mission and of our science, which can be critically affected by biases that not only may affect individuals in our community but creep into our data assumptions - sometimes even without recognizing it. My hope is that our community will discuss and further extend the ideas about respect and inclusion into concrete actions within our teams, our departments and programs, our research groups, and our classrooms. Stephan Graham, Dean This new explication of expectations and guidelines for behavior was many months in discussion and planning. The Earth Sciences Council, a Stanford Earth dean's advisory group, set up a working group composed of students, postdocs, staff and faculty who, after much thoughtful discussion and research, created our 2020 Policy. In addition, many local voices in our school have called for such a policy and contributed ideas. The working group also recommended a permanent Respectful Community Committee, which in 2021 was replaced by the Stanford Earth DEI Councils. We will always see this Policy as a living document and we welcome your input. The Stanford Earth DEI Councils will regularly review feedback, consider changes to the Policy and to our evolving programs that support a respectful and inclusive community at Stanford Earth. Concurrent with this articulation of expected cultural norms, we have just developed a new $2.4 million Postdoctoral Fellowship Program that is intended to encourage more underrepresented postdoc candidates to engage in Earth and environmental sciences. We are currently reimagining our Diversity, Equity and Inclusion efforts. And we have updated our Respectful Workplace workshop training content. Please join me in creating and ensuring an inclusive, equitable, and respectful community. ~Stephan Graham, Chester Naramore Dean, Stanford School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences Stanford Earth DEI CouncilsS Members include students, postdocs, staff, and faculty The Stanford Earth DEI Councils are established as a platform for advocacy and partnership-building to address and strengthen Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion in the Stanford Earth School community. Navigate to item Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences Join us on Social Media Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Linkedin Linkedin Alumni Give to Stanford Earth Newsroom Contact Provide Website Feedback Report accessibility issues Login Subscribe to Stanford Earth Matters Our Monthly Research News AlertSubscribe Stanford HomeMaps & DirectionsSearch StanfordEmergency Info Terms of UsePrivacyCopyrightTrademarksNon-DiscriminationAccessibility© Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. IconsList of icons used on the site mail linkedin double carrot left arrow left double carrot player instagram close carrot quote facebook twitter plus minus search menu arrow cloud clock