Skip to content Intranet Becoming part of the Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability in Fall 2022 COVID-19 Info for Stanford Earth x Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences menu Menu list icon Menu list collapse toggle Main navigation Home About Departments & Programs Educational Farm Directory Our Community Our Values and Practices Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Commencement Visit Us Contact us History Academics Undergraduates Graduate Students Professional Development Careers Data Science Field Learning K-12 Outreach Working Professionals Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Groups Industrial Affiliate Programs Shared Analytical Facilities and Research Resources Undergraduate Research News & Events Stanford Earth Matters magazine School Highlights Media Mentions Events People Spotlights Search Search Professional development photo by Stacy Geiken Prepare your futureP No matter what discipline you are in or career goals you have, we want to prepare you for the future. We offer programs to support success in both your personal and professional life. Learn more about our co-curricular offerings that will build skills and practical knowledge to support your next steps. What we offerW We prepare you with Workshops, Skillshare sessions, and Pro-Seminars. See the professional development events list below. Workshops Workshops ground you in leadership, career, pedagogical, and personal development areas such as Teaching Earth Literacy and Alumni Networking. These are offered throughout the year – see below for upcoming workshops and events. Skillshares Skillshare is a peer taught series for sharing skills and practical knowledge. Lead a Skillshare for valuable teaching experience or go to sessions from Intro to Python to How to Design a Poster. Suggest a topic, sign up, or view the schedule. Pro-Seminars Professional and skill development seminars led by pros. Have an honest conversation with faculty and staff experts about the challenges and opportunities you face. This is a lunch time seminar held on the first Fridays of the month at noon. Earn Your Professional CertificateE The Stanford Earth Academic Professional Program offers graduate students and postdoctoral scholars the opportunity to develop and expand their toolkit as professionals. Navigate to item Upcoming Professional Development EventsU May 31, 2022 , 4:00pm OPA Preparing for Faculty Careers: Faculty Job Seekers Panel Educational Affairs June 01, 2022 , 3:30pm BEAM: Interview Labs Educational Affairs June 10, 2022 , 12:30pm Pro-Seminar: Research Group Building, Leadership, and Management Hartley Conference Center and Mitchell PatioEducational Affairs More ResourcesM Stanford Career Center Find more job search resources such as resume workshops, mock interview practice, and employer contacts. Navigate to Stanford Career Center Stanford Alumni Network Search the Stanford Alumni directory for people in your industry of interest and informational interview contacts. Navigate to Stanford Alumni Network Stanford Earth LinkedIn Add to your professional profile and network with the Stanford Earth community on LinkedIn. Navigate to Stanford Earth LinkedIn Planning Your Next Steps?P Check out the Stanford Earth Job Board - our internal source for open opportunities. Navigate to item Other Stanford resources Find more development support across the university. Vice Provost for Teaching and Learning Office of Career Education (BEAM) Hume Center for Writing and Speaking Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Vice Provost for Graduate Education Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Get inspiredG Learn more about the wide variety of careers Stanford Earth alumni pursue. Navigate to item Audrey Yau, Stanford Earth Director of Educational Affairs Have questions? If you are a current graduate student or postdoc, contact Audrey Yau at audyau@stanford.edu. If you are a working professional looking for non-degree, short courses, please visit our Stanford Earth Working Professionals page, Stanford Online, or Stanford Executive Education. Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences Join us on Social Media Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Linkedin Linkedin Alumni Give to Stanford Earth Newsroom Contact Provide Website Feedback Report accessibility issues Login Subscribe to Stanford Earth Matters Our Monthly Research News AlertSubscribe Stanford HomeMaps & DirectionsSearch StanfordEmergency Info Terms of UsePrivacyCopyrightTrademarksNon-DiscriminationAccessibility© Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. IconsList of icons used on the site mail linkedin double carrot left arrow left double carrot player instagram close carrot quote facebook twitter plus minus search menu arrow cloud clock