Skip to content Intranet Becoming part of the Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability in Fall 2022 COVID-19 Info for Stanford Earth x Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences menu Menu list icon Menu list collapse toggle Main navigation Home About Departments & Programs Educational Farm Directory Our Community Our Values and Practices Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Commencement Visit Us Contact us History Academics Undergraduates Graduate Students Professional Development Careers Data Science Field Learning K-12 Outreach Working Professionals Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Groups Industrial Affiliate Programs Shared Analytical Facilities and Research Resources Undergraduate Research News & Events Stanford Earth Matters magazine School Highlights Media Mentions Events People Spotlights Search Search Field Learning Stanford EARTH Field Education Website For more information about field programs at Stanford EARTH, including resource documents, virtual field trips, and more, please check out the Field Education Page. Navigate to Stanford EARTH Field Education Website Learning by doingL Stanford Earth researchers and students conduct research or engage in field learning on all seven continents and oceans. Any Stanford student may join a variety of programs from two-day coastal geology Field Courses to multi-week Sophomore College field studies, and Bing Overseas Seminars. Stanford Earth offers a quarter-long field course in social and biophysical systems in Hawaii. Field CoursesF Stanford Earth instructors immerse you in hands-on field experiences to understand Earth’s processes and develop your observational, spatial, and problem-solving skills. Living on the Edge (GEOLSCI 5) Fall & Spring Navigate to item Bay Area Landscapes and Tectonics (GEOLSCI 42) Fall Navigate to item Energizing California (ENERGY 101A) Spring Navigate to item Natural Perspectives (EARTHSYS 193) Spring Navigate to item Wrigley Field Program in HawaiiW A quarter-long course for students interested in Earth systems, biology, geological sciences, and cultural anthropology. The 2022 program application will open in Winter 2022. Navigate to item Want to know more about our Field Courses? Contact Ryan Petterson, the Director of Field Education for Stanford EARTH, at rypett@stanford.edu Navigate to Want to know more about our Field Courses? Sophomore College courses about EarthS A two-unit, three-week immersive summer seminar for academic exploration in a variety of locations. Water and Power in the Pacific Northwest 2017 Navigate to item Environmental and Geological Field Studies in the Rocky Mountains 2017 Navigate to item Coupled Human Natural Systems of Southeast Alaska 2018 Navigate to item More about Sophomore College Navigate to item Learning by Doing in Alaska A Sophomore College experience Bing Overseas Seminars about EarthB Learn about the Earth while studying abroad and earning Stanford credit through the Bing Overseas Seminar Program (BOSP). Italy: Volcanoes, Roman Concrete, and Archaeology Navigate to item Nature and Human Enterprise in Southernmost Patagonia Navigate to item Preserving Biodiversity: Conservation Photography in South Africa Navigate to item Ecology and Management of Coral Reefs of Palau Navigate to item More About Bing Overseas Seminars Navigate to item Learning through fieldwork about Pacific coral reefs A Bing Overseas Seminar experience Stanford@SeaS A 10-week investigative science and policy course examining the impacts of human actions on ocean ecosystems. Contact professor Rob Dunbar at dunbar@stanford.edu for more information about the program. Read more. Navigate to item Learning on the Stanford Educational Farm L The educational farm is Stanford’s home for hands-on learning in sustainable agriculture. Navigate to item Related linksR Undergraduate Research Opportunities Navigate to item Undergraduate Introductory Courses Navigate to item Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences Join us on Social Media Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Linkedin Linkedin Alumni Give to Stanford Earth Newsroom Contact Provide Website Feedback Report accessibility issues Login Subscribe to Stanford Earth Matters Our Monthly Research News AlertSubscribe Stanford HomeMaps & DirectionsSearch StanfordEmergency Info Terms of UsePrivacyCopyrightTrademarksNon-DiscriminationAccessibility© Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. IconsList of icons used on the site mail linkedin double carrot left arrow left double carrot player instagram close carrot quote facebook twitter plus minus search menu arrow cloud clock