Skip to content Intranet Becoming part of the Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability in Fall 2022 COVID-19 Info for Stanford Earth x Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences menu Menu list icon Menu list collapse toggle Main navigation Home About Departments & Programs Educational Farm Directory Our Community Our Values and Practices Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Commencement Visit Us Contact us History Academics Undergraduates Graduate Students Professional Development Careers Data Science Field Learning K-12 Outreach Working Professionals Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Groups Industrial Affiliate Programs Shared Analytical Facilities and Research Resources Undergraduate Research News & Events Stanford Earth Matters magazine School Highlights Media Mentions Events People Spotlights Search Search Giving to Stanford Earth State of the School, Fall 2021 Dean Steve Graham's annual letter to the Stanford Earth community. Navigate to State of the School, Fall 2021 Stanford Earth FundS Annual gifts from alumni to the Stanford Earth Fund are essential to the school's success. As a primary source of unrestricted funding, the Stanford Earth Fund provides the dean with the flexibility to answer the school's most pressing challenges and to pursue innovations for which no other funding exists. The school is pleased to acknowledge and thank our lead annual fund donors at the following giving levels: Leadership Circle Gifts of $1,000 and above* Dean's Circle Gifts of $10,000 and above* Make a Gift See 2020-21 Annual Summary *Alumni graduating within the last 10 years earn recognition with gifts of $500 and $5,000, respectively. Navigate to item Why Give to Stanford Earth?W Teaching. Learning. Discovery. Problem Solving. Meet some of the students and faculty who benefit Navigate to item Strategic Giving OpportunitiesS Stanford Earth is pleased to offer a wide range of naming opportunities and other charitable gift opportunities that provide support for: Faculty Including endowed professorships and endowed faculty scholarships Students Including graduate fellowships and undergraduate internships Programs Specific research and educational initiatives Planned GivingP Planned gifts, such as bequests or life income gifts, can be an advantageous way to provide for a future gift to charity. You can take care of yourself and take care of Stanford. Navigate to item Make a Gift For more InformationF contact Jennifer Judas Associate Dean for External Relations, School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences jjudas@stanford.edu (650) 723-1942 Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences Join us on Social Media Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Linkedin Linkedin Alumni Give to Stanford Earth Newsroom Contact Provide Website Feedback Report accessibility issues Login Subscribe to Stanford Earth Matters Our Monthly Research News AlertSubscribe Stanford HomeMaps & DirectionsSearch StanfordEmergency Info Terms of UsePrivacyCopyrightTrademarksNon-DiscriminationAccessibility© Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. IconsList of icons used on the site mail linkedin double carrot left arrow left double carrot player instagram close carrot quote facebook twitter plus minus search menu arrow cloud clock