Skip to content Intranet Becoming part of the Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability in Fall 2022 COVID-19 Info for Stanford Earth x Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences menu Menu list icon Menu list collapse toggle Main navigation Home About Departments & Programs Educational Farm Directory Our Community Our Values and Practices Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Commencement Visit Us Contact us History Academics Undergraduates Graduate Students Professional Development Careers Data Science Field Learning K-12 Outreach Working Professionals Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Groups Industrial Affiliate Programs Shared Analytical Facilities and Research Resources Undergraduate Research News & Events Stanford Earth Matters magazine School Highlights Media Mentions Events People Spotlights Search Search Energy Resources Engineering We teach courses and perform research relevant to the production and transformation of energy resources. Energy Resources Engineering Overview About Us Admissions Undergraduate Program Coterminal MS Program Graduate Program Current Student Resources Courses Alumni Programs Research Groups Events Professional Education Careers Publications Thesis Database News Creating a sustainable energy futureC ERE's MissionE We train future leaders in the science and engineering of Earth's energy resources. We combine theory, experiments, and computation to understand and influence the global energy resources landscape. We are committed to leading the way to provide the people, methods, and tools for sustainable management of the Earth's energy resources. More ERE Events Meet the FacultyM Navigate to item Energy Resources Engineering NewsE Stanford Earth Matters Electricity imports within U.S. associated with about 700 premature deaths annually, study finds More than half of the premature deaths associated with electricity use in most of California and the Northwest occur in other western states that supply electricity to the West Coast. Navigate to Electricity imports within U.S. associated with about 700 premature deaths annually, study finds Energy 167/267 hosts annual Town Hall Meeting Town Hall Meeting: Ban on New Drilling and Ceasing Oil Production in the City of Los Angeles: How it Affects Energy Supply, Local Economy, Health and Safety (A Dramatization) Navigate to Energy 167/267 hosts annual Town Hall Meeting Nvidia Blog Accelerating Climate Change Mitigation with Machine Learning: The Case of Carbon Storage Climate change mitigation is about reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The worldwide goal is to reach net zero, which means balancing the amount of GHG emissions produced and the amount removed from the atmosphere. Navigate to Accelerating Climate Change Mitigation with Machine Learning: The Case of Carbon Storage Stanford News Thinking beyond the academic degree A new certificate program provides a framework for Stanford Earth graduate students and postdoctoral researchers to learn new skills, gain practical experience, and produce portfolio pieces that will broaden their professional preparedness. The program will be carried into the new school focused on climate and sustainability. Navigate to Thinking beyond the academic degree See more ERE News 2021 Semi-finalist winner for Landscapes2 Milky Way Rise over Banner Lake. This photo was taken by ERE PhD student Nora Hennessy in the Inyo National Forest in August during a backpacking trip. The core of the Milky Way is just over the peak. Nora won first place for her shot of the Milky Way rising over Half Dome in Yosemite in the 2020 photo contest. Navigate to item Meet some of our ERE community membersM Soheil Esmaeilzadeh, PhD '21 Navigate to item Andea Scott, BS ' 20, MS '22 Navigate to item BeiBei Wang, PhD '19 Navigate to item Amir Delgoshaie, PhD '19 Navigate to item Professors Adam Brandt and Rob Jackson Navigate to item Energy Resources Engineering is a global community. Our faculty, students and alumni are all around the world.E ERE DEI Vision StatementE Our community of faculty, staff, students and alumni is committed to providing a safe, inclusive, supportive, diverse, and equitable environment which celebrates all cultures and backgrounds. Our purpose is to foster open communications, recruit and engage diverse talent, and ensure that all members of our community have the opportunity to thrive and contribute within their educational, research and professional endeavors. We are committed to embedding these DEI values throughout the fabric of our department's educational mission, while also supporting the School of Earth’s broader DEI efforts. Navigate to item Our interdisciplinary collaboratorsO Stanford Earth faculty work with researchers across multiple departments at Stanford, often through interdisciplinary programs supported by the the Precourt Institute for Energy, the Woods Institute for the Environment, and the Natural Gas Initiative. Precourt Institute for Energy A university-wide resource for energy research, conferences, and connections. Navigate to Precourt Institute for Energy Woods Institute for the Environment The institute supports research on sustainability challenges and connects scholars with decision makers to create practical solutions for real-world issues. Navigate to Woods Institute for the Environment Natural Gas Initiative The Natural Gas Initiative develops solutions to bridge our energy needs towards a more secure and cleaner energy future. Navigate to Natural Gas Initiative Parking at Stanford EREP Navigate to item Stanford Earth School of Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences Join us on Social Media Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Linkedin Linkedin Alumni Give to Stanford Earth Newsroom Contact Provide Website Feedback Report accessibility issues Login Subscribe to Stanford Earth Matters Our Monthly Research News AlertSubscribe Stanford HomeMaps & DirectionsSearch StanfordEmergency Info Terms of UsePrivacyCopyrightTrademarksNon-DiscriminationAccessibility© Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. IconsList of icons used on the site mail linkedin double carrot left arrow left double carrot player instagram close carrot quote facebook twitter plus minus search menu arrow cloud clock