Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Ecampus fact Ranked top 10 in the nation Ecampus earned a top 10 ranking for the eighth year in a row on a list of America’s best online bachelor’s programs. Learn more » Print Home  ›  About Ecampus  ›  Transfer Credit Information Transfer Credit Information This page outlines the resources available to help you determine transfer credit before you apply to Oregon State University. If you are a transfer applicant, the Office of Admissions or the International Admissions office will officially evaluate your previous courses for transfer credit after you have been admitted to Oregon State and completed the necessary next steps for newly admitted students. Please note that not all of your previous credits may apply to the requirements of your program at Oregon State. After admission, you will work with an academic advisor from your major department to go over how your previous credits apply to degree requirements and estimate your degree completion time. Transfer course search tool The OSU Transfer Course Search tool tells you how courses from your current or previous institution might transfer to Oregon State. Your coursework and OSU-equivalent classes may be included in this database. After evaluating your previous credits using this tool, find the curriculum for the Oregon State degree program you are interested in to see how those credits might count toward your OSU program. Please note: This is not an official transcript evaluation, but it may help determine how your credits transfer to Oregon State before you apply. This database is built only from courses that the Office of Admissions has evaluated for transfer students in the past. If you're unable to find a course that you have taken or plan to take, it doesn’t mean that it isn’t transferable in some way. OSU likely has not yet evaluated that specific class and will do so after you are admitted to the university. Course articulation tables (Oregon and Hawaii) You can view course transfer tables for each college and university in Oregon and our partner community colleges in Hawaii. The transfer tables are arranged with the transfer school course listed in the left column and the OSU-equivalent course listed in the right column. The tables can help you determine how your courses from another Oregon institution will transfer into your OSU degree program. If you attend an Oregon or Hawaii community college, you can potentially dual enroll with Oregon State. Please visit the Degree Partnership Program webpage to learn more. Transfer degrees Oregon State accepts several transfer degrees from Oregon, Washington and California community college transfer students. For other associate’s degrees and for transfer degrees from other states, the Office of Admissions will review courses individually after you are admitted to Oregon State. Please note that an associate’s degree is not required for admission, and a transfer degree may not be the most efficient path. As an example, you can read the curriculum guide for the Portland Community College Associate of Arts Oregon Transfer degree. All AAOT credits are transferable to OSU, but not all credits are applicable to the required curriculum of the degree programs delivered online by OSU Ecampus. The OSU Bacc Core list identifies courses that will work for each core subject area. It may be more efficient to take courses equivalent to those on the Bacc Core list than completing the full AAOT. Please consult the major requirements for your program of interest as well to determine other courses you could take before transferring. Use the course articulation tables and course search tool listed above to check how courses may transfer. Additional credit opportunities Credit opportunities are available for military personnel and for credit by examination, including Advanced Placement (AP), College-Level Examination Program (CLEP), and International Baccalaureate (IB) exams. Quarter-semester credits converter Enter a number of credits in either text box. Click "Convert" to calculate. quarter credits semester credits Questions? If you have any questions regarding transfer information, send us an email at ecampus@oregonstate.edu or call 800-667-1465 Monday through Friday between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. PT. Features and Navigation Academic calendar Currently it's spring term. See academic calendar for our quarter term schedule. Summer term starts June 20. Fall term starts Sept. 21. About Ecampus Oregon State at a Glance Explore Ecampus Offerings Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Transfer Credit Information Paying for College How Classes Are Delivered Student Success Team Serving America's Military Top-ranked in the Nation Our Mission and Values Learn More About Ecampus Students Ecampus Faculty Ecampus Courses Stay Connected In the News Contact Us Online Giving Ranked top 10 in the nation OSU Ecampus earned a top 10 ranking for the eighth year in a row on a list of America's best online bachelor's programs. Learn more » Ask Ecampus Find answers to your questions. Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204