Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info MarketingB.A. or B.S. Credits required 180 Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 180 quarter credits are equal to 120 semester credits.* Cost per credit $370 Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses.† Delivery Online You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum.‡ Start terms 4 per year Overview | Curriculum | Specializations | International Online | Careers | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Overview Curriculum Specializations International Online Careers Tuition & Fees Contact Us B.A./B.S. in Marketing – Online Overview | Curriculum | Specializations | International Online | Careers | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Build successful brands using sound marketing insights The need to understand consumer behavior is increasingly important as businesses everywhere try to reach diverse audiences and build a strong brand. That’s where marketing comes into play. And when you earn your marketing bachelor’s degree online from Oregon State University, you’ll become immersed in the science of consumers, product and communication. Gain the expertise and knowledge that are needed to develop and implement forward-thinking business strategies as you learn about market research, consumer behavior and more. You’ll also pick up technical marketing skills and take part in leadership training that will make you a valuable asset to small companies, nonprofits and large corporations alike. This program is offered by Oregon State's AACSB-accredited College of Business, and it is delivered by OSU Ecampus, a national leader in online education. Oregon State Ecampus delivers a variety of degree programs online that are focused business and communications. Explore similar programs. Join the nation’s #4 ranked program Oregon State is a national leader in online education, and here’s one piece of evidence: Based on academic quality, this program is ranked No. 4 in the country by U.S. News & World Report in the category of Best Online Bachelor’s in Business Programs. Pick a marketing focus that matches your goals Once you become an Oregon State student, you’ll customize your degree plan by selecting one of these four specializations: Consumer insights Marketing and digital communications Marketing management Professional sales and personal selling Learn more about each specialization on the marketing curriculum webpage. Benefits of learning online with Oregon State All classes are developed by OSU's world-class faculty, who are known for their research, expertise and innovation. Oregon State is regionally accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities. Oregon State Ecampus is consistently ranked among the nation’s 10 best providers of online education according to U.S. News & World Report. OSU Ecampus students receive the same diploma as on-campus students. Get the support you need Our goal is to help you succeed. That’s why, as an OSU Ecampus student, you’ll have access to vital resources like success coaching, library services, free online tutoring and career guidance – making your online learning experience collaborative and rewarding. Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Degree details Credits required * 180 Cost per credit † $370 Delivery ‡ Online Start terms 4 per year * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 180 quarter credits are equal to 120 semester credits. † Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses. ‡ You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum. Find application deadline Choose student type... First-year student Transfer student Postbaccalaureate student Nondegree-seeking student International student Unsure (Describe student types...) Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Compare degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related stories Oregon State ranked #4 for best online business bachelor’s degrees Oregon State ranked #4 for best online business bachelor’s degrees Oregon State delivers seven business bachelor’s degree programs online, and according to U.S. News & World Report, they are among the very best in the nation. The 2022 list of Best Online Bachelor’s in Business Programs ranks OSU Ecampus No. 4 overall,... Behind the scenes with Nikki Brown, business and marketing instructor Behind the scenes with Nikki Brown, business and marketing instructor There should have been no doubt that Nikki Brown's career would revolve around business. Her childhood was marked by one clever business venture after another. From lemonade stands to selling lottery tickets (seriously), she was a one-kid start-up machine. Now she is an expert on... 7 insights from an Ecampus student turned entrepreneur 7 insights from an Ecampus student turned entrepreneur OSU Ecampus graduate-turned-entrepreneur Hannah Thelen shares her seven best tips on how to start a small business as a student, while doing well in school and more. Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204