Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info College and University TeachingGraduate Certificate Credits required 18 Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 18 quarter credits are equal to 12 semester credits.* Cost per credit $560 Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses.† Delivery Online You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum.‡ Start terms 3 per year Overview | Curriculum | Careers | Faculty | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Overview Curriculum Careers Faculty Admissions Tuition & Fees Contact Us Graduate Certificate in College and University Teaching – Online Overview | Curriculum | Careers | Faculty | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us You can start in fall, winter or spring term. Apply at least four weeks prior to your intended start date. Reach the next level in higher ed instruction Oregon State University's online Graduate Certificate in College and University Teaching is designed for individuals who want to develop or enhance their instructional and facilitation skills in higher education and related settings. Build your career in higher education Adding graduate-level teaching credentials to your résumé or CV is a meaningful way to distinguish yourself when pursuing a career in higher education or another adult education setting. Faculty-instructors This certificate can help you stand out as you seek to attain a new position as a faculty member or aid you in bolstering your existing skills for purposes of improving teaching effectiveness. Graduate students Graduate-level teaching credits will help you differentiate yourself when competing for highly sought GTA or GRA positions, applying for external funding, and taking the next steps in your professional career. Student services professionals Demonstrable skills in designing high-quality, co-curricular learning experiences will make you more effective in your role and help you emerge as a leader among your peers. Professionals transitioning to higher education Developing instructional skills can help you transfer your professional experience and knowledge into a higher education setting. 18-credit certificate online Courses in this certificate program are developed by the OSU Graduate School. They are delivered online by Oregon State Ecampus – a national leader in distance education – and match the quality and rigor of OSU's campus-based courses. This curriculum is designed to meet you at your current level of knowledge and help you develop or advance your teaching abilities. Apply to take courses as a nondegree-seeking student If you're not yet sure you want to pursue the full Graduate Certificate in College and University Teaching but are interested in taking individual classes that are part of the graduate certificate curriculum, you may apply to OSU as a nondegree-seeking graduate student. Please note that you may complete no more than 9 credits of certificate coursework prior to being formally admitted. Benefits of an Oregon State University online certificate program All classes are developed by Oregon State's world-class faculty, who are known worldwide for their research, expertise and innovation. OSU is regionally accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities. Online students receive the same credits as on-campus students, and credits transfer to most higher education institutions. Students can complete their courses from anywhere in the world with an internet connection. This is not a certification program The GCCUT is a graduate certificate, which can be thought of as an 18-credit university credential. The certificate is not a form of official certification or licensure to legally practice teaching, neither of which is required in post-secondary education. Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates These are the start dates for OSU’s next two terms. However, this program only admits for fall, winter and spring terms. Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Degree details Credits required * 18 Cost per credit † $560 Delivery ‡ Online Start terms 3 per year * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 18 quarter credits are equal to 12 semester credits. † Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses. ‡ You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum. Find application deadline Choose student type... Graduate student Nondegree-seeking student International student Unsure (Describe student types...) Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Explore degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related stories Oregon State counseling Ph.D. student earns $20,000 national fellowship award Oregon State counseling Ph.D. student earns $20,000 national fellowship award Daniel Cisneros, a student in Oregon State’s Ph.D. in Counseling online program, has been awarded a $20,000 counseling fellowship from the National Board for Certified Counselors Foundation to aid his research efforts and professional work that focus on serving LGBTQ+ and other... Military spouse juggles full-time job, relocation and a family while earning a master’s degree long-distance Military spouse juggles full-time job, relocation and a family while earning a master’s degree long-distance Robin Webster knew she wanted to earn a master's degree. But she had a full-time job, is the mother of two daughters, and, as a military spouse, had to move to a new part of the country every couple of years. She found Oregon State... Behind the scenes with Kok-Mun Ng, Counseling Academic Unit program chair Behind the scenes with Kok-Mun Ng, Counseling Academic Unit program chair Kok-Mun Ng believes that a counselor never stops learning. As the Counseling Academic Unit program chair and a professor of counseling education, he has modeled constant growth for Oregon State students since 2013. Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204