Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Master of Natural ResourcesM.N.R. Credits required 45 Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 45 quarter credits are equal to 30 semester credits.* Cost per credit $560 Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses.† Delivery Online You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum.‡ Start terms 3 per year Overview | Curriculum | Careers | Admissions | Advising | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Overview Curriculum Careers Admissions Advising Tuition & Fees Contact Us Master of Natural Resources – Online Overview | Curriculum | Careers | Admissions | Advising | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Solutions for complex issues The Oregon State University Master of Natural Resources program is an interdisciplinary program designed for natural resources professionals. This 45-credit MNR program is delivered entirely online through Oregon State Ecampus – a nationally ranked provider of distance education. Oregon State Ecampus delivers a variety of graduate degree and certificate programs online focused on conservation and natural sciences. Explore similar programs. Learning online in Oregon State’s Master of Natural Resources enabled Joe Peters and other Native American students to introduce Native teachings that were respected and embraced by faculty and peers. Read more about Joe » You will develop the analytical and problem-solving skills needed to provide workable solutions for complex natural resources challenges. And you’ll learn how to balance competing economic, health and environmental interests. Engage with leading scientists and professionals Your Master of Natural Resources degree carries the prestige of Oregon State University, which is recognized nationally for its natural resources programs. This program taps the minds of world-class scientists from 12 departments within the colleges of Agricultural Sciences; Forestry; Science; Liberal Arts; and Earth, Ocean and Atmospheric Sciences. Graduate certificate pathway to MNR Justin Zweifel applied credits earned from his water conflict management graduate certificate toward his MNR degree. Oregon State provides a pathway toward earning your MNR degree through seven graduate certificates – all delivered online. If you choose the certificate pathway, the credits you earn may meet your area of emphasis requirement within the MNR program. Fisheries management Forests and climate change Geographic information science (GIScience) Sustainable natural resources Urban forestry Water conflict management and transformation Wildlife management Earning a graduate certificate can help you “test the waters” before committing to the master’s program. In addition, becoming an admitted student in one of these graduate certificate programs allows you to: Connect with faculty who can potentially serve as your MNR advisor Apply for a change of degree at no cost Smoothly transition into the MNR program as a currently admitted student Meet the preferred requirement for natural resources-related work or volunteer experience Students planning to use credits from a graduate certificate towards a master’s degree should discuss transfer credit policies with an advisor in advance. Please note: It’s important that you apply to change your degree program to MNR while you’re a current student in good standing in your graduate certificate program. It is also important that you wait to take MNR core classes until after you apply to change your degree program to MNR. Visit the Master of Natural Resources admissions page for details. Accelerated Master’s Platform for undergrad students Oregon State’s Accelerated Master’s Platform allows current undergraduate natural resources students to take graduate-level courses online that will be applied to their bachelor’s degree, and the credits earned will be transferred to the Master of Natural Resources program. Earn graduate credits and apply them to both degrees as a student in the AMP program. Undergraduate students enrolled in Ecampus graduate courses will pay the graduate tuition and fees rate. Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates These are the start dates for OSU’s next two terms. However, this program only admits for fall, winter and spring terms. Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Degree details Credits required * 45 Cost per credit † $560 Delivery ‡ Online Start terms 3 per year * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 45 quarter credits are equal to 30 semester credits. † Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses. ‡ You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum. Find application deadline Choose student type... Graduate student Nondegree-seeking student International student Unsure (Describe student types...) Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Explore degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related stories Oregon State Everywhere: Geospatial technology, natural resources make a perfect pair online Oregon State Everywhere: Geospatial technology, natural resources make a perfect pair online I was not a typical grad student. For years I've wanted to go back to school and get my master's degree, but due to a number of life circumstances it just didn't happen. Then, when I was about to turn 50 (yes, 50!) the opportunity... A Native American tribal voice in a global online classroom A Native American tribal voice in a global online classroom After earning a graduate certificate online with OSU Ecampus, Joe Peters enrolled in OSU's Master of Natural Resources degree program. The Class of 2019 graduate says the online program became an opportunity for him to advance his career and offer a local Native American perspective... Behind the Scenes with Dave Stemper, forest ecosystems & society instructor Behind the Scenes with Dave Stemper, forest ecosystems & society instructor Whether presenting at a conference, developing an open education resource, coordinating an environmental summer camp for youth, or instructing Oregon State students online and on campus, Dave Stemper’s deep-rooted environmental scholarship has been passed on widely to help shape a thoughtful new generation of... Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204