Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Students Menu Students Newly Admitted Newly Admitted Students Undergraduate Students Readmitted Students Graduate Students Nondegree Students Online Orientation Registration Registration Step-by-Step Registration Registration Handbook Starting Your Course Checklist Changing Registration Grading Options Academic Calendar Student ServicesServices Student Services Exam Proctoring Student Success Coaching Resources Student Resources Success Coaching OSU Libraries Exam Proctoring Online Tutoring Technical Help Ecampus Career Hub Disability Access Services Military Students & Veterans Forms Policies and Forms Exams and Proctoring Form Military/VA Forms Academic Calendar Graduation Information Tools MyOregonState Canvas G Suite OSU Mobile App Contact Contact Student Services Contact Exam Proctoring Find Success Coach Ask Ecampus Overview Hybrid Learning FAQ Programs in Portland Classes in Portland Explore Ecampus Have a question? Search for answers in the Ask Ecampus knowledge base. Find answers » Learning in Portland Overview | Hybrid Learning FAQ | Programs in Portland | Classes in Portland Oregon State University’s expanded presence in Portland means expanded opportunities to meet the needs of current students like you. The OSU Portland Center at Pioneer Square is home to engaging, hybrid learning experiences that blend the best of online and face-to-face education. Here is important information for current Oregon State students who are interested in taking advantage of the on-site opportunities in downtown PDX. How to get to OSU Portland Center Oregon State's new home in the City of Roses is conveniently located in the middle of everything, located in the historic Meier & Frank Building and right across from Pioneer Square. The OSU Portland Center at Pioneer Square is at a cross section of four MAX Light Rail lines with plenty of available parking nearby. Browse a map of the surrounding area and read about some of the main features of the OSU building. How hybrid learning works To help you gain a better understanding of the hybrid learning experience as a student at the OSU Portland Center at Pioneer Square, please review these frequently asked questions and answers. OSU ID card To comply with building security policies at the OSU Portland Center, it is required for MBA students and strongly recommended for undergraduate students to obtain an OSU ID card that has a proximity ID (five digits on the back of the OSU ID, lower right-hand side). This ID is required to access the building after 6 p.m., to display as requested by security personnel, and will be used to access bike storage and lockers. After fall term 2018, OSU ID cards will be required for ALL students (undergrad and MBA). To get your OSU ID with a proximity ID, please submit this online request form. Your student account will be charged $25 and your ID card will be mailed to you. For help or questions, please contact the OSU ID Center directly at 541-737-2493. Required immunizations Portland Center students who are degree-seeking and participating in at least one or more classes in person per week are expected to fulfill Oregon State University's immunization requirements. COVID-19 (by September 15, 2021): If you have questions about the policy, check the OSU COVID-19 immunization website or contact the immunization coordinator in OSU's Student Health Services at 541-737-7573 or via email. MMR (measles, mumps, and rubella) if born after Dec. 31 1957: Dates for 2 doses Tdap (tetanus, diphtheria, and pertussis): Date for one dose since 2005 Varicella (chicken pox): Dates for two doses or the date of disease Hepatitis B: Dates for three doses or the date of disease Meningococcal MCV4 (meningococcal A, C, Y, W): Required for students age 21 and under only; date for one dose of MCV4, received on or after turning age 16. Note: Students attending classes on the Corvallis campus are also required to have a separate meningococcal B vaccine. And while not required, we also strongly recommend that all students get their annual flu shot. It is likely you have had many of these vaccines, and if not, they are available through your primary care provider or CCO (if on the Oregon Health Plan), most pharmacies, and the county health department. These vaccines are fully covered by insurance if given by an in-network provider and through the Oregon Health Plan. If you do not have insurance, the county health department may be able to assist you. Staff at OSU's Student Health Services are available to assist you with any questions related to this requirement, including an approved waiver process that is available for medical and non-medical exemptions. Please call 541-737-7573 for assistance, including the waiver process. IMPORTANT: Documentation of immunizations or immunity must be submitted to Student Health Services in the first term you attend classes in person at the Portland Center in order to avoid a registration hold. Your immunization information may be submitted online on the Student Health Services Portal by choosing "Medical Clearances" in the left toolbar. You can disregard the Health History, Meningococcal B, and TB Screening Form tabs. You can also submit your documentation to Student Health Services by fax to 541-737-9665; by regular mail to OSU Immunization Coordinator, 201 Plageman Building, Corvallis, OR 97331; or by email (in a scanned document) to immunizations@oregonstate.edu. Registering for classes Browse a list of all courses delivered on-site at the OSU Portland Center. You can register for your courses using OSU's general catalog. To search, just change the campus option to PDX to find classes only offered in Portland. Then will follow these steps to register. International students In order to comply with Department of Homeland Security policies, international students on F1 or J1 visa’s are not allowed at this time to take hybrid classes nor be admitted to take hybrid classes offered at the OSU Portland Center. Oregon State is working through proper channels to gain approval and aims to update this policy within the upcoming year. Additional resources As an Oregon State PDX student, you'll have access to a variety of face-to-face services in Portland as well as resources provided online by the OSU Ecampus Student Success Team. These services include free tutoring, a dynamic learning community, and student success coaching. Questions? We're here to help The Ecampus Student Success Team is partnering with contacts in your academic program to provide a solid support system throughout your studies. If you have any questions, contact us at ecampus.ess@oregonstate.edu or 800-667-1465 (option 1). Features and Navigation Academic calendar Currently it's spring term. See academic calendar for our quarter term schedule. Summer term starts June 20. Fall term starts Sept. 21. OSU Ecampus earned a top 10 ranking for the eighth year in a row on a list of America's best online bachelor's programs. Learn more » Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204