Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Master of Science in Nutrition - Professional DieteticsMS-PD Credits required 49-50 Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 49-50 quarter credits are equal to 32.67-33.33 semester credits.* Cost per credit $560 Please view the College of Public Health MS-PD tuition information for a breakdown of all program-related fees.† Delivery Hybrid You can complete this program in a hybrid format that requires one year of online coursework and one year of a site-based internship in Oregon. View the curriculum.‡ Start term Fall Overview | Curriculum | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Overview Curriculum Admissions Tuition & Fees Contact Us Master of Science in Nutrition - Professional Dietetics Overview | Curriculum | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Become an RDN and solve problems with advanced practice and research skills Gain a cutting-edge understanding of contemporary issues in nutrition and learn to apply these concepts to human health as a student in Oregon State University’s M.S. in Nutrition – Professional Dietetics program. Through a blend of online coursework and a site-based internship, this MS-PD program will put you on a path toward becoming a registered dietitian nutritionist who can serve and support diverse patient populations. Oregon residency requirement This nutrition master’s program requires students to reside in Oregon for dietetic internship rotations in year two of the program. Learn more about the rotations on the College of Public Health and Human Sciences website. As a graduate of Oregon State’s College of Public Health and Human Sciences, you’ll be able to apply advanced nutrition practice and research skills in practice in a variety of settings, including long-term care, senior nutrition care and primary care as well as food service and community-based practice and organizations. Online + on-site This is a 22-month, continuous graduate degree program with Oregon site-based dietetic internship rotations. In year one, you will take your courses online, delivered through nationally ranked Oregon State Ecampus. In year two, you will take part in site-based internship rotations in Oregon while taking additional courses and completing a capstone research project. An accredited program that meets national standards Oregon State’s MS-PD program is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Education in Nutrition and Dietetics of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. This program also meets the Commission for Dietetics Registration eligibility, which states that after 2024, you must have a graduate degree to take the national RDN credential exam. Benefits of learning online with Oregon State All classes are developed by OSU's world-class faculty, who are renowned for their research, expertise and innovation. Oregon State is regionally accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities. OSU Ecampus students receive the same diploma as on-campus students. Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates These are the start dates for OSU’s next two terms. However, this program only admits for fall term. Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Degree details Credits required * 49-50 Cost per credit † $560 Delivery ‡ Hybrid Start term Fall * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 49-50 quarter credits are equal to 32.67-33.33 semester credits. † Please view the College of Public Health MS-PD tuition information for a breakdown of all program-related fees. ‡ You can complete this program in a hybrid format that requires one year of online coursework and one year of a site-based internship in Oregon. View the curriculum. Find application deadline Choose student type... Graduate student Nondegree-seeking student International student Unsure (Describe student types...) Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Explore degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related stories Careers in the field of psychology ‘booming’ with the help of technology Careers in the field of psychology ‘booming’ with the help of technology Our lives are often made better because of technological advances and the ways in which we interact with computers. This is increasingly true in the field of psychology, one in which industry professionals and the people who benefit from psychological services use technology to conduct... 6 reasons to earn a degree in kinesiology online with Oregon State 6 reasons to earn a degree in kinesiology online with Oregon State Students graduating from our program go on to diverse careers, most of which have a direct relationship to human health. This is a growing appreciation for the role of physical activity as a component of a healthy lifestyle and a need for health care professionals... OER at Work: Expanding access to learning on all fronts OER at Work: Expanding access to learning on all fronts For a number of years, Oregon State assistant professor Marit Bovbjerg grew increasingly frustrated with the traditional textbook options for her introductory epidemiology courses. Then, a solution. “I wrote one myself,” she says. Now she's an OER Champion in the state of Oregon for her... Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204