Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info University Exploratory Studies ProgramUndeclared Major Credits required N/A Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. * Cost per credit $346 Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses.† Delivery Online You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum.‡ Start terms 4 per year Overview | Decision Process | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Overview Decision Process Tuition & Fees Contact Us University Exploratory Studies Program (UESP) Overview | Decision Process | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Choosing a major is a tough decision Deciding what degree and career path you want to pursue isn't easy. And it's especially difficult when you're looking at investing your time and financial resources in a specific major. You need to understand yourself and what makes you the happiest. And you need to know what kind of career will make you jump out of bed each morning, eager to go to work. The University Exploratory Studies Program (UESP) at Oregon State is designed specifically for students like you. The key word is "explore." UESP provides an academic home for students who want to explore options for a major while working on baccalaureate requirements. How UESP works While UESP is not a degree-granting major, we are similar to OSU's academic departments in that we provide support to ensure that you are making satisfactory progress toward a degree. We provide comprehensive advising services to help you choose courses that will help you start building an academic foundation. Regardless of their major, all Oregon State students are required to complete 51 credits of OSU Baccalaureate Core (general education) requirements. We help you get started on core requirements and explore your options through: individual advising consultations assistance with choosing a major and other academic counseling help with understanding OSU's academic policies and regulations making connections with academic college advising offices assessing career goals in relation to interests, skills and values Enrolling in UESP has an added benefit. You are eligible to apply for financial aid because you are a degree-seeking student. Who UESP is for UESP is for Ecampus students who are serious about completing their degree online but are unsure which major they want to pursue. Our primary goal is to guide you through an intentional exploration process where you get the information and feedback you need to make an informed decision about a major. UESP advisors are very invested in guiding you through a successful exploration experience. We promote frequent advisor-advisee contact as you consider which academic pathway best fits your interests, values and abilities. You can't stay undeclared forever Our success is your success. That means helping you find what you're good at, what you're passionate about and getting you into a major that will help you achieve your goals. We do not put an official time limit on how long students can stay in the program, but the goal is to get you connected with a major in a timely fashion. In other words, we are designed to be a temporary home for you while you engage in intentional exploration of majors. Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Program details Credits required * N/A Cost per credit † $346 Delivery ‡ Online Start terms 4 per year * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. † Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses. ‡ You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum. Find application deadline Choose student type... First-year student Transfer student Postbaccalaureate student Nondegree-seeking student International student Unsure (Describe student types...) Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Compare degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related stories When disaster strikes When disaster strikes We both started crying hysterically, unsure of what buildings were still standing. I immediately wanted to go over and help with boarding up windows to brace for the storm that was supposed to hit – but thankfully didn't – on Saturday," says Ecampus student Kalli Swanson. Kalli's... Learn online with Oregon State and receive unmatched student support Learn online with Oregon State and receive unmatched student support Without the constant support of her academic advisor, Ashley Hatleberg said she would have quit school. It’s as simple as that. But while pursuing her natural resources degree online with Oregon State, quitting was never a real option. That’s because her academic advisor... What is instructional design? An inside look at Oregon State’s online certificate What is instructional design? An inside look at Oregon State’s online certificate Oregon State is a national leader in developing online courses and programs. And OSU's expertise is benefiting a new generation of education professionals through its online Graduate Certificate in Instructional Design. It’s a 20-credit, hands-on program that teaches students how to thoughtfully construct material... Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204