Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Political ScienceB.A. or B.S. Credits required 180 Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 180 quarter credits are equal to 120 semester credits.* Cost per credit $346 Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses.† Delivery Online You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum.‡ Start terms 4 per year Overview | Curriculum | Careers | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Overview Curriculum Careers Tuition & Fees Contact Us B.A./B.S. in Political Science – Online Overview | Curriculum | Careers | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us The study of politics and power Oregon State University's political science program investigates the stories behind the news headlines and teaches you skills to make up your own mind about the politics of laws that affect everyday issues. You will learn to think critically, write clearly and speak persuasively on diverse issues such as: assisted suicide, international terrorism, campaign finance, government involvement in health care and censorship. This degree program is offered through OSU's College of Liberal Arts, which is ranked No. 1 in the nation for best online liberal arts colleges. The courses are delivered online by OSU Ecampus. Oregon State Ecampus delivers a variety of degree programs online that are focused on the social sciences. Explore similar programs. Earn a degree that gives you options in the job market Associate professor Christopher Stout says OSU's political science students gain the skills to start a career and “bring a new perspective to understanding politics.” Read more » Earning a bachelor's degree in political science opens opportunities in a wide variety of career fields. Political science majors at Oregon State have gone on to hold jobs as intelligence analysts, legal assistants, journalists, elections coordinators and many of our students have used their political science degree as a stepping stone toward graduate or law school. Benefits of learning online with Oregon State All classes are developed by OSU's world-class faculty, who are known worldwide for their research, expertise and innovation. Oregon State is regionally accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities. Oregon State Ecampus is consistently ranked among the nation's 10 best providers of online education according to U.S. News & World Report. OSU Ecampus students receive the same diploma as on-campus students. Get the support you need Our goal is to help you succeed. That’s why, as an OSU Ecampus student, you’ll have access to vital resources like success coaching, library services, free online tutoring and career guidance – making your online learning experience collaborative and rewarding. Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Degree details Credits required * 180 Cost per credit † $346 Delivery ‡ Online Start terms 4 per year * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 180 quarter credits are equal to 120 semester credits. † Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses. ‡ You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum. Find application deadline Choose student type... First-year student Transfer student Postbaccalaureate student Nondegree-seeking student International student Unsure (Describe student types...) Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Compare degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related stories Oregon State University ranked #1 for Best Online Liberal Arts Colleges Oregon State University ranked #1 for Best Online Liberal Arts Colleges Oregon State is the best university in the nation when it comes to delivering a high-quality liberal arts education online, according to a newly published ranking. College Choice put Oregon State atop its list of the 25 Best Online Liberal Arts Colleges. OSU offers more... New era in politics creates a demand for political science graduates New era in politics creates a demand for political science graduates There are so many more jobs in politics now than there has been in recent history. When (our students) graduate, they don't just have the critical thinking skills, they also have the applied skills to go out and get some of these jobs and bring... Online political science program offers ‘roadmap’ to understand behavior patterns Online political science program offers ‘roadmap’ to understand behavior patterns Interest in politics – the people, the policies, the inner workings of government – seems to be at an all-time high. The 2018 U.S. midterm elections saw record-setting voter turnout, and current global issues are captivating citizens from all corners of the map. And Oregon State... Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204