Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Preview online learning at Oregon State Get a sneak peek at what it's like to learn online with Oregon State Ecampus. Watch course demo trailer Online course multimedia showcase Virtual microscope lab Ecampus biology students meet the same learning outcomes in a virtual lab that uses 3D animation to simulate a compound microscope and its controls. Featured in BI 204 Say hello to Learning Glass Some lectures are just better than others. Using innovative “lightboard” technology, statistics instructor Katie Jager presents complex information in a vibrant way. Featured in ST 314 Pinpoint history on a map Students in this activity identify various historically relevant locations related to Spanish and Portuguese conquests on an interactive map of Latin America. Featured in REL/HST 350 Talking business with Nike Oregon State’s online business students frequently benefit from watching video interviews with industry experts, like this one with a senior-level Nike employee. Featured in BA 290 Augmented Reality Sandbox Aided by a sandbox and sleek technology, students view a dynamic topographical map to grasp the concept of how water flows through landscapes and more. Featured in HORT 285 The animated Mongol army How did the Mongols rise to power in the 13th century to become one of the most successful armies ever? This awesome, two-minute animation provides details. Featured in HST 340 Video: Meet your instructor You’ll hear from your instructors early and often because Ecampus courses are designed to be engaging. Here’s one faculty member’s illuminating intro. Featured in HHS 513 A virtual field trip on a boat Tour an estuary on an OSU research vessel to learn how to collect samples and examine them in a lab. The video is much like an in-person tour, minus seasickness. Featured in FW/OC 534 OSU makes waves, tsunamis Oregon State’s wave lab is the largest of its kind in the U.S., used to test how waves hit land structures and how they produce energy that can benefit global societies. Featured in PPOL 441 Dynamic political timeline Science and politics both lend themselves to historical timelines, and this particular design presents information in a visually rich slideshow. Featured in PS 476 The forest is your classroom Powered by virtual reality, this activity takes students into the forest to click on items in order to gather puzzle pieces and learn about woody debris. Featured in FES 430 Take a Spanish quiz Learning a new language takes practice and instant feedback on your progress. Spanish and other OSU language students receive both through interactive quizzes. Featured in SPAN 113 Towers of social inequality This simulation on social inequality lets students see how life differs for families who belong to different social classes but all live in the same fictional building. Featured in SOC 426 Animal sciences animation The pesky botfly negatively affects a horse’s health. In an animated video, students learn how the insect does its damage plus treatment/prevention tips. Featured in ANS 335 Show more samples Tour our online classroom Leaders in multimedia and course development Oregon State Ecampus is home to national award-winning multimedia developers and instructional designers. Augmented reality: behind the scenes Oregon State faculty and Ecampus multimedia developers go to great lengths to create hands-on learning experiences online. These augmented reality projects put analyzable 3D specimens in the hands of students no matter where they live, creating a dynamic learning environment worldwide. Watch video Ranked #5 in the nation Oregon State Ecampus is ranked top 10 in the nation for the eighth straight year by U.S. News & World Report. Learn more » We're here to help Whether you're a working professional, stay-at-home parent, serving in the military or simply looking to finish what you started, our rigorous, engaging online degree and course offerings can help you move forward in life. And it starts right here. Request information Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204