Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Human Development and Family SciencesB.S. Credits required 180 Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 180 quarter credits are equal to 120 semester credits.* Cost per credit $346 Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses.† Delivery Online You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum.‡ Start terms 4 per year Overview | Curriculum | Careers | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Overview Curriculum Careers Tuition & Fees Contact Us B.S. in Human Development and Family Sciences – Online Overview | Curriculum | Careers | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Embrace your passion for helping others Experience matters. And Oregon State University's College of Public Health and Human Sciences has a legacy of more than 100 years of ensuring health and well-being for people across the lifespan — in the United States and beyond. Taniah Johnson, a U.S. Air Force veteran, says the HDFS degree she earned online has given her "the tools to help people remove roadblocks in their lives to get them where they want to go.” Be part of a rewarding career that empowers individuals, families and communities to survive and thrive. HDFS majors explore how individuals develop and become resilient over time — particularly within the contexts of family, school, work, community and society. By honoring the unique experiences of individuals and families from diverse backgrounds, HDFS majors learn to engage in culturally responsive practices that promote human dignity and social justice. This degree program is offered by OSU's College of Public Health and Human Sciences and is delivered online by OSU Ecampus. The CPHHS is accredited by the Council on Education for Public Health (CEPH). Oregon State Ecampus delivers a variety of degree programs online that are focused on health and social sciences. Explore similar programs. Benefits of learning online with Oregon State All classes are developed by OSU's world-class faculty, who are known for their research, expertise and innovation. Oregon State is regionally accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities. Oregon State Ecampus is consistently ranked among the nation's 10 best providers of online education according to U.S. News & World Report. OSU Ecampus students receive the same diploma as on-campus students. Get the support you need Our goal is to help you succeed. That’s why, as an OSU Ecampus student, you’ll have access to vital resources like success coaching, library services, free online tutoring and career guidance – making your online learning experience collaborative and rewarding. Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Degree details Credits required * 180 Cost per credit † $346 Delivery ‡ Online Start terms 4 per year * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 180 quarter credits are equal to 120 semester credits. † Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses. ‡ You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum. Find application deadline Choose student type... First-year student Transfer student Postbaccalaureate student Nondegree-seeking student International student Unsure (Describe student types...) Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Compare degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related stories Former NFL standout Steven Jackson creates greater diversity for a stronger OSU Former NFL standout Steven Jackson creates greater diversity for a stronger OSU Former Oregon State and NFL running back Steven Jackson — who now serves as an OSU Foundation Trustee and on the advisory board for OSU’s director of athletics — made a gift to create the Jackson Family Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Fund. It aims to help... Life comes full circle for OSU football legend, graduate Jacquizz Rodgers Life comes full circle for OSU football legend, graduate Jacquizz Rodgers Jacquizz Rodgers is one of the most beloved and accomplished sports figures in Oregon State history. Since he arrived on OSU’s Corvallis campus in 2008, he has piled up the accolades: NCAA All-American, Pac-10 Offensive Player of the Year, workhorse NFL running back. And... With her diploma in hand, military veteran puts self-doubt to rest With her diploma in hand, military veteran puts self-doubt to rest Taniah Johnson didn’t think she was smart enough for college. Just the thought of applying to learn online with Oregon State University Ecampus intimidated her. But she had something to prove – to herself and everyone else. Now she’s an Oregon State graduate, active... Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204