Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Public PolicyMaster or Executive Master of Public Policy Credits required 62 or 45 Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 62 or 45 quarter credits are equal to 41.33 or 30 semester credits.* Cost per credit $560 Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses.† Delivery Online You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the MPP curriculum or the EMPP curriculum.‡ Start terms 4 per year Overview | Concentrations | MPP Curriculum | EMPP Curriculum | Careers | Faculty | MPP Admissions | EMPP Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Overview Concentrations MPP Curriculum EMPP Curriculum Careers Faculty MPP Admissions EMPP Admissions Tuition & Fees Contact Us Master of Public Policy – Online Overview | Concentrations | MPP Curriculum | EMPP Curriculum | Careers | Faculty | MPP Admissions | EMPP Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Become a policy leader for the 21st century When social, economic and environmental issues arise, policymakers are the first to step into the fray. Oregon State University’s Master of Public Policy (MPP) and Executive Master of Public Policy (EMPP) online degree programs will provide you with the skills and knowledge needed to be successful in policy career fields. Fire chief Bob Horton is able to apply what he learns online in the Executive Master of Public Policy program directly to his work serving his local community. Read Bob's story » The discipline of policy is closely connected to the practice of policy design, implementation, and assessment. As a student in one of these interdisciplinary programs housed at a leading research university, you'll learn to integrate groundbreaking science into emerging policies and practices that will impact and influence local, regional and international policy decisions. Master of Public Policy The 62-credit MPP program is designed for careers in domestic or international organizations, and is beneficial for: Professionals seeking career advancement Professionals transitioning from the private sector to public service Recent graduates wanting to pursue policy careers Executive Master of Public Policy Strengthen your foothold as a policy practitioner and gain the knowledge that will help you transition from the private sector to public service by earning your Executive Master of Public Policy (EMPP) degree online from Oregon State. Tailored for mid-career professionals, this 45-credit program is shorter than the MPP offering because it takes into account your status as a practitioner with 5+ years in the public and nonprofit sectors. Quality, rigorous programs Oregon State’s MPP program is accredited by the Network of Schools of Public Policy, Affairs, and Administration (NASPAA), the global standard in public service education. The MPP and EMPP programs are proud to be members of the Public Policy and International Affairs Consortium (PPIA) to work collaboratively on promoting the inclusion and full participation of underrepresented groups in public service. These programs are offered by Oregon State’s School of Public Policy and delivered online by OSU Ecampus. Benefits of earning your degree online from Oregon State All classes are developed by Oregon State's renowned faculty, who are known worldwide for their research, expertise and innovation. Oregon State is regionally accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities. OSU's online students receive the same diploma and transcript as on-campus students. Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Degree details Credits required * 62 or 45 Cost per credit † $560 Delivery ‡ Online Start terms 4 per year * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 62 or 45 quarter credits are equal to 41.33 or 30 semester credits. † Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses. ‡ You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the MPP curriculum or the EMPP curriculum. Find application deadline Choose student type... Graduate student Nondegree-seeking student International student Unsure (Describe student types...) Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Explore degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related programs Public Policy B.S. Forests and Climate Change Graduate Certificate Public Health Graduate Certificate Related stories Oregon State University ranked #1 for Best Online Liberal Arts Colleges Oregon State University ranked #1 for Best Online Liberal Arts Colleges Oregon State is the best university in the nation when it comes to delivering a high-quality liberal arts education online, according to a newly published ranking. College Choice put Oregon State atop its list of the 25 Best Online Liberal Arts Colleges. OSU offers more... Oregon State Everywhere: Public policy rekindles Army vet’s passion for service Oregon State Everywhere: Public policy rekindles Army vet’s passion for service I was motivated to persist in my studies and motivated to graduate by a desire to get back into the workforce and serve in a capacity developing meaningful policies to address real-world problems. I know Oregon State program provided me the tools to do this." –... Fire chief finds his fit in Oregon State’s online Executive Master of Public Policy program Fire chief finds his fit in Oregon State’s online Executive Master of Public Policy program Bob Horton, a student in Oregon State's Executive Master of Public Policy program, says OSU Ecampus “makes a deliberate effort to provide inclusion opportunities” for online students. “It absolutely makes the experience more personal. It is palpable how committed the School of Public Policy faculty... Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204