Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Sustainable Natural ResourcesGraduate Certificate Credits required 18 Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 18 quarter credits are equal to 12 semester credits.* Cost per credit $560 Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses.† Delivery Online You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum.‡ Start terms 3 per year Overview | Curriculum | Careers | Faculty | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Overview Curriculum Careers Faculty Admissions Tuition & Fees Contact Us Graduate Certificate in Sustainable Natural Resources – Online Overview | Curriculum | Careers | Faculty | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Search for innovative solutions to global issues Earn your Graduate Certificate in Sustainable Natural Resources from Oregon State University, a research institution renowned for its expertise in natural resources. This 18-credit online certificate is designed for all students, especially company, industry or agency employees who desire training in solving complex sustainability problems. You'll complete an integrated course of study in a dynamic learning community under the mentorship of professionals to design workable solutions for complex natural resource issues of local, national and international importance. Oregon State Ecampus delivers a variety of graduate degree and certificate programs online focused on conservation and natural sciences. Explore similar programs. Apply your graduate certificate toward a master’s degree The specialized knowledge you gain through the sustainable natural resources graduate certificate program can serve as a pathway to Oregon State’s 45-credit Master of Natural Resources (MNR) program online. The 18 credits you earn may satisfy your area of emphasis requirement for MNR, and you’ll have the opportunity to: Connect with faculty who can potentially serve as your MNR advisor Apply for a change of degree at no cost Smoothly transition into the MNR program as a currently admitted student Meet the preferred requirement for natural resources-related work or volunteer experience Students planning to use credits from a graduate certificate towards a master’s degree should discuss transfer credit policies with an advisor in advance. Please note: It’s important that you apply to change your degree program to MNR while you’re a current student in good standing in your graduate certificate program. It is also important that you wait to take MNR core classes until after you apply to change your degree program to MNR. Visit the Master of Natural Resources admissions page for details. Benefits of learning online with Oregon State All classes are developed by Oregon State's renowned faculty, who are known worldwide for their research, expertise and innovation. Oregon State is regionally accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities. OSU's College of Forestry, which offers this online program, is recognized as a world-class leader in the industry, ranking ninth in a 2015 international survey of more than 3,000 universities. Oregon State is a member of the Natural Resources Distance Learning Consortium (NRDLC), which includes seven universities that work together to deliver more than 300 courses online to agency professionals. Students who study online receive the same transcript as OSU's on-campus students. Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates These are the start dates for OSU’s next two terms. However, this program only admits for fall, winter and spring terms. Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Degree details Credits required * 18 Cost per credit † $560 Delivery ‡ Online Start terms 3 per year * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 18 quarter credits are equal to 12 semester credits. † Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses. ‡ You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum. Find application deadline Choose student type... Graduate student Nondegree-seeking student International student Unsure (Describe student types...) Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Explore degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related stories Oregon State Everywhere: Geospatial technology, natural resources make a perfect pair online Oregon State Everywhere: Geospatial technology, natural resources make a perfect pair online I was not a typical grad student. For years I've wanted to go back to school and get my master's degree, but due to a number of life circumstances it just didn't happen. Then, when I was about to turn 50 (yes, 50!) the opportunity... Winning on the water and in the online classroom Winning on the water and in the online classroom Fiona Wylde needed a rigorous degree program that would allow her to further her education while offering the flexibility to sustain her career as a world champion stand-up paddleboarder and windsurfer. She found everything she needed online with Oregon State. A biological, cultural approach to conservation begins at home – and online A biological, cultural approach to conservation begins at home – and online Cayla "La" Crivello wanted to find a way to impact her community without having to leave it. What she found was Oregon State University Ecampus and an environmental sciences degree that she could complete without having to leave Hawai'i. And now? She's engaging with her... Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204