Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info News Menu Ecampus News AboutAbout About For Journalists All StoriesStories All Ecampus Ecampus OER Ecampus Research Unit Ecampus StoriesEcampus All Students Faculty & Advisors Graduation Staff Military Research Unit Videos In the NewsPress In the News Press Releases Awards Distance learning, remote working bring a new mom’s tech dreams closer Ravonne Byrd, a graduate of Princeton, is now working toward a postbaccaluareate degree in computer science online with Oregon State while raising a family on the East Coast. (Photos by Jayana LaFountaine) An online search led Ravonne Byrd to Oregon State’s online postbaccalaureate computer science program, which turned out to be the perfect fit for her By Nick Houtman OSU College of Engineering Ravonne Byrd’s school is in Corvallis, although her home is much closer to Albany — not the one just up the road, but that other Albany — about 3,000 miles away, in New York. A student in the popular postbaccalaureate computer science online degree program offered through Oregon State Ecampus, Byrd also worked for one year with the College of Engineering’s Center for Applied Systems and Software in a telecommuting role. She was almost 30, with a bachelor’s degree in religious studies from Princeton University, when she decided to change course. After college, she had worked with migrant farm laborers and survivors of domestic abuse. But, she came to realize, she wasn’t cut out for that kind of work. Then she recalled how she had enjoyed writing code for a statistics assignment in college, so she decided to attend a local web development boot camp. She knew the transition to technology would be difficult, but she couldn’t envision how she would navigate to a new job. In the midst of it all, she got married and became pregnant. Self-doubt set in. Was it too late for someone like her to start a career in technology? She was breaking the stereotype of the “tech bro” — young, male, and white. Friends from college had already parlayed their computer science degrees into lucrative jobs at Google and Twitter. “Did my time pass? I had a child. There was a lot of uncertainty, and I did a lot of crying,” she said. Byrd’s experience in computer science, both as a student and a software developer, have yielded valuable lessons. “A lot of people think tech is not for them,” she said. “There are barriers — things to overcome — whether you’re Black or white. People in their 30s and 40s might think they can’t do that. That’s not true.” While the boot camp didn’t lead to a job, Byrd persisted, studying on her own — at times cradling a nursing child in one arm and a software manual in the other. She checked into academic programs closer to home, but they required either in-person attendance (meaning costly child care) or an undergraduate computer science degree. Even with the full support of her husband, neither option would work for her. An online search led her to Oregon State’s postbacc online degree program, which turned out to be the perfect fit. In addition to learning a full suite of skills, she’d be joining a large community of students, many with circumstances similar to her own. Byrd later applied for a job with the Center for Applied Systems and Software. In opening up the position to Ecampus students, the search committee had taken location off the table, said Carrie Hertel, director of the software development group and test lab at CASS. “When we hired Ravonne, she shined just like any other student we’d be interviewing,” Hertel said. Byrd was the first student to work on a fully remote basis. She remembers feeling proud of her preparation during the application process. She was asked about concepts she had studied as she was breastfeeding her son, things like object-oriented programming and relational databases. “I think persistence is a big part of being a software engineer, because you need to keep going until you find the answers or how you can solve a problem,” Byrd said. “Being able to see that, even when I couldn’t see the outcome, I kept studying when I felt hopeless. It does my heart good now that I know I have that persistence in me.” Working across time zones was initially a concern, but it was not a problem. Byrd maintained a close working relationship with her CASS co-workers, Hertel said. And being able to work from home was a game-changer for Byrd. She contributed to projects in Oregon for the U.S. Department of Agriculture and the Oregon Department of Transportation. “The people at CASS are kind, knowledgeable mentors,” Byrd said. “I feel supported as a future engineer and a remote software development intern. It has also been doable for me, to juggle and center my responsibilities as a wife and mother. It’s been energizing to do all of this.” Buoyed by her own success, Byrd encourages others, particularly new moms, to consider the benefits of a technology career. “A lot of people think tech is not for them. There are barriers — things to overcome — whether you’re Black or white. People in their 30s and 40s might think they can’t do that,” she said. “That’s not true. “You can make a career switch and have an immediate effect on your children’s future. That’s a powerful thing, as a mother. I’ve definitely cried out of happiness.” Byrd plans to graduate in 2023. Learn more about the various computer science programs delivered online by Oregon State Ecampus. Explore programs Share this: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) Related May 13, 2022 Tyler Hansen Categories: All Stories, Ecampus, Ecampus Students, Features Tags: College of Engineering, Computer Science, Feature 1, School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science | Comments Leave a Reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Notify me of follow-up comments by email. Notify me of new posts by email. Δ Post navigation ← OSU faculty, staff to receive awards from Ecampus for dedication to student experience Oregon State Everywhere: Geospatial technology, natural resources make a perfect pair online → Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details about our online programs and course offerings. Request info Gather information about OSU Ecampus, our history, students and programs. 90+ programs Explore all of Oregon State’s online offerings. Stories archive Search for: Subscribe Receive notifications of new story posts by email. Email address Subscribe Share your story Are you an Oregon State Ecampus grad? Inspire current and prospective students with your story. Are you a current Oregon State Ecampus student? Share your OSU journey. Recent stories Corporate education combats the great resignation Now at Harvard, Oregon State online grad still “over the moon” with religious studies Oregon State Everywhere: Geospatial technology, natural resources make a perfect pair online Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204