Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Students Menu Students Newly Admitted Newly Admitted Students Undergraduate Students Readmitted Students Graduate Students Nondegree Students Online Orientation Registration Registration Step-by-Step Registration Registration Handbook Starting Your Course Checklist Changing Registration Grading Options Academic Calendar Student ServicesServices Student Services Exam Proctoring Student Success Coaching Resources Student Resources Success Coaching OSU Libraries Exam Proctoring Online Tutoring Technical Help Ecampus Career Hub Disability Access Services Military Students & Veterans Forms Policies and Forms Exams and Proctoring Form Military/VA Forms Academic Calendar Graduation Information Tools MyOregonState Canvas G Suite OSU Mobile App Contact Contact Student Services Contact Exam Proctoring Find Success Coach Ask Ecampus Overview State Authorization Complaint Resolution Licensure Disclosure Ecampus fact 1,600+ classes online Explore all of Oregon State’s online course offerings. Search schedule » Print Home  ›  Student Success  ›  Authorization and Compliance Authorization and Compliance Overview | State Authorization | Complaint Resolution | Licensure Disclosure Overview Online and distance education is an important part of Oregon State University's program offerings, with many students participating in federal financial aid. Recent amendments to the Higher Education Act of 1965 include changes in regulation for State Authorization that may impact online education providers. The relevant language includes: If an institution is offering postsecondary education to students in a State in which it is not physically located or in which it is otherwise subject to State jurisdiction as determined by the State, the institution must meet any State requirements for it to be legally offering postsecondary online education in that State. An institution must be able to document to the Secretary the State's approval upon request. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1001 and 1002) States authorizations Oregon State Ecampus cooperates fully with the Department of Education and States' agencies to comply with required authorizations so that we can continue to provide educational access to students across the country. We are evaluating and working to comply with these various requirements and will provide up-to-date information when available. Authorizations by state Complaint resolution The University recognizes the importance of providing an opportunity for appeal for students from decisions made by student governing groups, University administrators, committees, and faculty and staff. Particular care is taken to provide safeguards for students in any action which significantly alters their status at the University, e.g. changes their living situation, prohibits them from participating in certain activities, suspends them from the institution, significantly affects their academic standing. Basic appeal procedures are summarized in the Oregon Administrative Rules. Any questions regarding appeal procedures should be directed to the individual department or committee involved or to the Office of the Dean of Students (200 Kerr Administration Building). Furthermore, in compliance with the language passed in the Higher Education Opportunities Act of 2008, the U.S. Department of Education (USDOE) conducted a Negotiated Rule Making Process in 2010, institutions offering education must provide enrolled and prospective students with contact information for filing complaints with its accrediting agency and with the appropriate state agency for handling complaints in the student's state. Below is information on Oregon State University's accreditation agency, followed by a state-by-state list the agencies in each state responsible for complaints regarding out-of-state online education programs. Complaint resolution contacts by state Licensure disclosures In compliance with the U.S. Department of Education and the Oregon Higher Education Coordinating Commission (HECC) for participation in the National Council-State Authorization Reciprocity Agreement (NC-SARA), Oregon State University (OSU) provides information regarding professional licensure/certification within the U.S. states/territories. Licensure disclosures by program Oregon State University accreditation Oregon State University is regionally accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities (NWCCU). The Oregon State Board of Higher Education has authorized the University to offer undergraduate and graduate level certificates, baccalaureate, masters, doctorate, and first professional degrees. Information regarding complaint process can be found on the NWCCU website. Oregon State degree programs and courses are not accredited outside the U.S. More information WCET summary of requirements WCET has compiled a summary of what states and institutions need to do to meet the new Federal Regulations. For additional assistance pertaining to OSU Ecampus authorization and compliance, please contact Shannon Riggs, executive director of academic programs and learning innovation. Features and Navigation Academic calendar Currently it's spring term. See academic calendar for our quarter term schedule. Summer term starts June 20. Fall term starts Sept. 21. Student services Current Students Newly Admitted Students Returning Students Tuition & Financial Aid Registration Starting Your Course Student Services Student Success Coaching Student Resources Policies & Forms Tools Learning in Portland MyOregonState Access your student account. Canvas Access your Ecampus courses. G Suite Access your email and more. Student stories Read about student experiences. OSU Ecampus earned a top 10 ranking for the eighth year in a row on a list of America's best online bachelor's programs. Learn more » Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204