Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Leading and Creating ChangeGraduate Certificate Credits required 18 Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 18 quarter credits are equal to 12 semester credits.* Cost per credit $560 Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses.† Delivery Online You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum.‡ Start terms 4 per year Overview | Curriculum | Careers | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Overview Curriculum Careers Admissions Tuition & Fees Contact Us Graduate Certificate in Leading and Creating Change – Online Overview | Curriculum | Careers | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Develop leadership skills to transform the world around you In a society faced with challenges both local and far-reaching, there is a need for leaders who excel at initiating and managing sustainable, community-focused transformation. By earning a Graduate Certificate in Leading and Creating Change online with Oregon State University, you can develop professional leadership skills that are valued by organizations that share your vision for social, organizational and environmental health and justice. This 18-credit certificate is offered online by Oregon State’s College of Agricultural Sciences, which is known nationally for producing forward-thinking leaders who go out there into the world to create meaningful change in their local communities and beyond. As an Oregon State student, you’ll learn how to lead and create change through practical methods, tools and theories in a program that is uniquely informed by OSU’s institutional values of diversity, equity, inclusion and justice. Learn from faculty who can impart broad knowledge and application The interdisciplinary nature of the certificate curriculum makes the leading and creating change program ideal for professionals in a wide range of career fields, experiences and backgrounds. It is especially well-suited for those who work in a natural science field such as agriculture, natural resource management, conservation and sustainability due to the program faculty’s unique experience in transformational leadership in these and other industries. Benefits of learning online with Oregon State All classes are developed and taught by OSU's world-class faculty, who are renowned for their research, expertise and innovation. Oregon State is regionally accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities. Oregon State Ecampus is consistently ranked among the nation’s 10 best providers of online education according to U.S. News & World Report. OSU is regarded as a worldwide leader in agricultural education, ranking in the top 20 in a 2021 international survey of more than 3,000 universities. OSU Ecampus students receive the same certificate and transcript as on-campus students. Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Degree details Credits required * 18 Cost per credit † $560 Delivery ‡ Online Start terms 4 per year * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 18 quarter credits are equal to 12 semester credits. † Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses. ‡ You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum. Find application deadline Choose student type... Graduate student Nondegree-seeking student International student Unsure (Describe student types...) Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Explore degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related stories Careers in the field of psychology ‘booming’ with the help of technology Careers in the field of psychology ‘booming’ with the help of technology Our lives are often made better because of technological advances and the ways in which we interact with computers. This is increasingly true in the field of psychology, one in which industry professionals and the people who benefit from psychological services use technology to conduct... 6 reasons to earn a degree in kinesiology online with Oregon State 6 reasons to earn a degree in kinesiology online with Oregon State Students graduating from our program go on to diverse careers, most of which have a direct relationship to human health. This is a growing appreciation for the role of physical activity as a component of a healthy lifestyle and a need for health care professionals... OER at Work: Expanding access to learning on all fronts OER at Work: Expanding access to learning on all fronts For a number of years, Oregon State assistant professor Marit Bovbjerg grew increasingly frustrated with the traditional textbook options for her introductory epidemiology courses. Then, a solution. “I wrote one myself,” she says. Now she's an OER Champion in the state of Oregon for her... Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204