Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Dual Language Education / ESOLGraduate Certificates Credits required 21 or 18 Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 21 or 18 quarter credits are equal to 14 or 12 semester credits.* Cost per credit $560 Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses.† Delivery Online You can complete all or nearly all requirements of these programs online. View the DLE curriculum or the ESOL curriculum.‡ Start terms 2 per year Overview | ESOL Curriculum | DLE Curriculum | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Overview ESOL Curriculum DLE Curriculum Admissions Tuition & Fees Contact Us Graduate Certificates in Dual Language Education / ESOL – Online Overview | ESOL Curriculum | DLE Curriculum | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us We understand the uncertainty around COVID-19 and the current status of our hybrid Ecampus programs. Please know we are committed to your academic success and personal safety. Contact the College of Education directly with any questions or concerns you have about this Ecampus program. Lead English learners to language success You can meet the diverse linguistic needs of Oregon’s rapidly changing K-12 student population by earning a Graduate Certificate in Dual Language Education or a Graduate Certificate in English for Speakers of Other Languages online from Oregon State University. Designed primarily for people in Oregon with a valid K-12 teaching license, each of these online certificate programs gives time- and place-bound teachers access to graduate-level education while remaining in their current jobs. As someone who is dedicated to social justice, you are well-suited to earn a certificate and use the knowledge to make a positive difference in the lives and communities of English learners. These programs are offered online by Oregon State’s College of Education. Scholarship for teaching English learners and dual language students Earn a scholarship and become an expert in ESOL and/or Dual Language. Make a positive difference in the lives of English learners and bilingual students. Learn more » DLE certificate The dual language education program will enable you to teach a form of bilingual education in which Spanish speaking students who are not yet fluent in English learn alongside English-proficient peers, becoming bilingual and biliterate while also learning grade-level content. Read more details on the DLE curriculum page. ESOL certificate The ESOL program focuses on helping you learn how to effectively work with dual language students and those who are learning English as an additional language. Read more details on the ESOL curriculum page. What’s the difference? The primary difference between the two programs is that you must be fluent in Spanish, with upper level Spanish literacy skills, to enroll in the DLE program. A note for out-of-state licensed teachers If you have a teaching license outside of Oregon, you may take Oregon State's DLE or ESOL coursework online. However, the final course in the sequence (a practicum-based internship experience) must be completed in the state of Oregon. In addition, you must have an Oregon teaching license to add the ESOL endorsement or dual language specialization. Teachers with restricted or emergency licenses are not eligible to add the ESOL endorsement or dual language specialization until a preliminary license is in place. Benefits of learning online with Oregon State All classes are developed and taught by the same world-class OSU graduate faculty who teach on campus. You don’t have to pay the OSU Graduate School application fee or matriculation fees when applying for either of these certificates. Oregon State is regionally accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities. Oregon State Ecampus is consistently ranked among the nation’s 10 best providers of online education by U.S. News & World Report. OSU Ecampus students receive the same certificate and transcript as on-campus students. NOTE: The U.S. Department of Education has approved these certificates for federal financial aid eligibility as part of a full degree program, but not as independent certificate programs. Alternate funding sources (e.g. loans, private funds) may be required to cover the costs associated with these programs. Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates These are the start dates for OSU’s next two terms. However, this program only admits for fall and summer terms. Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Degree details Credits required * 21 or 18 Cost per credit † $560 Delivery ‡ Online Start terms 2 per year * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 21 or 18 quarter credits are equal to 14 or 12 semester credits. † Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses. ‡ You can complete all or nearly all requirements of these programs online. View the DLE curriculum or the ESOL curriculum. Application deadline View all application deadlines on our admissions page. Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Explore degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related stories New $2.5 million grant will support training for Oregon teachers of English learners New $2.5 million grant will support training for Oregon teachers of English learners OSU’s College of Education will provide training for up to 80 Oregon teachers who work with students learning English under a new $2.5 million federal grant. Oregon State counseling Ph.D. student earns $20,000 national fellowship award Oregon State counseling Ph.D. student earns $20,000 national fellowship award Daniel Cisneros, a student in Oregon State’s Ph.D. in Counseling online program, has been awarded a $20,000 counseling fellowship from the National Board for Certified Counselors Foundation to aid his research efforts and professional work that focus on serving LGBTQ+ and other... Military spouse juggles full-time job, relocation and a family while earning a master’s degree long-distance Military spouse juggles full-time job, relocation and a family while earning a master’s degree long-distance Robin Webster knew she wanted to earn a master's degree. But she had a full-time job, is the mother of two daughters, and, as a military spouse, had to move to a new part of the country every couple of years. She found Oregon State... Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204