Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Wildlife ManagementGraduate Certificate Credits required 18 Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 18 quarter credits are equal to 12 semester credits.* Cost per credit $560 Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses.† Delivery Online You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum.‡ Start terms 3 per year Overview | Curriculum | Careers | Faculty | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Overview Curriculum Careers Faculty Admissions Tuition & Fees Contact Us Graduate Certificate in Wildlife Management – Online Overview | Curriculum | Careers | Faculty | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Get hands-on to ensure the well-being of wildlife Oregon State's wildlife management graduate certificate prepares you to identify effective solutions to complex wildlife management challenges. You'll gain the knowledge needed to handle many different local, national and international issues in the management of wildlife resources. This is a flexible program, with a large number of courses that can be tailored to fit your interests. Courses are taught by OSU's faculty and delivered online through Ecampus – a national leader in online education. The wildlife management graduate certificate will benefit you in three ways: Prepare you to apply to graduate school in a similar discipline. Provide advancement in your current position as a wildlife professional. Provide graduate coursework that can contribute to your qualifications for agency employment or certification by professional societies. Oregon State Ecampus delivers a variety of graduate degree and certificate programs online focused on conservation and natural sciences. Explore similar programs. Learn from a nationally recognized program The Department of Fisheries, Wildlife, and Conservation Sciences is part of OSU's College of Agricultural Sciences, which is recognized as a world-class leader in the industry. The college ranks in the top 25 out of more than 3,000 universities in a 2018 international survey. Apply your graduate certificate toward a master’s degree The specialized knowledge you gain through the wildlife management graduate certificate program can serve as a pathway to Oregon State’s 45-credit online Professional Science Master's in Fisheries and Wildlife Administration (PSMFWA) degree or the online Master of Natural Resources (MNR) degree program. Credits earned while completing your graduate certificate may be applied to either master's degree Connect with faculty who can potentially serve as your major professor for the master's program Apply to a subsequent master's program at no cost Smoothly transition into the MNR program as a currently admitted student Students planning to use credits from a graduate certificate towards a master’s degree should discuss transfer credit policies with an advisor in advance. Benefits of learning online with Oregon State All classes are developed by Oregon State faculty who are known worldwide for their research, expertise and innovation in natural resources and science fields. OSU is regionally accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities. Online students receive the same transcripts as on-campus students, and credits transfer to most higher education institutions. Oregon State is considered America's natural resources university and recognized internationally for its research. Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates These are the start dates for OSU’s next two terms. However, this program only admits for fall, winter and spring terms. Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Degree details Credits required * 18 Cost per credit † $560 Delivery ‡ Online Start terms 3 per year * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 18 quarter credits are equal to 12 semester credits. † Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses. ‡ You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum. Find application deadline Choose student type... Graduate student Nondegree-seeking student International student Unsure (Describe student types...) Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Explore degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related stories Investing in the future of online education Investing in the future of online education Who better to help make recommendations about online education than students actually enrolled in the programs? Oregon State’s resounding answer: no one. With their eyes on the emergent future of online learning, Ecampus faculty and students are leaving their mark as members of the... Oregon State Everywhere: Geospatial technology, natural resources make a perfect pair online Oregon State Everywhere: Geospatial technology, natural resources make a perfect pair online I was not a typical grad student. For years I've wanted to go back to school and get my master's degree, but due to a number of life circumstances it just didn't happen. Then, when I was about to turn 50 (yes, 50!) the opportunity... Winning on the water and in the online classroom Winning on the water and in the online classroom Fiona Wylde needed a rigorous degree program that would allow her to further her education while offering the flexibility to sustain her career as a world champion stand-up paddleboarder and windsurfer. She found everything she needed online with Oregon State. Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204