Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Clinical Mental Health CounselingM.Coun. Credits required 90 Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 90 quarter credits are equal to 60 semester credits.* Cost per credit $590 Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses.† Delivery Hybrid You can complete this program in a hybrid format that blends online coursework with in-person classes held periodically in Wilsonville, Oregon. View the curriculum.‡ Start term Summer Overview | Curriculum | Faculty | Careers | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Overview Curriculum Faculty Careers Admissions Tuition & Fees Contact Us Master of Counseling: Clinical Mental Health Counseling Overview | Curriculum | Faculty | Careers | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us We understand the uncertainty around COVID-19 and the current status of our hybrid Ecampus programs. Please know we are committed to your academic success and personal safety. Contact the program department directly with any questions or concerns you have about this Ecampus program. Be a helper to those in need Oregon State University's part-time 90-credit Master of Counseling (M.Coun.) program with an option in Clinical Mental Health Counseling is designed for Oregon and Washington residents and provides you the theory and practice to deliver professional counseling services in a community-based organization, hospital, agency, group practice, residential facility or other clinical mental health setting. The program is taught by Oregon State's College of Education counseling faculty who are renowned for their research and professional practice. With identical coursework to the successful on-campus program at OSU-Cascades, this hybrid format expands OSU’s regional reach to further human health and wellness in urban and rural Oregon and beyond. OSU counseling honored for LGBTGEQIAP+ awareness Oregon State received the 2022 Counseling Program award from the Society for Sexual, Affectional, Intersex, and Gender Expansive Identities. The award is presented to programs that demonstrate a commitment to the promotion of LGBTGEQIAP+ awareness and affirmation. Read more » The clinical mental health counseling option emphasizes academic excellence, competence in counseling skills and personal growth. The collaborative cohort teaching model creates an environment in which students form strong bonds as they progress through the advanced coursework together and enter the workforce. Flexible hybrid learning format This part-time program is ideal if you need flexibility in your schedule. Coursework is delivered in a hybrid format, with 50% of the instruction conducted online and 50% in face-to-face classroom meetings, held twice a term in Wilsonville, Oregon. During fall, winter and spring terms, classroom meetings will be held the second and ninth weekends (Friday and Saturday). During summer term, the meetings will be held the first and seventh weekends (Friday and Saturday). The course sequence enables you to finish your degree in a minimum of three and a half years. CACREP accredited The program is approved by the Council for Accreditation of Counseling and Related Educational Programs (CACREP). This accreditation allows you to gain competence in counseling knowledge and skills, personal growth, and development of a professional counselor identity and dispositions. The program meets initial eligibility requirements for licensure as a licensed professional counselor in Oregon and in many other states (please consult your state licensure board for specific academic and experiential requirements). Being a graduate of a CACREP program means you can be confident you received a high-quality, well-rounded education and may provide you with a competitive career advantage and a greater chance for acceptance into a doctoral program in counseling. Make a difference This program prepares you with high-level knowledge, clinical experience and credentials to work in a variety of settings, such as community counseling agencies, rehabilitation facilities, college counseling centers, primary care facilities, veterans’ affairs, and private practice offices. You will develop skills to successfully: Deliver comprehensive mental health counseling services focused on children, adolescents, adults and families Make a profound difference in someone’s life Promote holistic wellness, healthy relationships and social justice in a diverse society Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates These are the start dates for OSU’s next two terms. However, this program only admits for summer term. Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Degree details Credits required * 90 Cost per credit † $590 Delivery ‡ Hybrid Start term Summer * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 90 quarter credits are equal to 60 semester credits. † Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses. ‡ You can complete this program in a hybrid format that blends online coursework with in-person classes held periodically in Wilsonville, Oregon. View the curriculum. Application deadline Apply by Jan. 1. All admitted students will begin the program in summer term each year. Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Explore degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related stories Investing in the future of online education Investing in the future of online education Who better to help make recommendations about online education than students actually enrolled in the programs? Oregon State’s resounding answer: no one. With their eyes on the emergent future of online learning, Ecampus faculty and students are leaving their mark as members of the... Behind the scenes with Kok-Mun Ng, Counseling Academic Unit program chair Behind the scenes with Kok-Mun Ng, Counseling Academic Unit program chair Kok-Mun Ng believes that a counselor never stops learning. As the Counseling Academic Unit program chair and a professor of counseling education, he has modeled constant growth for Oregon State students since 2013. 100 years of making an impact 100 years of making an impact One hundred years. A full century. That’s how long Oregon State University has made a commitment to training students to become world-class counselors who make a positive difference in the lives of others. Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204