Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Adult and Higher EducationEd.D. Credits required 108* Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. * Cost per credit $590 Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses.† Delivery Hybrid You can complete this program in a hybrid format that blends online coursework with in-person classes held periodically in Portland, Oregon. View the curriculum.‡ Start term Fall Overview | Curriculum | Careers | Faculty | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Overview Curriculum Careers Faculty Admissions Tuition & Fees Contact Us Ed.D. in Adult and Higher Education Overview | Curriculum | Careers | Faculty | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us We understand the uncertainty around COVID-19 and the current status of our hybrid Ecampus programs. Please know we are committed to your academic success and personal safety. Contact the program department directly with any questions or concerns you have about this Ecampus program. Go further in higher education Oregon State University's Doctorate of Education (Ed.D.) program in Adult and Higher Education prepares post-secondary education professionals for leadership roles in four-year universities, community colleges and similar institutions. Veronica Garcia was told college wasn’t for her. Four degrees later, she’s the president of one. Read more » Effective leadership is a combination of management, vision and commitment to the mission of higher education institutions. This degree program, offered by Oregon State University's College of Education and delivered through OSU Ecampus, is grounded in the university's commitment to developing tomorrow’s leaders with the principle that leadership can be learned and enhanced. The Adult and Higher Education (AHE) Ed.D. degree program has a newly updated curriculum. The coursework includes a series of research, leadership and content expertise courses, which are intended to provide you with the knowledge you need to take the next steps in your professional career. Face-to-face cohort meetings During the first two years of this program, you will meet and study with a learning cohort both in person and online. Classes are held two weekends per term at Oregon State’s downtown Portland classroom building. As a member of an active learning community, you’ll collaborate with working professionals in higher education settings from Oregon, Washington, California and many other states. Sharing real-world experiences and insights is integral to degree excellence and builds lasting relationships that continue throughout your career. Ph.D. designation The Ph.D. degree is undergoing curriculum revisions and upon approval will be a full-time, Corvallis-based program. To qualify for this highly competitive designation, you must have a research-oriented career goal, and must demonstrate your ability to contribute to a specific faculty member's research activities. Read more » Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates These are the start dates for OSU’s next two terms. However, this program only admits for fall term. Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Degree details Credits required * 108* Cost per credit † $590 Delivery ‡ Hybrid Start term Fall * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. † Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses. ‡ You can complete this program in a hybrid format that blends online coursework with in-person classes held periodically in Portland, Oregon. View the curriculum. Application deadline Apply by June 1. All admitted students will begin the program in fall term each year. Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Explore degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related stories Military spouse juggles full-time job, relocation and a family while earning a master’s degree long-distance Military spouse juggles full-time job, relocation and a family while earning a master’s degree long-distance Robin Webster knew she wanted to earn a master's degree. But she had a full-time job, is the mother of two daughters, and, as a military spouse, had to move to a new part of the country every couple of years. She found Oregon State... Veronica Garcia was told college wasn’t for her. Four degrees later, she’s the president of one. Veronica Garcia was told college wasn’t for her. Four degrees later, she’s the president of one. As the newly hired president of Northeast Lakeview College, a community college in San Antonio, Texas, Veronica is on a mission to help as many people as possible find a path to a college education. She doesn’t want anyone to believe they can’t. Oregon State counseling Ph.D. student earns $20,000 national fellowship award Oregon State counseling Ph.D. student earns $20,000 national fellowship award Daniel Cisneros, a student in Oregon State’s Ph.D. in Counseling online program, has been awarded a $20,000 counseling fellowship from the National Board for Certified Counselors Foundation to aid his research efforts and professional work that focus on serving LGBTQ+ and other... Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204