Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info News Menu Ecampus News AboutAbout About For Journalists All StoriesStories All Ecampus Ecampus OER Ecampus Research Unit Ecampus StoriesEcampus All Students Faculty & Advisors Graduation Staff Military Research Unit Videos In the NewsPress In the News Press Releases Awards Ecampus Faculty OSU faculty, staff to receive awards from Ecampus for dedication to student experience May 5, 2022 Carly Johansen The 2022 Ecampus Awards celebrate OSU faculty and staff excellence and commitment to student success through superior online experiences. Categories: Awards, Ecampus Faculty, Ecampus Staff Tags: College of Agricultural Sciences, College of Business, College of Education, College of Engineering, College of Liberal Arts, College of Public Health and Human Sciences, College of Science, Ecampus Awards, Feature 2, Quality Matters | Comments What is instructional design? An inside look at Oregon State’s online certificate April 18, 2022 Tyler Hansen Oregon State is a national leader in developing online courses and programs. And OSU’s expertise is benefiting a new generation of education professionals through its online Graduate Certificate in Instructional Design. It’s a 20-credit, hands-on program that teaches students how to thoughtfully construct material to help guide a student’s learning from start to finish. Categories: All Stories, Ecampus, Ecampus Faculty, Features Tags: College of Education, instructional design | Comments Careers in the field of psychology ‘booming’ with the help of technology December 1, 2021 Tyler Hansen Our lives are often made better because of technological advances and the ways in which we interact with computers. This is increasingly true in the field of psychology, one in which industry professionals and the people who benefit from psychological services use technology to conduct business and communicate. Categories: All Stories, Ecampus, Ecampus Faculty Tags: College of Liberal Arts, Health and Social Sciences, psychology, User experience research | Comments Providing support comes second to understanding the needs of Indigenous students August 25, 2021 Carly Johansen Through Dr. Samantha Chisholm Hatfield’s own rigorous education and personal experience, she’s helped build a support network for Oregon State’s Indigenous students. And she serves as a point of connection for those students, including those who may never meet her in person because she knows how essential that feeling of belonging can be to student success. Categories: All Stories, Ecampus, Ecampus Faculty, Features Tags: College of Agricultural Sciences, Conservation and natural sciences, Tribal Communities | Comments 6 reasons to earn a degree in kinesiology online with Oregon State June 21, 2021 Tyler Hansen “Students graduating from our program go on to diverse careers, most of which have a direct relationship to human health. This is a growing appreciation for the role of physical activity as a component of a healthy lifestyle and a need for health care professionals who can help to address our many public health challenges.” Categories: All Stories, Ecampus, Ecampus Faculty, Features Tags: College of Public Health and Human Sciences, Health and Social Sciences, Kinesiology, Online degrees, Online Education | Comments OER at Work: Expanding access to learning on all fronts June 10, 2021 Tyler Hansen For a number of years, Oregon State assistant professor Marit Bovbjerg grew increasingly frustrated with the traditional textbook options for her introductory epidemiology courses. Then, a solution. “I wrote one myself,” she says. Now she’s an OER Champion in the state of Oregon for her impressive efforts. Categories: All Stories, Ecampus, Ecampus Faculty, Ecampus OER, Features Tags: Health and Social Sciences, OER at Work, Oregon State Open Educational Resources Unit | Comments OSU Ecampus honors faculty, staff for commitment to online learning and students May 5, 2021 Carly Johansen The Oregon State Ecampus Awards showcase OSU Ecampus faculty and staff commitment to online education, student success and course development. Through innovation, iteration and integrity, these Ecampus partners take on life’s biggest challenge: shaping this world’s future through education. Categories: All Stories, Awards, Ecampus Faculty, Ecampus Staff, Videos Tags: Academic Advising, College of Agricultural Sciences, College of Business, College of Engineering, College of Forestry, College of Liberal Arts, Computer Science, Ecampus Awards, Faculty Forum, Online Education, Quality Matters, Student success | Comments OER at Work: Open textbook is ‘a much more interactive resource’ April 21, 2021 Tyler Hansen John Selker is a distinguished professor in Oregon State’s Department of Biological and Ecological Engineering. He and an international colleague are tapping into the wealth of open educational resources through OSU Libraries. Learn about the process, benefits and challenges of implementing OER in his course. Categories: All Stories, Ecampus, Ecampus Faculty, Ecampus OER, Features Tags: Biological and ecological engineering, College of Agricultural Sciences, College of Engineering, OER at Work, Oregon State Open Educational Resources Unit | Comments Oregon State’s GIScience online certificate is an entirely hands-on experience April 19, 2021 Tyler Hansen GIScience integrates geographical features with data to map and analyze real-world problems. This technology is everywhere in the world around us, and it’s driving the high demand for professionals with spatial analysis skills. And that demand is why Oregon State now offers an Undergraduate Certificate in Geographic Information Science online. Categories: All Stories, Ecampus, Ecampus Faculty, Features Tags: College of Earth Ocean and Atmospheric Sciences, Geographic Information Science, Online Education, Online Learning | Comments Earn an economics degree online and learn from real-world economists February 18, 2021 Tyler Hansen Oregon State offers an economics bachelor’s degree online through OSU Ecampus, and having Ph.D. instructors like Taylor Rhodes on the faculty is one of the program’s many benefits. It means students learn from faculty who have immense firsthand knowledge of how economics course concepts are applied in the real world. Categories: All Stories, Ecampus, Ecampus Faculty, Features Tags: College of Liberal Arts, Economics, Health and Social Sciences, Online Education, Online Learning | Comments Posts navigation ← older Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details about our online programs and course offerings. Request info Gather information about OSU Ecampus, our history, students and programs. 90+ programs Explore all of Oregon State’s online offerings. Stories archive Search for: Subscribe Receive notifications of new story posts by email. Email address Subscribe Share your story Are you an Oregon State Ecampus grad? Inspire current and prospective students with your story. Are you a current Oregon State Ecampus student? Share your OSU journey. Recent stories Corporate education combats the great resignation Now at Harvard, Oregon State online grad still “over the moon” with religious studies Oregon State Everywhere: Geospatial technology, natural resources make a perfect pair online Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204