Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Medical HumanitiesUndergraduate Certificate Credits required 27 Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 27 quarter credits are equal to 18 semester credits.* Cost per credit $346 Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses.† Delivery Online You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum.‡ Start terms 4 per year Overview | Certificate Curriculum | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us | About Undergraduate Certificates Overview Certificate Curriculum Tuition & Fees Contact Us About Undergraduate Certificates Medical Humanities – Online Undergraduate Certificate Overview | Certificate Curriculum | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us | About Undergraduate Certificates Help guide the health care conversation Oregon State's undergraduate certificate in medical humanities, delivered online through Oregon State Ecampus, is a multidisciplinary program that focuses on the study of health, medicine and the healing professions. The certificate program emphasizes professional development focused on “the art of healing” by developing skills in professional identity, reflective writing, cultural competency and diversity as a complement to the scientific features of the healing professions. By completing the certificate, you will develop knowledge and experience that will prepare you to: Empathize with the sufferings of others Reflect critically on medical knowledge and discourse Create new representations of the medical experience Confront moral, psychological and ethical dilemmas Coursework The medical humanities certificate consists of 27 credits and centers on key courses including: Medical anthropology Literature and medicine Medical history Philosophical courses in disability studies, medical ethics, and death and dying Visit Oregon State's academic catalog for curriculum details and certificate requirements. Prerequisites You may need to complete additional coursework prior to enrolling in this program and taking the required certificate courses. This could mean completing 3 or more additional credits, depending on your individual educational background as it relates to the program requirements. We recommend that you evaluate this prior to applying for admission. My health humanities training from Oregon State has changed my approach to medicine because I understand the importance of communication in bridging the cultural gap and paying attention to patients' understanding of their own health so I can better serve them and build trusting doctor-patient relationships. – Jamie Faulkner, Oregon State biology graduate with a medical humanities certificate Benefits of learning online with Oregon State All classes are developed by OSU's world-class faculty, who are known worldwide for their expertise, research and innovation. Oregon State is regionally accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities. OSU Ecampus students receive the same transcript-visible certificate as on-campus students. NOTE: The U.S. Department of Education has approved this certificate for federal financial aid eligibility as part of a full degree program, but not as an independent certificate program. Alternate funding sources (e.g. loans, private funds) may be required to cover the costs associated with this program. Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Degree details Credits required * 27 Cost per credit † $346 Delivery ‡ Online Start terms 4 per year * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 27 quarter credits are equal to 18 semester credits. † Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses. ‡ You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum. Find application deadline Choose student type... First-year student Transfer student Postbaccalaureate student Nondegree-seeking student International student Unsure (Describe student types...) Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Compare degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related stories Oregon State University ranked #1 for Best Online Liberal Arts Colleges Oregon State University ranked #1 for Best Online Liberal Arts Colleges Oregon State is the best university in the nation when it comes to delivering a high-quality liberal arts education online, according to a newly published ranking. College Choice put Oregon State atop its list of the 25 Best Online Liberal Arts Colleges. OSU offers more... Careers in the field of psychology ‘booming’ with the help of technology Careers in the field of psychology ‘booming’ with the help of technology Our lives are often made better because of technological advances and the ways in which we interact with computers. This is increasingly true in the field of psychology, one in which industry professionals and the people who benefit from psychological services use technology to conduct... 6 reasons to earn a degree in kinesiology online with Oregon State 6 reasons to earn a degree in kinesiology online with Oregon State Students graduating from our program go on to diverse careers, most of which have a direct relationship to human health. This is a growing appreciation for the role of physical activity as a component of a healthy lifestyle and a need for health care professionals... Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204