Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info News Menu Ecampus News AboutAbout About For Journalists All StoriesStories All Ecampus Ecampus OER Ecampus Research Unit Ecampus StoriesEcampus All Students Faculty & Advisors Graduation Staff Military Research Unit Videos In the NewsPress In the News Press Releases Awards Paying it forward to benefit Indigenous students Oregon State’s Ina Haws director offers students the guidance she once received Editor’s note: This article was originally published March 2, 2020. It was updated on Nov. 19, 2021. Luhui Whitebear has been closely connected to Oregon State University’s Kaku-Ixt Mana Ina Haws in different ways during her academic career. She visited frequently as an on-campus undergraduate student in ethnic studies in the early 2000s. A decade later, while pursuing an anthropology bachelor’s degree online with Oregon State Ecampus, she would drop in whenever she came to campus to pick up books. Now, as the Ina Haws center director, she pays forward the guidance, nurturing and sense of belonging she received as a student. “My approach is very student-focused. I want to find out, What is it that’s important to the students? What do they want to learn?” Whitebear says. “I really try to give them the space to learn how to plan a community-based event. They learn how to budget. They learn how to work with the Global Community Kitchen, on how to make recipes for a few hundred people. They learn a lot in the process.” Follow the Ina Haws on social media: Stay connected to Oregon State students, staff and the broader Ina Haws community on Facebook and Instagram. Helping students find and use their voices Ina Haws student leaders, staff and the center’s broader community come from Indigenous tribes of the Americas and Pacific Islands. All Oregon State students who learn on campus and online through OSU Ecampus are welcome to engage with the Ina Haws. Although the Ina Haws community represents different tribal cultures and traditions, they share the common bond of a shared history and many of the same challenges. Whitebear, a citizen of the Coastal Band Chumash tribe, helps these students navigate the waters of a large university, find their place and give them a voice. “I encourage them to use their voices as students and understand how important that is, especially when it comes to these (cultural resource centers),” she says. “If it wasn’t for the OSU students back in the late 1960s, early ’70s, these spaces would not exist. “I try not to let anybody lose sight of that because that’s what we’re here for. It’s important for students to get through their college experience and have this space as their own.” A mission to celebrate and share tribal histories Whitebear, who is also an assistant professor In Oregon State’s School of Language, Culture and Society, has worked to make Ina Haws truly representative of Indigenous histories and cultures. When she first started in her leadership role at the center, the fish for OSU’s annual salmon bake were purchased from a corporate food purveyor. She later decided to work with a local tribal member to harvest salmon from Native waters in the Columbia River. There’s a lesson that comes with this new approach, she says. Your next step: Request info Learn more about our degrees and support services. We’ll provide all the details you need. Request information “We ran out of salmon because that’s all we could catch. Dams on the river and climate change are impacting the salmon population, so there’s going to be less to eat,” she said. “The salmon bake also provides us an opportunity to share Oregon tribal history and the fight to preserve our treaty rights.” In 2019, Whitebear won Oregon State’s Outstanding Diversity Advocate Award for her ongoing work with Indigenous, LGBTQ and other underrepresented students. But the greatest reward, she says, is witnessing Indigenous students develop the self-confidence to carry forward the nurturing and sense of belonging she received while learning on campus and online at OSU. “What gets me up in the morning is the students,” she says. “I really enjoy working with them and watching their leadership grow – watching them figure out what’s important to them and how they want to contribute back to their communities.” Share this: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) Related November 19, 2021 Tyler Hansen Categories: All Stories, Ecampus, Features, Videos Tags: Anthropology, cultural resource centers, Ecampus at a glance, Kaku-Ixt Mana Ina Haws, Tribal Communities | Comments Leave a Reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Notify me of follow-up comments by email. Notify me of new posts by email. Δ Post navigation ← When does online class size matter? Read the study OER at Work: Ditching traditional textbooks for a true ‘companion’ to learning → Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details about our online programs and course offerings. Request info Gather information about OSU Ecampus, our history, students and programs. 90+ programs Explore all of Oregon State’s online offerings. Stories archive Search for: Subscribe Receive notifications of new story posts by email. Email address Subscribe Share your story Are you an Oregon State Ecampus grad? Inspire current and prospective students with your story. Are you a current Oregon State Ecampus student? Share your OSU journey. Recent stories Corporate education combats the great resignation Now at Harvard, Oregon State online grad still “over the moon” with religious studies Oregon State Everywhere: Geospatial technology, natural resources make a perfect pair online Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204