Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Ph.D. in CounselingPh.D. Credits required 150 Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 150 quarter credits are equal to 100 semester credits.* Cost per credit $590 Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses.† Delivery Hybrid You can complete this program in a hybrid format that blends online coursework with in-person classes held periodically in Portland, Oregon. View the curriculum.‡ Start term Summer Overview | Curriculum | Admissions | FAQ | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Overview Curriculum Admissions FAQ Tuition & Fees Contact Us Ph.D. in Counseling Overview | Curriculum | Admissions | FAQ | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us We understand the uncertainty around COVID-19 and the current status of our hybrid Ecampus programs. Please know we are committed to your academic success and personal safety. Contact the program department directly with any questions or concerns you have about this Ecampus program. Be a counselor educator, supervisor – and a leader Oregon State University's Ph.D. in Counseling program prepares students to work as advanced practitioners, clinical supervisors and counselor educators in clinical and academic settings. The program emphasizes student contribution to the counseling profession through research while understanding and addressing the societal changes of today's communities. OSU counseling honored for LGBTGEQIAP+ awareness Oregon State received the 2022 Counseling Program award from the Society for Sexual, Affectional, Intersex, and Gender Expansive Identities. The award is presented to programs that demonstrate a commitment to the promotion of LGBTGEQIAP+ awareness and affirmation. Read more » OSU's Ph.D. program is CACREP-accredited and aims to prepare graduates to be leaders and advocates for change. It is offered by Oregon State's College of Education, and courses are delivered online by OSU Ecampus. Participants Applicants are required to have a master's degree in counseling or closely related field, which can be applied toward your Ph.D. total credits. You must have a commitment to the counseling profession and to solving critical human problems in our increasingly diverse world. Collaborative cohort model As a Ph.D. in Counseling student, you will be a member of a supportive and active cohort of peers. Past participants have included working professional counselors from across the U.S. Each student is guided by a department professor or advisor throughout this three- to five-year (post-master's) doctoral degree program. Online/face-to-face hybrid format The program operates as a "hybrid" program involving both face-to-face and online instruction for each course. Face-to-face classes occur only twice each quarter in a Friday through Saturday block at Oregon State’s downtown Portland classroom building. Because the face-to-face course location is in the Portland metropolitan area, it is easily accessible from the Portland International Airport and surrounding regions, making it possible for out-of-state students to participate. Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates These are the start dates for OSU’s next two terms. However, this program only admits for summer term. Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Degree details Credits required * 150 Cost per credit † $590 Delivery ‡ Hybrid Start term Summer * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 150 quarter credits are equal to 100 semester credits. † Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses. ‡ You can complete this program in a hybrid format that blends online coursework with in-person classes held periodically in Portland, Oregon. View the curriculum. Application deadline Apply by Jan. 15. All admitted students will begin the program in summer term each year. Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Explore degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related stories Oregon State counseling Ph.D. student earns $20,000 national fellowship award Oregon State counseling Ph.D. student earns $20,000 national fellowship award Daniel Cisneros, a student in Oregon State’s Ph.D. in Counseling online program, has been awarded a $20,000 counseling fellowship from the National Board for Certified Counselors Foundation to aid his research efforts and professional work that focus on serving LGBTQ+ and other... 100 years of making an impact 100 years of making an impact One hundred years. A full century. That’s how long Oregon State University has made a commitment to training students to become world-class counselors who make a positive difference in the lives of others. Kathryn Franklin, Ph.D. in Counseling Kathryn Franklin, Ph.D. in Counseling As a mom and working professional living in Montana, Kathryn Franklin didn’t have many options when it came to furthering her education – until she found Oregon State Ecampus, where she earned a Ph.D. in Counseling. Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204