Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Energy PolicyGraduate Certificate Credits required 18 Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 18 quarter credits are equal to 12 semester credits.* Cost per credit $560 Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses.† Delivery Online You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum.‡ Start terms 4 per year Overview | Curriculum | Careers | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Overview Curriculum Careers Admissions Tuition & Fees Contact Us Graduate Certificate in Energy Policy – Online Overview | Curriculum | Careers | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Make a difference now and for future generations Founded on Oregon State University’s unique experience and insights, the online Graduate Certificate in Energy Policy integrates groundbreaking science into emerging energy policies that can help you advance clean energy solutions in your community, state or nationally. This 20-credit program will provide you with a broad knowledge of United States energy policy and its institutions, how they impact the development of energy markets, and the major and emerging technologies and resources currently in use and under development. When you complete the certificate coursework, you will gain a standalone credential that will help you stand out in the job market. Join us at the forefront of the renewable energy movement Oregon State has a long-standing reputation for its work in energy initiatives including research and teaching collaborations with the OSU Sun Grant Program in Biomass Energy and the Pacific Marine Energy Center. Through these initiatives, Oregon State plays a role in informing policy and improving the type of energy efficiency that is critical to economic development, lowering energy prices, and addressing climate change. Benefits of learning online with Oregon State All classes are developed and taught by OSU's renowned faculty, who are known worldwide for their research, expertise and innovation. Oregon State is regionally accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities. OSU Ecampus students receive the same transcript-visible certificate as on-campus students. Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Degree details Credits required * 18 Cost per credit † $560 Delivery ‡ Online Start terms 4 per year * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 18 quarter credits are equal to 12 semester credits. † Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses. ‡ You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum. Find application deadline Choose student type... Graduate student Nondegree-seeking student International student Unsure (Describe student types...) Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Explore degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related stories Oregon State University ranked #1 for Best Online Liberal Arts Colleges Oregon State University ranked #1 for Best Online Liberal Arts Colleges Oregon State is the best university in the nation when it comes to delivering a high-quality liberal arts education online, according to a newly published ranking. College Choice put Oregon State atop its list of the 25 Best Online Liberal Arts Colleges. OSU offers more... Careers in the field of psychology ‘booming’ with the help of technology Careers in the field of psychology ‘booming’ with the help of technology Our lives are often made better because of technological advances and the ways in which we interact with computers. This is increasingly true in the field of psychology, one in which industry professionals and the people who benefit from psychological services use technology to conduct... 6 reasons to earn a degree in kinesiology online with Oregon State 6 reasons to earn a degree in kinesiology online with Oregon State Students graduating from our program go on to diverse careers, most of which have a direct relationship to human health. This is a growing appreciation for the role of physical activity as a component of a healthy lifestyle and a need for health care professionals... Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204