Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Radiation Health PhysicsM.H.P. Credits required 45 Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 45 quarter credits are equal to 30 semester credits.* Cost per credit $691 Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses.† Delivery Online You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum.‡ Start term Fall Overview | Curriculum | Faculty | Careers | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Overview Curriculum Faculty Careers Admissions Tuition & Fees Contact Us Radiation Health Physics (M.S. or M.H.P.) – Online Overview | Curriculum | Faculty | Careers | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Ensure the safe use of radiation Challenge yourself and advance your career by enrolling in Oregon State University's rigorous, online Master of Radiation Health Physics degree program — and learn firsthand from world-recognized radiation detection practitioners. Through this non-thesis program, you'll develop the professional skills needed to positively impact society through energy security, national defense, medical health and industrial competitiveness. Nuclear science and engineering professor Kathryn Higley advises government agencies on the impacts of radiation in the aftermath of potentially hazardous events. Read more » Learn from the world's best The Master of Radiation Health Physics program is one of the highest regarded programs of its kind in the nation, providing rigorous curriculum developed by world-renowned faculty who are actively engaged on the front lines of radiation detection. Oregon State, a Carnegie Doctoral/Research-Extensive University, has long played a leading role in education and research in nuclear areas. Benefits of learning online with Oregon State All classes are developed by OSU's world-class faculty, who are known worldwide for their research, expertise and innovation. Oregon State is regionally accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities. OSU's online engineering master's program has been independently reviewed and ranked by GetEducated.com as a top "Best Buy" for engineering professionals seeking a high quality, low-cost online degree. OSU Ecampus students receive the same diploma as on-campus students. Get the support you need Our goal is to help you succeed. That’s why, as an OSU Ecampus student, you’ll have access to vital resources like success coaching, library services, free online tutoring and career guidance – making your online learning experience collaborative and rewarding. Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates These are the start dates for OSU’s next two terms. However, this program only admits for fall term. Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Degree details Credits required * 45 Cost per credit † $691 Delivery ‡ Online Start term Fall * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 45 quarter credits are equal to 30 semester credits. † Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses. ‡ You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum. Find application deadline Choose student type... Graduate student Nondegree-seeking student International student Unsure (Describe student types...) Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Explore degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related stories From the Navy to the online classroom: An Ecampus student’s journey From the Navy to the online classroom: An Ecampus student’s journey Laura Micewski, U.S. Navy veteran, started her educational journey with one goal in mind: land her dream job without missing a beat. That's where Ecampus came in. She kept her full-time job and leveraged her GI Bill to get the education she needed to... Oregon State Everywhere: ‘One of the best decisions I ever made’ Oregon State Everywhere: ‘One of the best decisions I ever made’ My personal experience as an Ecampus student has made me a real believer in online education. I personally found that the online format helped me to make better connections with my professors and peers than I did as an undergraduate. The program's flexibility and quality... Radiation health physics instructor is on a path toward global peace Radiation health physics instructor is on a path toward global peace Ph.D. faculty Lily Ranjbar teaches online while leading research on radioxenon detection By Meriden Vitale March 25, 2020 When Lily Ranjbar, director of online programs for the College of Engineering’s School of Nuclear Science and Engineering, left Iran to pursue her doctorate in... Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204