Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Master's in Environmental SciencesM.S. or PSM Credits required 45 Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 45 quarter credits are equal to 30 semester credits.* Cost per credit $560 Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses.† Delivery Online You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum.‡ Start terms 4 per year Overview | M.S. Curriculum | PSM Curriculum | Careers | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Overview M.S. Curriculum PSM Curriculum Careers Admissions Tuition & Fees Contact Us Professional Science Master's in Environmental Sciences – Online Overview | M.S. Curriculum | PSM Curriculum | Careers | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Join the new wave of environmental leaders Oregon State University is known for its expertise in delivering interdisciplinary education in environmental sciences, with a track record of producing graduates on the leading edge of research as well as environmentalists with strong business acumen. No matter which career pathway appeals to you most, you can pursue it online by earning a Master of Science in Environmental Sciences or a Professional Science Master’s in Environmental Sciences through Oregon State Ecampus. Both the M.S. and PSM programs will provide you with access to industry experts and knowledge that will position you to lead in the field – whether you’re just starting your career or if you’re already an active professional. Oregon State Ecampus delivers a variety of graduate degree and certificate programs online focused on natural sciences. Explore similar programs. Master of Science Oregon State’s M.S. in Environmental Sciences online program has a narrow focus within the science industry, and it will prepare you to understand complex interrelationships among biological, physical and human components of ecosystems. The M.S. coursework aims to develop scientists who will be able to analyze and understand environmental systems, predict environmental change and participate in the management of the environment. Write a thesis or complete a project A central purpose of the M.S. degree is for you to learn the process of environmental research. You can elect to conduct original research that leads to a thesis or complete a non-thesis project report. Professional Science Master's The PSM in Environmental Sciences program offers an interdisciplinary approach to environmental sciences and business, helping you develop the necessary business acumen to be a credible leader who can bridge the gap between scientists, business professionals and decision-makers. The PSM curriculum is designed to provide you with cutting-edge, professional training in scientific and business disciplines that are not included in traditional science master’s or doctoral programs. Non-thesis program with an internship An essential part of the PSM program is an internship experience that replaces the traditional master's research project or thesis. This integrative learning experience gives you the opportunity to work directly with a business, industry, government agency, consulting firm, NGO or research institute related to your area of concentration. You will engage in real-world work situations that involve technical scientific challenges, teamwork, communications, project management and decision-making. Nationally certified program Oregon State's PSM in Environmental Sciences program is recognized by the National Professional Science Master's Association. It is a collaborative that supports internship and job placement opportunities for PSM students and graduates. Benefits of earning your degree online from Oregon State All classes are developed and taught by Oregon State's world-class faculty, who are renowned for their research, expertise and innovation. OSU is regionally accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities. Oregon State is one of only four universities in the nation to hold land, sea, space and sun grant designations. Oregon State Ecampus is consistently ranked as a national leader in online education. OSU's online students receive the same diploma and transcript as on-campus students. Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Degree details Credits required * 45 Cost per credit † $560 Delivery ‡ Online Start terms 4 per year * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 45 quarter credits are equal to 30 semester credits. † Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses. ‡ You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum. Find application deadline Choose student type... Graduate student Nondegree-seeking student International student Unsure (Describe student types...) Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Explore degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related stories Oregon State Everywhere: Geospatial technology, natural resources make a perfect pair online Oregon State Everywhere: Geospatial technology, natural resources make a perfect pair online I was not a typical grad student. For years I've wanted to go back to school and get my master's degree, but due to a number of life circumstances it just didn't happen. Then, when I was about to turn 50 (yes, 50!) the opportunity... Winning on the water and in the online classroom Winning on the water and in the online classroom Fiona Wylde needed a rigorous degree program that would allow her to further her education while offering the flexibility to sustain her career as a world champion stand-up paddleboarder and windsurfer. She found everything she needed online with Oregon State. A biological, cultural approach to conservation begins at home – and online A biological, cultural approach to conservation begins at home – and online Cayla "La" Crivello wanted to find a way to impact her community without having to leave it. What she found was Oregon State University Ecampus and an environmental sciences degree that she could complete without having to leave Hawai'i. And now? She's engaging with her... Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204