Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info About EcampusTop-ranked provider of online education About Oregon State University Ecampus Oregon State Ecampus blends 21st century innovation with 150+ years of institutional excellence to give people everywhere access to a life-changing education. We’re driven to help OSU’s online students: Make an impact in their communities and beyond Feel supported along every step of their journey Build connections with OSU’s world-class faculty Enter the workforce with the skills they need to succeed See why we're one of the nation's best Top-ranked in the nation Oregon State Ecampus is ranked #5 in the nation for online education by U.S. News & World Report. View rankings How classes are delivered Discover how Ecampus courses are delivered at a distance and learn about OSU's quarter-term system. Compare methods Meet our students Watch videos and read about the people who know what it takes to succeed as an online learner. Be inspired We’re accredited Oregon State is regionally accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities. This means that OSU has been thoroughly evaluated by experts to ensure that students receive high-quality learning experiences. Regional accreditation is the highest form of college accreditation in the U.S. Oregon State degree programs and courses are not accredited outside the U.S. Our mission, values and goals As a leader in online education, Oregon State Ecampus engages in innovative and creative partnerships to provide access to exceptional learning experiences that transform the lives of students in Oregon and around the world. Read our values and goals » Preview OSU online courses Ecampus courses are renowned for their innovation, interactivity and engagement. Get a sneak peek at what it's like to learn online with Oregon State in our course demo. View course demo Experiential learning at a distance Even from a distance, Ecampus students take part in a variety of hands-on activities – from soil lab experiments and conducting field work to 3D biology labs and more. Explore experiences Support for tribal communities OSU’s culturally competent faculty and staff provide robust support resources to students from Indigenous communities. See our services Serving America’s military Whether you’re active duty, a veteran or a military spouse, your OSU support system will travel wherever the military life takes you. Tap into support A history of distance learning On farms. On trains. On radio. On TV. On VHS. Online. OSU's distance education roots run deep, dating to the 1880s. Go back in time Corporate collaborations The Ecampus Corporate Education Unit forms innovative, international relationships to help professionals advance their careers. Learn more Affordable learning OSU’s Open Educational Resources Unit works with faculty to add free and low-cost student learning materials in their classes. Browse OER Award-winning research The Ecampus Research Unit conducts original research and guides national conversations around online teaching and learning. Read our studies Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204