Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Master of Science in EducationM.S. Credits required 47-53 Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 47-53 quarter credits are equal to 31.33-35.33 semester credits.* Cost per credit $560 Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses.† Delivery Hybrid You can complete this program in a hybrid format that blends online coursework with in-person classes held periodically in Corvallis, Oregon. View the curriculum.‡ Start term Summer Overview | Curriculum | Careers | Faculty | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Overview Curriculum Careers Faculty Admissions Tuition & Fees Contact Us Master of Science in Education Overview | Curriculum | Careers | Faculty | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Earn a STEM education master’s degree online A teacher’s influence never stops, and you can make your mark on future generations by becoming a licensed science or mathematics teacher. To get there, become a student in Oregon State University’s M.S. in Education hybrid degree program and fill a nationwide need for skilled professionals in the classroom. Studying alongside a cohort of peers, you’ll draw upon current educational research to create innovative and inclusive science and math learning environments. Faculty in Oregon State’s College of Education will help you develop a broad range of instructional strategies so you can meet the needs of diverse learners at different levels of development. When you graduate, you will receive an Oregon teaching license and support to add a license from your home state if you live outside of Oregon. A one-of-a-kind program in Oregon Asynchronous classes + synchronous meetings This is a hybrid program that blends asynchronous online coursework with face-to-face classes. The in-person class meetings — taken in fall and winter terms — provide an opportunity to travel to Oregon State's Corvallis campus two Saturdays per quarter. Or you can join remotely via Zoom. Oregon State offers the only M.S. in Education program in the state, which exemplifies our leadership in educating STEM professionals in Oregon and beyond. This program places additional emphasis on enhancing future teachers’ STEM content expertise as part of their licensure program. And while program graduates earn a K-12 Oregon Teaching License, the state of Oregon has reciprocity with many other states. This program will benefit existing and aspiring educators who live throughout the U.S. Choose a pathway of one or two years The program’s cohort-based model spans four terms, beginning in summer. Select between the full-time, one-year cohort or the part-time, two-year cohort. The two-year cohort features the program’s core courses in year one and the specialized courses and internships in year two. See the curriculum page for more coursework details. Benefits of learning online with Oregon State All classes are developed by OSU's world-class faculty, who are renowned for their research, expertise and innovation. Oregon State is regionally accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities. OSU Ecampus students receive the same diploma as on-campus students. Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates These are the start dates for OSU’s next two terms. However, this program only admits for summer term. Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Degree details Credits required * 47-53 Cost per credit † $560 Delivery ‡ Hybrid Start term Summer * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 47-53 quarter credits are equal to 31.33-35.33 semester credits. † Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses. ‡ You can complete this program in a hybrid format that blends online coursework with in-person classes held periodically in Corvallis, Oregon. View the curriculum. Find application deadline Choose student type... Graduate student Nondegree-seeking student International student Unsure (Describe student types...) Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Explore degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related stories 7 simple words led ‘Promising’ scholar to hybrid education master’s program 7 simple words led ‘Promising’ scholar to hybrid education master’s program Alyssa Fuentez can trace the altered trajectory of her career to a single conversation. Engaged in discussion with an environmental ethics professor, Fuentez became distressed as she wondered how society could curb the enormous issues of climate change. In seven words, her future was rewritten. Oregon State counseling Ph.D. student earns $20,000 national fellowship award Oregon State counseling Ph.D. student earns $20,000 national fellowship award Daniel Cisneros, a student in Oregon State’s Ph.D. in Counseling online program, has been awarded a $20,000 counseling fellowship from the National Board for Certified Counselors Foundation to aid his research efforts and professional work that focus on serving LGBTQ+ and other... Military spouse juggles full-time job, relocation and a family while earning a master’s degree long-distance Military spouse juggles full-time job, relocation and a family while earning a master’s degree long-distance Robin Webster knew she wanted to earn a master's degree. But she had a full-time job, is the mother of two daughters, and, as a military spouse, had to move to a new part of the country every couple of years. She found Oregon State... Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204