Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Ecampus fact 1,600+ classes online Explore all of Oregon State’s online course offerings. Search schedule » Print Home  ›  Student Success  ›  Tuition & Financial Aid  ›  Financial Aid Financial Aid and Scholarships Review important, need-to-know dates to get the most out of your financial aid, and learn how you can take advantage of a benefits package to assist you on your path to graduation. Federal and state financial aid Degree-seeking distance students admitted to Oregon State may be eligible for federal and state financial aid through OSU if enrolled for 6 or more credits per term as an undergraduate. Graduate degree and certificate students need 5 or more credits per term to qualify. Financial aid FAQ for Ecampus students Interested in federal financial aid for certificates? Approved U.S. Department of Education certificates NOTE: The U.S. Department of Education has approved the following undergraduate and graduate certificates for federal financial aid eligibility as part of full degree programs, but not as independent certificate programs: Business analytics Business fundamentals Cybersecurity Dual language education English for speakers of other language (ESOL) Financial planning Food in culture and social justice Geographic information science Medical humanities Organic agriculture Organic farming systems Rural policy Supply chain and logistics management Women, gender, and sexuality studies Learn more about types of aid and check your eligibility for federal and state financial aid on the Federal Student Aid website. In order to be eligible for federal, state and some other forms of financial aid, you must complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and list Oregon State University as your school choice. You may complete the FAFSA online. Please direct your questions to OSU's Office of Financial Aid at 541-737-2241. Financial aid deadlines Financial aid resources Scholarships and grants ScholarDollars OSU students may use the centralized scholarship portal, ScholarDollars, to search more than 1,500 campus-based scholarship opportunities. Remember, you can: Submit one application to be considered automatically Complete applications between Nov. 1 – Feb. 1 to maximize scholarship opportunities Update your application any time Search a database of external scholarships, too Check with your academic advisor for scholarships that might be available through your college. You can search for additional information and opportunities on the Federal Student Aid website. Need-based grant A limited, need-based Ecampus grant is awarded by OSU’s Office of Financial Aid to eligible students who completed the FAFSA application. The Office of Financial Aid administers this award. Financial Hardship Grant Oregon State Ecampus offers a grant to online undergraduate degree-seeking students who are experiencing unforeseen financial difficulty that interferes with their academic progress at OSU. This grant is only applicable to students seeking their first undergraduate degree. Visit the Ecampus Financial Hardship Grant page to learn more about eligibility and application guidelines. Military benefits and grant VA education benefits Oregon State honors many of the VA education benefits available to active duty military service members, veterans, spouses and dependents. To maximize your benefits, we recommend that you contact OSU's veteran certifying officials at veterans@oregonstate.edu. Ecampus military grant Oregon State Ecampus provides financial assistance to currently serving military members who entered the service while they were residents of Oregon and who are using military tuition assistance to help pay for their online classes. Eligibility requirements » Financial aid tips Applying for financial aid is an important step, and this advice from OSU's Office of Financial Aid will help you navigate the process. Read more » How to pay for college 5 tips on how to pay for college Learn how and when to apply for financial aid and scholarships as an Oregon State Ecampus student. Our enrollment services team breaks down five things you need to keep in mind. Read more » Financial literacy Financial literacy is an essential part of planning and paying for your education. Here you will find a few basic tips and resources to assist you in making informed decisions about managing your finances. Read more » Tuition and fees Oregon State Ecampus tuition and fees are charged per credit hour. Ecampus students are never charged at nonresident rates, meaning your tuition is the same if you live in the state of Oregon or anywhere else in the world. Try the tuition calculator On-campus students: Ecampus tuition and fees are assessed separately from your on-campus tuition and fees, and it is based on the fixed, per-credit rate stated above. Features and Navigation Academic calendar Currently it's spring term. See academic calendar for our quarter term schedule. Summer term starts June 20. Fall term starts Sept. 21. Student services Current Students Newly Admitted Students Returning Students Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Registration Starting Your Course Student Services Student Success Coaching Student Resources Policies & Forms Tools Learning in Portland MyOregonState Access your student account. Canvas Access your Ecampus courses. G Suite Access your email and more. Student stories Read about student experiences. Ranked top 10 in the nation OSU Ecampus earned a top 10 ranking for the eighth year in a row on a list of America's best online bachelor's programs. Learn more » Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204