Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Organic Farming SystemsUndergraduate Certificate Credits required 27 Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 27 quarter credits are equal to 18 semester credits.* Cost per credit $346 Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses.† Delivery Online You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum.‡ Start terms 4 per year Overview | Certificate Curriculum | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us | About Undergraduate Certificates Overview Certificate Curriculum Tuition & Fees Contact Us About Undergraduate Certificates Organic Farming Systems – Online Undergraduate Certificate Overview | Certificate Curriculum | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us | About Undergraduate Certificates If applying as a postbaccalaureate student for fall 2022, the deadline to apply is Aug. 1, and classes start Sept. 21. Be the future of organic food and farming systems When you earn your Undergraduate Certificate in Organic Farming Systems online from Oregon State University, you’ll gain the technical skills and knowledge needed to make agricultural and food systems more environmentally, economically and socially sustainable. This program offers you a gateway to a career in organic farming production and regulation by emphasizing the organic management of soil health, pests, diseases and weeds. You’ll also learn to communicate the principles, practices, science and impacts of organic agriculture to diverse audiences. The 27-credit certificate is delivered online by Oregon State Ecampus, a nationally ranked leader in online education. All certificate courses can be completed in one year, and the program can be integrated with your undergraduate major. Coursework The goal of this program’s courses are to provide you with an understanding of the history, values, benefits, regulations and practices associated with organic agriculture. Visit the OSU Academic Catalog for curriculum details and a list of core classes and electives. Prerequisites You may need to complete additional coursework prior to enrolling in this program and taking the required certificate courses. This could mean completing 3 or more additional credits, depending on your individual educational background as it relates to the program requirements. We recommend that you evaluate this prior to applying for admission. Benefits of learning online with Oregon State All classes are developed by OSU's world-class faculty, who are known worldwide for their expertise, research and innovation. Oregon State is regionally accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities. OSU Ecampus students receive the same transcript-visible certificate as on-campus students. Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Degree details Credits required * 27 Cost per credit † $346 Delivery ‡ Online Start terms 4 per year * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 27 quarter credits are equal to 18 semester credits. † Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses. ‡ You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum. Find application deadline Choose student type... First-year student Transfer student Postbaccalaureate student Nondegree-seeking student International student Unsure (Describe student types...) Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Compare degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related stories Oregon State Everywhere: Geospatial technology, natural resources make a perfect pair online Oregon State Everywhere: Geospatial technology, natural resources make a perfect pair online I was not a typical grad student. For years I've wanted to go back to school and get my master's degree, but due to a number of life circumstances it just didn't happen. Then, when I was about to turn 50 (yes, 50!) the opportunity... Winning on the water and in the online classroom Winning on the water and in the online classroom Fiona Wylde needed a rigorous degree program that would allow her to further her education while offering the flexibility to sustain her career as a world champion stand-up paddleboarder and windsurfer. She found everything she needed online with Oregon State. A biological, cultural approach to conservation begins at home – and online A biological, cultural approach to conservation begins at home – and online Cayla "La" Crivello wanted to find a way to impact her community without having to leave it. What she found was Oregon State University Ecampus and an environmental sciences degree that she could complete without having to leave Hawai'i. And now? She's engaging with her... Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204