Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info College Student Services AdministrationEd.M. or Graduate Certificate Credits required 54 or 18 Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 54 or 18 quarter credits are equal to 36 or 12 semester credits.* Cost per credit $560 Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses.† Delivery Online You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum.‡ Start terms 4 per year Overview | Master's Curriculum | Certificate Curriculum | Careers | Faculty | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Overview Master's Curriculum Certificate Curriculum Careers Faculty Admissions Tuition & Fees Contact Us Ed.M. in College Student Services Administration – Online Overview | Master's Curriculum | Certificate Curriculum | Careers | Faculty | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Facilitate transformative learning experiences If you’re passionate about creating an enriching experience for college students while advancing or building a career in student services, then earning your Master of Education degree or a Graduate Certificate in College Student Services Administration online from Oregon State University will help you make an impact. The CSSA program is ideal for anyone with an undergraduate degree who is beginning, advancing or transfering into a career in student services. These programs will equip you with the skills needed to thrive in a variety of postsecondary education settings, including student affairs, student support services, student government and activities, residence life programs, career services and general student advising and academic support. “The CSSA program prepared me to serve diverse students in higher education. Through research and practical application, I am better equipped to facilitate transformational learning experiences for students in our global society.” – Ali Duerfeldt, Oregon State CSSA graduate Rooted in social justice On a college campus, supporting the diversity of students’ lives is key to student success. Part of the core responsibility of student services professionals is to work with the life condition of the student that comes to them. To meet those needs, every aspect of these two graduate-level CSSA programs is rooted in social justice, setting a framework for you to deliver equitable and accessible student services programs and services, promote student learning, facilitate community development and lead response to emerging campus issues. Faculty practitioners All classes in the 54-credit master’s program and the 18-credit graduate certificate are taught by experienced faculty who are highly respected student services professionals. They are passionate about promoting social justice and creating equitable and successful environments. A rich history in an innovative online format Celebrating more than 50 years of providing meaningful educational experiences, Oregon State’s CSSA programs use real-world scenarios to connect the theory to the practice. All classes emphasize cultivating knowledge and skills that you will demonstrate at the end of the program through a capstone project. The CSSA Ecampus online programs feature the same curriculum as OSU’s successful on-campus program, with an added level of flexibility for you to maintain your life’s commitments while advancing toward your career aspirations. Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Degree details Credits required * 54 or 18 Cost per credit † $560 Delivery ‡ Online Start terms 4 per year * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 54 or 18 quarter credits are equal to 36 or 12 semester credits. † Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses. ‡ You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum. Find application deadline Choose student type... Graduate student Nondegree-seeking student International student Unsure (Describe student types...) Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Explore degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related stories Oregon State University ranked #1 for Best Online Liberal Arts Colleges Oregon State University ranked #1 for Best Online Liberal Arts Colleges Oregon State is the best university in the nation when it comes to delivering a high-quality liberal arts education online, according to a newly published ranking. College Choice put Oregon State atop its list of the 25 Best Online Liberal Arts Colleges. OSU offers more... Leading with empathy Leading with empathy In the college student services administration master's program online and on campus, students are faced with challenging, complex conversations about their field. Though the CSSA learning community consists of diverse perspectives, students and faculty alike have one important thing in common: the desire to make... Beyond access – belonging Beyond access – belonging At Oregon State Ecampus, students in the college student services administration (CSSA) master’s program online are compelled by their own experiences to create more equitable access, involvement and retention in higher education. Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204