Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Forests and Climate ChangeGraduate Certificate Credits required 20 Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 20 quarter credits are equal to 13.33 semester credits.* Cost per credit $560 Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses.† Delivery Online You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum.‡ Start terms 3 per year Overview | Curriculum | Careers | Faculty | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Overview Curriculum Careers Faculty Admissions Tuition & Fees Contact Us Graduate Certificate in Forests and Climate Change – Online Overview | Curriculum | Careers | Faculty | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us How does a changing climate impact forest ecosystems? Earning a Graduate Certificate in Forests and Climate Change online from Oregon State University will enable you to make informed decisions about managing forests in an era of climate change. This 20-credit certificate is designed to train working professionals – mid-career, company, industry and agency employees – who want more experience in natural resources management and climate change. The flexible online format allows you to maintain your career focus while taking classes to improve your academic credentials. Oregon State Ecampus delivers a variety of graduate degree and certificate programs online focused on conservation and natural sciences. Explore similar programs. Join a world-class institution Oregon State's College of Forestry has been educating professionals like you for more than a century and has a reputation as a center for teaching and learning about forests and related resources. OSU is home to multiple climate change centers, programs and projects that are supported by agencies such as NOAA, NSF and the U.S. Department of the Interior. Oregon State is also recognized as one of the world’s top universities for forestry, ranking in the top 20 in a 2021 international survey of more than 3,000 universities. Benefits of an Oregon State University online program All classes are developed by Oregon State's world-class faculty, who are known for their research, expertise and innovation in forestry and natural resources. Oregon State is regionally accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities. Students who study online receive the same credits as on-campus students, and credits transfer to most higher education institutions. OSU Ecampus is consistently ranked as one of the nation's best providers of online education. Apply your graduate certificate toward a master’s degree The specialized knowledge you gain through the forests and climate change graduate certificate program can serve as a pathway to Oregon State’s 45-credit Master of Natural Resources (MNR) program online. The 20 credits you earn may satisfy your area of emphasis requirement for MNR, and you’ll have the opportunity to: Connect with faculty who can potentially serve as your MNR advisor Apply for a change of degree at no cost Smoothly transition into the MNR program as a currently admitted student Meet the preferred requirement for natural resources-related work or volunteer experience Students planning to use credits from a graduate certificate towards a master’s degree should discuss transfer credit policies with an advisor in advance. Please note: It’s important that you apply to change your degree program to MNR while you’re a current student in good standing in your graduate certificate program. It is also important that you wait to take MNR core classes until after you apply to change your degree program to MNR. Visit the Master of Natural Resources admissions page for details. Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates These are the start dates for OSU’s next two terms. However, this program only admits for fall, winter and spring terms. Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Degree details Credits required * 20 Cost per credit † $560 Delivery ‡ Online Start terms 3 per year * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 20 quarter credits are equal to 13.33 semester credits. † Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses. ‡ You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum. Find application deadline Choose student type... Graduate student Nondegree-seeking student International student Unsure (Describe student types...) Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Explore degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related stories Oregon State Everywhere: Geospatial technology, natural resources make a perfect pair online Oregon State Everywhere: Geospatial technology, natural resources make a perfect pair online I was not a typical grad student. For years I've wanted to go back to school and get my master's degree, but due to a number of life circumstances it just didn't happen. Then, when I was about to turn 50 (yes, 50!) the opportunity... Winning on the water and in the online classroom Winning on the water and in the online classroom Fiona Wylde needed a rigorous degree program that would allow her to further her education while offering the flexibility to sustain her career as a world champion stand-up paddleboarder and windsurfer. She found everything she needed online with Oregon State. A biological, cultural approach to conservation begins at home – and online A biological, cultural approach to conservation begins at home – and online Cayla "La" Crivello wanted to find a way to impact her community without having to leave it. What she found was Oregon State University Ecampus and an environmental sciences degree that she could complete without having to leave Hawai'i. And now? She's engaging with her... Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204