Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info News Menu Ecampus News AboutAbout About For Journalists All StoriesStories All Ecampus Ecampus OER Ecampus Research Unit Ecampus StoriesEcampus All Students Faculty & Advisors Graduation Staff Military Research Unit Videos In the NewsPress In the News Press Releases Awards Life comes full circle for OSU football legend, graduate Jacquizz Rodgers Jacquizz Rodgers was a three-time All-American running back for Oregon State from 2008-10. Afterward, he stayed connected to the university by taking classes online through OSU Ecampus during a productive pro career. (Photo courtesy OSU Athletics) Ex-Beavers running back worked toward his degree online while playing in the NFL By Tyler Hansen March 15, 2021 At Oregon State University, we have a term for students who put their education on hold for a year or more. We call them stopouts. They’re not “college dropouts,” because they haven’t quit on their dream of earning a degree. Life happens, and many students simply need to focus their attention elsewhere. They take on demanding jobs. They care for their children. They battle health issues. Sometimes they go play in the NFL for nearly a decade. Jacquizz Rodgers fits into this last category. He’s one of the most beloved and accomplished sports figures in Oregon State history. Since he arrived on OSU’s Corvallis campus as an 18-year-old freshman in 2008, he has piled up the accolades: three-time NCAA All-American, Pac-10 Offensive Player of the Year, workhorse NFL running back. And now? College graduate. It was a long, on-again, off-again journey, as it is for a significant number of adult learners. In that way, even a world-class athlete like Rodgers is no different than his Oregon State peers. In other ways, of course, he stands out. Rodgers played for the Atlanta Falcons, Chicago Bears and Tampa Bay Buccaneers across eight seasons in the NFL. He declared for the NFL draft after his junior season in order to capitalize on his elite talent and college success. His blend of speed, power, quickness and good hands made it a career opportunity he simply couldn’t let pass. In one major life decision, Rodgers bet on himself twice — to live in the moment and pursue his dream of playing professional football, and to plan for a future that included his academics. “When I left school early, it was a promise I made to my mom and my uncle that I would finish my degree,” he says now. “I have kids and I have nephews, so it’s not about that I played in the NFL and don’t need a degree. It’s more about showing them that having grit is important. You can play football at the highest level and also finish your education.” The rigors of playing in the NFL — the physical, mental and emotional toll — cannot be overstated. It is a demanding profession, even with the million-dollar salaries. Rodgers could have waited until his playing days were over to return to school. But it didn’t take long for him to become a student again. Immediately after helping the Atlanta Falcons make the playoffs as a rookie in 2011, he enrolled in classes online with Oregon State Ecampus. He resumed his path toward earning a bachelor’s degree in human development and family sciences, taking classes periodically. The work-study balance was perfect. “As soon as the off-season came, I would start taking my classes. That would help me stay mentally ready,” Rodgers says. “Instead of just lounging around and working out, it kept me on a complete schedule and kept me disciplined and focused outside of football.” That’s not to say that it was smooth sailing and a quick waltz toward degree completion. As is the case with many working adults who learn online with Oregon State, Rodgers was enrolled in Ecampus classes one term here, two terms there. He even took a break for nearly three years as he established himself as an important piece of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers offense. All told, he spent eight highly productive years in the NFL. After playing his final season in 2018, Rodgers dedicated himself to his academics and had a renewed focus on learning. “I became more of a student-athlete instead of an athlete-student. When I was in school (from 2008-10), I was younger and I was playing football and trying to get by,” he says. “Now that I’m a little older, I try to take what I’ve learned in my classes and apply them as life skills. That’s the biggest difference.” The other notable change, he says, is that Ecampus courses are much more hands-on than they were when he took a few online as an on-campus student. Jacquizz Rodgers runs football camps in Texas and Oregon each summer for youth players. “It’s more of a feeling like you’re in the class,” he says. “You’re giving presentations and interacting with your classmates. I really liked that.” As fate would have it, a classmate in one of his final classes was Steven Jackson, another iconic Beavers running back and one of the top rushers in NFL history. Jackson also completed his HDFS degree online through Ecampus in summer 2020 — one quarter before Rodgers did. With his playing career behind him, Rodgers is focused on the next phase: coaching. His goal is to help guide younger generations at either the high school level or in college as a running backs coach. He runs summer camps in his native Texas and in Oregon each year for youth players through his community-based Jacquizz Rodgers Foundation. Serving as a mentor suits him well. But first, one task remains in his college career. He plans to attend Oregon State’s next in-person commencement ceremony at Reser Stadium in Corvallis. There he will accept his OSU diploma on the same field where he became a local legend and a national star. “That’s crazy, I never even thought about it like that,” Rodgers says at the sudden realization of life coming full circle. “Wow, that will be special. That’s the place where I had success and really started my life and career in a big way. “To be able to have this type of ending at Reser, that’s going to be great.” It’s official! 👨🏾‍🎓 Thanks to everyone who motivated me to finish! This one was more for being a positive example for my city and showing my kids and nephews anything is possible if you work for it! pic.twitter.com/AoOWWUOa1B — JacQuizz Rodgers (@Qui22Rodgers) December 14, 2020 Jacquizz Rodgers was a featured speaker in the OSU Alumni Association and College of Liberal Arts Changemakers webcast series. The series features inspiring conversations with Beavers who are making a difference. Visit the OSUAA website to view Rodgers’ Oct. 12, 2020 event. Share this: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) Related March 15, 2021 Tyler Hansen Categories: All Stories, Ecampus, Ecampus Students, Features Tags: College of Public Health and Human Sciences, Health and Social Sciences, Human Development and Family Sciences, Online degrees | Comments 1 Comment Fjell Thomas says: May 1, 2021 at 9:03 pm I”ve never met Jacquiizz Rodgers, but I’ve seen him play at OSU. As a life-long teacher I can say, “I wish we had more teachers like Jacquizz Rodgers.” He is the kind of dedicated, motivated role model that we need for our students. Please, Jacquizz, get your MEd, and teach! Fjell Thomas Koyuk Malimiut School Koyuk Alaska fjell.thomas@kka.bssd.org Leave a Reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Notify me of follow-up comments by email. Notify me of new posts by email. Δ Post navigation ← Oregon State ranked #4 for best online business bachelor’s degrees Oregon State online psychology bachelor’s degree ranked #2 in the U.S. → Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details about our online programs and course offerings. Request info Gather information about OSU Ecampus, our history, students and programs. 90+ programs Explore all of Oregon State’s online offerings. Stories archive Search for: Subscribe Receive notifications of new story posts by email. Email address Subscribe Share your story Are you an Oregon State Ecampus grad? Inspire current and prospective students with your story. Are you a current Oregon State Ecampus student? Share your OSU journey. Recent stories Corporate education combats the great resignation Now at Harvard, Oregon State online grad still “over the moon” with religious studies Oregon State Everywhere: Geospatial technology, natural resources make a perfect pair online Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204