Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Adult and Higher EducationEd.M. Credits required 45 Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 45 quarter credits are equal to 30 semester credits.* Cost per credit $560 Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses.† Delivery Online You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum.‡ Start term Fall Overview | Curriculum | Careers | Faculty | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Overview Curriculum Careers Faculty Admissions Tuition & Fees Contact Us Master of Education: Adult and Higher Education Overview | Curriculum | Careers | Faculty | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Join a highly supported learning community Without a doubt, we are in a knowledge economy. As such, the ability to support organizational learning is critical to the success of any company, agency or college. As an educational leader, you can support and lead meaningful learning across contexts. Oregon State University's Master of Education (Ed.M.) in Adult and Higher Education program will enhance your ability to deliver effective educational programs. Robin Webster knew pursuing a graduate degree was a long shot, at best. As a military spouse with a full-time job and two daughters, she needed a master’s program that could go wherever life took her. Read story » This two-year master’s degree program is designed to provide applied skills and knowledge for designing, implementing and assessing educational programs in a variety of formats (in-person, online, hybrid). What makes our program unique The program serves working professionals by offering a flexible, cohort-based program that is fully online. We pair theory courses with practical application to support your learning. This was the first adult education program in the country to specialize in online learning. Focused on instructional design The coursework in this Ed.M. program focuses heavily on instructional design and technology, two areas in which Oregon State and OSU Ecampus have vast expertise. OSU also offers a Graduate Certificate in Instructional Design online, which can serve as a pathway to earning this master's degree. Rooted in equity This program focuses on developing equitable learning environments. Rather than having a single course focused on social issues, equity is embedded throughout all of the coursework offered in this program. Designed for working professionals You can complete this program online in two years. It’s designed to directly apply your learning to your organization’s unique learning environment. Our graduates work in a variety of educational settings, including colleges and universities, nonprofit agencies, and for-profit companies. Collaborative learning cohort A new cohort starts each fall term. As an active member of an online learning community, you will explore real-world challenges, apply insights that connect research to practice, as well as build your professional network. Flexible internships Internships in this program allow you to pursue your interests. Our faculty will work with you to design an internship that allows you to focus on your passion and professional goals. It is also possible to complete an internship in your current workplace. Learn more about the internship opportunities on the curriculum page. Experienced faculty Our faculty are experienced scholars and practitioners. They have worked in colleges and universities, nonprofit organizations, government agencies and for-profit organizations. Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates These are the start dates for OSU’s next two terms. However, this program only admits for fall term. Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Degree details Credits required * 45 Cost per credit † $560 Delivery ‡ Online Start term Fall * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 45 quarter credits are equal to 30 semester credits. † Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses. ‡ You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum. Application deadline Priority deadline: June 15. All admitted students will begin the program in fall term each year. Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Explore degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related stories Military spouse juggles full-time job, relocation and a family while earning a master’s degree long-distance Military spouse juggles full-time job, relocation and a family while earning a master’s degree long-distance Robin Webster knew she wanted to earn a master's degree. But she had a full-time job, is the mother of two daughters, and, as a military spouse, had to move to a new part of the country every couple of years. She found Oregon State... Veronica Garcia was told college wasn’t for her. Four degrees later, she’s the president of one. Veronica Garcia was told college wasn’t for her. Four degrees later, she’s the president of one. As the newly hired president of Northeast Lakeview College, a community college in San Antonio, Texas, Veronica is on a mission to help as many people as possible find a path to a college education. She doesn’t want anyone to believe they can’t. Oregon State counseling Ph.D. student earns $20,000 national fellowship award Oregon State counseling Ph.D. student earns $20,000 national fellowship award Daniel Cisneros, a student in Oregon State’s Ph.D. in Counseling online program, has been awarded a $20,000 counseling fellowship from the National Board for Certified Counselors Foundation to aid his research efforts and professional work that focus on serving LGBTQ+ and other... Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204