Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Urban ForestryGraduate Certificate Credits required 18 Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 18 quarter credits are equal to 12 semester credits.* Cost per credit $560 Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses.† Delivery Online You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum.‡ Start terms 3 per year Overview | Curriculum | Careers | Faculty | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Overview Curriculum Careers Faculty Admissions Tuition & Fees Contact Us Graduate Certificate in Urban Forestry – Online Overview | Curriculum | Careers | Faculty | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Manage trees where we work, live and play The Oregon State University Graduate Certificate in Urban Forestry prepares you to think both scientifically and strategically. You will learn to effectively apply the principles of urban forestry, green infrastructure, planning, policy, management, and leadership to the stewardship of urban forests and the administration of urban forestry programs. By completing this program, you will gain the knowledge and skills necessary to address complex urban natural resource issues at national, state, or local levels. Oregon State Ecampus delivers a variety of graduate degree and certificate programs online focused on conservation and natural sciences. Explore similar programs. One-of-a-kind certificate The Graduate Certificate in Urban Forestry program at Oregon State is the first of its kind offered online. Courses are delivered through Ecampus – a national leader in online education. No other university in North America currently offers a graduate urban forestry education in this flexible, accessible format. The knowledge and skills you gain from this program will help you: Advance your urban forestry program through improved planning, management, and leadership approaches Address critical natural resource challenges such as climate change and invasive species Make your cities more livable by effectively capitalizing on the economic, environmental and social benefits that urban trees provide Learn from a world-class university Oregon State University's College of Forestry has been educating professionals for more than a century. The college has earned a reputation as a world-class center of teaching and learning about forests and related resources. Oregon State is a land, sea, space and sun-grant institution. It is Oregon's only university to hold both the Carnegie Foundation's top designation for research institutions and its prestigious Community Engagement classification. A pathway to a master’s degree The specialized knowledge you gain through the urban forestry graduate certificate program can serve as a pathway to Oregon State’s 45-credit Master of Natural Resources (MNR) program online. The 18-20 credits you earn in the certificate program may satisfy your area of emphasis requirement for MNR, and you’ll have the opportunity to: Connect with faculty who can potentially serve on your MNR committee Apply for a change of degree at no cost Smoothly transition into the MNR program as a currently admitted student Meet the preferred requirement for natural resources-related work or volunteer experience If you plan to use credits from a graduate certificate toward a master’s degree, you should discuss transfer credit policies with an advisor in advance. Please note: It’s important that you apply to change your degree program to MNR while you’re a current student in good standing in your graduate certificate program. It is also important that you wait to take MNR core classes until after you apply to change your degree program to MNR. Visit the Master of Natural Resources admissions page for details. Benefits of an Oregon State University online program All classes are developed by Oregon State's renowned faculty, who are known worldwide for their research, expertise and innovation in natural resources and science fields. Oregon State is regionally accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities. Online students receive the same credits as on-campus students, and credits transfer to most higher education institutions. OSU Ecampus is consistently ranked as one of the nation's best providers of online education. Students can complete their courses from anywhere in the world with an internet connection. Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates These are the start dates for OSU’s next two terms. However, this program only admits for fall, winter and spring terms. Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Degree details Credits required * 18 Cost per credit † $560 Delivery ‡ Online Start terms 3 per year * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 18 quarter credits are equal to 12 semester credits. † Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses. ‡ You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum. Find application deadline Choose student type... Graduate student Nondegree-seeking student International student Unsure (Describe student types...) Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Explore degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related stories Online urban forestry graduate certificate serves as career pathway after military Online urban forestry graduate certificate serves as career pathway after military After earning an undergraduate degree, Andrew Carrier commissioned into the U.S. Air Force. While serving his country brought much pride, he always knew he wanted to expand his knowledge and follow his passions into the profession of urban forestry. Oregon State Everywhere: Geospatial technology, natural resources make a perfect pair online Oregon State Everywhere: Geospatial technology, natural resources make a perfect pair online I was not a typical grad student. For years I've wanted to go back to school and get my master's degree, but due to a number of life circumstances it just didn't happen. Then, when I was about to turn 50 (yes, 50!) the opportunity... Winning on the water and in the online classroom Winning on the water and in the online classroom Fiona Wylde needed a rigorous degree program that would allow her to further her education while offering the flexibility to sustain her career as a world champion stand-up paddleboarder and windsurfer. She found everything she needed online with Oregon State. Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204