Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Data AnalyticsM.S. or Graduate Certificate Credits required 45 or 18 Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 45 or 18 quarter credits are equal to 30 or 12 semester credits.* Cost per credit $560 Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses.† Delivery Online You can complete all or nearly all requirements of these programs online. View the master's curriculum or the certificate curriculum.‡ Start term Fall Overview | Master's Curriculum | Certificate Curriculum | Careers | FAQ | Faculty | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Overview Master's Curriculum Certificate Curriculum Careers FAQ Faculty Admissions Tuition & Fees Contact Us Data Analytics: Master of Science or Graduate Certificate Overview | Master's Curriculum | Certificate Curriculum | Careers | FAQ | Faculty | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Big data. Big opportunities. The demand for professionals who can interpret large quantities of data has never been greater, and these skills are vital for scientific advances and business success worldwide. Whether you're an experienced analytics professional or looking to change careers and become one, you can chart your path forward by earning a Master of Science degree or a Graduate Certificate in Data Analytics online from Oregon State University. Ecampus data analytics students prepare for high-demand careers Josh Stevens searched more than a year for a data analytics master's program before enrolling online with OSU Ecampus. “I am deeply appreciative of the amount of content that was taught and impressed by the powerfully effective teaching,” he says. Read more » These cutting-edge programs in data analytics – offered by Oregon State University's renowned College of Science and Department of Statistics – are designed for ambitious professionals who want to add more statistical or analytical skills to their repertoire and who are seeking advancement or a transition to a new functional area. A global learning community online As a data analytics student with Oregon State Ecampus, you will benefit from the experience of learning online alongside classmates from all over the world. Ecampus students are located in all 50 states and more than 60 countries, creating a diverse learning community that exposes you to unique perspectives. Learn more about being a data analytics graduate student You can find complete details about the data analytics master's degree and graduate certificate programs in a guidebook produced by the Department of Statistics. Benefits of learning online with Oregon State University All classes in these data analytics programs are developed and taught by full-time Oregon State faculty. OSU is regionally accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities. Oregon State is a respected leader in the fields of data science and statistics and is well-connected with industry. Oregon State Ecampus is consistently ranked as one of the nation's best providers of online education. OSU Ecampus students receive the same diploma as on-campus students. Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates These are the start dates for OSU’s next two terms. However, this program only admits for fall term. Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Degree details Credits required * 45 or 18 Cost per credit † $560 Delivery ‡ Online Start term Fall * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 45 or 18 quarter credits are equal to 30 or 12 semester credits. † Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses. ‡ You can complete all or nearly all requirements of these programs online. View the master's curriculum or the certificate curriculum. Find application deadline Choose student type... Graduate student Nondegree-seeking student International student Unsure (Describe student types...) Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Explore degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related stories Online data analytics students prepare for top job in the country Online data analytics students prepare for top job in the country Josh Stevens, an army veteran and a mid-career IT analyst at State Farm in Bloomington, Illinois, had been searching for the right online data analytics program for well over a year. The perfect match continued to be elusive. When he came across Oregon State University’... OSU’s new online programs in data analytics aim to address national shortage OSU’s new online programs in data analytics aim to address national shortage With the United States facing a shortage of more than one million skilled data scientists, Oregon State will train an array of new professionals through a pair of graduate programs in data analytics to be delivered entirely online. “It's an exciting time to be a... Distance learning, remote working bring a new mom’s tech dreams closer Distance learning, remote working bring a new mom’s tech dreams closer Ravonne was nearly 30 and had a newborn. Was it too late to start a tech career? The answer: no. Now she's in Oregon State's postbaccalaureate online computer science program, learning a suite of skills as part of a large community of students, and it's... Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204