Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Fisheries and Wildlife SciencesB.S. Credits required 180 Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 180 quarter credits are equal to 120 semester credits.* Cost per credit $346 Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses.† Delivery Online You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum.‡ Start terms 4 per year Overview | Curriculum | Careers | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Overview Curriculum Careers Tuition & Fees Contact Us B.S. in Fisheries and Wildlife Sciences – Online Overview | Curriculum | Careers | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Where conservation meets passion Oregon State University's online fisheries and wildlife sciences degree is an applied, science-based program that focuses on maintaining balance for species and habitats in the wild. As a student in the program, you'll have the unique opportunity to choose a specialization area to develop your interests and knowledge to make vital decisions about fish, wildlife and the delicate environments they live in. Oregon State Ecampus delivers a variety of degree programs online focused on animal biology and habitat conservation. Explore similar programs. This degree is offered by OSU's Department of Fisheries, Wildlife, and Conservation Sciences, which was the first and is still the only department in the nation to offer a bachelor's degree in combined fisheries and wildlife sciences entirely online. The courses are delivered online by Oregon State Ecampus. Additionally, the Department of Fisheries, Wildlife, and Conservation Sciences is part of OSU's College of Agricultural Sciences, which is recognized as a world-class leader in the industry, ranking 19th in an international survey of more than 3,000 universities. To make a career out of her passion for the outdoors, Jordan Levi found the hands-on, science-based education she needed in OSU’s online fisheries and wildlife program. See story and video » Benefits of learning online with Oregon State All classes are developed by OSU's world-class faculty, who are known worldwide for their research, expertise and innovation. Oregon State is regionally accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities. Oregon State Ecampus is consistently ranked among the nation's 10 best providers of online education according to U.S. News & World Report. OSU Ecampus students receive the same diploma as on-campus students. Get the support you need Our goal is to help you succeed. That’s why, as an OSU Ecampus student, you’ll have access to vital resources like success coaching, library services, free online tutoring and career guidance – making your online learning experience collaborative and rewarding. Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Degree details Credits required * 180 Cost per credit † $346 Delivery ‡ Online Start terms 4 per year * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 180 quarter credits are equal to 120 semester credits. † Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses. ‡ You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum. Find application deadline Choose student type... First-year student Transfer student Postbaccalaureate student Nondegree-seeking student International student Unsure (Describe student types...) Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Compare degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related programs Environmental Sciences B.S. Natural Resources B.S. Rangeland Science B.S. Related stories A closer look at 5 online degrees in conservation and natural sciences A closer look at 5 online degrees in conservation and natural sciences Knowing how to take care of the planet and the animals who live here is just one of our areas of expertise at Oregon State. To get there in your career, you can choose from a variety of bachelor’s degree programs that align with... Ecampus student 1 of 7 at OSU to earn study abroad scholarship Ecampus student 1 of 7 at OSU to earn study abroad scholarship Esmeralda Sanchez, an OSU Ecampus student in fisheries and wildlife sciences, will participate in a forest conservation program in Malaysian Borneo after being awarded a Benjamin A. Gilman International Scholarship to study internationally during the 2020-21 academic year. It's part of a congressionally funded program... Oregon State Ecampus graduate ‘shocked’ by her scientific success Oregon State Ecampus graduate ‘shocked’ by her scientific success As a kid, Andrea Fuchs dreamed of someday working with animals. Those dreams were squelched – at least in her mind – because she struggled in high school math and science classes. But when a web search for reputable online degree programs led her to discover Oregon... Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204