Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Master of Public HealthM.P.H. Credits required 60 Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 60 quarter credits are equal to 40 semester credits.* Cost per credit $627 Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses.† Delivery Online You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum.‡ Start term Fall Overview | Curriculum | Careers | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Overview Curriculum Careers Admissions Tuition & Fees Contact Us Master of Public Health – Online Overview | Curriculum | Careers | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Enter your questions in the text box below. Please be as specific as possible so we can email you with detailed information. Asterisks (*) indicate required information. *First name: *Last name: *Your email: *Your questions: Take on our greatest challenges to health Oregon State University’s Master of Public Health with an option in Public Health Practice online degree program will provide you the skills, knowledge and credentials to prepare you to be a thriving professional and to take on leadership roles informing public health action. Zach Harris wanted to make sure he got a high-quality experience while pursuing his Master of Public Health degree online. He found Oregon State exceeded his expectations. Read more about Zach » The 60-credit MPH-PHP program is designed for early to mid-career professionals who want to find novel solutions to complex public health problems. From health policy to health promotion, and epidemiology to health systems, you'll acquire the skills needed to take on the task of improving the population’s health by learning to manage resources and influence health policy and practice at the local, state, national and international level. CEPH-accredited, rigorous program Ask us more about the MPH program Do you have questions about the curriculum or admission process for the online MPH program? Send us an email and we’ll be glad to answer your questions. Email us This program is accredited by the Council on Education for Public Health (CEPH), the national accrediting body for schools of public health and public health programs. The MPH-PHP program is offered by OSU’s College of Public Health and Human Sciences (CPHHS) and delivered online through Oregon State Ecampus. Feel supported from start to finish In this comprehensive and interdisciplinary program, you'll be supported by an experienced team of public health faculty, including a faculty advisor, an MPH internship coordinator, and the MPH administrative director, who will provide group advising sessions and support. Oregon State Ecampus is widely considered one of America's best providers of online education. Our national prestige is based on rigorous criteria, which takes into consideration these factors and many others: faculty credentials and training, student engagement, student services and technology, student retention rate, degree selection diversity and academic quality. Oregon State has a long, proud history of involvement in training people to promote the health of communities. The faculty who help make up your support system have rich and extensive backgrounds across all disciplines. Benefits of earning your degree online from Oregon State University Classes are developed by OSU's renowned faculty, who have experience across public health disciplines and public health practice settings. With Extension offices located in all 36 Oregon counties, the CPHHS is the only School or College of Public Health in the nation with such a strong tie to Extension. OSU is regionally accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities. OSU's online students receive the same diploma and transcript as on-campus students. Complete the degree from anywhere in the world. This is a fully online degree with no travel requirements. Learn at your own pace with with the flexibility to learn as a part-time or full-time student. Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates These are the start dates for OSU’s next two terms. However, this program only admits for fall term. Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Degree details Credits required * 60 Cost per credit † $627 Delivery ‡ Online Start term Fall * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 60 quarter credits are equal to 40 semester credits. † Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses. ‡ You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum. Application deadline Apply by June 1. All admitted students will begin the program in fall term each year. Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Explore degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related stories Oregon State Everywhere: ‘I am so grateful to have taken this path’ Oregon State Everywhere: ‘I am so grateful to have taken this path’ If it weren't for the online program at Oregon State Ecampus, I would not have had the chance to get the Master of Public Health. I wouldn't have complemented my work in OSU Extension Family and Community Health with classes that taught me the science... Online Master of Public Health program helps health systems administrator advance his career Online Master of Public Health program helps health systems administrator advance his career Zach Harris can see himself working in the executive-level management of a health care system. He’s an administrator in charge of ambulatory services at Queen’s Health Systems in Honolulu, Hawaii. To make it to the C-suite, Harris is pursuing a Master of Public... Paving the way for stronger and healthier communities worldwide Paving the way for stronger and healthier communities worldwide The new Master of Public Health – Public Health Practice degree program is offered by the College of Public Health and Human Sciences and delivered online through Oregon State Ecampus, creating a unique opportunity for world-class instructional faculty to work directly with adult learners across the... Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204