Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Women, Gender, and Sexuality StudiesUndergraduate Certificate or Minor Credits required 27 Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 27 quarter credits are equal to 18 semester credits.* Cost per credit $346 Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses.† Delivery Online You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum.‡ Start terms 4 per year Overview | Minor Curriculum | Certificate Curriculum | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us | About Undergraduate Certificates Overview Minor Curriculum Certificate Curriculum Tuition & Fees Contact Us About Undergraduate Certificates Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies - Online Minor and Undergraduate Certificate Overview | Minor Curriculum | Certificate Curriculum | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us | About Undergraduate Certificates Examine the use of feminist and anti-racist pedagogies as well as scholarship that contributes to social change and justice online through Oregon State University's undergraduate certificate or undergraduate minor in women, gender and sexuality studies. As a means to challenge all forms of oppression, the online curriculum is centered on queer, transnational and women-of-color feminisms. The coursework delves into a wide array of topics that deal with women and gender issues in society, history and culture. Creativity, innovation, and collaboration are the frameworks of the WGSS program to engage all students no matter where they live. Students are prepared to pursue careers in academia, community organizing, feminist non profits, and many other professional areas. Undergraduate certificate The 27-credit undergraduate certificate is designed to facilitate a broad interdisciplinary study of gender and women's issues. It emphasizes the diversity of women's experiences through a focus on disciplinary based knowledge about women's lives and relationships. The required core coursework is developed by the WGSS program. To benefit from the rich course offerings students are expected to take the bulk of their electives from approved WGSS classes offered throughout OSU’s many colleges and programs. Prerequisites You may need to complete additional coursework prior to enrolling in this program and taking the required certificate courses. This could mean completing 3 or more additional credits, depending on your individual educational background as it relates to the program requirements. We recommend that you evaluate this prior to applying for admission. Minor The 27-credit minor explores gender and sexuality as they intersect with race, ethnicity, class, culture, nation, and ability and is a good fit with an undergraduate degree in Anthropology, Sociology, History or Liberal Studies. Students are expected to take the bulk of their coursework toward the minor from the core and elective courses offered by the Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies Program. Earn a WGSS bachelor's degree online Oregon State offers a full, four-year bachelor's degree program online in women, gender, and sexuality studies. Learn more Sample course topics Gender and science Women of color feminisms Gender and transnational activisms Queer studies Systems of oppression in women's lives Feminist philosophies Gender, sexuality and the photographic image Ecofeminism Transgender lives Self-esteem and personal power Global feminist theologies Women in world cinema Benefits of learning online with Oregon State All classes are developed by OSU's world-class faculty, who are known worldwide for their expertise, research and innovation. Oregon State is regionally accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities. OSU Ecampus students receive the same transcript-visible certificate as on-campus students. Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Degree details Credits required * 27 Cost per credit † $346 Delivery ‡ Online Start terms 4 per year * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 27 quarter credits are equal to 18 semester credits. † Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses. ‡ You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum. Find application deadline Choose student type... First-year student Transfer student Postbaccalaureate student Nondegree-seeking student International student Unsure (Describe student types...) Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Compare degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related stories Oregon State University ranked #1 for Best Online Liberal Arts Colleges Oregon State University ranked #1 for Best Online Liberal Arts Colleges Oregon State is the best university in the nation when it comes to delivering a high-quality liberal arts education online, according to a newly published ranking. College Choice put Oregon State atop its list of the 25 Best Online Liberal Arts Colleges. OSU offers more... Online students participate in on-campus research event, share their unique interests Online students participate in on-campus research event, share their unique interests Oregon State online students participate in the on-campus research event, Celebrating Undergraduate Excellence, to advance their skills, career outlook and connect with the university. A novel approach to research makes new paths possible A novel approach to research makes new paths possible Ecampus women, gender and sexuality studies student Jennifer Oliphant is the proud recipient of the 2018 Oregon State University Library Undergraduate Research Award for her winning paper, “Sharontheview!” – a graphic novel she wrote her first term at Oregon State for the Disney: Gender Race Empire... Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204