Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info GermanB.A. Credits required 180 Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 180 quarter credits are equal to 120 semester credits.* Cost per credit $346 Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses.† Delivery Online You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum.‡ Start terms 4 per year Overview | Curriculum | Careers | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Overview Curriculum Careers Tuition & Fees Contact Us B.A. in German – Online Overview | Curriculum | Careers | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us The language. The culture. The history. By earning your German bachelor's degree online with Oregon State University, you will gain a career advantage in today's economy by adding this language and the knowledge of the German culture to your résumé. German continues to be one of the leading languages of science, arts, philosophy and history. German is spoken by more than 200 million speakers worldwide, half of whom speak it as their first language. After English, German is the second most used language on the internet. Oregon State Ecampus delivers a variety of degree programs online that are focused on language and liberal arts. Explore similar programs. Take a look at the online classroom and see how easy it is to earn a language degree alongside classmates from around the world. Learn more » The online German curriculum delivers a high level of proficiency in developing speaking, listening, reading, writing and cultural competency skills that prepares you to succeed in a variety of rewarding careers. In addition, a bachelor's degree in German is a great stepping stone to graduate or law school. Courses are developed and taught by the same renowned Oregon State faculty who teach on campus, many of whom are native speakers and have received specialized training. The personalized, engaging learning environment provides you with the tools you need to be confident in your skills and advance your career. This degree program is offered through OSU's College of Liberal Arts, which is ranked No. 1 in the nation for best online liberal arts colleges. The courses are delivered online by OSU Ecampus Benefits of learning German online with Oregon State All classes are developed by OSU's world-class faculty, who are known worldwide for their research, expertise and innovation. Personalized learning environment provides students with the tools and experience to be successful. Oregon State is regionally accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities. Oregon State Ecampus is consistently ranked among the nation's 10 best providers of online education according to U.S. News & World Report. OSU Ecampus students receive the same diploma as on-campus students. Get the support you need Our goal is to help you succeed. That’s why, as an OSU Ecampus student, you’ll have access to vital resources like success coaching, library services, free online tutoring and career guidance – making your online learning experience collaborative and rewarding. Related programs B.A. French B.A. Spanish Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Degree details Credits required * 180 Cost per credit † $346 Delivery ‡ Online Start terms 4 per year * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 180 quarter credits are equal to 120 semester credits. † Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses. ‡ You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum. Find application deadline Choose student type... First-year student Transfer student Postbaccalaureate student Nondegree-seeking student International student Unsure (Describe student types...) Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Compare degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related stories Oregon State University ranked #1 for Best Online Liberal Arts Colleges Oregon State University ranked #1 for Best Online Liberal Arts Colleges Oregon State is the best university in the nation when it comes to delivering a high-quality liberal arts education online, according to a newly published ranking. College Choice put Oregon State atop its list of the 25 Best Online Liberal Arts Colleges. OSU offers more... Online German degree opens the world for OSU Ecampus alum Online German degree opens the world for OSU Ecampus alum People used to ask Hope Nelson how she learned to speak German. Hope says her answer didn’t seem adequate. She taught herself using textbooks and audio tools in high school before living in Germany for a year as an exchange student. But now she... Earn a language degree online from top-ranked Oregon State Ecampus, expand your career Earn a language degree online from top-ranked Oregon State Ecampus, expand your career Learn a new language and enhance your global awareness and intercultural skills by taking online language courses from Oregon State University - and set yourself up for career advancement. Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204