Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Organizational LeadershipUndergraduate Certificate Credits required 28 Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 28 quarter credits are equal to 18.67 semester credits.* Cost per credit $370 Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses.† Delivery Online You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum.‡ Start terms 4 per year Overview | Certificate Curriculum | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us | About Undergraduate Certificates Overview Certificate Curriculum Tuition & Fees Contact Us About Undergraduate Certificates Organizational Leadership – Online Undergraduate Certificate Overview | Certificate Curriculum | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us | About Undergraduate Certificates Your professional path to becoming a leader starts here Gain strategic communication and leadership skills, and learn how to effectively find, motivate and lead talented employees when you earn an Undergraduate Certificate in Organizational Leadership online with Oregon State University. By preparing you to run dynamic projects and manage employees in both goods-producing and service enterprises, this certificate will equip you with the knowledge you need for a career full of advancement opportunities. This 28-credit program is designed for early-career professionals who want to directly contribute to organizational initiatives and processes. Through evidence-based instruction, you'll gain the skills to lead others and positively impact team and organizational performance. An accredited and top-ranked leader in business As an organizational leadership certificate student, you’ll benefit from the expertise of Oregon State’s AACSB-accredited College of Business. The college is a recognized leader in the business industry, as evidenced by being ranked No. 4 nationally by U.S. News & World Report for Best Online Bachelor’s in Business Programs. Coursework The organizational leadership online coursework is designed to give you the foundational knowledge to become a strong leader in a rapidly evolving business environment. In these classes, you'll learn tactics to improve individual performance and group dynamics within diverse organizations. Outcomes in the organizational leadership certificate include learning how people and groups in organizations behave, react and interpret events; discovering techniques and using professional decision tools for managing a broad range of projects; and diving into research and theory, with an emphasis on analyzing leadership situations and applying leadership skills in the workplace. Certificate requirements and curriculum details are available on Oregon State's academic catalog. Sample course topics Principles of management Managing individual and team performance Project management Leadership Human resources management Influence and negotiation Prerequisites You may need to complete additional coursework prior to enrolling in this program and taking the required certificate courses. This could mean completing 3 or more additional credits, depending on how your educational background relates to the program requirements. Apply some of certificate credits toward a bachelor’s degree The College of Business makes it possible for you to apply some of the credits you earn in the organizational leadership certificate toward one of OSU's business bachelor’s programs delivered online. Browse the collection of OSU Ecampus business programs. Benefits of learning online with Oregon State All classes are developed by OSU's world-class faculty, who are renowned for their research, expertise and innovation. Oregon State is regionally accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities. OSU Ecampus students receive the same transcript-visible certificate as on-campus students. NOTE: The U.S. Department of Education has approved this certificate for federal financial aid eligibility as part of a full degree program, but not as an independent certificate program. Alternate funding sources (e.g., loans, private funds) may be required to cover the costs associated with this program. Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Degree details Credits required * 28 Cost per credit † $370 Delivery ‡ Online Start terms 4 per year * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 28 quarter credits are equal to 18.67 semester credits. † Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses. ‡ You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum. Find application deadline Choose student type... First-year student Transfer student Postbaccalaureate student Nondegree-seeking student International student Unsure (Describe student types...) Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Compare degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related stories 7 insights from an Ecampus student turned entrepreneur 7 insights from an Ecampus student turned entrepreneur OSU Ecampus graduate-turned-entrepreneur Hannah Thelen shares her seven best tips on how to start a small business as a student, while doing well in school and more. Oregon State ranked #4 for best online business bachelor’s degrees Oregon State ranked #4 for best online business bachelor’s degrees Oregon State delivers seven business bachelor’s degree programs online, and according to U.S. News & World Report, they are among the very best in the nation. The 2022 list of Best Online Bachelor’s in Business Programs ranks OSU Ecampus No. 4 overall,... Want to transfer to an Oregon State online business program? Start here Want to transfer to an Oregon State online business program? Start here As part of OSU's College of Business, Caiden Marcus-Brist supports prospective students interested in transferring to OSU business programs that are delivered online by OSU Ecampus. Marcus-Brist says the COB’s Career Success Center “provide a one-stop shop” where future Oregon State students can ask... Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204