Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info News Menu Ecampus News AboutAbout About For Journalists All StoriesStories All Ecampus Ecampus OER Ecampus Research Unit Ecampus StoriesEcampus All Students Faculty & Advisors Graduation Staff Military Research Unit Videos In the NewsPress In the News Press Releases Awards Ecampus Students Now at Harvard, Oregon State online grad still “over the moon” with religious studies May 23, 2022 Tyler Hansen Monique Lanier is a graduate of Oregon State’s religious studies online bachelor’s program, and the experience profoundly impacted her — academically and in myriad other ways. And her alma mater helped pave her path to one of the world’s most prestigious institutions. Categories: All Stories, Ecampus, Ecampus Students, Features Tags: College of Liberal Arts, Languages and liberal arts, Religious studies | Comments Oregon State Everywhere: Geospatial technology, natural resources make a perfect pair online May 18, 2022 Tyler Hansen I was not a typical grad student. For years I’ve wanted to go back to school and get my master’s degree, but due to a number of life circumstances it just didn’t happen. Then, when I was about to turn 50 (yes, 50!) the opportunity came. Categories: All Stories, Ecampus, Ecampus Students, Features Tags: College of Forestry, Conservation and natural sciences, Master of Natural Resources, OSU Everywhere | Comments Distance learning, remote working bring a new mom’s tech dreams closer May 13, 2022 Tyler Hansen Ravonne was nearly 30 and had a newborn. Was it too late to start a tech career? The answer: no. Now she’s in Oregon State’s postbaccalaureate online computer science program, learning a suite of skills as part of a large community of students, and it’s been a perfect fit. Categories: All Stories, Ecampus, Ecampus Students, Features Tags: College of Engineering, Computer Science, Feature 1, School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science | Comments Computer science student earns Department of Defense SMART scholarship April 5, 2022 Tyler Hansen Vidhi Kadakia, a second-year undergraduate in OSU’s College of Engineering, has been selected for the Department of Defense’s Science, Mathematics, and Research for Transformation scholarship program, known as SMART. A computer science student who learns online with OSU Ecampus, Kadakia is eligible for up to five years of full tuition as well as mentorship, summer internships, a stipend and full-time employment with the DOD upon graduation. Categories: Ecampus, Ecampus Students Tags: College of Engineering, Computer Science, School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science | Comments Former NFL standout Steven Jackson creates greater diversity for a stronger OSU February 28, 2022 Tyler Hansen Former Oregon State and NFL running back Steven Jackson — who now serves as an OSU Foundation Trustee and on the advisory board for OSU’s director of athletics — made a gift to create the Jackson Family Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Fund. It aims to help Oregon State pilot a new program designed to help the university recruit underrepresented faculty and staff. Categories: All Stories, Ecampus, Ecampus Students, Features Tags: College of Public Health and Human Sciences, Human Development and Family Sciences, OSU Foundation | Comments Winning on the water and in the online classroom February 25, 2022 Tyler Hansen Fiona Wylde needed a rigorous degree program that would allow her to further her education while offering the flexibility to sustain her career as a world champion stand-up paddleboarder and windsurfer. She found everything she needed online with Oregon State. Categories: All Stories, Ecampus, Ecampus Students Tags: College of Earth Ocean and Atmospheric Sciences, Conservation and natural sciences, Geography and geospatial science | Comments 7 simple words led ‘Promising’ scholar to hybrid education master’s program January 10, 2022 Tyler Hansen Alyssa Fuentez can trace the altered trajectory of her career to a single conversation. Engaged in discussion with an environmental ethics professor, Fuentez became distressed as she wondered how society could curb the enormous issues of climate change. In seven words, her future was rewritten. Categories: All Stories, Ecampus, Ecampus Students, Features Tags: College of Education, M.S. in Education | Comments ‘Extraordinary connections’ a highlight of religious studies online degree program January 4, 2022 Tyler Hansen Seated in her bedroom, Emma Sargent gazed into a computer screen. She was on Zoom with classmates and professors from Oregon State’s religious studies online program for a long-distance graduation celebration. Events of such magnitude are meant to be shared in person, but if you were looking for disappointed faces, you were looking in the wrong place. Categories: All Stories, Ecampus, Ecampus Students, Features Tags: Languages and liberal arts, Religious studies | Comments A biological, cultural approach to conservation begins at home – and online November 24, 2021 Ecampus News Cayla “La” Crivello wanted to find a way to impact her community without having to leave it. What she found was Oregon State University Ecampus and an environmental sciences degree that she could complete without having to leave Hawai’i. And now? She’s engaging with her local and state government and working in conservation. Categories: All Stories, Ecampus, Ecampus Students, Features Tags: Conservation and natural sciences, Degree Partnership Program, Distance Education, Environmental sciences, Online Learning, Tribal Communities | Comments 7 insights from an Ecampus student turned entrepreneur August 13, 2021 Carly Johansen OSU Ecampus graduate-turned-entrepreneur Hannah Thelen shares her seven best tips on how to start a small business as a student, while doing well in school and more. Categories: All Stories, Ecampus, Ecampus Military, Ecampus Students, Features Tags: Business administration, Business and Communications, Military, Military students, U.S. Air Force | Comments Posts navigation ← older Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details about our online programs and course offerings. Request info Gather information about OSU Ecampus, our history, students and programs. 90+ programs Explore all of Oregon State’s online offerings. Stories archive Search for: Subscribe Receive notifications of new story posts by email. Email address Subscribe Share your story Are you an Oregon State Ecampus grad? Inspire current and prospective students with your story. Are you a current Oregon State Ecampus student? Share your OSU journey. Recent stories Corporate education combats the great resignation Now at Harvard, Oregon State online grad still “over the moon” with religious studies Oregon State Everywhere: Geospatial technology, natural resources make a perfect pair online Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204