Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info MBAOnline or In-person/Online Hybrid Credits required 45-60 Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 45-60 quarter credits are equal to 30-40 semester credits.* Cost per credit $868 Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses.† Delivery Choice This program is available either online or as a blend of online coursework and in-person classes in Portland, Oregon. View the curriculum.‡ Start terms 4 per year Overview | Tracks | Careers | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Overview Tracks Careers Admissions Tuition & Fees Contact Us MBA - Online | Portland | Bend Overview | Tracks | Careers | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Tracks The Oregon State MBA specialized tracks are designed with feedback from industry partners as a direct response to market needs. This gives you a competitive edge in the marketplace and translates into an MBA that meets your needs and positions you well for your career. "I’ve loved the MBA program and faculty. It definitely got me where I am today. The program is very flexible – not easy, but manageable. And I’m glad it’s not easy." – Maria Sar, MBA in Organizational Leadership; procurement contractor, Nike Business analytics With rapid growth of available data, organizations are becoming more innovative and competitive by optimizing the data they have. The Oregon State MBA in Business Analytics enables you to meet the demand for people who can understand the technical aspects of data and create compelling solutions. Program delivery options Online Online with in-person classes in Portland Marketing Marketing plays a critical role in strategic decision-making and business practices in virtually any industry. With an emphasis on digital marketing, the Oregon State MBA in Marketing will teach you in-demand skills on how to incorporate customer insights and innovative problem-solving as a means to develop and communicate effective marketing strategies. Program delivery Online Online with in-person classes in Portland Organizational leadership Skills like communication, critical thinking, conflict management, problem solving and team building are essential in advancing in any career in management. The Oregon State MBA in Organizational Leadership equips you with the knowledge to understand both the human and financial elements in every business. It's designed for upwardly mobile professionals who are currently in leadership positions or who aspire to lead. Program delivery options Online Online with in-person classes in Portland “The professors are super eager to provide feedback and help students get more out of the program.” – Rachel Salazar, MBA in Supply Chain and Logistics Management; senior procurement manager, BIOTRONIK. Read more and watch the video » Supply chain and logistics management Gain the skills you need to manage the flow of products, from sourcing raw materials to transportation, manufacturing and inventory management. With the Oregon State MBA in Supply Chain and Logistics Management, you'll acquire a solid mastery of international operations, the intricacies of global operations, and supply chain and logistics management concepts and methods. Program delivery Online Online with in-person classes in Portland Find all classes in Portland Browse a list of all business courses and those from other disciplines that will be delivered on-site at the new OSU Portland Center at Pioneer Square. Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Degree details Credits required * 45-60 Cost per credit † $868 Delivery ‡ Choice Start terms 4 per year * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 45-60 quarter credits are equal to 30-40 semester credits. † Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses. ‡ This program is available either online or as a blend of online coursework and in-person classes in Portland, Oregon. View the curriculum. Find application deadline Choose student type... Graduate student Nondegree-seeking student International student Unsure (Describe student types...) Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Explore degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related programs Business Analytics Graduate Certificate Business Fundamentals Graduate Certificate Supply Chain and Logistics Management Graduate Certificate Related stories Oregon State’s 100% online and hybrid MBA programs set students up for career success Oregon State’s 100% online and hybrid MBA programs set students up for career success Known for its high level of faculty involvement, the Oregon State MBA program connects OSU College of Business’ world-class faculty with students for personalized support and ample networking opportunities – no matter where you live. Growing services – online and in Portland Growing services – online and in Portland As an increasing number of Portland-area professionals are doing, Maria Sar turned to Oregon State University Ecampus for the opportunity to maintain career stability while pursuing a degree that would yield upward mobility. Even before completing OSU’s hybrid (online/in-person) MBA in Organizational Leadership... On a quest for the cure On a quest for the cure In December 2014, Eric Vela was hired by Oregon Health Sciences University to help lead a $28 million vaccine program that aims to eliminate HIV from humans. Even though he had 16 years of experience in infectious disease research, Eric needed to enhance his skills... Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204