Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Supply Chain and Logistics ManagementGraduate Certificate Credits required 21 Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 21 quarter credits are equal to 14 semester credits.* Cost per credit $868 Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses.† Delivery Online You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum.‡ Start term Fall Overview | Curriculum | Careers | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Overview Curriculum Careers Admissions Tuition & Fees Contact Us Graduate Certificate in Supply Chain and Logistics Management – Online Overview | Curriculum | Careers | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Gain in-demand skills for in-demand jobs Gain the tools you needed to manage the flow of products, from sourcing raw materials to transportation, manufacturing and inventory management. Oregon State University's Graduate Certificate in Supply Chain and Logistics Management is the ideal path for building a career in the rapidly growing industry of supply chain management. This program combines top-ranked faculty, leading-edge curriculum and a diverse network with the flexibility of online learning. You will acquire a solid mastery of international operations and learn how to use data-driven, critical thinking to provide goods to customers worldwide. Study on an accelerated timeline with your peers You have the option to complete the program in as little as nine months by taking two to three courses per term as part of a collaborative cohort of students, or you can establish your own timeline as a part-time student. Complement your MBA or start working toward one This advanced credential serves as the perfect complement to an existing MBA. Or if you have yet to earn one, you can apply up to 21 of the credits you earn in this program toward Oregon State’s MBA in Supply Chain and Logistics Management. Earn this certificate, and you’ll already be one-third of the way done with your MBA program. Benefits of learning online with Oregon State OSU's College of Business is accredited by the AACSB (Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business), a standard met by only 25 percent of business schools. Oregon State is regionally accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities OSU is listed as one of the top 10 Most Popular Business Schools on the U.S. News & World Report's short list. You’ll benefit from small class sizes in courses taught by leading researchers and practitioners. OSU's online students receive the certificate and transcript as on-campus students. NOTE: The U.S. Department of Education has approved this certificate for federal financial aid eligibility as part of a full degree program, but not as an independent certificate program. Alternate funding sources (e.g. loans, private funds) may be required to cover the costs associated with this program. Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates These are the start dates for OSU’s next two terms. However, this program only admits for fall term. Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Degree details Credits required * 21 Cost per credit † $868 Delivery ‡ Online Start term Fall * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 21 quarter credits are equal to 14 semester credits. † Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses. ‡ You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum. Find application deadline Choose student type... Graduate student Nondegree-seeking student International student Unsure (Describe student types...) Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Explore degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related stories Striking a balance between student and staff sergeant Striking a balance between student and staff sergeant With a career in the U.S. Air Force, Chris Burke has worked at odd hours, been deployed overseas and mastered the art of balancing a job and raising three children. That's why when he was looking into online bachelor’s degree programs a few... Oregon State’s 100% online and hybrid MBA programs set students up for career success Oregon State’s 100% online and hybrid MBA programs set students up for career success Known for its high level of faculty involvement, the Oregon State MBA program connects OSU College of Business’ world-class faculty with students for personalized support and ample networking opportunities – no matter where you live. Oregon State’s online supply chain program aims to meet rapidly growing industry needs Oregon State’s online supply chain program aims to meet rapidly growing industry needs To help answer a nationwide call for professionally trained workers who can manage global supply chains, Oregon State University now offers a Graduate Certificate in Supply Chain and Logistics Management 100 percent online. In as little as nine months, students can earn an advanced business... Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204