Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info News Menu Ecampus News AboutAbout About For Journalists All StoriesStories All Ecampus Ecampus OER Ecampus Research Unit Ecampus StoriesEcampus All Students Faculty & Advisors Graduation Staff Military Research Unit Videos In the NewsPress In the News Press Releases Awards Amazon teams with Oregon State to offer statewide employees tuition benefit to learn on campus, online CORVALLIS, Ore. — Oregon State University today announced a collaboration that assists Amazon hourly employees in Oregon in pursuing a college degree by enrolling in OSU courses on campus and online. Amazon workers in Oregon will benefit from tuition assistance to pursue more than 200 Oregon State programs on the Corvallis campus or at OSU-Cascades in Bend, as well as 90-plus programs through OSU Ecampus, the university’s nationally ranked online education division. This is the latest in a series of collaborations Ecampus has formed with organizations and employer networks to provide educational solutions for working adults. It is the first such alliance that gives students the ability to learn in person or online. “OSU is Oregon’s statewide university, and this collaboration is true to the spirit of our mission to serve people in our state,” said Becky Johnson, Oregon State’s interim president. “We are working to expand access to higher education for all qualified students, at both the undergraduate and graduate levels, and this collaboration with Amazon will help us achieve that.” MEDIA CONTACT Tyler Hansen 541-737-5740 SOURCE Lisa L. Templeton 541-737-1279 The Amazon Career Choice program assists full- and part-time employees as they learn new skills to advance their careers at Amazon or elsewhere. The program collaborates with institutions like Oregon State that support working adults academically, assisting them with job placements and providing educational pathways that lead to career success. “We’re looking forward to Oregon State coming on board as an education partner, adding to the hundreds of best-in-class offerings available to our employees,” said Tammy Thieman, global program lead of Amazon’s Career Choice program. “We’re committed to empowering our employees by providing them access to the education and training they need to grow their careers, whether that’s with us or elsewhere. “Today, more than 50,000 Amazon employees around the world have already participated in Career Choice, and we’ve seen firsthand how it can transform their lives.” Amazon operates fulfillment centers in Hillsboro, Portland, Salem and Troutdale, with additional warehouses expected to open next year in Canby and Woodburn. More than half of Amazon Career Choice participants identify as Black, Hispanic or Indigenous. “We’re proud to support adult learners wherever they live, and teaming with Amazon is an exciting, innovative way to give Oregonians increased access to high-quality OSU programs that meet their needs,” said Ecampus Associate Provost Lisa L. Templeton. Ecampus has corporate collaborations with organizations such as Guild Education, Peet’s Coffee and the Professional Hockey League Players’ Association. -30- About Oregon State University Ecampus: As a leader in online education, Oregon State Ecampus provides access to exceptional learning experiences that transform the lives of students in Oregon and around the world. OSU Ecampus delivers more than 90 undergraduate and graduate programs and over 1,600 classes online and in a hybrid format. Learn more at ecampus.oregonstate.edu. Share this: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) Related April 28, 2022 Tyler Hansen Categories: All Stories, Ecampus, Press Releases Tags: Corporate education, Feature 3 | Comments Leave a Reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Notify me of follow-up comments by email. Notify me of new posts by email. Δ Post navigation ← Learn online with Oregon State and receive unmatched student support OSU faculty, staff to receive awards from Ecampus for dedication to student experience → Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details about our online programs and course offerings. Request info Gather information about OSU Ecampus, our history, students and programs. 90+ programs Explore all of Oregon State’s online offerings. Stories archive Search for: Subscribe Receive notifications of new story posts by email. Email address Subscribe Share your story Are you an Oregon State Ecampus grad? Inspire current and prospective students with your story. Are you a current Oregon State Ecampus student? Share your OSU journey. Recent stories Corporate education combats the great resignation Now at Harvard, Oregon State online grad still “over the moon” with religious studies Oregon State Everywhere: Geospatial technology, natural resources make a perfect pair online Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204