Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Rangeland ScienceB.S. Credits required 180 Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 180 quarter credits are equal to 120 semester credits.* Cost per credit $346 Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses.† Delivery Online You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum.‡ Start terms 4 per year Overview | Curriculum | Options | Careers | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Overview Curriculum Options Careers Tuition & Fees Contact Us B.S. in Rangeland Science – Online Overview | Curriculum | Options | Careers | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Help manage the world's wildland Through hands-on coursework, experiential learning opportunities and applied learning of rangeland ecology and management, Oregon State University’s B.S. in Rangeland Science degree program will prepare you to pursue high-demand, outdoor career opportunities. Prepare yourself to work on private and public lands in areas such as soil and water conservation, managing for ecosystem goods and services, wildlife habitat management and sustainable land stewardship. Oregon State Ecampus delivers a variety of degree programs online focused on animal biology and habitat conservation. Explore similar programs. Rangeland science is about the study and sustainable management of landscapes across a variety of biomes. The program takes an interdisciplinary, holistic approach that encompasses natural and human ecological systems. You gain the skills and knowledge that are needed to manage some of the most critical issues facing our global society. This is the only program of its kind in the country to be delivered online, making it ideal for place bound students, working professionals or anyone looking to start or transition to a new career. Specialization options Once you enroll in the rangeland science program, you can select an area of focus from the following specialization options: Habitat management Pastoral systems of the world Sustainable livestock ranching Sustainable rangeland ecosystem stewardship Benefits of learning online with Oregon State All classes are developed by OSU's world-class faculty, who are known worldwide for their research, expertise and innovation. Oregon State is regionally accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities. Oregon State Ecampus is consistently ranked among the nation's 10 best providers of online education according to U.S. News & World Report. OSU Ecampus students receive the same diploma as on-campus students. Get the support you need Our goal is to help you succeed. That’s why, as an OSU Ecampus student, you’ll have access to vital resources like success coaching, library services, free online tutoring and career guidance – making your online learning experience collaborative and rewarding. Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Degree details Credits required * 180 Cost per credit † $346 Delivery ‡ Online Start terms 4 per year * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 180 quarter credits are equal to 120 semester credits. † Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses. ‡ You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum. Find application deadline Choose student type... First-year student Transfer student Postbaccalaureate student Nondegree-seeking student International student Unsure (Describe student types...) Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Compare degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related programs Environmental Sciences B.S. Fisheries and Wildlife Sciences B.S. Natural Resources B.S. Related stories A closer look at 5 online degrees in conservation and natural sciences A closer look at 5 online degrees in conservation and natural sciences Knowing how to take care of the planet and the animals who live here is just one of our areas of expertise at Oregon State. To get there in your career, you can choose from a variety of bachelor’s degree programs that align with... Behind the scenes with Yvette Gibson, rangeland science instructor Behind the scenes with Yvette Gibson, rangeland science instructor After years of working in the business sector, Yvette Gibson earned a natural resources degree online through Oregon State Ecampus and now is an instructor in OSU’s Department of Animal and Rangeland Sciences. They say you can’t have your cake and eat it... Oregon State Everywhere: Geospatial technology, natural resources make a perfect pair online Oregon State Everywhere: Geospatial technology, natural resources make a perfect pair online I was not a typical grad student. For years I've wanted to go back to school and get my master's degree, but due to a number of life circumstances it just didn't happen. Then, when I was about to turn 50 (yes, 50!) the opportunity... Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204