Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info SustainabilityB.S. (Postbaccalaureate or double degree) Credits required 32 or 45+ Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 32 or 45+ quarter credits are equal to 21.33 or 30 semester credits.* Cost per credit $346 Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses.† Delivery Online You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum.‡ Start terms 4 per year Overview | Curriculum | Careers | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Overview Curriculum Careers Tuition & Fees Contact Us B.S. in Sustainability (Double Degree) – Online Overview | Curriculum | Careers | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Find solutions to pressing global issues Sustainability impacts all aspects of global business, politics, economics and society, creating a need for leaders who have the skills and knowledge to address issues such as climate change, reliance on traditional energy sources, water issues and the demand for socially and environmentally responsible products and services. Oregon State Ecampus delivers a variety of degree programs online focused on conservation and natural sciences. Explore similar programs. Oregon State University is recognized worldwide as a premier sustainability and natural resources university, and now OSU students can earn their Bachelor of Science (B.S.) online in this demanding and popular area of study. A double degree to double your job prospects The B.S. in Sustainability is available as a double degree online through Oregon State Ecampus. Current OSU students can complete this degree program as an addition to their primary degree program. The degree is designed to complement all OSU degree programs and previously earned bachelor's degrees. Joshua Chan Burgos earned a double-degree in sustainability and anthropology online, an experience that included immersive research and community interaction. Watch the video and read more » For example, Oregon State business students can add the sustainability degree and earn both a bachelor's in business administration and a bachelor's in sustainability – making them competitive job candidates in fields such as sustainability marketing and market research, sustainable products development and strategic planning. If you're pursing the sustainability degree as a postbaccalaureate student and did not graduate from Oregon State, you'll be required to take a minimum of 45 credits. Note: Oregon State also offers a sustainability minor online as an alternative to the double degree. Benefits of learning online with Oregon State All classes are developed by OSU's world-class faculty, who are known worldwide for their research, expertise and innovation. Oregon State is regionally accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities. Oregon State Ecampus is consistently ranked among the nation's 10 best providers of online education according to U.S. News & World Report. OSU Ecampus students receive the same diploma as on-campus students. Get the support you need Our goal is to help you succeed. That’s why, as an OSU Ecampus student, you’ll have access to vital resources like success coaching, library services, free online tutoring and career guidance – making your online learning experience collaborative and rewarding. Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Degree details Credits required * 32 or 45+ Cost per credit † $346 Delivery ‡ Online Start terms 4 per year * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 32 or 45+ quarter credits are equal to 21.33 or 30 semester credits. † Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses. ‡ You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum. Find application deadline Choose student type... First-year student Transfer student Postbaccalaureate student Nondegree-seeking student International student Unsure (Describe student types...) Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Compare degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related stories Oregon State Everywhere: Prone to wanderlust, but at home with Ecampus Oregon State Everywhere: Prone to wanderlust, but at home with Ecampus I think my favorite part about Ecampus, besides the community and approachability of all the faculty, is the overall flexibility allowed through online classes. ... When I graduate, I want to continue my education before pursuing a career that involves conservation, environmental justice or really anything... Sustainability, anthropology grad finds inspiration amid poverty, disaster Sustainability, anthropology grad finds inspiration amid poverty, disaster Inside a classroom in the remote countryside of Central Asia in 2013, Joshua Chan Burgos was jolted into a new and ambitious sense of what he needed to do. Volunteering for a nonprofit, he was surrounded by orphans and saw young faces filled with excitement. Oregon State Everywhere: Geospatial technology, natural resources make a perfect pair online Oregon State Everywhere: Geospatial technology, natural resources make a perfect pair online I was not a typical grad student. For years I've wanted to go back to school and get my master's degree, but due to a number of life circumstances it just didn't happen. Then, when I was about to turn 50 (yes, 50!) the opportunity... Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204