Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Veterinary Medicine Prerequisite CoursesOnline Prerequisite Courses Credits required N/A Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. * Cost per credit $346 Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses.† Delivery Online Course sequences can include classes that are delivered online, as well as a blend of online coursework with one or a few required site-based classes. View the curriculum.‡ Start terms 4 per year Overview | Curriculum | Contact Us Overview Curriculum Contact Us Veterinary Medicine Courses – Online Overview | Curriculum | Contact Us Take vet med prerequisite courses online Further your education and move closer to your goal of becoming a veterinary practitioner by taking prerequisite veterinary medicine courses online with Oregon State University. These courses are not part of a degree or certificate program and will not lead to a standalone credential — but they will help you gain the foundational knowledge you need to one day help improve the health and welfare of animals. Backed by the support of Oregon State’s Carlson College of Veterinary Medicine, you can choose from more than two dozen prerequisite courses in numerous disciplines. All courses are delivered online by nationally ranked OSU Ecampus. If you are a nondegree-seeking student, you can enroll in the veterinary medicine prerequisite courses and transfer credits to your home institution. You should first confirm that Oregon State's courses will be accepted by your institution. Ready for a DVM program? Oregon State has an on-campus Doctor of Veterinary Medicine program, and although admission does not require an undergraduate degree, you must complete the prerequisite courses prior to being admitted. Students are admitted once per year into the DVM program. There is a detailed timeline of important dates for when the application becomes available and when you must submit all application materials. Please visit the Carlson College of Veterinary Medicine's website for full details on the academic requirements for admission. If you have any questions, you may send an email to Tess Collins, the college's admissions coordinator. Benefits of learning online with Oregon State All classes are developed by OSU's world-class faculty, who are renowned for their research, expertise and innovation. Oregon State is regionally accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities. Oregon State Ecampus is consistently ranked among the nation's 10 best providers of online education according to U.S. News & World Report. OSU Ecampus students receive the same transcript as on-campus students. Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Program details Credits required * N/A Cost per credit † $346 Delivery ‡ Online Start terms 4 per year * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. † Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses. ‡ Course sequences can include classes that are delivered online, as well as a blend of online coursework with one or a few required site-based classes. View the curriculum. Find application deadline Choose student type... First-year student Transfer student Postbaccalaureate student Nondegree-seeking student International student Unsure (Describe student types...) Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Compare degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related stories Open-source module helps alleviate financial burden on VetMed students Open-source module helps alleviate financial burden on VetMed students Sarah Nemanic, an associate professor of diagnostic imaging in the College of Veterinary Medicine, recently led the creation of a self-study computer module for students, veterinarians and faculty to learn, review and be tested on normal veterinary radiographic anatomy. Not only is it a must-have... Learn online with Oregon State and receive unmatched student support Learn online with Oregon State and receive unmatched student support Without the constant support of her academic advisor, Ashley Hatleberg said she would have quit school. It’s as simple as that. But while pursuing her natural resources degree online with Oregon State, quitting was never a real option. That’s because her academic advisor... What is instructional design? An inside look at Oregon State’s online certificate What is instructional design? An inside look at Oregon State’s online certificate Oregon State is a national leader in developing online courses and programs. And OSU's expertise is benefiting a new generation of education professionals through its online Graduate Certificate in Instructional Design. It’s a 20-credit, hands-on program that teaches students how to thoughtfully construct material... Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204