Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Natural ResourcesB.S. Credits required 180 Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 180 quarter credits are equal to 120 semester credits.* Cost per credit $346 Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses.† Delivery Online You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum.‡ Start terms 4 per year Overview | Curriculum | Options | Careers | Accelerated Master's | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Overview Curriculum Options Careers Accelerated Master's Tuition & Fees Contact Us B.S. in Natural Resources – Online Overview | Curriculum | Options | Careers | Accelerated Master's | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Join America's natural resources university Oregon State University's natural resources undergraduate degree program will provide you technical skills and scientific knowledge that spans various natural resources and social science disciplines. Oregon State Ecampus delivers a variety of degree programs online focused on the earth and its natural resources. Explore similar programs. As a natural resources major, you will study the science and management of resources such as fish and wildlife, forests, range and water, as well as the development of sustainable environmental policies and human dimensions of natural resources. You will learn to solve complex environmental problems through an interdisciplinary approach. This degree program prepares you for careers in resource planning, management, conservation, restoration and education within the field of natural resources. Focus your studies in an area that matches your goals Once you enroll in the natural resources program, you can select an area of focus from 10 specialization options, including fish and wildlife conservation, conservation law enforcement or urban forest landscapes. You can also design your own specialization to fit your unique career path and interests. Check out our natural resources curriculum page for information about each option. Accelerated Master’s Platform for undergrad students Oregon State’s Accelerated Master’s Platform allows current undergraduate natural resources students to take graduate-level courses online that will be applied to their bachelor’s degree, and the credits earned will be transferred to the Master of Natural Resources program. Students enrolled in Ecampus graduate courses will pay the graduate tuition and fees rate. Benefits of learning online with Oregon State All classes are developed by OSU's renowned faculty, who are known worldwide for their research, expertise and innovation in the natural resources and science fields. Oregon State is regionally accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities. OSU's College of Forestry, which offers this online program, is recognized as a world-class leader in the industry, ranking 14th in a new international survey of more than 3,000 universities. Oregon State Ecampus is consistently ranked among the nation's 10 best providers of online education according to U.S. News & World Report. OSU Ecampus students receive the same diploma as on-campus students. With more than 1,600 online courses in more than 110 subjects, discover how OSU Ecampus can turn your passion into a lifelong career. Get the support you need Our goal is to help you succeed. That’s why, as an OSU Ecampus student, you’ll have access to vital resources like success coaching, library services, free online tutoring and career guidance – making your online learning experience collaborative and rewarding. Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Degree details Credits required * 180 Cost per credit † $346 Delivery ‡ Online Start terms 4 per year * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 180 quarter credits are equal to 120 semester credits. † Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses. ‡ You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum. Find application deadline Choose student type... First-year student Transfer student Postbaccalaureate student Nondegree-seeking student International student Unsure (Describe student types...) Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Compare degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related programs Environmental Sciences B.S. Fisheries and Wildlife Sciences B.S. Rangeland Science B.S. Related stories Learn online with Oregon State and receive unmatched student support Learn online with Oregon State and receive unmatched student support Without the constant support of her academic advisor, Ashley Hatleberg said she would have quit school. It’s as simple as that. But while pursuing her natural resources degree online with Oregon State, quitting was never a real option. That’s because her academic advisor... Oregon State earns another top-5 national ranking for online education Oregon State earns another top-5 national ranking for online education Oregon State University has been ranked one of the nation’s five best providers of online education for the fourth consecutive year by U.S. News & World Report, judged on the strength of its faculty and the distance learning opportunities they deliver. A closer look at 5 online degrees in conservation and natural sciences A closer look at 5 online degrees in conservation and natural sciences Knowing how to take care of the planet and the animals who live here is just one of our areas of expertise at Oregon State. To get there in your career, you can choose from a variety of bachelor’s degree programs that align with... Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204