Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Geographic Information ScienceGIScience Undergraduate Certificate Credits required 27 Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 27 quarter credits are equal to 18 semester credits.* Cost per credit $346 Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses.† Delivery Online You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum.‡ Start terms 4 per year Overview | Certificate Curriculum | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us | About Undergraduate Certificates Overview Certificate Curriculum Tuition & Fees Contact Us About Undergraduate Certificates Geographic Information Science (GIScience) – Online Undergraduate Certificate Overview | Certificate Curriculum | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us | About Undergraduate Certificates Overview Stand out in the job market with a transcript-visible Undergraduate Certificate in Geographic Information Science with Oregon State. The use of geographic information technologies is vital throughout scientific, natural resource management, government, industry and business organizations. Oregon State’s highly-regarded GIScience undergraduate certificate is delivered online by nationally ranked Oregon State Ecampus, and it combines theory and principles underlying: Geospatial data collection (remotely sensed imagery from satellites, aircraft, drones, social media, telemetry, GPS, etc.) Technologies to manage, analyze and visualize geospatial data (geographic information systems) Computational, statistical and mathematical methods to analyze and model geospatial data (machine learning, big data, spatial statistics, spatial modeling, geovisual analytics, etc.) Digital cartography and geovisualization (the science and practice of creating maps) Cognitive, social and environmental implications of GIScience (professional ethics, privacy, digital divide, etc.) Learn how earning an undergraduate certificate in GIScience online with Oregon State can make you an in-demand spatial analysis professional in basically every field. Read more » Prerequisites You may need to complete additional coursework prior to enrolling in this program and taking the required certificate courses. This could mean completing 3 or more additional credits, depending on your individual educational background as it relates to the program requirements. We recommend that you evaluate this prior to applying for admission. Note: This certficate is available only to students who are simultaneously pursuing an Oregon State bachelor’s degree or postbaccalaureate students. Computer software requirements Three required major courses utilize ArcGIS Pro software that is not Mac-compatible. Your PC must meet these requirements: Operating system: A 64-bit version of Windows 8.1 or Windows 10 Processor: A quad-core Intel Core i5 2.4GHz processor or better Memory: 16 GB of RAM or more Storage: 32 GB or more on a solid-state drive (SSD) Monitor/Video card: SVGA or better resolution display (1024 x 768, 24-bit graphics) Video/Graphics adapter See Open GL or DirectX adapter and additional system requirements at the ArcGIS Pro website. Apply your GIScience certificate toward a bachelor’s degree Enrolling in the geographic information science undergraduate certificate will put you on a direct pathway to earning a full degree in a related field. The GIScience credits you earn online can be applied toward one of the following Oregon State bachelor’s programs: Environmental sciences: The certificate credits will help you fulfill the major's specialization requirement. Geography and geospatial science: The GIScience coursework corresponds with the GGS degree requirements. Natural resources: The certificate provides the majority of credits needed for the major’s landscape analysis specialization option. Please note: Successful completion of the GIScience certificate does not guarantee admission to an Oregon State bachelor’s program. Benefits of learning online with Oregon State All classes are developed by OSU's world-class faculty, who are known worldwide for their expertise, research and innovation. Oregon State is regionally accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities. OSU Ecampus students receive the same transcript-visible certificate as on-campus students. NOTE: The U.S. Department of Education has approved this certificate for federal financial aid eligibility as part of a full degree program, but not as an independent certificate program. Alternate funding sources (e.g. loans, private funds) may be required to cover the costs associated with this program. Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Degree details Credits required * 27 Cost per credit † $346 Delivery ‡ Online Start terms 4 per year * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 27 quarter credits are equal to 18 semester credits. † Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses. ‡ You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum. Find application deadline Choose student type... First-year student Transfer student Postbaccalaureate student Nondegree-seeking student International student Unsure (Describe student types...) Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Compare degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related stories Oregon State’s GIScience online certificate is an entirely hands-on experience Oregon State’s GIScience online certificate is an entirely hands-on experience GIScience integrates geographical features with data to map and analyze real-world problems. This technology is everywhere in the world around us, and it's driving the high demand for professionals with spatial analysis skills. And that demand is why Oregon State now offers an Undergraduate Certificate... Oregon State Everywhere: Geospatial technology, natural resources make a perfect pair online Oregon State Everywhere: Geospatial technology, natural resources make a perfect pair online I was not a typical grad student. For years I've wanted to go back to school and get my master's degree, but due to a number of life circumstances it just didn't happen. Then, when I was about to turn 50 (yes, 50!) the opportunity... Winning on the water and in the online classroom Winning on the water and in the online classroom Fiona Wylde needed a rigorous degree program that would allow her to further her education while offering the flexibility to sustain her career as a world champion stand-up paddleboarder and windsurfer. She found everything she needed online with Oregon State. Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204