Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Computer ScienceB.S. (Postbaccalaureate) Credits required 60 Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 60 quarter credits are equal to 40 semester credits.* Cost per credit $549 Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses.† Delivery Online You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum.‡ Start terms 4 per year Overview | Curriculum | International Online | Careers | Ready to Apply? | Tuition & Fees | Flexible Academic Plans | Contact Us Overview Curriculum International Online Careers Ready to Apply? Tuition & Fees Flexible Academic Plans Contact Us B.S. in Computer Science – Online (Postbaccalaureate) Overview | Curriculum | International Online | Careers | Ready to Apply? | Tuition & Fees | Flexible Academic Plans | Contact Us Now accepting students for fall 2022. The deadline to apply is Aug. 1, and classes start Sept. 21. Your shortest path to a computer science career Oregon State's postbaccalaureate computer science online program is geared toward individuals with a bachelor’s degree and a strong aptitude in mathematics. No previous computer science degree is required for you to switch career paths and pursue unlimited computer science opportunities. While working at Tesla, Albert Diaz decided to advance his career by earning an Oregon State computer science degree online. Watch the video and read more » This 60-credit program requires that you take only specified courses for computer science. You'll learn computer programming fundamentals, software engineering, computer systems and networking, mobile and web development, and user interfaces – giving yourself a wealth of knowledge and skills that are in high demand on the global job market. Flexible academic plans tailored to meet your needs Oregon State's School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science offers flexible academic plans to help you manage rigorous online coursework, your personal life and work commitments. All required courses are offered every term so you can start fall, winter spring or summer. Electives vary which term they are offered. The coursework is delivered entirely online by nationally ranked OSU Ecampus. While this program is very rigorous and you must be resilient and exhibit keen time management skills in order to succeed, you'll be supported by Oregon State faculty and advisors while engaged with a worldwide learning community. Computer science postbaccalaureate FAQ The School of EECS created an in-depth list of frequently asked questions about this program, with complete details about the application and admissions process, general degree information and more. Benefits of learning online with Oregon State All program courses are developed and taught by Oregon State instructors who are working experts in the computer science industry. Oregon State is regionally accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities. Oregon State Ecampus is consistently ranked among the nation's 10 best providers of online education according to U.S. News & World Report. OSU Ecampus students receive the same diploma as on-campus students. Get the support you need Our goal is to help you succeed. That’s why, as an OSU Ecampus student, you’ll have access to vital resources like success coaching, library services, free online tutoring and career guidance – making your online learning experience collaborative and rewarding. Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Degree details Credits required * 60 Cost per credit † $549 Delivery ‡ Online Start terms 4 per year * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 60 quarter credits are equal to 40 semester credits. † Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses. ‡ You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum. Find application deadline Choose student type... First-year student Transfer student Postbaccalaureate student Nondegree-seeking student International student Unsure (Describe student types...) Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Compare degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related stories Distance learning, remote working bring a new mom’s tech dreams closer Distance learning, remote working bring a new mom’s tech dreams closer Ravonne was nearly 30 and had a newborn. Was it too late to start a tech career? The answer: no. Now she's in Oregon State's postbaccalaureate online computer science program, learning a suite of skills as part of a large community of students, and it's... Computer science student earns Department of Defense SMART scholarship Computer science student earns Department of Defense SMART scholarship Vidhi Kadakia, a second-year undergraduate in OSU's College of Engineering, has been selected for the Department of Defense’s Science, Mathematics, and Research for Transformation scholarship program, known as SMART. A computer science student who learns online with OSU Ecampus, Kadakia is eligible for up... 5 essentials of student support for online computer science students 5 essentials of student support for online computer science students At Oregon State Ecampus, student success comes first. In the case of our computer science programs, a major part of that is success coaching – one-on-one guidance from a pro, customized to what you need, when you need it. Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204