Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Master of Arts in TeachingM.A.T. Credits required 51 Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 51 quarter credits are equal to 34 semester credits.* Cost per credit $560 Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses.† Delivery Hybrid You can complete this program in a hybrid format that blends online coursework with in-person classes held periodically in either Portland or Beaverton, Oregon. View the curriculum.‡ Start term Summer Overview | Locations | Curriculum | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Overview Locations Curriculum Admissions Tuition & Fees Contact Us Master of Arts in Teaching (M.A.T.) – Online/Beaverton Hybrid Overview | Locations | Curriculum | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Hands-on teaching + online learning Oregon State University’s Master of Arts in Teaching with an option in clinically based elementary program is a full-time licensure program that will prepare you to become an effective teacher capable of managing a classroom. In this 51-credit, two-year master’s degree program, you will be immersed in the classroom gaining hands-on experience from day one while actively engaging with a cohort of like-minded peers. Teachers are in demand Nationally, there is a strong need for teachers, particularly in key areas, including bilingual teachers. There are dual language placements available in several of our partner districts. Additionally, there are strong employment prospects for licensed teachers throughout the state, with a need for teachers with master’s degrees across all grade levels and content areas. Are you a district staff member interested in becoming a certified teacher? This program provides a unique pathway for district staff to become certified elementary teachers. If you currently work with students in an elementary classroom setting, our program has the potential to enable you to keep your job while earning a Master of Arts in Teaching and licensure. The power of a strong partnership The M.A.T. program is a unique partnership between the OSU College of Education and school districts in the Willamette Valley and the Portland metro region. The program provides you the opportunity to learn from renowned OSU faculty online through Oregon State Ecampus while co-teaching with experienced, senior teachers in our partner districts. In the fully online courses, you will participate in discussion forums that feature enriching conversations with your cohort of peers. During the hybrid (online/in-person) courses, you will benefit from face-to-face instruction with faculty from Oregon State and our partner districts. Benefits of learning online with Oregon State All online classes are developed by Oregon State's renowned faculty, who are known for their research, expertise and innovation. OSU is regionally accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities. The OSU College of Education preparation program recently received the highest accreditation ranking from the Council for the Accreditation of Educator Preparation (CAEP). You receive the same Oregon State University diploma and transcript as on-campus students. OSU Ecampus is consistently ranked as a national leader in online education. The program’s rigorous curriculum and flexible delivery blends online and in-person sessions to maximize learning. Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates These are the start dates for OSU’s next two terms. However, this program only admits for summer term. Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Degree details Credits required * 51 Cost per credit † $560 Delivery ‡ Hybrid Start term Summer * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 51 quarter credits are equal to 34 semester credits. † Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses. ‡ You can complete this program in a hybrid format that blends online coursework with in-person classes held periodically in either Portland or Beaverton, Oregon. View the curriculum. Application deadline View all application deadlines on our admissions page. Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Explore degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related stories Opportunities in action Opportunities in action By Cody Bowie July 26, 2018 If you ask Brenda Contreras what her time at Oregon State has provided her, she’ll answer in one word: opportunities. Opportunities such as scholarships, a chance to teach near her hometown and experience in a dual-language classroom. The... Breaking the mold Breaking the mold What if part of your teacher education included an intensive, 2-year residency inside a public school where you co-taught with – and were mentored by – a seasoned teacher from day one? (Think medical school residencies, but in schools instead of hospitals.) A newly-launched, graduate program is... Oregon State, Beaverton School District to deliver new hybrid teacher licensure program Oregon State, Beaverton School District to deliver new hybrid teacher licensure program The Master of Arts in Teaching with an option in Clinically Based Elementary program is a two-year, full-time master’s degree program that immerses students in the classroom from day one, where they will co-teach and work side by side with experienced Beaverton School District... Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204