Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Urban AgricultureUndergraduate Certificate Credits required 27 Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 27 quarter credits are equal to 18 semester credits.* Cost per credit $346 Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses.† Delivery Online You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum.‡ Start terms 4 per year Overview | Certificate Curriculum | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us | About Undergraduate Certificates Overview Certificate Curriculum Tuition & Fees Contact Us About Undergraduate Certificates Urban Agriculture – Online Undergraduate Certificate Overview | Certificate Curriculum | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us | About Undergraduate Certificates If applying as a postbaccalaureate student for fall 2022, the deadline to apply is Aug. 1, and classes start Sept. 21. Serve urban communities through locally grown goods Earning your Undergraduate Certificate in Urban Agriculture online with Oregon State University will help you turn your passions for innovative farming techniques and dynamic food systems into a new career as an urban farmer or agricultural entrepreneur. This certificate will train you to capitalize on new markets in agriculture not addressed by traditional rural farming. Learn about modern techniques and technologies that can produce high quality and diverse goods grown right in their urban destination market – such as culturally significant ingredients, crops that don't transport well or specialized ingredients sought after by chefs – all while navigating the environmental, social, economic and regulatory factors that influence urban agricultural systems. Learn how to develop resilient, local food systems Study urban agriculture online and gain the skills you need to equip local communities with direct control over their food supply chain through careers in community organizing or nonprofit work. This certificate delivers training in modern agricultural practices and social justice issues that will help you identify inequality in food access, understand how to fix it and then work with community leaders to develop more resilient and responsive local food systems. Join a leading authority in agricultural sciences Oregon State’s College of Agricultural Sciences is regarded as a worldwide leader in agricultural education. While this certificate focuses on innovative practices that are ideally suited to emerging urban farming markets, it remains rooted in Oregon State’s legacy that dates back 150-plus years. Noncredit urban agriculture certificate This transcript-visible undergraduate certificate is designed to train the next generation of professional urban agriculturalists through a comprehensive, rigorous curriculum based in the sciences and social justice. The noncredit OSU urban agriculture certificate from Professional and Continuing Education offers greater access and flexibility for those interested in learning urban agriculture and farming in a more informal online setting. Coursework After completing all 27 credits in this program, you’ll have the skills to successfully plan and manage a diversity of urban agricultural systems, access and develop market opportunities, and identify diverse career opportunities within urban agriculture. All courses are developed by Oregon State faculty members who are horticulture experts. Visit the OSU academic catalog for certificate requirements and curriculum details. The online coursework will provide you with in-depth instruction on topics such as urban farming site design, soil management, variety selection, pest management and accessing and developing markets for urban agricultural products. Sample course topics Cropping and non-cropping systems Production methods Edible and ornamental crops Non-crop urban landscapes Public and private gardens Residential and community scale agriculture Nonprofit and commercial urban farms Prerequisites You may need to complete additional coursework prior to enrolling in this program and taking the required certificate courses. This could mean completing 3 or more additional credits, depending on your individual educational background as it relates to the program requirements. We recommend that you evaluate this prior to applying for admission. Benefits of learning online with Oregon State All classes are developed by OSU's world-class faculty, who are renowned for their research, expertise and innovation. Oregon State is regionally accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities. OSU Ecampus students receive the same transcript-visible certificate as on-campus students. Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Degree details Credits required * 27 Cost per credit † $346 Delivery ‡ Online Start terms 4 per year * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 27 quarter credits are equal to 18 semester credits. † Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses. ‡ You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum. Find application deadline Choose student type... First-year student Transfer student Postbaccalaureate student Nondegree-seeking student International student Unsure (Describe student types...) Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Compare degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related stories Urban agriculture: New online certificate cultivates opportunity Urban agriculture: New online certificate cultivates opportunity When Gail Langellotto began building an urban agriculture program at Oregon State in 2016, it was in response to the College of Agricultural Sciences' recognition of the important role urban ag plays in the development of a strong, viable, vibrant food system. This past July,... Oregon State Everywhere: Geospatial technology, natural resources make a perfect pair online Oregon State Everywhere: Geospatial technology, natural resources make a perfect pair online I was not a typical grad student. For years I've wanted to go back to school and get my master's degree, but due to a number of life circumstances it just didn't happen. Then, when I was about to turn 50 (yes, 50!) the opportunity... Winning on the water and in the online classroom Winning on the water and in the online classroom Fiona Wylde needed a rigorous degree program that would allow her to further her education while offering the flexibility to sustain her career as a world champion stand-up paddleboarder and windsurfer. She found everything she needed online with Oregon State. Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204