Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info News Menu Ecampus News AboutAbout About For Journalists All StoriesStories All Ecampus Ecampus OER Ecampus Research Unit Ecampus StoriesEcampus All Students Faculty & Advisors Graduation Staff Military Research Unit Videos In the NewsPress In the News Press Releases Awards Oregon State online classes are in a class of their own By Tyler Hansen They told us, “You can’t teach that online.” Our response: “Watch us.” Chemistry? Yes. Biology labs? Yup. Foreign languages? Sí. At Oregon State University Ecampus, we have a proud history of pushing the boundaries of what’s possible in higher education. Our track record of success spans decades and can be measured across 110-plus subject areas. What’s the common thread that ties it all together? Oregon State Ecampus online courses set the industry standard for excellence. We distinguish ourselves by developing all 1,600 of the university’s online courses internally. Every OSU Ecampus class is designed and redesigned through extensive collaborations between Oregon State faculty members and Ecampus staff. This means students enroll in online courses that are built on the subject matter expertise of faculty, the ability of instructional designers to craft highly engaging learning experiences, and the technological innovations produced by multimedia developers. With this expertise trifecta in place and in sync, Ecampus students reap the benefits. “What makes Oregon State Ecampus unique is the fact that our learners can choose from the same offerings and learn from the same world-class faculty as OSU’s on-campus students,” said Lisa L. Templeton, the Ecampus associate provost. “Our online courses set the highest standards for quality and utilize the latest technologies to create an enriching, interactive learning environment.” Here’s what it looks like in practice. Learning by doing Ecampus students are able to connect with their online coursework through meaningful experiential learning activities. This happens via at-home lab kits, out-in-the-field assignments, research opportunities and other engaging experiences. Interactivity is our specialty Want to see evidence of Ecampus’ national award-winning multimedia work? Check out our online course demo to take our classes for a test drive. The innovative content includes animations, 3D simulations and interactive tutorials. And it spans a variety of academic subject areas, from history and business to animal sciences, statistics and more. You can also preview the online classroom by exploring Canvas, Oregon State’s online learning portal. Custom-built labs online Oregon State offers labs online in fields like chemistry, biology and physics, and more than 60% of Ecampus labs are handwritten by Oregon State faculty. We create content that is unique to the faculty members, their expertise and what is most relevant for students to learn. The word shortcut isn’t in our vocabulary. We love the work because the work leads to student success. In chemistry, the robust lab environment accurately recreates a student’s on-campus experience through a web browser. A workbook guides students through operating the lab and evaluates their understanding along the way. The lab tools can be dragged across the screen or controlled using a user’s keyboard, which enhances the lab’s accessibility. Quality Matters, always OSU Ecampus students receive the highest level of academic support — and we have a national award to prove it. The Quality Matters organization honored OSU with its Online Learner Support Certification, recognizing programs that provide “all the critical student and academic services needed for learner success and use learner feedback to continuously improve those services.” In the bigger picture, QM helps Oregon State assure the quality of Ecampus courses through a continuous improvement model. You belong here Take the next step and learn more about the courses and programs delivered online by Oregon State Ecampus. Request information Share this: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) Related January 22, 2021 Tyler Hansen Categories: All Stories, Ecampus, Videos Tags: Ecampus at a glance, experiential learning, Online chemistry, Online Education, Online Learning, Quality Matters | Comments Leave a Reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Notify me of follow-up comments by email. Notify me of new posts by email. Δ Post navigation ← 10 things you need to know about OSU Libraries Oregon State earns four top-five rankings for online education from U.S. News & World Report → Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details about our online programs and course offerings. Request info Gather information about OSU Ecampus, our history, students and programs. 90+ programs Explore all of Oregon State’s online offerings. Stories archive Search for: Subscribe Receive notifications of new story posts by email. Email address Subscribe Share your story Are you an Oregon State Ecampus grad? Inspire current and prospective students with your story. Are you a current Oregon State Ecampus student? Share your OSU journey. Recent stories Corporate education combats the great resignation Now at Harvard, Oregon State online grad still “over the moon” with religious studies Oregon State Everywhere: Geospatial technology, natural resources make a perfect pair online Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204