Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Business AnalyticsGraduate Certificate Credits required 21 Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 21 quarter credits are equal to 14 semester credits.* Cost per credit $868 Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses.† Delivery Online You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum.‡ Start terms 2 per year Overview | Curriculum | Careers | Faculty | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Overview Curriculum Careers Faculty Admissions Tuition & Fees Contact Us Graduate Certificate in Business Analytics – Online Overview | Curriculum | Careers | Faculty | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Dig into data The current trend of data mining, business intelligence and big data is growing. And as organizations seek professionals with business analytics knowledge and skills, earning a Graduate Certificate in Business Analytics online from Oregon State University will put you in prime position to fill a void in the job market. This 21-credit program delivers high-quality, relevant coursework to students from a variety of professional backgrounds, including: Those with an MBA seeking to refresh their skill set Early career professionals looking to advance in the analytics field Those from outside the analytics field seeking career opportunities in this rapidly growing space The program is offered by Oregon State's renowned College of Business and is delivered online by nationally ranked Oregon State Ecampus. Complement your MBA or start working toward one The business analytics graduate certificate serves as the perfect complement to an existing MBA. Or if you have yet to earn one, you can apply up to 21 of the credits you earn in this program toward Oregon State’s MBA in Supply Chain and Logistics Management. To put it another way: Earn this certificate, and you’ll already be one-third of the way done with your MBA program. Benefits of learning online with Oregon State OSU's College of Business is accredited by the AACSB (Association to Advance Collegiate School of Business) Research-based education Only 25% of business schools meet AACSB standards Oregon State is regionally accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities Listed as one of the top 10 Most Popular Business Schools on the U.S. News & World Report's short list The courses are taught by leading researchers and practitioners Small class sizes Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates These are the start dates for OSU’s next two terms. However, this program only admits for fall and summer terms. Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Degree details Credits required * 21 Cost per credit † $868 Delivery ‡ Online Start terms 2 per year * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 21 quarter credits are equal to 14 semester credits. † Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses. ‡ You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum. Find application deadline Choose student type... Graduate student Nondegree-seeking student International student Unsure (Describe student types...) Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Explore degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related stories 7 insights from an Ecampus student turned entrepreneur 7 insights from an Ecampus student turned entrepreneur OSU Ecampus graduate-turned-entrepreneur Hannah Thelen shares her seven best tips on how to start a small business as a student, while doing well in school and more. Oregon State ranked #4 for best online business bachelor’s degrees Oregon State ranked #4 for best online business bachelor’s degrees Oregon State delivers seven business bachelor’s degree programs online, and according to U.S. News & World Report, they are among the very best in the nation. The 2022 list of Best Online Bachelor’s in Business Programs ranks OSU Ecampus No. 4 overall,... Want to transfer to an Oregon State online business program? Start here Want to transfer to an Oregon State online business program? Start here As part of OSU's College of Business, Caiden Marcus-Brist supports prospective students interested in transferring to OSU business programs that are delivered online by OSU Ecampus. Marcus-Brist says the COB’s Career Success Center “provide a one-stop shop” where future Oregon State students can ask... Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204