Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Students Menu Students Newly Admitted Newly Admitted Students Undergraduate Students Readmitted Students Graduate Students Nondegree Students Online Orientation Registration Registration Step-by-Step Registration Registration Handbook Starting Your Course Checklist Changing Registration Grading Options Academic Calendar Student ServicesServices Student Services Exam Proctoring Student Success Coaching Resources Student Resources Success Coaching OSU Libraries Exam Proctoring Online Tutoring Technical Help Ecampus Career Hub Disability Access Services Military Students & Veterans Forms Policies and Forms Exams and Proctoring Form Military/VA Forms Academic Calendar Graduation Information Tools MyOregonState Canvas G Suite OSU Mobile App Contact Contact Student Services Contact Exam Proctoring Find Success Coach Ask Ecampus Ecampus Graduation Celebration 2022 Get ready, Class of 2022! Oregon State University will host an in-person commencement ceremony this spring, and we want you and the rest of the OSU Ecampus graduating Class of 2022 to join the festivities. OSU Ecampus will host a reception on the Corvallis campus on the morning of commencement. Can’t make it to the in-person event? Join the Ecampus celebration virtually. 11: 18: 34 days hours minutes Ecampus on-campus reception Bring guests to our graduation reception for a chance to mingle with Ecampus students, instructors and advisors before commencement. Travel award deadline passed May 13. When: Saturday, June 11 - 7:30 to 9 a.m. PT Where: Memorial Union Ballroom, Corvallis campus RSVP Ecampus virtual celebration You earned your degree from a distance, and we want to help you celebrate from afar too. Join us on graduation day to hear from Ecampus leadership, share messages of thanks and encouragement with others and reflect on your journey to a degree from OSU. When: Saturday, June 11 - all day RSVP Together you are... Globetrotting and world-changing Together, the Ecampus Class of 2022 spans oceans and mountain ranges. Equipped with knowledge, passion and a top-ranked degree, you are ready to make a truly global impact — no matter where you live and work. Record-breakers who have set the bar high All of you have already accomplished something special together — you're the largest graduating class in the history of Oregon State Ecampus. You formed a global support network, and you proved there’s strength in numbers. Experts in science, art and everything in between Thanks to years of training in one of the dozens of degree programs represented in your graduating class, you have developed the skill, leadership and grit that Beavers have brought to the workplace for more than 150 years. Resilient, persistent and flat out impressive Earning a degree online is already a feat of strength, balancing priorities like a juggler riding a unicycle on a tightrope. Even more amazing — while the whole world faced unprecedented challenges, you never stopped moving forward. Truly unique You are here, today, representing the unique communities and cultures that make you you. Many of you are the first in your families to earn a college degree. Even more of you learned while on active duty or as military veterans. Others bring generations of wisdom older than Oregon State itself as part of our vibrant and growing Indigenous student population. You are working parents, small business owners, volunteers and leaders in your neighborhood, city or tribe. And together, what makes each of you unique has combined to create one of the most diverse graduating classes ever at Oregon State. Decorate and celebrate Shout it from the rooftops: You’re an Oregon State University graduate! Download these fun commencement items, including printable yard signs and desktop backgrounds, to celebrate in (OSU) style. Yard sign Phone Wallpaper Window sign Zoom TV Tablet View all downloads Welcome to the OSU alumni community Guess what? You’re now a part of an Oregon State alumni network that consists of more than 210,000 people worldwide. Tap into this collection of Beaver grads to continue your professional development, make career connections and stay connected to what's going on at your alma mater. Learn more and engage Oregon State’s 153rd commencement When: Saturday, June 11, 2022 Where: Corvallis, Oregon and online Learn more Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204