Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Calendar Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Explore Ecampus Serving America’s military Maximize your GI Bill benefits while honoring your career, family and other life commitments. Learn more » Print Home  ›  Schedule of Classes  ›  Registration  ›  Overrides Overrides An override gives students permission to enroll in a class under special circumstances by overriding major restrictions and enforced prerequisites or the need for department approval. Prerequisites and registration issues If you are not able to enroll in a course, it could be because you have not met the prerequisite(s) for the course. Here are some troubleshooting questions to ask yourself: What do I do when I try to register and get a "prerequisite not met" error? For most courses, you must email the course instructor. Let the instructor know the courses you have taken that you believe meet the listed prerequisites. Some instructors may require a copy of your transcript. Once you have obtained the instructor's approval, forward the approval via email to Ecampus Student Services. Include your full name, OSU student identification number, the course name and the CRN. How do I get an enforced prerequisite/restriction override? Students may be asked to take a placement test as well as provide unofficial transcripts to a department wanting to verify the student’s completion and/or grade(s) of past coursework related to the OSU classes in which they desire to enroll. It is best to contact Ecampus about this override, as the process can vary depending upon the term and courses involved. The usual method requires email approval from the course instructor. Instructor contact information is available in the section syllabus located in the Ecampus schedule of classes. Students must let the instructor know a) the courses they have taken that they believe fulfill the prerequisites, b) the grades received and c) the institution that issued these grades. Some instructors may require your transcripts. Once instructor approval is obtained, forward the approval email to Ecampus Student Services. You must include your full name, OSU student identification number, course name and CRN. How might my courses transfer to OSU? The OSU Transfer Course Search tool can help you determine you how courses from your current or previous institution might transfer to Oregon State to meet any prerequisites. Please note: This is not an official transcript evaluation, but it may help determine how your credits transfer to Oregon State. We also recommend that you check with your home institution to see how any OSU courses might transfer back to your school. You can also check OSU's course transfer tables for each community college and university in Oregon. What's the difference between an enforced prerequisite and those listed as other prerequisites? Enforced prerequisites relate directly to a course and are enforced at the time of registration. Other prerequisites are enforced by the department and may relate to your student class level and/or major. Information about prerequisites is available in the Ecampus schedule of classes. What if a course has no seats available? Keep checking the Ecampus schedule of classes, as there is a lot of change in enrollment, especially the week before classes start and the first week of the term. What is waitlisting? Not all courses have waitlisting, but if you are placed on one you should monitor your ONID email account frequently. When an opening becomes available, you will receive an email directing you to return to your registration and enroll in the course within the designated 24-hour window. If you do not enroll in the course within 24 hours, you will be removed from the waitlist. What if I get an error message when registering for a course? Contact the department hosting the course to request an override, which will remove your registration restriction. At the Office of the Registrar's website, you may review the list of restriction overrides. Courses that require you to work directly with the department Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics The Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics has an override request form for its online biochemistry and biophysics courses. Processing may take upward of three to five business days. Department of Integrative Biology The Department of Integrative Biology requires students to submit a course petition form for prerequisite overrides for BI 311 – Genetics; BI 347 - Oceans in Peril; BI 351 - Marine Ecology; and BI 370 – Ecology. For other biology and zoology overrides you can email the department, you must include your full name, OSU student identification number, course name and CRN. Department of Chemistry The Department of Chemistry has an override request form for its online chemistry courses. Processing may take upward of three to five business days. School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Students in the Ecampus postbaccalaureate online computer science program should send questions regarding prerequisites to PostBacCS-online@oregonstate.edu. Students in the online computer science bachelor's program or the online cybersecurity undergradaute certificate should fill out the registration override petition. Nondegree students taking computer science courses can find registration override information online. Department of Fisheries, Wildlife, and Conservation Sciences For override requests into Fisheries and Wildlife courses, please email the department. You must include your full name, OSU student ID number, course designator and number, and 5-digit CRN. The request needs to be sent from your OSU student email. Department of Mathematics The Department of Mathematics has an override request form. College of Public Health and Human Sciences The College of Public Health and Human Sciences has override request forms for its courses. You need to be enrolled in the current term. Your request will be processed, and an email sent to you within 24 hours. HDFS class override KIN class override NUTR class override PH class override Department of Statistics The Department of Statistics has an override request form for its courses. Please allow one to three business days for processing your request. Department of World Languages and Cultures The Department of World Languages and Cultures requires that you take the placement test for the following foreign language courses: Chinese, French, German, Russian, Italian and Spanish. Features and Navigation Academic calendar Currently it's spring term. See academic calendar for our quarter term schedule. Summer term starts June 20. Fall term starts Sept. 21. Credit Class Schedule Search by Term Search by Subject Search by Course Search by Session Bacc Core Courses Liberal Arts Core Courses Classes in Portland Remote Hybrid Business Courses Registration Register Online Now Registration Dates Academic Calendar Changing Registration Grading Options Overrides About Courses Starting Your Course Exams & Proctoring Tuition & Fees Ranked top 10 in the nation OSU Ecampus earned a top 10 ranking for the eighth year in a row on a list of America's best online bachelor's programs. Learn more » Ready to apply? Tips to help you along the way. Ask Ecampus Find answers to your questions. Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204