Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Fisheries ManagementGraduate Certificate Credits required 18 Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 18 quarter credits are equal to 12 semester credits.* Cost per credit $560 Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses.† Delivery Online You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum.‡ Start terms 4 per year Overview | Curriculum | Careers | Faculty | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Overview Curriculum Careers Faculty Admissions Tuition & Fees Contact Us Graduate Certificate in Fisheries Management – Online Overview | Curriculum | Careers | Faculty | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us A multidisciplinary approach to tackling multifaceted issues As the management and conservation of fisheries and fish habitats becomes increasingly complex, Oregon State's online Graduate Certificate in Fisheries Management will provide you with skills and knowledge in biology, assessment science, and social science that are needed to understand and meet the demands of sustainable fisheries on both national and international fronts. Oregon State Ecampus delivers a variety of graduate degree and certificate programs online focused on conservation and natural sciences. Explore similar programs. Tommy Sheridan earned a fisheries management graduate certificate online, then applied it to his Professional Science Master’s in Fisheries and Wildlife, without ever leaving Alaska. Read more about Tommy » The program will prepare you to be the link between scientists, decision-makers and stakeholders when handling the multifaceted issues that come with managing recreational and commercial fisheries and fish habitat. Through quality courses, you'll acquire and practice skills in biology, economy, law and social science as you deal with issues across a wide range of perspectives and disciplines. Learn in a nationally recognized program Oregon State University's Department of Fisheries, Wildlife, and Conservation Sciences is respected worldwide for its expertise, and this graduate certificate is among the first of its kind to be offered online. Courses are taught by department faculty and delivered online by OSU Ecampus. Additionally, the Department of Fisheries, Wildlife, and Conservation Sciences is part of OSU's College of Agricultural Sciences, which is recognized as a world-class leader in the industry. Apply your graduate certificate toward a master’s degree The specialized knowledge you gain through the fisheries management graduate certificate program may serve as a pathway to Oregon State’s 45-credit online Professional Science Master’s in Fisheries and Wildlife Administration degree or online Master of Natural Resources degree. Credits earned while completing your certificate may be applied to either master’s degree Connect with faculty who can potentially serve as your major professor for a master’s program Apply to a subsequent master’s program at no cost Smoothly transition into the PSMFWA or MNR program as a currently admitted student Students planning to use credits from a graduate certificate towards a master’s degree should discuss transfer credit policies with an advisor in advance. Benefits of learning online with Oregon State University All classes are developed by Oregon State faculty who are known worldwide for their research, expertise and innovation. OSU is regionally accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities. Online students receive the same transcripts as on-campus students. Oregon State is a member of the Natural Resources Distance Learning Consortium (NRDLC), which includes 10 universities that work together to provide more than 300 courses online to agency professionals. Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Degree details Credits required * 18 Cost per credit † $560 Delivery ‡ Online Start terms 4 per year * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 18 quarter credits are equal to 12 semester credits. † Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses. ‡ You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum. Find application deadline Choose student type... Graduate student Nondegree-seeking student International student Unsure (Describe student types...) Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Explore degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related stories Remote studies, experiential learning push forward fisheries career Remote studies, experiential learning push forward fisheries career Forging a career in Alaska’s seafood industry isn’t easy – but Oregon State Ecampus alum Tommy Sheridan can't picture himself anywhere else. While living and working in Alaska, his Fisheries Management Graduate Certificate and Professional Science Master's in Fisheries and Wildlife Administration offered ample... Behind the scenes with Brian Sidlauskas, fisheries and wildlife sciences associate professor Behind the scenes with Brian Sidlauskas, fisheries and wildlife sciences associate professor It is a real privilege to be able to reach such a diverse student population and to be able to share the awesomeness of fishes with people who would otherwise lack access to the brick-and-mortar version of my classes," says Fisheries and Wildlife Sciences Associate... Oregon State Everywhere: Geospatial technology, natural resources make a perfect pair online Oregon State Everywhere: Geospatial technology, natural resources make a perfect pair online I was not a typical grad student. For years I've wanted to go back to school and get my master's degree, but due to a number of life circumstances it just didn't happen. Then, when I was about to turn 50 (yes, 50!) the opportunity... Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204