Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Chemistry and Lab CoursesOnline Course Sequences Credits required N/A Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. * Cost per credit $346 Cost per credit is calculated using tuition per credit for the current academic year. It does not include associated fees, course materials, textbook expenses, and other expenses related to courses. Courses numbered 5XX and higher are graduate level tuition.† Delivery Online Course sequences can include classes that are delivered online, as well as a blend of online coursework with one or a few required site-based classes. ‡ Start terms 4 per year Online Chemistry Overview | General Chemistry | Organic Chemistry | Chemistry Labs | Transferring Credits | Benefits Online Chemistry Overview General Chemistry Organic Chemistry Chemistry Labs Transferring Credits Benefits Chemistry and Lab Courses – Online Online Chemistry Overview | General Chemistry | Organic Chemistry | Chemistry Labs | Transferring Credits | Benefits Online chemistry overview NOTE: Due to the university’s efforts to reduce the risk and spread of COVID-19, Oregon State’s on-campus summer and fall chemistry labs are subject to change. Please refer to the Ecampus Schedule of Classes, or contact the Department of Chemistry for more details at chemistry.ecampus@oregonstate.edu. OSU Ecampus chemistry is best in class Oregon State’s commitment to outstanding teaching, experiential learning and advising have set its online chemistry courses apart. OSU Ecampus now offers some of the highest quality online chemistry courses in the country. Read more » Your pathway to degree completion and career development runs through Oregon State University’s Department of Chemistry, where interactive teaching techniques and opportunities to hone your professional skills are brought to life in a series of rigorous online courses and labs. Delivered online by nationally ranked Oregon State Ecampus, these course and lab sequences for science, non-science and engineering majors are all developed and taught by world-class OSU, and they are delivered by chemistry faculty in a flexible online format that gives you the ability to keep moving forward. Complete chemistry course listing Course number Description CH 110 CH 110 - ROYGBIV: The Chemistry of Colors is an introduction to basic chemistry concepts and their importance in understanding the science behind color. Students will collect, analyze and draw defensible conclusions from experimental data on a variety of concepts. The concepts can also be applied to a variety of topics including, history, art, botany and cell biology. This class includes a mail order lab component (estimated cost: $112.50) that is shipped to the student. CH 121, 122, 123 General Chemistry for non-science majors (online labs included) General Chemistry for non-science majors is a sequence for students in a variety of the science and health-related fields. Students with majors in physical science, biological science, environmental sciences, health, exercise, nutrition, nursing and natural resources may require this sequence in their program of study. The full sequence consists of three quarter terms: CH 121, CH 122 and CH 123. CH 231, 232, 233 & CH 261, 262, 263 General Chemistry for science majors (optional in-person labs) General Chemistry for science majors focuses on general chemistry concepts and is structured toward students majoring in most sciences, pharmacy, and chemical, biological and environmental engineering. CH 261, 262 and 263 are the corresponding labs for this online sequence. CH 201, 202 Chemistry for Engineering Majors General chemistry for students in a variety of engineering disciplines, including computer science, electrical, mechanical and general engineering. CH 130 General Chemistry of Living Systems (online labs included) CH 130 – General Chemistry of Living Systems (4). This one-term survey course provides an introduction to organic chemistry and the chemistry of biological systems. It fulfills requirements for many majors in the health professions. All components of the course, including the lab experience, are completed online. The course covers: acids and bases; alkanes; alkenes; alkynes; aromatic compounds; alcohols and ethers; amines and amides; aldehydes and ketones; carboxylic acids and esters; carbohydrates; lipids; amino acids and proteins; enzymes; biochemical energy; nucleic acids and protein synthesis. CH 140 General, Organic, and Biological Chemistry (online labs included) CH 140 – General, Organic, and Biological Chemistry (6). Students who require only "one semester of chemistry with labs" should consider taking this class. This 6 quarter-credit class follows OSU's quarter schedule (10 weeks plus finals) and could transfer to a semester school as 4 semester credits. * Examples of majors requiring one semester of chemistry include: dental hygiene, dietetics, exercise science and some nursing programs. This class gives students a foundation in general chemistry and introduces important topics related to the chemistry of living systems. The lab component is included in the course and can be completed fully online. Topics include measurement, energy and matter, nuclear chemistry, bonding, gases, solutions, rates and equilibrium, acids and bases, organic compounds and reactions, carbohydrates, lipids, proteins, enzymes, nucleic acids and protein synthesis, and metabolism. CH 331, 332 Organic Chemistry Organic Chemistry is an upper-level sequence for students in a variety of science and health-related fields including dentistry, medicine, optometry, pharmacy, chemical engineering, as well as students not majoring in chemistry who require these additional chemistry training courses in their program of study. CH 390 Environmental Chemistry CH 390 – Environmental Chemistry (3). Sources, reactions, transport, effects, and fates of chemical species in water, soil, air, and living environments and the effects of technology thereon. CH 411 Inorganic Chemistry CH 411 – Inorganic Chemistry (3). Fundamental principles of inorganic chemistry including atomic structure, bonding models for molecules and solids, symmetry, acid/base chemistry, oxidation-reduction, and metal-ligand complexes. CH 440, 441, 442 Physical Chemistry CH 440, CH 441, CH 442 - Physical Chemistry (3). Thermodynamics, electrochemistry, solutions, kinetic theory of gases, chemical kinetics, quantum theory and statistical mechanics, molecular structure and spectroscopy. CH 584 Chemistry for teachers CH 584 – Instruments and Online Interactions in the Physical Sciences (3). This fully online course is designed for middle school, high school and college-level science instructors, as well as graduate students in STEM education. At class completion, students will have created a portfolio of instructional lab content that can be used in their practice. Graduate level tuition applies to this course. If you are transferring credits be sure to confirm the transfer policy of your home institution. Learn more about transferring credits. Benefits of studying online with Oregon State University All classes are developed by OSU's world-class College of Science faculty, who are known for their research, expertise and innovation. Oregon State is regionally accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities. OSU's online students receive the same transcripts as on-campus students. All online students pay the same tuition rate no matter where they live. Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Program details Credits required * N/A Cost per credit † $346 Delivery ‡ Online Start terms 4 per year * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. † Cost per credit is calculated using tuition per credit for the current academic year. It does not include associated fees, course materials, textbook expenses, and other expenses related to courses. Courses numbered 5XX and higher are graduate level tuition. ‡ Course sequences can include classes that are delivered online, as well as a blend of online coursework with one or a few required site-based classes. Find application deadline Choose student type... First-year student Transfer student Postbaccalaureate student Nondegree-seeking student International student Unsure (Describe student types...) Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Compare degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related stories Oregon State online classes are in a class of their own Oregon State online classes are in a class of their own At Oregon State University Ecampus, we have a proud history of pushing the boundaries of what’s possible in higher education. Our track record of success spans decades and can be measured across 110-plus subject areas. What’s the common thread that ties it all... Best in class: Oregon State online chemistry is at the top of its game Best in class: Oregon State online chemistry is at the top of its game The Oregon State Department of Chemistry’s early start and ongoing commitment to outstanding teaching, experiential learning and advising have set its online chemistry courses apart. OSU offers some of the highest quality online chemistry courses in the country. Oregon State Ecampus graduate ‘shocked’ by her scientific success Oregon State Ecampus graduate ‘shocked’ by her scientific success As a kid, Andrea Fuchs dreamed of someday working with animals. Those dreams were squelched – at least in her mind – because she struggled in high school math and science classes. But when a web search for reputable online degree programs led her to discover Oregon... Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204