Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Students Menu Students Newly Admitted Newly Admitted Students Undergraduate Students Readmitted Students Graduate Students Nondegree Students Online Orientation Registration Registration Step-by-Step Registration Registration Handbook Starting Your Course Checklist Changing Registration Grading Options Academic Calendar Student ServicesServices Student Services Exam Proctoring Student Success Coaching Resources Student Resources Success Coaching OSU Libraries Exam Proctoring Online Tutoring Technical Help Ecampus Career Hub Disability Access Services Military Students & Veterans Forms Policies and Forms Exams and Proctoring Form Military/VA Forms Academic Calendar Graduation Information Tools MyOregonState Canvas G Suite OSU Mobile App Contact Contact Student Services Contact Exam Proctoring Find Success Coach Ask Ecampus Explore Ecampus Serving America’s military Maximize your GI Bill benefits while honoring your career, family and other life commitments. Learn more » Print Home  ›  Student Success  ›  Tools  ›  OSU Mobile App OSU Mobile App, Customized for You We’re excited to announce that we have developed an Ecampus version of the OSU Mobile app that meets the needs of our online students like you. OSU Mobile brings together all of the tools you use every day for use on your mobile device. OSU Mobile brings together all of the tools you use as an online learner for use on your mobile device. This new and improved version is designed specifically for online students and features a wide variety of tools and resources to help you thrive. Features of OSU Mobile With OSU Mobile you can: Review your schedule and full class history Access the schedule of classes to plan for upcoming terms Check your bill, holds, and account information Read Ecampus specific news, find student organizations, and connect with other opportunities on campus available to online students Gain quick access to your support team including academic advising, student services, proctoring, and success coaches Connect with OSU Ecampus social media Download the app All you need to do is download the app and you’re ready to go! iOS download Android download For those who already have the OSU Mobile app, please check to make sure you have the most recent update to get the new version that includes Ecampus. To change your selected campus, click on the Settings icon in the bottom right corner and update to the Ecampus option! Frequently asked questions Where can I download the app? Download the iOS version on the Apple App Store or get the Android version on Google Play. For more information on OSU Mobile, please see the OSU Mobile website. If you are new to the app, you will have the option to select your campus upon the first time opening it. If you currently have the app with a different OSU campus, you will need to click the Settings option in the bottom right corner and change your campus selection. Please make sure to download or update to the most recent version of the app. What does the app do? OSU Mobile brings together all of the tools you use every day and puts them on your mobile device. Have your class schedule and class history at the ready and view the full schedule of classes to plan for upcoming terms! See assignments, grades, discussions and more. Review your bill, holds, and account information. Read Ecampus-specific news, find student organizations, and connect with other opportunities on campus available to online students. Gain quick access to your support team including your academic advisor, student services, proctoring, and success coaches. Connect with OSU Ecampus social media through Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, and YouTube. Who should download the app? Any future or current OSU student can download the app. Ecampus students can choose the new Ecampus location under Settings. If you are not currently a student, the app will still provide great information you can use, and it even has an “Admissions” section to help you get started. The three areas that are specific for current students and require authentication are My Classes, My Bill, and My Holds. The services listed under My Support are primarily for undergraduate, degree-seeking students. Is OSU Mobile available for my device? OSU Mobile is available on iOS and Android devices. The app isn't working on my Android 8.0 device! Try uninstalling the app and downloading the most recent version. How did you choose the platform for the app? The platform for OSU Mobile was chosen due to its flexibility, ease of use and quickness of development, and variety of integrations into existing OSU systems and procedures. Why can't OSU Mobile do ______? We are constantly working to add features and improve the user experience of OSU Mobile. In order to do this, we need your feedback to build the best possible mobile experience. I cannot seem to change the notification settings on my Android phone. This is a known problem and will be fixed in an upcoming release. Why does the app ask for access to so many phone capabilities when it is installed? The OSU Mobile app has a rich set of modules, and as you use different modules in the app it will need access to those phone capabilities. Features and Navigation Academic calendar Currently it's spring term. See academic calendar for our quarter term schedule. Summer term starts June 20. Fall term starts Sept. 21. Current Students Newly Admitted Students Returning Students Tuition & Financial Aid Registration Starting Your Course Student Services Student Success Coaching Student Resources Policies & Forms Tools MyOregonState Canvas G Suite OSU Mobile App Learning in Portland Ranked top 10 in the nation OSU Ecampus earned a top 10 ranking for the eighth year in a row on a list of America's best online bachelor's programs. Learn more » Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204