Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Geographic Information ScienceGIScience Graduate Certificate Credits required 19 Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 19 quarter credits are equal to 12.67 semester credits.* Cost per credit $560 Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses.† Delivery Online You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum.‡ Start terms 3 per year Overview | Curriculum | Careers | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Overview Curriculum Careers Admissions Tuition & Fees Contact Us Graduate Certificate in Geographic Information Science – Online Overview | Curriculum | Careers | Admissions | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us Visualize and analyze our world through geospatial science Advancements in geographic information science are having broad effects in improving day-to-day tasks throughout all sectors of society, from tracking the spread of environmental pollutants to planning sustainable development in urban areas. Oregon State University's online Graduate Certificate in GIScience is ideal for working professionals who already possess a bachelor's degree and want to reinforce or upgrade their current skills in order to be more competitive in a rapidly changing field. This online graduate program is offered by the College of Earth, Ocean, and Atmospheric Sciences and delivered online by OSU Ecampus. Oregon State is a member of The University Consortium for Geographic Information Science. Oregon State Ecampus delivers a variety of graduate degree and certificate programs online focused on conservation and natural sciences. Explore similar programs. Benefits of learning online with Oregon State University All classes are developed by OSU's renowned faculty, who are known worldwide for their research, expertise and innovation in natural resources and science fields. OSU is regionally accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities. OSU is a member of the Natural Resources Distance Learning Consortium (NRDLC), which includes 10 universities who work together to provide more than 300 online courses to agency professionals. Online students receive the same credits as on-campus students, and credits transfer to most higher education institutions. Apply your graduate certificate toward a master’s degree The specialized knowledge you gain through the GIScience graduate certificate program can serve as a pathway to Oregon State’s 45-credit Master of Natural Resources (MNR) program online. The 18 credits you earn may satisfy your area of emphasis requirement for MNR, and you’ll have the opportunity to: Connect with faculty who can potentially serve as your MNR advisor Apply for a change of degree at no cost Smoothly transition into the MNR program as a currently admitted student Meet the preferred requirement for natural resources-related work or volunteer experience Students planning to use credits from a graduate certificate towards a master’s degree should discuss transfer credit policies with an advisor in advance. Please note: It’s important that you apply to change your degree program to MNR while you’re a current student in good standing in your graduate certificate program. Visit the Master of Natural Resources admissions page for details. Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates These are the start dates for OSU’s next two terms. However, this program only admits for fall, winter and spring terms. Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Degree details Credits required * 19 Cost per credit † $560 Delivery ‡ Online Start terms 3 per year * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 19 quarter credits are equal to 12.67 semester credits. † Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses. ‡ You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum. Find application deadline Choose student type... Graduate student Nondegree-seeking student International student Unsure (Describe student types...) Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Explore degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related stories Oregon State’s GIScience online certificate is an entirely hands-on experience Oregon State’s GIScience online certificate is an entirely hands-on experience GIScience integrates geographical features with data to map and analyze real-world problems. This technology is everywhere in the world around us, and it's driving the high demand for professionals with spatial analysis skills. And that demand is why Oregon State now offers an Undergraduate Certificate... Oregon State Everywhere: Geospatial technology, natural resources make a perfect pair online Oregon State Everywhere: Geospatial technology, natural resources make a perfect pair online I was not a typical grad student. For years I've wanted to go back to school and get my master's degree, but due to a number of life circumstances it just didn't happen. Then, when I was about to turn 50 (yes, 50!) the opportunity... Winning on the water and in the online classroom Winning on the water and in the online classroom Fiona Wylde needed a rigorous degree program that would allow her to further her education while offering the flexibility to sustain her career as a world champion stand-up paddleboarder and windsurfer. She found everything she needed online with Oregon State. Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204