Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Degree info Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info Mechatronics for Manufacturing EngineeringUndergraduate Certificate Credits required 32 Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 32 quarter credits are equal to 21.33 semester credits.* Cost per credit $403 Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses.† Delivery Online You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum.‡ Start terms 4 per year Overview | Certificate Curriculum | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us | About Undergraduate Certificates Overview Certificate Curriculum Tuition & Fees Contact Us About Undergraduate Certificates Mechatronics for Manufacturing Engineering – Online Undergraduate Certificate Overview | Certificate Curriculum | Tuition & Fees | Contact Us | About Undergraduate Certificates A future-focused pathway to solving complex problems Automation is prevalent in industry, and it is the future of advanced manufacturing. But there is a lack of highly trained, specialized manufacturing workers who can integrate advanced applications of automation and mechatronics technology. You can fill a gap in the global job market by adding to your skill set with Oregon State University’s online Undergraduate Certificate in Mechatronics for Manufacturing Engineering. This 32-credit program is designed for working professionals who want to continue their education, and it’s also ideal if you’re an engineer who needs to learn how to utilize mechatronics in manufacturing systems. Mechatronics skills are commonly utilized in robotics and more broadly in automated manufacturing. An accredited and top-ranked leader in engineering education As a student in this certificate program, you’ll benefit from the 130-plus years of expertise of Oregon State’s College of Engineering. The mechatronics for manufacturing engineering certificate is affiliated with OSU’s Corvallis campus ABET-accredited B.S. in Manufacturing Engineering program. Coursework The program’s structured mechatronics curriculum will provide you with the opportunity to flexibly and effectively train to meet your own career ambitions and the needs of employers across industry. The mechatronics online coursework is designed to support automated manufacturing applications, driven in part by input from industry, and will enable you to adapt to a rapidly changing manufacturing environment. Certificate requirements and curriculum details are available on Oregon State's academic catalog. Sample course topics Electronics tools and their operation Sensors and actuators for mechatronic systems Microcontroller systems structure and programming Digital control theory Digital signal processing Intelligent system prototyping Prerequisites You may need to complete additional coursework prior to enrolling in this program and taking the required certificate courses. This could mean completing 3 or more additional credits, depending on your individual educational background as it relates to the program requirements. If you hold an engineering degree from a regionally accredited institution, you may be able to obtain the certificate by successfully completing only four required core courses. We recommend that you evaluate this prior to applying for admission. Benefits of learning online with Oregon State All classes are developed by OSU's world-class faculty, who are renowned for their research, expertise and innovation. Oregon State is regionally accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities. OSU Ecampus students receive the same transcript-visible certificate as on-campus students. Request information Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details you need. Request info Important dates Summer term starts June 20 Fall term starts Sept. 21 See our academic calendar for our full quarter term schedule. Degree details Credits required * 32 Cost per credit † $403 Delivery ‡ Online Start terms 4 per year * Oregon State University is on a quarter-term system. There are four quarters each year and classes are 11 weeks long. This program's 32 quarter credits are equal to 21.33 semester credits. † Based on current tuition rates. No additional charge for nonresident students. Does not include course materials and associated fees and expenses. ‡ You can complete all or nearly all requirements of this program online. View the curriculum. Find application deadline Choose student type... First-year student Transfer student Postbaccalaureate student Nondegree-seeking student International student Unsure (Describe student types...) Ready to apply? Once you've gathered the information you need to know before you apply to Oregon State University, take the next steps. Apply now Compare degrees Calculate tuition Course demo Military friendly Related stories New center to advance online engineering education at Oregon State New center to advance online engineering education at Oregon State Oregon State University College of Engineering and Ecampus have announced a plan to launch a new center on campus for exploring innovation in online engineering education. From the Navy to the online classroom: An Ecampus student’s journey From the Navy to the online classroom: An Ecampus student’s journey Laura Micewski, U.S. Navy veteran, started her educational journey with one goal in mind: land her dream job without missing a beat. That's where Ecampus came in. She kept her full-time job and leveraged her GI Bill to get the education she needed to... Radiation health physics instructor is on a path toward global peace Radiation health physics instructor is on a path toward global peace Ph.D. faculty Lily Ranjbar teaches online while leading research on radioxenon detection By Meriden Vitale March 25, 2020 When Lily Ranjbar, director of online programs for the College of Engineering’s School of Nuclear Science and Engineering, left Iran to pursue her doctorate in... Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204