Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info News Menu Ecampus News AboutAbout About For Journalists All StoriesStories All Ecampus Ecampus OER Ecampus Research Unit Ecampus StoriesEcampus All Students Faculty & Advisors Graduation Staff Military Research Unit Videos In the NewsPress In the News Press Releases Awards Feature Stories Ecampus News Corporate education combats the great resignation Oregon State Ecampus plugs in to corporate benefits, employee support By Carly Johansen May 27, 2022 Oregon State University Ecampus is founded on the belief that everyone who wants to learn should be able to do so. With a focus on high-quality online learning experiences and affordability, we create innovative pathways to success for anyone ... Corporate education combats the great resignation Read more » Now at Harvard, Oregon State online grad still “over the moon” with religious studies May 23, 2022 Monique Lanier is a graduate of Oregon State’s religious studies online bachelor’s program, and the experience profoundly impacted her — academically and in myriad other ways. And her alma mater helped pave her path to one of the world’s most prestigious institutions. Categories: All Stories, Ecampus, Ecampus Students, Features Tags: College of Liberal Arts, Languages and liberal arts, Religious studies | Comments Oregon State Everywhere: Geospatial technology, natural resources make a perfect pair online May 18, 2022 I was not a typical grad student. For years I’ve wanted to go back to school and get my master’s degree, but due to a number of life circumstances it just didn’t happen. Then, when I was about to turn 50 (yes, 50!) the opportunity came. Categories: All Stories, Ecampus, Ecampus Students, Features Tags: College of Forestry, Conservation and natural sciences, Master of Natural Resources, OSU Everywhere | Comments Distance learning, remote working bring a new mom’s tech dreams closer May 13, 2022 Ravonne was nearly 30 and had a newborn. Was it too late to start a tech career? The answer: no. Now she’s in Oregon State’s postbaccalaureate online computer science program, learning a suite of skills as part of a large community of students, and it’s been a perfect fit. Categories: All Stories, Ecampus, Ecampus Students, Features Tags: College of Engineering, Computer Science, Feature 1, School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science | Comments OSU faculty, staff to receive awards from Ecampus for dedication to student experience May 5, 2022 The 2022 Ecampus Awards celebrate OSU faculty and staff excellence and commitment to student success through superior online experiences. Categories: Awards, Ecampus Faculty, Ecampus Staff Tags: College of Agricultural Sciences, College of Business, College of Education, College of Engineering, College of Liberal Arts, College of Public Health and Human Sciences, College of Science, Ecampus Awards, Feature 2, Quality Matters | Comments Amazon teams with Oregon State to offer statewide employees tuition benefit to learn on campus, online April 28, 2022 Oregon State University formed a collaboration that enables Amazon hourly employees in Oregon to pursue a college degree by enrolling in OSU courses on campus and online. Amazon workers in Oregon will benefit from tuition assistance to pursue more than 200 Oregon State programs on the Corvallis campus or at OSU-Cascades in Bend, as well as 90-plus programs through OSU Ecampus. Categories: All Stories, Ecampus, Press Releases Tags: Corporate education, Feature 3 | Comments Learn online with Oregon State and receive unmatched student support April 22, 2022 Without the constant support of her academic advisor, Ashley Hatleberg said she would have quit school. It’s as simple as that. But while pursuing her natural resources degree online with Oregon State, quitting was never a real option. That’s because her academic advisor was with her every step of the way — helping Hatleberg to manage her academic plans, overcome obstacles and connect with a variety of student resources. Categories: All Stories, Ecampus, Features Tags: Academic Advising, Natural Resources, Student success | Comments What is instructional design? An inside look at Oregon State’s online certificate April 18, 2022 Oregon State is a national leader in developing online courses and programs. And OSU’s expertise is benefiting a new generation of education professionals through its online Graduate Certificate in Instructional Design. It’s a 20-credit, hands-on program that teaches students how to thoughtfully construct material to help guide a student’s learning from start to finish. Categories: All Stories, Ecampus, Ecampus Faculty, Features Tags: College of Education, instructional design | Comments Computer science student earns Department of Defense SMART scholarship April 5, 2022 Vidhi Kadakia, a second-year undergraduate in OSU’s College of Engineering, has been selected for the Department of Defense’s Science, Mathematics, and Research for Transformation scholarship program, known as SMART. A computer science student who learns online with OSU Ecampus, Kadakia is eligible for up to five years of full tuition as well as mentorship, summer internships, a stipend and full-time employment with the DOD upon graduation. Categories: Ecampus, Ecampus Students Tags: College of Engineering, Computer Science, School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science | Comments Textbooks are way too expensive, and Oregon State is creating change March 3, 2022 College textbooks are way too expensive, and Oregon State — with its faculty leading the way — is on a mission to make college more affordable and accessible for students. With the support of the OSU Open Educational Resources Unit, an increasing number of OSU instructors are adopting, adapting and authoring no-cost and low-cost course materials. Categories: All Stories, Ecampus, Ecampus OER Tags: OER at Work, openfeature-1, Oregon State Open Educational Resources Unit | Comments Former NFL standout Steven Jackson creates greater diversity for a stronger OSU February 28, 2022 Former Oregon State and NFL running back Steven Jackson — who now serves as an OSU Foundation Trustee and on the advisory board for OSU’s director of athletics — made a gift to create the Jackson Family Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Fund. It aims to help Oregon State pilot a new program designed to help the university recruit underrepresented faculty and staff. Categories: All Stories, Ecampus, Ecampus Students, Features Tags: College of Public Health and Human Sciences, Human Development and Family Sciences, OSU Foundation | Comments Explore more stories » Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details about our online programs and course offerings. Request info Gather information about OSU Ecampus, our history, students and programs. 90+ programs Explore all of Oregon State’s online offerings. Stories archive Search for: Subscribe Receive notifications of new story posts by email. Email address Subscribe Share your story Are you an Oregon State Ecampus grad? Inspire current and prospective students with your story. Are you a current Oregon State Ecampus student? Share your OSU journey. Recent stories Corporate education combats the great resignation Now at Harvard, Oregon State online grad still “over the moon” with religious studies Oregon State Everywhere: Geospatial technology, natural resources make a perfect pair online Filter content by OSU college College of Agricultural Sciences College of Business College of Earth, Ocean and Atmospheric Sciences College of Education College of Engineering College of Forestry College of Liberal Arts College of Public Health and Human Sciences College of Science Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204