Skip to main content Request Info 800-667-1465 Contact Ecampus Ask Ecampus OSU Mobile MyOregonState Canvas Libraries Oregon State University Ecampus • Degrees Online Oregon State Ecampus • OSU Degrees Online Request info Menu Home About About Us About Ecampus Top-ranked in the NationTop-ranked How Classes Are DeliveredCourse Delivery Course Demo Military Tribal Communities Experiential Learning Ask Ecampus Meet Students & FacultyStudents & Faculty For Journalists Degrees & ProgramsDegrees All Degrees & Programs Browse Programs by Topic Undergraduate Degrees & CoursesUndergraduate Degrees Compare Degrees Undergraduate Certificates Undergraduate Minors Course Sequences Graduate Degrees & ProgramsGraduate Programs Graduate Certificates & Minors Microcredentials OSU in Portland Continuing and Professional EducationContinuing Education Admissions How to Apply Application Deadlines Apply Now Check Your Admission Status Returning to OSU? Transfer Credit Information Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Tuition Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Calculator Tuition Calculator Tuition Comparison Financial Aid & Scholarships Billing & Payment Refunds & Late Fees Financial Hardship Grant Classes Schedule of Classes All Credit Classes Classes in Portland Register for Classes Academic Calendar Course Overrides Nondegree/Visiting StudentsNondegree Students Language Placement Testing For StudentsStudents All Ecampus Students Current Students Newly Admitted Students Newly Admitted Returning Students Learning in Portland 2022 Graduation Info Military Students & VeteransMilitary/Veterans COVID-19 Information For FacultyFaculty Ecampus Faculty Support Benefits of Partnering with EcampusEcampus Partnership Benefits Contacts for Faculty Ecampus Research Unit Apply NowApply Request Info News Menu Ecampus News AboutAbout About For Journalists All StoriesStories All Ecampus Ecampus OER Ecampus Research Unit Ecampus StoriesEcampus All Students Faculty & Advisors Graduation Staff Military Research Unit Videos In the NewsPress In the News Press Releases Awards OSU faculty, staff to receive awards from Ecampus for dedication to student experience Showcasing Oregon State Ecampus excellence with 2022 Ecampus Awards May 5, 2022 For the sixth year in a row, Oregon State Ecampus is proud to honor the university’s exemplary faculty and staff with the Ecampus Awards. Their commitment to an outstanding student experience is what makes Ecampus different from other online institutions. OSU faculty and staff help Ecampus push the boundaries of online education and virtual student support. Thanks to their devotion to innovation and creating deep personal connections, Ecampus students around the world succeed, time and again. Because that’s the core of what we do – helping students achieve their goals. We work with more than 1,000 Oregon State partners to make those goals a reality every year. So, join us in a virtual standing ovation for this year’s six outstanding recipients of the 2022 Ecampus Awards for their commitment to quality, excellence and student success. Ecampus innovation award The Ecampus Innovation Award recognizes innovations in online courses in the fields of design, pedagogy and media development. This year, two people will receive Ecampus Innovation awards. Nicole (Nikki) Brown, College of Business Nicole (Nikki) Brown, College of Business The first 2022 Ecampus Innovation Award goes to Nikki Brown in the College of Business. For her Marketing 492/592 course, Nikki’s vision to create a docuseries about the founders of the revolutionary market research firm Ethos was a love letter to ethnographic market research. It also proved to be an unrivaled way for students to engage with the course material. The series included personal connection and a truly prolific amount of archival materials. Nikki managed to procure all of this during a time when traditional interviews were not possible due to COVID. Nikki also created over a dozen lectures and worked with our web team to create an interactive Consumer Data Team Tool. Staci Bronson, College of Science Staci Bronson, College of Science The second 2022 Ecampus Innovation Award goes to Staci Bronson in the College of Science. Staci has earned a reputation for jumping in with both feet. Staci was new to OSU at the start of the new Anatomy and Physiology series, BI 254, 255 and 256. That did not stop her from pioneering to bring these courses online for the first time. Nor did it deter her from creating a wide variety of course materials ranging from high quality video to hundreds of 3D scanned bones for interactive lab work and other engaging activities for students. Ecampus appreciation award The Ecampus Appreciation Award recognizes an outstanding campus partner who has worked with Ecampus to make a substantial, positive impact on our programs and students. Carley Ries, College of Engineering Carley Ries, College of Engineering The 2022 Ecampus Appreciation Award goes to Carley Ries in the College of Engineering, for serving as a critical link between Ecampus and the College of Engineering. She has helped lead the addition of a variety of online computer science degrees to the CS portfolio. Carley is also committed to the continuous improvement of all of the programs she oversees, some of the largest Ecampus programs, by student headcount. To quote her nomination statement, “Carley is a dynamo.” Ecampus Excellence in Online Teaching and Student Engagement Award The 2022 Ecampus Excellence in Online Teaching and Student Engagement Award recognizes three faculty members who exemplify excellence in online teaching and student engagement. Current online student nominations determine the recipients of these awards. This year, more than 200 students nominated 40+ faculty members for this award. 2022 Ecampus Excellence in Online Teaching and Student Engagement Awards go to Mika Archer, Aaron Lewis and Tenisha Tevis. Mika Archer, College of Liberal Arts Mika Archer, College of Liberal Arts Mika Archer was nominated for her unwavering kindness and deeply personal approach to student success. Students say that they feel Mika truly cares about them as people, not just students. She gets to know them and goes out of her way to ensure they love learning Japanese. Mika has worked to bring more coursework online for students unable to attend OSU in person. One student said, “I can’t imagine learning Japanese with another professor! Time and time again Mika has bent over backwards to help me, and I’m forever grateful.” Aaron Lewis, College of Business Aaron Lewis, College of Business Aaron Lewis was nominated for his meticulous course, extensive communication and enthusiasm for his subject area, and he remains devoted to providing an outstanding student experience. He fosters personal connections with students and provides thoughtful answers to their questions. Aaron is committed to creating applied learning opportunities as well, encouraging students to use their learning in the professional realm. One nomination for Aaron said, “Professor Lewis tailors his online classes with careful planning. My professional life improved tremendously because of what I learned in his class.” Tenisha Tevis, College of Education Tenisha Tevis was nominated for her commitment to challenging systemic racism and inherent bias in courses that Tenisha Tevis, College of Education traditionally do not take on these challenging topics. Her Adult and Higher Education Leadership courses “pop the hood” on education in a way that encourages students to confront their own thinking, and she encourages them to ask her questions they may not otherwise voice. Tenisha is known to challenge the status quo in her coursework, and students say they’ve become better people because of her. One student said, “[Dr. Tevis] stretched my thinking and meaning-making in ways that none of my best efforts have accomplished while trying to do the work myself.” Congratulations to these 2022 Quality Matters honorees We also would like to recognize Oregon State faculty members whose Ecampus courses were recently certified or recertified by the Quality Matters organization. QM is the gold standard in online course design, and we’re proud to honor these instructors who went the extra mile to ensure excellence in their online classes: Lori McGraw, College of Public Health and Human Sciences, HDFS 444, HDFS 461, & HDFS 447 Erica Woekel, College of Public Health and Human Sciences, HHS 231 Dan Roberson, College of Public Health and Human Sciences, HHS 231 Sunyoung Kim, College of Liberal Arts, KOR 111 Meta Landys, College of Science, Z 423 Michele Swift, College of Business, MGMT 453/553 Alyssa DuVal, College of Agricultural Sciences, CROP 200 QM focuses on the design of online and hybrid classes, as opposed to the delivery or content of the courses. To discover how Oregon State faculty members develop award-winning online learning experiences, connect with the Ecampus staff and explore the support resources available to you. Get started today Share this: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) Related May 5, 2022 Carly Johansen Categories: Awards, Ecampus Faculty, Ecampus Staff Tags: College of Agricultural Sciences, College of Business, College of Education, College of Engineering, College of Liberal Arts, College of Public Health and Human Sciences, College of Science, Ecampus Awards, Feature 2, Quality Matters | Comments Leave a Reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Notify me of follow-up comments by email. Notify me of new posts by email. Δ Post navigation ← Amazon teams with Oregon State to offer statewide employees tuition benefit to learn on campus, online Distance learning, remote working bring a new mom’s tech dreams closer → Want more info? Let us know and we’ll send you the details about our online programs and course offerings. Request info Gather information about OSU Ecampus, our history, students and programs. 90+ programs Explore all of Oregon State’s online offerings. Stories archive Search for: Subscribe Receive notifications of new story posts by email. Email address Subscribe Share your story Are you an Oregon State Ecampus grad? Inspire current and prospective students with your story. Are you a current Oregon State Ecampus student? Share your OSU journey. Recent stories Corporate education combats the great resignation Now at Harvard, Oregon State online grad still “over the moon” with religious studies Oregon State Everywhere: Geospatial technology, natural resources make a perfect pair online Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website Footer Contact Info About Us Providing access to quality education with 90+ online degree programs Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204 Land Acknowledgement Quick Navigation Resources Contact Us Staff Directory Join Our Team Course Demo Ask Ecampus News and Media For Journalists Military Friendly OSU Mobile Online Giving Authorization and Compliance Site Map Our Division Oregon State University Ecampus About the Division Ecampus Degrees Online Ecampus Research Unit Open Educational Resources Unit Corporate Education Unit Social Media and Canvas Copyright 2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Ecampus Staff Portal W3C Validation: HTML5 + CSS3 + WAVE Oregon State Ecampus 4943 The Valley Library Corvallis, OR 97331 800-667-1465 | 541-737-9204