Off-Campus Login Sign In By signing in I accept the terms and conditions. [You must close your browser to complete the logout process when finished. This is crucial to protect your privacy if you are on a public or shared computer.] The Off-Campus Login portal will be unavaible due to periodic maintainence beginning 10pm June 10th, 2022. The Off-Campus Login service allows currently enrolled and registered students, faculty, and staff of the University of Louisville to access the University Libraries' subscriptions to electronic journals and databases from off campus. Use your ULink ID and password to login (Click on "Sign In" in the box on the left) Frequently Asked Questions Why Do I need to Sign In here? Libraries' subscribed resources are restricted to UofL's IP range and for authorized users as defined above. Authorized users are required to be authenticated via this proxy server for remote access. My ULink ID and password aren't working. What do I do? Send us an email, including your ULink ID,full name, URL of the error page, and a brief description of the problem. I'm not a current student or employee of UofL. Can I use the databases? You may use the libraries' databases by visiting one of our libraries. Unfortunately, if your account status is alumni you do not have remote access. If you are a UofL retiree and your UofL computer account is still active, you should have remote access. However, if your account is inactive, it will take some time for ITS to reactive your account. You may contact ITS at (502)852-7997 about your account. If you are a Kentucky resident, you may check with your local libray or visit Kentucky Virtual Library's website for accessing their online resources. Your status is not listed? Please let us know The database I want to use isn't working. What can I do? Report the database problem Are there any usage limits? If you download more than 500MB within a 60 minute timespan, your access will be temporarily suspended for 30 minutes. If you need to use data scraping software to parse the databases you will need to contact the database vendor for access. This is to prevent the university from breaching our license agreement and losing access to databases. Can't find your answers here? Please Send an email to the Office of Libraries Technology UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES University of Louisville Louisville, Kentucky 40292 PHONE tel (502) 852-6302 fax (502) 852-8736