arrow grid linear view icon Jump to main navigation Jump to main content Search Academics Undergraduate Program Undergraduate Research Assistantships Graduate Program Application Process Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Graduate Field Faculty Graduate Student Awards Graduate Student Requirements Student Experience Who we are? Why EEB? Museum of Vertebrates Courses Faculty People Department Administration and Staff Current Graduate Students and Post-docs Technical and Research Support Staff Department Faculty Research, Teaching and Extension Faculty Adjunct and Emeritus Faculty Other Academics, Visitors and Affiliates Graduate Field Faculty Research Biogeochemistry and Ecosystem Science Biology Education Research Community Ecology and Population Biology Evolutionary Patterns and Processes Organismal Biology Plant-animal Interactions and Chemical Ecology Sustainability, Environment and Conservation About Us Diversity and Inclusion Diversity and Inclusion Publications Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Committee Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Progress Report Resources for Ecology, Evolutionary Biology and Related Disciplines Departmental Research and Teaching Resources Affiliated Centers and Institutes Administrative Resources Support Our Department Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Cornell celebrates 65 years of leadership in biogeochemistry Genes that shift butterfly wing colors identified by Reed Lab CALS Dean Houlton advises on carbon removal strategies EEB's Ellner develops new statistical tools for ecological modeling Lost frogs, found using eDNA with help from Zamudio Lab Prev Next News Babonis lab finds: Jellyfish’s stinging cells hold clues to biodiversity In new research published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, EEB assistant prof Leslie Babonis reports that cnidocytes – or stinging cells – characteristic of sea anemones, hydrae, corals and jellyfish evolved by repurposing a neuron inherited from a pre-cnidarian ancestor. Agrawal, Hanson elected to National Academy of Sciences Anurag Agrawal, the James A. Perkins Professor of Environmental Studies in CALS, has been elected to the National Academy of Sciences for ecological analysis. Agrawal’s research melds questions on the ecology and evolution of interactions between wild plants and their insect pests, including aspects of community interactions, chemical ecology, coevolution and the life cycle of the monarch butterfly. Vertebrate Museum part of cross-college research team: mummy bird mystery Over the last several months, a certain bird – believed to be a sacred ibis – has been drawing a lot of attention, and covering a lot of ground, from the College of Arts and Sciences to the College of Veterinary Medicine, College of Engineering and, later, the Lab of Ornithology/Cornell University Museum of Vertebrates. View all news Events View all events JUN 07EEB Seminar Series- Elizabeth Lombardi Dissertation Title: Plant-virus biogeography in the Anthropocene: wild virus diversity and ecology across landscapes and host populations. Hosted by: Alison Power JUN 10EEB Seminar Series- Kelsey Jensen Dissertation Title: Effects of elevated atmospheric CO2 on soil organic carbon stocks and stability in the Mojave Desert. Hosted by: Jed Sparks Pick a Destination EEB Weekly Seminar Series Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Faculty Profiles Areas of Research in EEB Support our Department Administrative Resources Diversity and Inclusion Our Department In the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology (EEB) we value science and education grounded in the natural history of organisms, and have a desire to understand the patterns and processes that structure communities and ecosystems, and drive evolutionary change over all geographical and time scales. As new methods allow us to gain insight into ecological and evolutionary mechanism and function, we seek to refine fundamental concepts, to integrate findings into novel theory, and to contribute to solutions for environmental challenges. As a place of work, EEB is dynamic and friendly, committed to antiracism, and to be a safe space without harassment or discrimination of any sort, and to be as inclusive as possible (see our Diversity and Inclusion web page). EEB faculty, students and staff pursue topics across a broad set of interlinked foci, including biogeochemistry and ecosystem science, community ecology and population biology, sustainability, environment and conservation, organismal biology, intimate organismal interactions and chemical ecology, evolutionary patterns and processes, and biological educational research. Follow this link to view Our Department in Action gallery. Research Spotlight During 2021, PhD student Bryce Robinson (Lovette/Fuller Lab) traveled across much of the lower 48 states to capture and sample Red-tailed Hawks in an attempt to gather an extensive range-wide sampling and uncover the evolutionary history of this highly diverse raptor. As a common and widespread species, the Red-tailed Hawk represents an excellent opportunity to understand the evolution and maintenance of traits such as plumage polymorphism, because it contains considerable diversity in plumage both between and within populations. Bryce is a member the team behind The Red-tailed Hawk Project, a research collaboration focused on the ecology and evolution of Buteo jamaicensis. Photo by Bryce Robinson: Two individual Red-tailed Hawks captured in southwest Idaho; the birds were handled carefully with appropriate permits, and then released unharmed, back into the wild. “As a result of identity prejudice, certain individuals are more vulnerable to conflict and violence when they are in the field. It is paramount that all fieldworkers be informed of the risks some colleagues may face, so that they can define best practice together.” Amelia-Juliette Demery and Monique Pipkin: Safe fieldwork strategies for at-risk individuals, their supervisors and institutions. Nat Ecol Evol (2020). Become an EEB Major Apply to A&S See the Campus Visit A&S Support the Department Give to EEB The College of Arts & Sciences Academics Faculty Research About Us Facebook Twitter Instagram E145 Corson Hall Ithaca, New York 14853607-254-4201 • Dept_EandEB@cornell.edu ©2022 Cornell University COVID-19 & Reactivation Planning If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.