Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Economics Search Menu Site Navigation home Academics Undergraduate Graduate Job Market Candidates People Faculty Emeritus & Courtesy Faculty Adjunct & Visiting Faculty Staff Graduate Students Alumni In Memoriam Seminars Economic Theory Seminars Econometrics Seminars Macroeconomics Seminars Growth Lab Lunch Seminars Applied Microeconomics Seminars Seminar Series on Race and Inequality by Professor Glenn Loury Graduate Student Lunches + Breakfasts Events Past Events About Contact Faculty Positions News Orlando Bravo Center People Research News Seminars About Orlando Bravo Search Department of Economics Combined Breadcrumb Home Academics Undergraduate Concentrations Sub Navigation In This Section Economics Combined Applied Math-Econ, Advanced Econ Track (A.B.) Applied Math-Econ, Advanced Econ Track (Sc.B.) Applied Math-Econ, Mathematical Finance Track (A.B.) Applied Math-Econ, Mathematical Finance Track (Sc.B.) CompSci-Econ (A.B.) CompSci-Econ (Sc.B.) Mathematics-Econ (A.B.) Course Groupings Declaring Professional Tracks Combined Applied Mathematics-Economics Concentration Economics offers joint concentrations with Applied Math, Computer Science, and Mathematics. The philosophy of this program is to provide sufficient command of mathematical concepts to allow pursuit of an economics program emphasizing modern research problems. Economic theory has come to use more and more mathematics in recent decades, and empirical research in economics has turned to sophisticated statistical techniques. The applied mathematics-economics concentration is designed to reflect the mathematical and statistical nature of modern economic theory and empirical research. Tracks This concentration comes in two flavors, or tracks. The first is the advanced economics track, which is intended to prepare students for graduate study in economics. The second is the mathematical finance track, which is intended to prepare students for graduate study in finance, or for careers in finance or financial engineering. Both tracks of the applied mathematics-economics concentration have A.B. degree versions and Sc.B. degree versions. Also note that for each degree version and track there is a parallel professional track, which differs from the regular track by requiring completion of two internship or similar experiences. Honors It is strongly recommended to those considering applying to a Ph.D. program in economics to write an honors thesis or at least to conduct some research with a faculty member that can be credited as a senior capstone project. Doing so will help the student obtain a better sense of what scholarly research in economics is like, and should have the extra benefit of leading to a relationship with a faculty member who will know you well enough to write a letter of recommendation for you, an important part of your application package. We encourage all students in this concentration to write a thesis or complete a capstone project. Requirements A.B. degree in Advanced Economics track Sc.B. degree in Advanced Economics track A.B. degree in Mathematical Finance track Sc.B. degree in Mathematical Finance track Computer Science-Economics Concentration The joint computer science-economics concentration exposes students to both theoretical and practical connections between computer science and economics. The intent of this concentration is to prepare students for either academic careers conducting research in areas that emphasize the overlap between the two fields; or professional careers that incorporate aspects of economics and computer technology. The concentration is offered in two versions, the A.B. and the Sc.B. While the A.B. degree allows students to explore the two disciplines by taking advanced courses in both departments, its smaller number of required courses is compatible with a liberal education. The Sc.B. degree achieves greater depth in both computer science and economics by requiring more courses, and it offers students the opportunity to creatively integrate both disciplines through a design requirement. Also note that for each degree version there is a parallel professional track, which differs from the regular track by requiring completion of two internship or similar experiences. Requirements A.B. degree Sc.B. degree Mathematics-Economics Concentration Designed to give a background in economic theory plus the mathematical tools needed to analyze and develop additional theoretical constructions. Emphasis is on the abstract theory itself. Like the Applied Math – Economics concentration, this concentration can also prepare a student to go on to the study of economics at the graduate level. Concentrators are urged to write an honors thesis or engage in a capstone research project. Requirements A.B. degree Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation home Academics Undergraduate Graduate Job Market Candidates People Faculty Emeritus & Courtesy Faculty Adjunct & Visiting Faculty Staff Graduate Students Alumni In Memoriam Seminars Economic Theory Seminars Econometrics Seminars Macroeconomics Seminars Growth Lab Lunch Seminars Applied Microeconomics Seminars Seminar Series on Race and Inequality by Professor Glenn Loury Graduate Student Lunches + Breakfasts Events Past Events About Contact Faculty Positions News Orlando Bravo Center People Research News Seminars About Orlando Bravo This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Combined Open details for Combined Bookmark this Page