Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Economics Search Menu Site Navigation home Academics Undergraduate Graduate Job Market Candidates People Faculty Emeritus & Courtesy Faculty Adjunct & Visiting Faculty Staff Graduate Students Alumni In Memoriam Seminars Economic Theory Seminars Econometrics Seminars Macroeconomics Seminars Growth Lab Lunch Seminars Applied Microeconomics Seminars Seminar Series on Race and Inequality by Professor Glenn Loury Graduate Student Lunches + Breakfasts Events Past Events About Contact Faculty Positions News Orlando Bravo Center People Research News Seminars About Orlando Bravo Search Department of Economics About Orlando Bravo Sub Navigation In This Section People Research News Seminars About Orlando Bravo About Orlando Bravo Orlando Bravo is a Founder and Managing Partner at Thoma Bravo. He spearheaded the firm’s investment strategy in the software industry, leading Thoma Bravo’s rise as one of the most successful private equity firms today. Orlando has overseen more than 200 acquisitions completed by Thoma Bravo, representing more than $60 billion in enterprise value. Orlando is recognized as one of the leading private equity investors in the software and technology sectors. He was named one of “Eight Buyout Pros to Watch” by Thomson Reuters' Buyouts. Orlando is the Founder of the Bravo Family Foundation. In May 2019, he committed $100 million to the Foundation to promote entrepreneurship and economic development in Puerto Rico. In the immediate aftermath of Hurricane Maria, the Bravo Family Foundation, using a $10 million gift from Orlando, provided critical aid to isolated areas along Puerto Rico’s west coast, jumpstarting the Foundation's efforts in Puerto Rico. He has remained involved in many philanthropic efforts over the years, including helping to start Border Youth Tennis Exchange (BYTE), a charitable organization founded to enhance the lives of children and young adults on the U.S./Mexican border. Orlando was born in Mayaguez, Puerto Rico. He received a JD from Stanford Law School, an MBA from the Stanford Graduate School of Business, and a BA in Economics and Political Science from Brown University. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation home Academics Undergraduate Graduate Job Market Candidates People Faculty Emeritus & Courtesy Faculty Adjunct & Visiting Faculty Staff Graduate Students Alumni In Memoriam Seminars Economic Theory Seminars Econometrics Seminars Macroeconomics Seminars Growth Lab Lunch Seminars Applied Microeconomics Seminars Seminar Series on Race and Inequality by Professor Glenn Loury Graduate Student Lunches + Breakfasts Events Past Events About Contact Faculty Positions News Orlando Bravo Center People Research News Seminars About Orlando Bravo This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search About Orlando Bravo Open details for About Orlando Bravo Bookmark this Page