Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Economics Department of Economics Contact Us Facebook Twitter Economics@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About Why Econ? Careers in Economics Student Experiences Econ Alumni Back to Top Nav Undergraduate Overview The Major The Minor First Year FAQ Modified Major Honors Courses Class Schedule Syllabi About Wait-lists Transfer Credits Dartmouth Economic Research Scholars (DERS) Fed Challenge Jobs, Fellowships and Interships Political Economy Project Study Abroad Bocconi Exchange Information Dartmouth Oxford Exchange University College London Exchange Information Back to Top Nav Research Overview Faculty by Field Faculty Research Faculty Spotlight Globalization Cluster Back to Top Nav Inclusivity Inclusion at Dartmouth Resources for Undergraduates Statement on Racial Justice Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Seminars Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Christopher Snyder Academic Appointments Joel Z. and Susan Hyatt Professor of Economics Personal Website Contact Christopher.M.Snyder@Dartmouth.edu 603-646-0642 312A Silsby HB 6106 Education B.A. Fordham University Ph.D. Massachusetts Institute of Technology Areas of Expertise Industrial organization /microeconomic theory /law and economics Selected Publications "Microeconomic Theory: Basic Principles and Extensions" (with Walter Nicholson), 12th edition, South-Western/Cengage, 2016. "Intermediate Microeconomics and its Application" (with Walter Nicholson), 12th edition, South-Western/Cengage, 2015. “Preventives Versus Treatments” (with Michael Kremer), Quarterly Journal of Economics, August 2015, vol. 130, no. 3, pp. 1167-1239. “Does Online Availability Increase Citations? Theory and Evidence from a Panel of Economics and Business Journals” (with Mark McCabe), Review of Economics and Statistics, March 2015, vol. 97, no. 1, pp. 144-165. “Spending Differences Associated with the Medicare Physician Group Practice Demonstration” (with Carrie Colla, et al.), Journal of the American Medical Association, September 2012, vol. 308, no. 10, pp. 1015-1023. Microeconomic Theory: Basic Principles and Extensions , 11th edition, with W Nicholson, (2011). “Should Firms Be Allowed to Indemnify Their Employees for Sanctions?” with W Mullin, Journal of Law, Economics, and Organization , 26:1 (2010) 30-53. “Countervailing Power in Wholesale Pharmaceuticals,’’ with S F Ellison, Journal of Industrial Economics , 58:1 (2010) 32–53. “Do Buyer-Size Discounts Depend on the Curvature of the Surplus Function? Experimental Tests of Bargaining Models,” with B Ruffle and H-T Normann, Rand Journal of Economics , 38: 3 (2007) 747-67. “The Generator in the Problem of Social Cost,” with R. Pitchford, Journal of Environmental Economics and Management , 54:1 (2007) 49-67. + View more Works In Progress Please click here to see working papers and more publications at my web page. Related Links Personal Website Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Economics About Why Econ? Careers in Economics Student Experiences Econ Alumni Undergraduate Overview The Major The Minor First Year FAQ Modified Major Honors Courses Class Schedule Syllabi About Wait-lists Transfer Credits Dartmouth Economic Research Scholars (DERS) Fed Challenge Jobs, Fellowships and Interships Political Economy Project Study Abroad Bocconi Exchange Information Dartmouth Oxford Exchange University College London Exchange Information Research Overview Faculty by Field Faculty Research Faculty Spotlight Globalization Cluster Inclusivity Inclusion at Dartmouth Resources for Undergraduates Statement on Racial Justice News & Events News & Events Seminars People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback