Skip to content Cornell University Search Close Navigation Search Search Economic Impact & Entrepreneurship NASA engineer is Alabama’s first certified Black woman winemaker Introducing the inaugural BioEntrepreneurship MBA cohort Student grants serve communities from New York to Ethiopia Cornell’s expertise in research, technology and business education translates into meaningful impacts in communities around the world. Our mission extends beyond the classroom, helping entrepreneurs access the research and mentorship they need to start and grow successful businesses. Commitment to Economic Impact & Entrepreneurship 993 Active Cornell startups 1996 patents issued since 2012 $45M local startup funding raised in 2019 $10.1B Startup funding raised 400 jobs created by eLab student companies Research and engagement “Startup Cornell” podcast features founder of AfriTrip Advisors Morocco The tenth episode of a podcast hosted by Entrepreneurship at Cornell, Startup Cornell, features Ghali Jorio ’22, founder of AfriTrip Advisors Morocco, a travel company that offers private and customized trips around Morocco. Commercialization Fellows learn to bring research to market Cornell Engineering is pleased to introduce the newest cohort of Ph.D. students selected for the Commercialization Fellowship, a unique opportunity for doctoral engineering students to take a deep dive into the world of entrepreneurship. Easy test can see if breeding bulls have the right stuff Forget sending bull semen out for complicated laboratory tests to learn whether the agricultural animal is highly virile. Entrepreneurship Programs Campus Map Explore the abundant opportunities and resources that Cornell offers to support budding entrepreneurs. FOCUS ON: ALUMNI ENTREPRENEURS Dan Sommer ’97 leveraged higher ed to teach workers valuable skills Jake Reisch ’15 makes headphones that improve seniors’ lives Jenna Kerner ’11 is on the cusp of change in the bra industry Steve Hindy ’71, MAT ’75, put Brooklyn beer on the map Susan Danziger ’86 creates video tools to connect people Divya Gugnani ’98 creates beauty essentials for busy lifestyles More articles Thought Leaders in Economic Impact & Entrepreneurship The gig economy Louis Hyman has written about the rise of consultants, temps, freelancers and day laborers. Learn more Feeding the world Plant breeder Mike Gore harnesses cutting-edge technologies to speed the engine of evolution. Learn more Health tech MacArthur fellow Deborah Estrin is trailblazing the use of mobile devices and data to address social challenges. Learn more Gender and income Kelly Musick examines income inequality within families and how childbirth contributes to the gender wage gap. Learn more Climate change Behavioral economist Jawad Addoum is uncovering the effect of extreme temperatures on company earnings. Learn more Infrastructure policy Richard Geddes is an expert on the delivery of major infrastructure projects, including new modes of high-speed transportation. Learn more Immigration reform Shannon Gleeson studies the opportunities and challenges faced by immigrants with temporary protected status. Learn more Transforming business Karan Girotra collaborates with companies building new business models in the areas of urban living, smart transportation and e-commerce. Learn more Digital agriculture Susan McCouch is developing new ways to address food security in a growing world. Learn more Cornell’s Local Economic Impact Cornell’s dedication to the local community, demonstrated through engagement and contribution of resources, is one reason Ithaca is consistently ranked among the top small cities in the nation. Local Economic Impact–2021 Snapshot Office of Community Relations $4.6M Property taxes paid $183M Purchasing in Tompkins and adjacent counties $7.34M Contributions to local governments, Ithaca City School District, nonprofit organizations and public transit $328M Federal, state and corporate research funding spent locally Learn how we're innovating and solving problems Biotechnology Center for Advanced Technology Boyce Thompson Institute for Plant Research Cornell AgriTech Cornell Atkinson Center for Sustainability Cornell Center for Materials Research Cornell High Energy Synchrotron Source (CHESS) Cornell Nanofabrication Facility Cornell Tech Center for Technology Licensing Energy Materials Center at Cornell Food Processing and Development Laboratory Explore our contribution to a buzzing entrepreneurial ecosystem Big Red Startup Suite Careers Beyond Academia/BEST Center for Regional Economic Advancement Center for Transformative Action Center for Veterinary Business and Entrepreneurship eLab Entrepreneurship Bootcamp for Veterans with Disabilities Entrepreneurship at Cornell Kessler Fellows Program Kevin M. McGovern Family Center for Venture Development in the Life Sciences Pillsbury Institute for Hospitality Entrepreneurship Praxis Center for Venture Development Upstate New York I-Corps Node Rev: Ithaca Startup Works Smith Family Business Initiative Weill Cornell Medicine BioVenture eLab Attend events View economic impact events on campus Read stories Explore on the Chronicle Watch videos View videos on CornellCast If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, Contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.