Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Economics myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link Contact Visiting Graduation Recognition Ceremony News and Events Newsletters De-Min and Chin-Sha Wu Award History PhD Placement Working Papers Academics Select to follow link Degrees Undergraduate Program Select to follow link Undergraduate Awards and Scholarships Undergraduate Oswald Scholars Program Undergraduate FAQS Accelerated Master's Program Contact Information Masters Program PhD Program Certificates Courses Admission Select to follow link Graduate Admission Non-Degree Applicants People Select to follow link Leadership Faculty Graduate Students Advisors Staff In Memory Research Select to follow link Conferences Resources Seminars and Guest Speakers Working Papers Resources Select to follow link Research Resources Life in Lawrence Conferences Graduate Student Resources Faculty Resources News or Tweet Request Alumni and Friends Select to follow link Alumni Pursuing PhD Alumni Update Form Donate to the Department of Economics Info for Prospective Students Current Graduate Students Alumni Donors myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Economics Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Economics Economic literacy is essential to a liberal arts education because it provides a framework for understanding the forces that shape the global economy and society in which we live, as well as a systematic approach to decision making on both a personal and an institutional level. KU Economist Newsletter The Spring 2022 Edition of the KU Economist is out now! Click below to stay up-to-date on all things Economics. Newsletters About Us The mission of the Department of Economics is to create new economic knowledge and disseminate economic knowledge to our students and colleagues, the citizens of Kansas, and the world. More about us Programs The Department of Economics offers three undergraduate degrees, two certifications, a Master of Arts degree, and a Ph.D. program. Programs we offer Degree breakdown 2 Certificates 3 Undergraduate Degree Options 2 Graduate Level Degrees Important Information for Students Coronavirus Updates Economics Courses Research Resources Graduate Handbook Graduate Student Resources Seminars and Guest Speakers Latest News Wed, 05/25/22 Professor Slusky writes Intereconomics's latest "Letter from America" on "The Cost of Restricting Abortion Access" Professor Slusky writes Intereconomics's latest "Letter from America" on "The Cost of Re Thu, 05/19/22 Professor Eungsik Kim Recipient of KU International Affairs' Research Travel Grant Congrats to Prof. Eungsik Kim on receiving a KU International Affairs research travel grant to South Korea! Learn more about his work abroad. See all news Upcoming Events See all events Get to know us! Faculty Learn More Graduate Students Learn More Our Twitter Learn More Swipe to see more Snow Hall, Room 415 1460 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 econ@ku.edu 785-864-3501 twitter youtube Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.