Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Economics Department of Economics Contact Us Facebook Twitter Economics@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About Why Econ? Careers in Economics Student Experiences Econ Alumni Back to Top Nav Undergraduate Overview The Major The Minor First Year FAQ Modified Major Honors Courses Class Schedule Syllabi About Wait-lists Transfer Credits Dartmouth Economic Research Scholars (DERS) Fed Challenge Jobs, Fellowships and Interships Political Economy Project Study Abroad Bocconi Exchange Information Dartmouth Oxford Exchange University College London Exchange Information Back to Top Nav Research Overview Faculty by Field Faculty Research Faculty Spotlight Globalization Cluster Back to Top Nav Inclusivity Inclusion at Dartmouth Resources for Undergraduates Statement on Racial Justice Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Seminars Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview The Major The Minor First Year FAQ Modified Major Honors Courses Dartmouth Economic Research Scholars (DERS) Fed Challenge Jobs, Fellowships and Interships Political Economy Project Study Abroad Share First Year FAQ First Year FAQ PDF Click here to view the First Year FAQ as a PDF What is Economics (borrowed from the American Economics Association)? Why are some countries rich and some countries poor? Why do women earn less than men? How can data help us understand the world? Why do we ignore information that could help us make better decisions? What causes recessions? Economics can help us answer these questions and more. Economics can be defined in a few different ways. It's the study of scarcity, the study of how people use resources and respond to incentives, or the study of decision-making. It often involves topics like wealth and finance, but it's not all about money. Economics is a broad discipline that helps us understand historical trends, interpret today's headlines, and make predictions about the coming years. Economics ranges from the very small to the very large. The study of individual decisions is called microeconomics. The study of the economy as a whole is called macroeconomics. A microeconomist might focus on families' medical debt, whereas a macroeconomist might focus on sovereign debt. Dartmouth professors are engaged with current public policy debates. Two recent examples are Professor Na'ama Shenhav's research on undocumented immigrants and education and Professor Chris Snyder's research on accelerated vaccine development . See https://www.aeaweb.org/resources/students/what-is-economics for more information about the discipline of Economics. Where else can I find information about the Dartmouth Economics Department? The department web site can be found at: https://economics.dartmouth.edu/. You can learn more about student and faculty activities and research in Dartmouth Economics by following us on Twitter @DartmouthEcon and Facebook (Dartmouth Economics Department). What courses in Economics should I take this year? The starting point for the Economics major is ECON 01. It is a prerequisite for every other class in the major. Unless you have placement from high school economics, ECON 01 is the first economics class you will take at Dartmouth. The other prerequisites for the major are ECON 10 - Introduction to Statistical Methods and MATH 03 - Calculus. If you do not have credit for MATH 03 we suggest taking it as soon as possible (note that it is not offered during Spring term). If you are placed into MATH 01, you should take it this fall. After completing MATH 01, you will have the option of taking ECON 03 in Winter term as an alternative to MATH 03. ECON 03 covers much of the same mathematical content as MATH 03 but with a focus on economics applications. Don't worry if the only economics class you complete this year is ECON 01. You will have plenty of time to finish the economics major before graduating. I took Economics in high school. Do I still have to take ECON 01? Maybe. You can place out of ECON 01 with a 5 on the AP Microeconomics Exam, a 6 or 7 on the Higher Level IB Exam for Economics, or an A on the British A-Levels Economics Exam (see Dartmouth Prematriculation Exemptions for details). Your placements are available in DartWorks. If you do not have exemption from ECON 01, you must take ECON 01 at Dartmouth before taking any other Economics classes for the major. Does the AP Macroeconomics course count for anything? We do not teach an introductory macroeconomics course so AP Macro does not satisfy any requirements or prerequisites. You will, however, find the background helpful in ECON 22 - (Intermediate) Macroeconomics. I didn't take the AP test but I know a lot about economics. Is there a placement test I can take to pass out of ECON 01? We do not offer a placement test. Exemptions from ECON 01 require certification of AP, IB, or A-level tests from the registrar as reflected in your DartWorks record. I have an exemption for ECON 01, but am worried about my actual preparation. Can I still take ECON 01? Yes, you can. That said, the standards for granting exemption are quite stringent, so even if you are not quite as well-prepared as those taking ECON 01 here at Dartmouth, you should be in good shape for moving on to higher level classes. Feel free to stop by the department office at 311 Rockefeller, pick up a sample syllabus for ECON 01, and compare it to your high school curriculum. You may find that you want to review a few topics on your own before moving on, such as indifference curve analysis. I took Statistics in High School and have an exemption for MATH 10. Will I still need to take ECON 10? No. You can use your MATH 10 exemption to satisfy the ECON 10 requirement. You are still welcome to take ECON 10 if you are unsure of your preparation, but we have found that students with a MATH 10 exemption do well in ECON 20, the required course that has ECON 10 as a prerequisite. Can I take another statistics class instead of ECON 10? Statistics classes from other departments (SOCY 10, PYSC 10, GOVY 10, MATH 10, etc.) can be used to satisfy the ECON 10 prerequisite. However, we strongly advise against this if you intend to major in economics. ECON 10 is specifically intended to prepare you for Economics 20. In addition to statistics, ECON 10 will introduce you to Stata, a software package that plays a large role in ECON 20 and your senior seminar. I have an exemption for ECON 01, what should I take this term? You can take any class that has only ECON 01 as a prerequisite (see the list at the end of this document). Many students take ECON 10 right after ECON 01 to complete the economics prerequisites. The three required courses, ECON 20, 21 and 22, provide a grounding in basic economics concepts and are logical next choices if you know you want to major in economics. However some students prefer to take field courses to see if majoring in economics is for them. You are welcome to take any course that looks interesting to you as long as you have the prerequisites. I see a lot of Economics classes have prerequisites. Do I really have to take courses in that order, or can I ignore the prerequisites? Prerequisites are not just randomly assigned to courses; they ensure that students have the skills to succeed in that course. So, yes, you must take the listed prerequisites first. Many classes have minimal prerequisites past ECON 01 and can be taken in any order. What happens if I don't get into my preferred economics class? Economics is the most popular major at Dartmouth, so our classes are sometimes oversubscribed. We always reserve spaces in ECON 01 for first year students in the Fall term. It is possible that you will not be admitted to all the classes you wish to take. This is not the end of the world. Most courses in the Economics Department are offered several times throughout the year so you can typically try again next term. It is easy to finish the Economics major even if the only economics class you complete during freshman year is ECON 01. If you do not get admitted to a particular course (or section) and would like to get on the waiting list please fill out our online Waiting List Form. Do not contact the professor of the course! All waitlist issues are handled by the Economics Department Administrator. She will contact you about your status on the waitlist. When the term starts, be sure to attend the first class meeting. Your attendance will ensure that you are not behind if you get off the waitlist. It is also important to continue to attend alternate courses in case you do not get off the waitlist. Typically, all waitlists will be resolved by the end of the first full week of classes. In future terms, be sure to sign up for classes before the registrar's deadline. For many upper-level classes, declared Economics majors have first priority for enrollment. Your first opportunity to declare a major is at the beginning of your fifth term at Dartmouth. Does the Economics Major have the STEM designation? Yes! The Economics Major has a CIP (Classification of Instructional Programs) code by the National Center of Education at the Department of Education of 45.0603, which has the STEM designation. The STEM designation allows international students to apply for a 2 year STEM extension of F-1 Optional Practical Training (OPT) beyond the standard 12 months of OPT for non-STEM designated degrees. Does Economics have an FSP? The Economics department participates in three Exchange Programs: Bocconi University in Milan, Italy; University College London; and Keble College, Oxford University. The latter is run by the Rockefeller Center but chooses mainly Economics and Government majors. Note that Bocconi teaches their Economics classes in English. These programs are administered by the Guarini Institute. It is also possible to arrange for study abroad on your own and transfer classes. Are there any extracurricular activities associated with the Economics Department? Dartmouth sponsors a team in the Fed Challenge competition each year. https://economics.dartmouth.edu/undergraduate/college-fed-challenge-dartmouth The Dartmouth Economics Research Scholars Program provides opportunities for students to learn about the economics profession and get involved in research. https://economics.dartmouth.edu/undergraduate/undergraduate-research/ders-program The Sadie Alexander Association is an organization for minority students in Economics. https://sites.dartmouth.edu/saa Where is the Economics Department located? The department occupies most of the third floors of Rockefeller and Silsby Halls. When looking for professors, note which building they are in because the room numbers overlap! The Economics Department Administrator, Karen Pelletier, is located in 311 Rockefeller. Economics Courses Suitable for First Year Students suitable_first_year_courses.png Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Economics About Why Econ? Careers in Economics Student Experiences Econ Alumni Undergraduate Overview The Major The Minor First Year FAQ Modified Major Honors Courses Class Schedule Syllabi About Wait-lists Transfer Credits Dartmouth Economic Research Scholars (DERS) Fed Challenge Jobs, Fellowships and Interships Political Economy Project Study Abroad Bocconi Exchange Information Dartmouth Oxford Exchange University College London Exchange Information Research Overview Faculty by Field Faculty Research Faculty Spotlight Globalization Cluster Inclusivity Inclusion at Dartmouth Resources for Undergraduates Statement on Racial Justice News & Events News & Events Seminars People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback