Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Economics Department of Economics At Dartmouth Economics, we offer courses in areas like competition and strategy, development economics, finance, health economics, international economics, labor economics, macroeconomics, and public economics. We use the frameworks of economics and data analysis to understand pressing social issues, and we involve our students in that work. Contact Us Facebook Twitter Economics@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail more Main menu Menu Home About Why Econ? Careers in Economics Student Experiences Econ Alumni Back to Top Nav Undergraduate Overview The Major The Minor First Year FAQ Modified Major Honors Courses Class Schedule Syllabi About Wait-lists Transfer Credits Dartmouth Economic Research Scholars (DERS) Fed Challenge Jobs, Fellowships and Interships Political Economy Project Study Abroad Bocconi Exchange Information Dartmouth Oxford Exchange University College London Exchange Information Back to Top Nav Research Overview Faculty by Field Faculty Research Faculty Spotlight Globalization Cluster Back to Top Nav Inclusivity Inclusion at Dartmouth Resources for Undergraduates Statement on Racial Justice Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Seminars Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Top Stories Previous Next Dartmouth Undergraduate Economics Research Conference Dartmouth Economic Research Scholars (DERS) hosted the Dartmouth Undergraduate Economics Conference (DUERC) on Saturday, May 14th, to encourage economic research among undergraduate students. FALL '22 course waitlist available Wait list sign-ups and section changes can be made using the online Google form. Trevon D. Logan: The Sins of Economic History Department of Economics Lecture Series on Inequality, Discrimination, and Opportunity. Wednesday, May 18, 2022, 5:30-6:30PM (ET), Filene Auditorium. Personal Finance Workshop Series Professor Elisabeth Curtis, together with Professors Marjorie Rose and Eric Zitzewitz, and sponsorship from PEP and the Sadie Alexander Association, is holding the second annual Personal Finance Workshop Series this coming May 1, 2 and 9. All sessions will be held in person in Rockefeller 003 from 7:15-8:30 pm. Registration is free. Econ 70: Immersion Experience Econ 70 (FA22) is an advanced course that has an off-campus component that will take place Peru. Apply for acceptance in the course by attending the info session and filling out the application online. Paid Internships with Paganucci Fellows Program The Paganucci Fellows Program offers a prestigious position for a team of Dartmouth students with an interest in business approaches to complex issues and social entrepreneurship. Study Calls for Fractional Doses of COVID-19 Vaccines Stretching the supply of jabs globally could reduce infections and deaths. Nina Pavcnik Named Phi Beta Kappa Visiting Scholar The professor will meet with undergraduates and lecture at colleges across the U.S. COVID-19 Deaths in India Exceeded 3 Million, Study Finds Data suggests pandemic fatalities much higher than estimated, economist Novosad says. Hot Metal Bridge Post-Bac Program This two-semester post-baccalaureate fellowship program is designed to help talented students from groups traditionally underrepresented in their academic disciplines to bridge the gap between an undergraduate degree and a graduate training program. Deadline: March 1. Recent Publications view all Do senators and house members beat the stock market? Evidence from the STOCK Act William Belmont, Bruce I. Sacerdote, Ranjan Sehgal, IanVan Hoek Journal of Public Economics Volume 207, March 2022, 104602 Testing fractional doses of COVID-19 vaccines Witold Wiecek, Amrita Ahuja, Esha Chaudhuri, Michael Kremer, Christopher Snyder, et al. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America (PNAS) Drug Diffusion through Peer Networks: The Influence of Industry Payments Leila Agha, Dan Zeltzer American Economic Journal: Economic Policy 2022, 14(2): 1–33 Distance, trade, and income — The 1967 to 1975 closing of the Suez canal as a natural experiment James Feyrer Journal of Development Economics Volume 153, November 2021, 102708 Department Statement on Racial Justice Our department is committed to taking action that contributes to broader efforts to root out racism. Dartmouth Economic Research Scholars The DERS program provides mentoring and support in economics research to students with strong research potential and high academic standing. College Fed Challenge at Dartmouth College Fed Challenge is a team competition for undergraduate students. Darmouth's team won the National Championship for 2020! Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Economics About Why Econ? Careers in Economics Student Experiences Econ Alumni Undergraduate Overview The Major The Minor First Year FAQ Modified Major Honors Courses Class Schedule Syllabi About Wait-lists Transfer Credits Dartmouth Economic Research Scholars (DERS) Fed Challenge Jobs, Fellowships and Interships Political Economy Project Study Abroad Bocconi Exchange Information Dartmouth Oxford Exchange University College London Exchange Information Research Overview Faculty by Field Faculty Research Faculty Spotlight Globalization Cluster Inclusivity Inclusion at Dartmouth Resources for Undergraduates Statement on Racial Justice News & Events News & Events Seminars People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback