Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Economics Department of Economics Contact Us Facebook Twitter Economics@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About Why Econ? Careers in Economics Student Experiences Econ Alumni Back to Top Nav Undergraduate Overview The Major The Minor First Year FAQ Modified Major Honors Courses Class Schedule Syllabi About Wait-lists Transfer Credits Dartmouth Economic Research Scholars (DERS) Fed Challenge Jobs, Fellowships and Interships Political Economy Project Study Abroad Bocconi Exchange Information Dartmouth Oxford Exchange University College London Exchange Information Back to Top Nav Research Overview Faculty by Field Faculty Research Faculty Spotlight Globalization Cluster Back to Top Nav Inclusivity Inclusion at Dartmouth Resources for Undergraduates Statement on Racial Justice Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Seminars Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Share Dartmouth Undergraduate Economics Research Conference Shawdi Mehrvarzan describes her thesis, “Can Trade Policy be Gendered? Assessing the Effect of Shared Gender of Heads of State on Bilateral Trade Flows” to professors Lewis, Olivetti and Cascio. Nathan Pucci explains his thesis “What’s Driving the COVID-19 Slide? Quantifying the Impact of Pandemic-Induced School Disruptions on English Language Learners in Massachusetts Public Schools” to fellow thesis-writer Arthur Raines. Arthur wrote “The impact of fluctuations in the price of gold on education in Tanzania.” Claire McMahon describes her thesis, “IUDs to Degrees: The Impact of Access to Contraception on High School Graduation Rates” to fellow thesis writers Yangyang Li, Pranit Gupta, and Brendan Balthis. PreviousNext Dartmouth Economic Research Scholars (DERS) hosted the Dartmouth Undergraduate Economics Conference (DUERC) on Saturday, May 14th, to encourage economic research among undergraduate students. The conference featured presentations by 10 undergraduate economics students on research they conducted through their culminating experiences. DUERC also included an alumni panel on careers in economic research. Organizers: Soham Maiti '23, Arjun Srinivasan '22, Genghe Zhu '23, and Archita Harathi '22 Advisor: Professor Leila Agha shawdi_mehrvarzan.jpg Shawdi Mehrvarzan describes her thesis, "Can Trade Policy be Gendered? Assessing the Effect of Shared Gender of Heads of State on Bilateral Trade Flows" to professors Lewis, Olivetti and Cascio. In the background: Archita Harathi and Arjun Srinivasan describe their thesis "Does Money Move? The Effect of Desegregation Order Dismissals on School Resource Disparities" to professor Allen. claire_mcmahon.jpg Claire McMahon describes her thesis, "IUDs to Degrees: The Impact of Access to Contraception on High School Graduation Rates" to fellow thesis writers Yangyang Li, Pranit Gupta, and Brendan Balthis. Yangyang wrote "One and Done? Evidence of Gender and Racial. Tokenization on Corporate Boards," Pranit wrote "Impact of Trade Liberalization on Female Labor Market Outcomes: Evidence from India," and Brendan wrote "The Impact of Imports on Local and Household Health Outcomes in the U.S." In the background: Alexander Ginnis explains his thesis "Individual, Peer and Exogenous Effects in Ski Racing Success and Persistence" to professor Samwick. nathan_pucci.jpg Nathan Pucci explains his thesis "What's Driving the COVID-19 Slide? Quantifying the Impact of Pandemic-Induced School Disruptions on English Language Learners in Massachusetts Public Schools" to fellow thesis-writer Arthur Raines. Arthur wrote "The impact of fluctuations in the price of gold on education in Tanzania." Poster and Schedule of Events duerc22.png Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Economics About Why Econ? Careers in Economics Student Experiences Econ Alumni Undergraduate Overview The Major The Minor First Year FAQ Modified Major Honors Courses Class Schedule Syllabi About Wait-lists Transfer Credits Dartmouth Economic Research Scholars (DERS) Fed Challenge Jobs, Fellowships and Interships Political Economy Project Study Abroad Bocconi Exchange Information Dartmouth Oxford Exchange University College London Exchange Information Research Overview Faculty by Field Faculty Research Faculty Spotlight Globalization Cluster Inclusivity Inclusion at Dartmouth Resources for Undergraduates Statement on Racial Justice News & Events News & Events Seminars People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback