Skip to main content Department of Economics College of Liberal Arts About About Us Message from the Department Head About the Department Statement of Professional Conduct Forms for Faculty Mailing Address Department of Economics, TAMU 2935 Research Parkway Suite 200 College Station, TX 77843 Campus Mailing Address Department of Economics Mail Stop 4228 Texas A&M University Campus Map Location LASB Building Important Numbers Front Desk: 979-845-7351 FAX: 979-847-8757 Important Locations Front Office – Room 200 Undergraduate Advisors – Room 103 Computer Lab – Room 146 Tutoring Lab – Room 234 Economic Research Laboratory – Room 145 Additional Driving Instructions People Faculty Staff Ph.D. Job Market Candidates Ph.D. Job Placements Ph.D. Students MS Students Amazing Students Advising HUB Business HUB IT HUB Undergraduate Advising Advising News Current Students Certificates - BEC/QEM Degrees - BA/BS/Minor Economics Dress Code ECON Society Women in Economics Internship Study Abroad Tutoring Lab Undergrad Research - EUROP/URA Prospective Change of Major Incoming Exchange Students Resources Transfer 5 Year Programs MPIA MPSA Econ Fastrack Undergrad Course Listings Scholarships Graduate Economics M.S. Economics Ph.D. About the M.S. Economics Program Master of Science in Economics Curriculum Tuition and Fees/Housing Costs M.S. Application & Admissions 3+2 Fastrack Program Student Resources FAQ Contact Us M.S. Careers Career Bulletin Job & Internship Placement Internship for Credit Program Resume Book M.S. Program News Important Dates/Upcoming Events Student Organizations PhD Application and Admissions PhD Job Candidate Placement Graduate Life Ph.D. Handbook & Forms Grad Course Listing Workshops Applied Micro/PERC Econometrics Behavioral/Experimental Macro/International Theory Data-Driven Social Sciences Practice Job Market Welcome to Economics coming soon The Department of Economics is becoming part of the College of Arts and Sciences in Fall 2022. Learn more about the College of Arts and Sciences. The Department of Economics is located in the Liberal Arts Social Sciences Building (LASB), formerly the TTI State Headquarters Building. The advising office for ECON undergraduates is located on the first floor of the LASB, while the ECON Faculty, Staff and Graduate advisors for ECON Masters and ECON PhD students are located on the second floor. News ECON Student Awarded a U.S. Department of State’s Benjamin A. Gilman Scholarship Posted May 9, 2022 Congratulations Sarahi! Dr. Barr and Dr. Zubairy Appointed as NBER Research Associates Posted April 27, 2022 Congratulations Andrew and Sarah! TAMU Economics Masters Student Helps the City of College Station Win a Distinguished National Award Posted April 5, 2022 Tarek Natsheh, an MS ECON student, helps the City of College Station win a national award. Congratulations Tarek! More News Advising Information Read the latest general information on ECON advising including times and updates for undergraduate students Masters students needing advisor assistance should make an appointment PhD students needing assistance should email Teri Tenalio Building Information The Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Building (LASB) hours are 7:30am to 5:15pm. ECON faculty, staff and others with access permission may enter before or after hours using your Texas A&M ID card via swipe access. Emergency contact for the LASB (Building Proctor): Brad Epps 979-847-9026 Job Market Candidates Our 2022-2023 Job Market Candidates and their information will soon be online for your review in a special section. If you have any questions, please contact our Placement Director, Jennifer Doleac Job Market Placements We are extremely proud of our 2021-2022 Job Market Candidate placements. If you've ever wondered what you can do with a PhD degree in Economics, take a look at what our graduates are doing! ECON Amazing Student Amazing Student – Sebastian Mendoza Posted May 13, 2022 Get to know our most recent Amazing Economics Student! You can always see previous students by clicking the “More Amazing Students” link below. More Amazing Students News Clips November 17, 2021 Farm Subsidies: Harmful or Helpful? The U.S. government has been subsidizing crop and livestock production since the Great Depression, but is it still necessary? Dennis Jansen PERC More News Clips Departments Anthropology Communication Economics English Hispanic Studies History International Studies Performance Studies Philosophy Political Science Psychological and Brain Sciences Sociology Centers and Institutes Texas Research Data Center Center for Maritime Archaeology and Conservation Center for the Study of First Americans Glasscock Center for Humanities Research Center of Digital Humanities Research Public Policy Research Institute Race and Ethnic Studies Institute Programs Africana Studies Latino/a and Mexican American Studies Religious Studies Women's and Gender Studies Developing Initiatives Center for Research Impact of Social Sciences Connect with us! Department of Economics (979) 845-7351 2022 College of Liberal Arts at Texas A&M University Contacts Accessibility Site Policies