Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Economics Department of Economics Contact Us Facebook Twitter Economics@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About Why Econ? Careers in Economics Student Experiences Econ Alumni Back to Top Nav Undergraduate Overview The Major The Minor First Year FAQ Modified Major Honors Courses Class Schedule Syllabi About Wait-lists Transfer Credits Dartmouth Economic Research Scholars (DERS) Fed Challenge Jobs, Fellowships and Interships Political Economy Project Study Abroad Bocconi Exchange Information Dartmouth Oxford Exchange University College London Exchange Information Back to Top Nav Research Overview Faculty by Field Faculty Research Faculty Spotlight Globalization Cluster Back to Top Nav Inclusivity Inclusion at Dartmouth Resources for Undergraduates Statement on Racial Justice Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Seminars Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Courses Dartmouth Economic Research Scholars (DERS) Fed Challenge Jobs, Fellowships and Interships Political Economy Project Study Abroad Bocconi Exchange Information Dartmouth Oxford Exchange University College London Exchange Information Share Study Abroad International Economics is a major focus of our research and teaching, and we encourage our students to study abroad to gain a better understanding of the topics we cover at Dartmouth. Undergraduate Student Immersion Program ECONOMICS 70 – IMMERSION EXPERIENCE IN APPLIED ECONOMICS AND POLICY This course provides students with a background into the topic of study and uses class time to prepare for the research to be done off-campus, including time for orientation to prepare students to travel and live off-campus. In addition, these student-driven research projects will provide students with an opportunity to build teamwork, leadership and communication skills, as well as provide them with research experience. Usually offered in Fall terms. Several sections of Economics 70 have been offered over the past two years to provide students with an immersion experience in applied economics and policy. See recent article about these courses here. More information to come regarding our future offerings. For questions, please see Professor Elisabeth Curtis. Paganucci Fellows Program Tuck offers a global experiential learning program for Dartmouth students who have an interest in business approaches to societal issues. The program includes a paid summer internship with international travel for work on a social impact consulting project. See: https://www.tuck.dartmouth.edu/mba/academic-experience/leadership-development/paganucci-fellows-program In the past, many of the most effective fellows have been economics majors/minors referred by faculty. The Paganucci Fellows Program is a unique opportunity for Dartmouth undergraduates to take part in a global experiential learning program offered at Tuck. The program supports Tuck's efforts to study complex social issues and the ways businesses can create positive social and financial value: in effect, the "double bottom line." It is targeted at students with an interest in social entrepreneurship, an aptitude for working collaboratively as part of a consulting-like team, and an appetite for making a difference in the world. Undergraduate Student Exchange Program Bocconi University: Milan, Italy When Dartmouth students spend a term at Bocconi University, they improve their understanding of the topics taught in Dartmouth Economics and benefit from the experience of a small, urban university in a country with a social and economic system much different from their own. Dartmouth students become fully affiliated members of Bocconi University with complete access to libraries, lectures, seminars and other facilities. Similarly, Bocconi students coming to Dartmouth will experience an environment much different from their own institution and will have complete access to Dartmouth facilities. Both institutions benefit from the exchange’s cross-fertilization process. Learn more about the Bocconi Exchange Program. Oxford Student Exchange Program Oxford University: Oxford, United Kingdom Each fall, winter, and spring, a maximum of four Dartmouth students can attend Keble College of Oxford University in an exchange that primarily serves Government and Economics majors. As fully-integrated members of the Oxford community, students take pre-approved courses in the British tutorial system that count toward their major. The experience offers Dartmouth students the opportunity to live in Oxford dorms and to have complete access to libraries, sports, facilities, and lectures. Learn more about the Oxford Exchange Program. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Economics About Why Econ? Careers in Economics Student Experiences Econ Alumni Undergraduate Overview The Major The Minor First Year FAQ Modified Major Honors Courses Class Schedule Syllabi About Wait-lists Transfer Credits Dartmouth Economic Research Scholars (DERS) Fed Challenge Jobs, Fellowships and Interships Political Economy Project Study Abroad Bocconi Exchange Information Dartmouth Oxford Exchange University College London Exchange Information Research Overview Faculty by Field Faculty Research Faculty Spotlight Globalization Cluster Inclusivity Inclusion at Dartmouth Resources for Undergraduates Statement on Racial Justice News & Events News & Events Seminars People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback