Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Economics Department of Economics Contact Us Facebook Twitter Economics@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About Why Econ? Careers in Economics Student Experiences Econ Alumni Back to Top Nav Undergraduate Overview The Major The Minor First Year FAQ Modified Major Honors Courses Class Schedule Syllabi About Wait-lists Transfer Credits Dartmouth Economic Research Scholars (DERS) Fed Challenge Jobs, Fellowships and Interships Political Economy Project Study Abroad Bocconi Exchange Information Dartmouth Oxford Exchange University College London Exchange Information Back to Top Nav Research Overview Faculty by Field Faculty Research Faculty Spotlight Globalization Cluster Back to Top Nav Inclusivity Inclusion at Dartmouth Resources for Undergraduates Statement on Racial Justice Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Seminars Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Bruce I. Sacerdote Academic Appointments Richard S. Braddock 1963 Professor in Economics I enjoy working with detailed data to enhance our understanding of why children and youth turn out the way they do. I am also involved in a series of studies to examine how students make choices about college going and how policy makers might influence that decision-making process. And I teach a senior seminar in finance, which is tremendously rewarding. View Curriculum Vitae Contact Bruce.I.Sacerdote@Dartmouth.EDU 646-2121 315 Rockefeller HB 6106 Education Ph.D. Harvard University B.A. Dartmouth College Areas of Expertise Child and Youth Outcomes /Peer Effects /Labor Markets /Determinants of College Going /Nature and Nurture Studies /Economics of Crime Selected Publications "Fifty Years Of Growth In American Consumption, Income, and Wages" (2017) "Experimental and Quasi-Experimental Analysis of Peer Effects: Two Steps Forward?" (2014) "Late Interventions Matter Too: The Case of College Coaching New Hampshire" (with Scott Carrell, May 2013) "How Much Would US Style Fiscal Integration Buffer European unemployment and Income Shocks? (A Comparative Empirical Analysis)" (with JAmes Feyrer, May 2013) "From Natural Variation to optimal policy? The importance of endogenous peer group formation" (with Scott Carrell, May 2013) "Katrina’s children: Evidence on the structure of peer effects from hurricane evacuees" (with Scott Imberman and Adriana Kugler), The American Economic Review, Volume 102, Number 5, August 2012, pp. 2048-2082(35) "Did the Stimulus Stimulate? Effects of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act" (with James Feyrer, 2012) "When the saints go marching out: long-term outcomes for student evacuees from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita" American Economic Journal: Applied Economics, Volume 4, Number 1, January 2012, pp. 109-135(27) "How Much Would US Style Fiscal Integration Buffer European Unemployment and Income Shocks? (A Comparative Empirical Analysis)," with James Feyrer. American Economic Review Papers and Proceedings, May 2013. "Katrina's Children: Evidence on the Structure of Peer Effects," with Scott Imberman and Adriana Kugler. American Economic Review, Vol. 102 No. 5 (August 2012) pp. 2048-82. "When the Saints Come Marching In: Effects of Katrina Evacuees on Schools, Student Performance and Crime." American Economic Journal, January 2012, Vol 4, No. 1, Pages 109-135. + View more Related Links Personal Website Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Economics About Why Econ? Careers in Economics Student Experiences Econ Alumni Undergraduate Overview The Major The Minor First Year FAQ Modified Major Honors Courses Class Schedule Syllabi About Wait-lists Transfer Credits Dartmouth Economic Research Scholars (DERS) Fed Challenge Jobs, Fellowships and Interships Political Economy Project Study Abroad Bocconi Exchange Information Dartmouth Oxford Exchange University College London Exchange Information Research Overview Faculty by Field Faculty Research Faculty Spotlight Globalization Cluster Inclusivity Inclusion at Dartmouth Resources for Undergraduates Statement on Racial Justice News & Events News & Events Seminars People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback