Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU IT News Events QJE Administration RTC Info Department of Economics About Message from the Chair Programs History Contact Diversity Resources Report a Concern Events Across Campus Undergraduate Advising COVID-19 Related Program Changes Concentrating in Economics Courses, Tutorials and Seminars Honors Program Senior Thesis Secondary Field Summer School Study Abroad Opportunities After Graduation Resources Alumni Graduate PhD Program Program Requirements Admissions Financial Support Resources Placement People Faculty Graduate Students Staff Research Appointments Visiting Faculty Research Initiatives Resources Funding Funding Process Find Research Funding Funding FAQs Site Search Search Economics helps provide answers for some of the world’s most pressing questions, from the future of work to ending global poverty to improving the environment. Learn more about us Penny Pritzker's '81 Monumental Gift Provides the Department of Economics A Space to Grow Penny Pritzker '81, former U.S. Secretary of Commerce from 2013-2017, has made a $100 million dollar gift to the University. The gift is in support of creating a new home for the department, allowing for innovation in teaching and research by the faculty, graduate and undergraduate students. Read more about the announcement in the Harvard Gazette Job Market Candidates Programs Undergraduate The large number of professors and their diverse interests enable a student to study virtually any area of economics. The extraordinary quality of Harvard undergraduates makes the classroom environment stimulating for teacher and student alike. Learn more Graduate Supported by a diverse group of faculty who are top researchers in their fields and fueled by a vast array of resources, the PhD program is structured to train and nurture students to become leading economists in academia, government agencies, the technology industry, finance and banking, and global policy organizations. Learn more At a Glance 59 Faculty Members 19 Areas of Study 82 Undergraduate Courses 535 Undergraduate Concentrators 48 Graduate Courses 195 Graduate Concentrators The Department of Economics is part of the larger academe of teaching and research at Harvard University. Faculty Spotlight Harvard undergraduate and graduate students are the finest in the world and are the lifeblood of the department. Every year we get a new group that challenges me to the utmost. I thrive on it. Claudia Goldin Henry Lee Professor of Economics News and Events 2022 Frisch Medal Awarded to Professor Kalouptsidi May 16, 2022 Congratulations to Stanley A. Marks and William H. Marks Assistant Professor Myrto Kaloupstsidi for recieving this year’s Frisch Medal of the Econometric Society with Giulia Brancaccio and Theodore Papageorgiou for their paper, "Geography, Transportation, and Endogenous Trade Costs”, (Econometrica, Vol. 88, No. 2, March 2020, 657-691). ... Read more about 2022 Frisch Medal Awarded to Professor Kalouptsidi Professor Furman Discusses Stock Market Instability in The Gazette May 12, 2022 Jason Furman, Aetna Professor of the Practice of Economic Policy at Harvard Kennedy School and the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, spoke with the Gazette about the recent stock market instability and prospects for serious economic downturn.... Read more about Professor Furman Discusses Stock Market Instability in The Gazette Harvard Undergraduate Team Wins Econometrics Game at U Chicago! April 20, 2022 We are so pleased to announce that our Economics and AM/Ec team won The Econometrics Game at the University of Chicago this April! Congratulations to Jay, Bonnie, Ishan, and Matej! The Econometrics Game is a fast-paced competition where teams of one to four undergraduate students from universities across the US (and some international ones too!) are given 13 hours with a dataset to devise and answer a question of economic importance. To learn more, visit the site... Read more about Harvard Undergraduate Team Wins Econometrics Game at U Chicago! See all news 2022 Jun 07 EC 3012 Graduate Student Workshop in Labor Economics 1:30pm to 2:45pm Location: Hansen-Mason Room Kadeem Noray (Harvard University) "Title pending" Robert Fluegge (Harvard University) "Title pending"... Read more about EC 3012 Graduate Student Workshop in Labor Economics 2022 Jun 07 EC 3007 Graduate Student Workshop in Public Economics and Fiscal Policy 1:30pm to 2:45pm Location: Hansen-Mason Room Kadeem Noray (Harvard University) "Title pending" Robert Fluegge (Harvard University) "Title pending" ... Read more about EC 3007 Graduate Student Workshop in Public Economics and Fiscal Policy Fields of Study Theory The study of the application of using hypothetical quantitative economic models. Learn more Political Economy The study of production and trade and their relations with law, custom and government; and with the distribution of national income and wealth. Learn more Econometrics The study of developing and using statistical and mathematical tools to analyze economic issues and policy questions. Learn more Macroeconomics The study of the national economy and the determinants of national production, unemployment, and inflation. Learn more Economic History The study of how economies and economic outcomes have changed over history and how economic institutions have developed. Learn more International Economics The study of the effects upon economic activity from international differences in productive resources and consumer preferences and the international institutions that affect them. Learn more Fields of Study Behavioral Economics The study of the cognitive and emotional dimensions of economic decisions. Learn more Industrial Organization The study of individual markets and the nature of competition. Topics include anti-trust policy, the role of advertising, and how costs vary with the scale of operations. This field also studies particular industries such as software and technology firms, sports, and tourism. Learn more Economic Development The study of why some countries have developed while others have not, with special focus on the world’s less developed countries. How might the industrialized countries improve prospects for development around the world? Learn more Labor Economics The study of employers’ decisions to hire workers and employees’ decisions to work. This involves determinants of wages, the incentives workers face, and the role of minimum wage laws, unions, pensions, and training programs. Learn more Financial Economics The study of how to value and determine the price of assets with uncertain returns their derivatives and the markets that trade them; the study of how firms finance their operations and the capital structure of firms. Learn more Public Economics The study of the role of government in the economy including how to evaluate government programs, the design of tax systems, and how the political process makes decisions. Learn more Littauer Center 1805 Cambridge Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Phone (617) 495-2144 Fax (617) 495-7730 economics@harvard.edu About Message from the Chair Programs History Harvard Economics Alumni Contact Diversity News Events QJE (Quarterly Journal of Economics) Undergraduate Advising Concentrating in Economics Courses, Tutorials and Seminars Honors Program Senior Thesis Secondary Field Summer School Study Abroad Opportunities After Graduation Resources Graduate Admissions Program Requirements Placement Job Market Candidates People Faculty Graduate Students Staff Research Appointments Visiting Scholars Research Initiatives Resources Funding Funding Process Find Research Funding Funding FAQs c2ba7e656b6b446d3e37bbb6c4c05d8a 2e8e3beb2582e7d547ff39fdb9c020b1 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement