/ Jump to main navigation Jump to section navigation Jump to main content Cornell University Department Homepage Undergraduate For Prospective Students Economics Major (A&S Students) Economics Minor (ILR Students) Courses Student Experiences Graduate For Prospective/Incoming Students Courses Critical Dates Graduate School Forms Q-Exam Syllabi GSAFE Current Ph.D. Students Job Market Candidates Historical Placement of Ph.D. Students Faculty Department Faculty Graduate Field Faculty Emeritus and Retired Faculty Postdocs and Visitors Department Calendar Research & Workshops S. C. Tsiang Macroeconomics Workshop Affiliated Centers & Institutes Frank Knight Lecture George Staller Lecture Publications About Department Administration and Staff Diversity and Inclusion Alumni Notable Faculty and Alumni Support Cornell Economics Open search Open nav Search for: Understanding real world problems Economics The Cornell University Department of Economics offers a unique combination of theoretical and analytical rigor, and concern for real world problems. An unusually broad range of courses gives students an understanding of the way economies operate and an insight into public issues. Currently, the department has more than 50 faculty members, 500 majors, 100 Ph.D. students, and serves over 5,000 students on campus each year. Department of Economics News Humanities students present diverse research projects Humanities students studying an array of topics presented their work at the A.D. White House. Read More Self-fulfilling rankings boost agencies’ power, influence Cornell researchers developed a theoretical model that suggests an explanation for ratings produced by firms like Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s and Fitch, or the World Bank. Read More Grateful to be together: Meet the extraordinary class of 2022 Hear about the Cornell experiences of some of the amazing students in our graduating class. Read More Travel Grants Help Graduate Students Conduct Research Across the Globe The Graduate School awarded over 100 Research Travel Grants totaling $204,196 in 2021-22, the largest group of grants awarded since the pandemic began interrupting travel. Read More 'We lobbied Tompkins County to support a housing program for formerly incarcerated people' Cosimo L. Fabrizio is an Economics & Government major. Read More 'BlackGen Capital is my proudest accomplishment' Alec Dinwiddie is an economics major. Read More 'The ability to come at a problem from multiple angles is valuable' Perri Thaler is an Astronomy and Economics major. Read More 'The hardest part of doing anything new is deciding to do it' Anna Aki McDougall is an economics major. Read More See more Economics news Economics Undergrad Profiles Seongheon Yoon: ‘I appreciate that Arts & Sciences allowed me to balance my qualitative and quantitative skills’ 5/01/2019 Todd Lensman: ‘Through my mathematics classes, I learned how to think critically’ 4/30/2019 Ronni Mok: ‘Take advantage of all the resources around you’ 5/01/2019 Caitlin Wischermann: 'I truly believe that everyone can learn how to be a genius' 5/24/2016 Economics Events See all events A commitment to diversity and inclusion The Economics Department is committed to building an inclusive culture and positive climate for all at Cornell University, as well as the economics profession more broadly. More about our commitment to DEI Economics Links Undergraduate Graduate Faculty Undergraduate Student Experience Workshops & Seminars Courses World class training and research programs Undergraduate Program Exceptional undergraduate education Why study at Cornell? The Economics Department is shared by both the College of Arts & Sciences and by the ILR School, and we offer a variety of services to the Cornell undergraduate community. How to apply Meet the faculty Research opportunities Student spotlights Graduate Program World class economic training and development Our Ph.D. program field faculty consists of 91 economists drawn from the Economics Department and other departments and colleges across the university, offering students many opportunities. Students can focus their doctoral research on a wide range of economics-related topics Current Ph.D. students Meet the faculty Critical dates Recent Faculty Publications Parents, Neighbors and Youth Crime Eleonora Patacchini Diaz, Carlos and Eleonora Patacchini. Review of Economics of the Household, forthcoming. Conventions, Morals and Strategy: Greta's Dilemma and the Incarceration Game Kaushik Basu Basu, Kaushik. "Conventions, Morals and Strategy: Greta's Dilemma and the Incarceration Game," Synthese, forthcoming. Choosing Your Pond: Location Choices and Relative Income Nicolas Bottan Bottan, Nicolas L. and Ricardo Perez-Truglia. "Choosing Your Pond: Location Choices and Relative Income," The Review of Economics and Statistics, forthcoming. The Effect of Temperature Shocks on Household Consumption Panle J. Barwick Lai, Wangyang, Shanjun Li, Yanyan Liu, and Panle Jia Barwick. "The Effect of Temperature Shocks on Household Consumption," Nature Human Behavior, forthcoming. The Future of Money: How the Digital Revolution is Transforming Currencies and Finance Eswar Prasad Prasad, Eswar. The Future of Money: How the Digital Revolution is Transforming Currencies and Finance. Harvard University Press, forthcoming. The Bangladesh Economy: Navigating the Turning Point Kaushik Basu Basu, Kaushik. "The Bangladesh Economy: Navigating the Turning Point," Innovations: Technology, Governance, Globalization, forthcoming. 404 Uris Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 United States Email Department of Economics 607-255-4254 Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Cornell University The College of Arts & Sciences Website Accessibility Privacy Policy Equal Education & Employment Emergency Information Land Acknowledgment © 2022 College of Arts & Sciences Top