Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Economics Department of Economics Contact Us Facebook Twitter Economics@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About Why Econ? Careers in Economics Student Experiences Econ Alumni Back to Top Nav Undergraduate Overview The Major The Minor First Year FAQ Modified Major Honors Courses Class Schedule Syllabi About Wait-lists Transfer Credits Dartmouth Economic Research Scholars (DERS) Fed Challenge Jobs, Fellowships and Interships Political Economy Project Study Abroad Bocconi Exchange Information Dartmouth Oxford Exchange University College London Exchange Information Back to Top Nav Research Overview Faculty by Field Faculty Research Faculty Spotlight Globalization Cluster Back to Top Nav Inclusivity Inclusion at Dartmouth Resources for Undergraduates Statement on Racial Justice Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Seminars Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Courses Dartmouth Economic Research Scholars (DERS) Fed Challenge Jobs, Fellowships and Interships Political Economy Project Study Abroad Share The College Fed Challenge at Dartmouth The 2020 National Champions doing their stuff on Zoom! PreviousNext General Description of the Program Dartmouth participates in an academic competition called the College Fed Challenge. The College Fed Challenge is "intended to help students become more knowledgeable about the Fed and the decision-making process of the Federal Open Market Committee, the Federal Reserve's monetary policy-setting group." Dartmouth has sent teams to the Boston Fed Challenge Regional Competition since 2008, under the advisement of Senior Lecturer Elisabeth Curtis and Visiting Assistant Professor Frank Zarnowski. Beginning in the fall of 2010, the Economics Department at Dartmouth College has offered course credit (Econ 78) every Fall for students interested in participating in the Fed Challenge research and competition. Fed Challenge is open to select students (by permission of advisor/instructor) who are interested economics majors or intended majors. Duties include conducting research on current economic conditions and trends, assembling and analyzing data to support policy recommendations, attending and participating in course meetings in Fall term and working on the final "script" that will be presented at competition by the Fed Challenge Team in November in Boston. There is potential further travel if the team wins the Boston competition—the Boston winner will be invited to travel to Washington DC shortly after the Boston trip to compete at the National Fed Challenge competition. Fed Challenge Team members must have the following qualifications: strong communication/public speaking skills, good analytical thinking, ability to do independent research AND work well with others in a team setting, ability to stick to deadlines and make the time commitment to prepare for competition. Course prerequisite: Econ 22. Additional information Boston Regional Fed Challenge website Competition Structure Up to 20 schools in the New England District are allowed to submit teams for the Boston Fed Challenge competition (usually on a Friday in early November). This group often includes schools like Harvard, Yale, Brown, and MIT. Each school's team is assigned to compete in a morning round against a randomly chosen group of three to four other teams. The four winners of the four morning rounds go on to compete against each other in an afternoon round, and the winner of the afternoon places first at Boston and is invited to compete at Nationals (usually early December, soon after Thanksgiving) at the Federal Reserve Board of Governors in Washington DC. Recent Competition Results The 2020 team, finding itself virtual for the first time ever at the Boston District Competition, made it into the top 3 and went on to be judged by economists selected by the Board of Governors. Dartmouth was chosen as the Boston District Champion, putting them in the running for the top spot at the National College Fed Challenge competition. Another round of judging, pitting Dartmouth against all the other District champions in the competition, resulted in Dartmouth being crowned National Fed Challenge Champion on November 20, 2020. For the press release please see https://www.federalreserve.gov/newsevents/pressreleases/other20201120a.htm Fed Challenge Team 2020, National Champions: Ayan Agarwal, Vitor Berganton de Souza, Tench Coxe, Bill Cui, Autumn Dinh, Utsav Jalen, Kira Koehler, Jimmy Nguyen, Zach Olson, Michael St. George, Alice Zhang, Alina Zhang. fed_challenge_team2020.png The 2019 team took Second Place at the Boston competition, losing in a close contest to Harvard. Team members: Laura Walk, Jackson Baur, Isabella Pesavento, Zack Port, Dhruv Uppal, Hwikeun Kim, Naren Radhakrishnan, Autumn Dinh, Jonathan Song, Alexander Kokoshinskiy, Andrew White 2019.jpg Past Competition Results 2018 - Dartmouth's 2018 Fed Challenge Team advanced to the afternoon round, finishing honorable mention in the Boston competition. Presenting team Research team Utsav Jalan Junyang Cui Simrit Singh Michael Bodek Ayan Agarwal Peiyao XU Matthew Hayes Se Hyuk Bang Jonathan Lu Lucas Albuquerque De Godoy dart2.jpg 2017 - Dartmouth's 2017 Fed Challenge Team - another year of strong performance. fed_challenge_2017.jpg 2016 - Dartmouth's 2016 Fed Challenge Team 1st place at the Boston District Competition 2nd place at the National Fed Challenge Competition at the Board of Governors in Washington DC, Thursday Dec. 1, 2016] fcnationals2016.jpg 2015 - Dartmouth's 2015 Fed Challenge Team 2015_team.jpg 2014 - Dartmouth's 2014 Fed Challenge Team 2nd place runner up at the Boston District Competition on Nov. 7, 2014: 028.jpg Dartmouth's Fed Challenge team in the news: http://now.dartmouth.edu/2014/11/economics-students-prepare-for-the-fed-challenge/ 2013 - Dartmouth's 2013 Fed Challenge team advanced to the afternoon round, finishing 2nd overall, coming within points of would-be National Champions Harvard. 2012 - Dartmouth's 2012 Fed Challenge team advanced to the afternoon round, finishing 2nd overall, losing only to Bentley University. 2011 - Dartmouth's 2011 Fed Challenge team loses to 2nd place finisher, Bentley, in the morning round. 2010 – Dartmouth's 2010 Fed Challenge team finished 3rd in the morning round against Harvard, Yale, Brown and MIT. 2009 - Dartmouth's 2009 Fed Challenge team finished in the top 5 schools in the Boston competition. 2008 – Dartmouth's 2008 Fed Challenge team finished in the top 5 schools in the Boston competition. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Economics About Why Econ? Careers in Economics Student Experiences Econ Alumni Undergraduate Overview The Major The Minor First Year FAQ Modified Major Honors Courses Class Schedule Syllabi About Wait-lists Transfer Credits Dartmouth Economic Research Scholars (DERS) Fed Challenge Jobs, Fellowships and Interships Political Economy Project Study Abroad Bocconi Exchange Information Dartmouth Oxford Exchange University College London Exchange Information Research Overview Faculty by Field Faculty Research Faculty Spotlight Globalization Cluster Inclusivity Inclusion at Dartmouth Resources for Undergraduates Statement on Racial Justice News & Events News & Events Seminars People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback