Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Economics Department of Economics Contact Us Facebook Twitter Economics@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About Why Econ? Careers in Economics Student Experiences Econ Alumni Back to Top Nav Undergraduate Overview The Major The Minor First Year FAQ Modified Major Honors Courses Class Schedule Syllabi About Wait-lists Transfer Credits Dartmouth Economic Research Scholars (DERS) Fed Challenge Jobs, Fellowships and Interships Political Economy Project Study Abroad Bocconi Exchange Information Dartmouth Oxford Exchange University College London Exchange Information Back to Top Nav Research Overview Faculty by Field Faculty Research Faculty Spotlight Globalization Cluster Back to Top Nav Inclusivity Inclusion at Dartmouth Resources for Undergraduates Statement on Racial Justice Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Seminars Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search James Feyrer Academic Appointments Professor of Economics Department of Economics Vice-Chair Council on Institutional Priorities Member Committee on the Faculty Co-Chair Connect with Us Twitter View Curriculum Vitae Contact james.feyrer@Dartmouth.edu 603-646-2533 306 Rockefeller HB 6106 Education Ph.D. Brown University M.A. Brown University B.S. Stanford University Areas of Expertise Economic growth /macroeconomics /productivity Selected Publications "Distance, Trade, and Income -- The 1967 to 1975 Closing of the Suez Canal as a Natural Experiment," Journal of Development Economics, November 2021. Replication Archive “Demographics and Productivity in Asia,” in Demographics and Innovation in the Asia-Pacific, eds K. Eggleston, J. Park, and G. Shin, Brookings Institution Press, May 2021. "Trade and Income -- Exploiting Time Series in Geography," AEJ: Applied, October 2019 "Measuring Geographi Spillovers: A Reply," with Erin Mansur and Bruce Sacerdote, American Economic Review, June 2020 “Undergraduate Research in the Dartmouth Economics Department,” Journal of Economic Education, Fall 2017. "Geographic Dispersion of Economic Shocks: Evidence from the Fracking Revolution", with Erin Mansur and Bruce Sacerdote, American Economic Review, April 2017. "The Cognitive Effects of Micronutrient Deficiency: Evidence from Salt Iodization in the United States", with Dimitra Politi & David N. Weil, Journal of the European Economic Association, April 2017. "How Much Would US Style Fiscal Integration Buffer European Unemployment and Income Shocks?", with Bruce Sacerdote, American Economic Review: Papers & Proceedings, May 2013. “Global Savings and Global Investment – The Transmission of Identified Fiscal Shocks”, with Jay Shambaugh, AEJ: Economic Policy, May 2012. "The US Productivity Slowdown, the Baby Boom, and Management Quality" , Journal of Population Economics, January 2011. “Colonialism and Modern Income – Islands as Natural Experiments”, with Bruce Sacerdote, Review of Economics and Statistics, May 2009. "Will The Stork Return to Europe and Japan? Understanding Fertility within Developed Nations", with Bruce Sacerdote and Ariel Stern, Journal of Economic Perspectives, Summer 2008. "The Marginal Product of Capital", with Francesco Caselli, Quarterly Journal of Economics, February 2007. "Demographics and Productivity", Review of Economics and Statistics, February 2007. "Aggregate Evidence on the Link Between Demographics and Productivity", Population and Development Review, March 2008. “Did The Rust Belt Become Shiny?: A Study of Cities and Counties That Lost Steel and Auto Jobs in the 1980s,” with Bruce Sacerdote and Ariel Stern, Brookings-Wharton Papers on Urban Affairs, 2007. "Convergence By Parts," B.E. Journal of Macroeconomics, July 2008. "A Contribution To The Empirics of Total Factor Productivity ," with Shekhar Aiyar, Manuscript. "Technological Leadership and Endogenous Growth," with Susanto Basu and David N. Weil, Manuscript. + View more Related Links Book An Appointment Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Economics About Why Econ? Careers in Economics Student Experiences Econ Alumni Undergraduate Overview The Major The Minor First Year FAQ Modified Major Honors Courses Class Schedule Syllabi About Wait-lists Transfer Credits Dartmouth Economic Research Scholars (DERS) Fed Challenge Jobs, Fellowships and Interships Political Economy Project Study Abroad Bocconi Exchange Information Dartmouth Oxford Exchange University College London Exchange Information Research Overview Faculty by Field Faculty Research Faculty Spotlight Globalization Cluster Inclusivity Inclusion at Dartmouth Resources for Undergraduates Statement on Racial Justice News & Events News & Events Seminars People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback