Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Economics Search Menu Site Navigation home Academics Undergraduate Graduate Job Market Candidates People Faculty Emeritus & Courtesy Faculty Adjunct & Visiting Faculty Staff Graduate Students Alumni In Memoriam Seminars Economic Theory Seminars Econometrics Seminars Macroeconomics Seminars Growth Lab Lunch Seminars Applied Microeconomics Seminars Seminar Series on Race and Inequality by Professor Glenn Loury Graduate Student Lunches + Breakfasts Events Past Events About Contact Faculty Positions News Orlando Bravo Center People Research News Seminars About Orlando Bravo Search Department of Economics Orlando Bravo Center for Economic Research Expanding the scope of research in the University’s top-ranked economics department. Sub Navigation In This Section People Research News Seminars About Orlando Bravo Orlando Bravo Center for Economic Research Expanding the scope of research in the University’s top-ranked economics department. The Orlando Bravo Center for Economic Research was founded in 2019 following a generous gift to Brown University from Orlando Bravo and is housed in the Department of Economics, supporting high-impact research on the scientific frontier of economics. Broadly, the Center supports innovative research, collaboration, and training for the next generation of economic scholars. Faculty research is supported via research grants, funding for conferences, both one-time and recurring annual events, and funding for short-term visitors to the department. Faculty research is highlighted in the new Bravo Working Paper Series. Graduate students are supported via research grants and research assistant fellowships, allowing for collaboration between students and faculty. Funding will be available for undergraduate students writing honors theses in the department, and we also plan to support a training program for undergraduate research assistants. Recent News News November 5, 2021 News From Economics Bravo Center Funding Applications - Next Decision Date: December 10, 2021 The Bravo Center is currently accepting funding requests for research projects. Interested parties should submit an application at least one week before the following decision date: December 10, 2021. Please follow the guidelines for research grants at the Bravo Center. Applicants may... August 5, 2021 News From Economics Bravo Center Funding Applications - Next Decision Date: September 2, 2021 The Bravo Center is currently accepting funding requests for research projects. Interested parties should submit an application at least one week before the following decision dates: September 2, 2021 and December 10, 2021. Please follow the guidelines for research grants at the Bravo Center. Applicants may... July 1, 2021 News From Economics Professor Matthew Pecenco Appointed as the Orlando Bravo Assistant Professor of Economics Professor Matthew Pecenco has been appointed as the Orlando Bravo Assistant Professor of Economics as of July 1, 2021. More info... April 20, 2021 News From Economics Bravo Center Funding Applications The Bravo Center is currently accepting funding requests for research projects. Interested parties should submit an application at least one week before the following decision dates: May 6, 2021, September 2, 2021, and December 10, 2021. Please follow the guidelines for research grants at the Bravo Center. Applicants may... November 6, 2020 News From Economics Graduate Student Summer 2020 Support During summer 2020, the Bravo Center supported 5 graduate students to further develop their own dissertation research and/or work with faculty on joint research projects. More info on the students and their projects... October 13, 2020 News From Economics Bravo Center Working Paper Series Submissions The Bravo Center welcomes scholars in the Department of Economics to contribute to the Orlando Bravo Working Paper Series. All faculty members are welcome to release their papers to the Series, while graduate students must obtain and acknowledge a faculty member as a sponsor. Faculty sponsors should evaluate graduate papers based on whether the paper is about to be submitted to a journal and whether the paper is... Research The Brown Department of Economics is home to some of the most relevant and engaging research being done in the field, with its scholars contributing to the public debate about economic policy, including taxation and government expenditure, trade and globalization, the development and growth of the economy, health and welfare. Faculty Research Questions Topics of research arranged by field and faculty member. Visit Page Open details for Faculty Research Questions Bravo Center Faculty Working Paper Series Visit Page Open details for Bravo Center Faculty Working Paper Series Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation home Academics Undergraduate Graduate Job Market Candidates People Faculty Emeritus & Courtesy Faculty Adjunct & Visiting Faculty Staff Graduate Students Alumni In Memoriam Seminars Economic Theory Seminars Econometrics Seminars Macroeconomics Seminars Growth Lab Lunch Seminars Applied Microeconomics Seminars Seminar Series on Race and Inequality by Professor Glenn Loury Graduate Student Lunches + Breakfasts Events Past Events About Contact Faculty Positions News Orlando Bravo Center People Research News Seminars About Orlando Bravo This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Orlando Bravo Center for Economic Research Open details for Orlando Bravo Center for Economic Research Bookmark this Page