Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Economics Department of Economics Contact Us Facebook Twitter Economics@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About Why Econ? Careers in Economics Student Experiences Econ Alumni Back to Top Nav Undergraduate Overview The Major The Minor First Year FAQ Modified Major Honors Courses Class Schedule Syllabi About Wait-lists Transfer Credits Dartmouth Economic Research Scholars (DERS) Fed Challenge Jobs, Fellowships and Interships Political Economy Project Study Abroad Bocconi Exchange Information Dartmouth Oxford Exchange University College London Exchange Information Back to Top Nav Research Overview Faculty by Field Faculty Research Faculty Spotlight Globalization Cluster Back to Top Nav Inclusivity Inclusion at Dartmouth Resources for Undergraduates Statement on Racial Justice Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Seminars Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Jobs and Internships Jobs and Fellowships Economic Research Analyst, full-time, starting summer 2022 - The Economic Analysis Group in the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice is looking for detail-oriented, highly motivated individuals to join their team that provides economic analysis for antitrust cases brought by the division. Applicants need to have a bachelor's degree with a GPA of 3.0 or better and be U.S. citizens. Application deadline: April 17, 2022. (added 03.24.22) Analyst, full-time - Analysis Group is offering internships in a collegial, supportive, research-oriented environment, with a focus on delivering the highest-quality work to our clients. We work hard but strive to maintain balance with life outside the office, and require minimal travel. Many analysts go on to top graduate and professional programs. Contact Paul Jeon (Paul.Jeon@analysisgroup.com) for more information. (added 1.25.22) Research Assistants, full-time. The Federal Reserve. Research assistants play an essential role at the Fed and are presented with substantial opportunities for professional and intellectual development. Working side by side with economists, RAs participate in the application of economic theory and empirical research methods used to inform economic policy debate. Along the way, RAs develop strong quantitative analysis, critical thinking and writing skills – marketable skills useful for pursuing career opportunities and advanced studies in a variety of fields. (added 1.19.22) Pre-doctoral Research Fellowship, full-time, 2-year. King Center on Global Development at Stanford University is seeking applicants for its recently launched Predoctoral Research Fellows Program. The deadline is January 31, 2022 and applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis. The Program is designed to prepare individuals for careers in academic research focused on issues related to global development. This multidisciplinary program operates in partnership with the Stanford Graduate School of Business. Fellows are appointed as non-matriculated graduate students. Fellows work with King Center faculty affiliates on research projects and can take courses at Stanford University for credit. The fellowship offers tuition, health insurance, and a living stipend. Visa sponsorship is possible for successful applicants. Applications from students from low- and middle-income countries, as well as from others whose backgrounds and experience would contribute to the diversity (broadly defined) of the program are encouraged. The King Center is committed to creating inclusive research environments and to fostering the growth of the next generation of researchers in global development. (added 12.7.21) Data Analyst, Youth Policy, 2 year, grant funded. The University of Michigan is looking for a Data Analyst to become an active member of the Youth Policy Lab. As a data analyst, you will provide analytic support to several research projects and report to a Senior Project Manager on the YPL team. Data analysts also work very closely with University of Michigan faculty, including Lab co-directors Brian and Robin Jacob. (added 12.6.21) Pre-doctoral Fellowship, 2 years starting Summer 2022 - Professor Bruce D. Meyer, the McCormick Foundation Professor at the University of Chicago's Harris School, is seeking to hire full-time Pre-Doctoral Fellows to join the Comprehensive Income Dataset (CID) Project for a two-year term starting in Summer 2022. The CID links government surveys with an unprecedented set of tax records and administrative program data, with the ultimate goal of being the most comprehensive and accurate income-related dataset ever created for the United States. (added 11.11.21) Research Assistant, Academic year 2022 -23 with option to renew for second year - Professors Stefano DellaVigna and Dmitry Taubinsky (UC Berkeley) are intending to hire a full-time research assistant to work with them on questions in Behavioral, Public, and Labor Economics. A great opportunity to acquire more skills in data analysis, experimental design, theory testing, and quantitative methods. There will be opportunities for co-authored work, and help preparing the researcher for applying to PhD programs in economics. As a comittment to diversity, groups traditionally underrepresented in economics are especially encouraged to apply. Applications reviewed on a rolling basis, starting November 17, with the intention of making a final hiring decision by the end of 2021. Further information about the position, including instructions for how to apply, can be found here. (added 11.09.21) Research Assistants and Staff Economists, Academic Year 2022-23 - Council of Economic Advisors (CEA), the Whitehouse. CEA is already recruiting soon-to-be or recent college graduates as research assistants, and graduate students who would like to take a year away as staff economists for next academic year. This can be a wonderful experience as graduates are seriously involved in the work of the CEA and are mentored to help with their next steps. Please contact Martha Gimbel at Martha.E.Gimbel@cea.eop.gov. (added 11.01.21) Full-Time Research Assistant, Summer 2022 - Pre-doctoral fellowships based at Harvard University under the direction of Professors Raj Chetty and Nathaniel Hendren and at Brown University under the direction of Professor John Friedman. The team's mission is to develop scalable policy solutions that will empower families throught the United States to rise out of poverty and achieve better life outcomes. (added 10.12.21) Full-Time Research Assistant, Summer 2022 - National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) offices in Cambridge, MA. The ideal candidate is someone who is interested in genoeconomics (i.e., the identification of genetic variation that is associated with variation in economic behavior), and is likely to pursue a PhD in economics, genomics, statistics, data science, or a related field. (added 10.11.21) Full-Time Research Assistant, Summer/Fall 2021 - Prof. Daniel Benjamin (UCLA) and his co-authors. Ideal for individuals interested in behavioral economics research and likely to pursue a PhD in economics. (added 10.11.21) Full-Time Research Assistant, Summer 2022 - Prof. Daniel Benjamin (UCLA) and his co-authors. For individuals interested in behavioral economics research and likely to pursue a PhD in economics. (added 10.11.21) Research Analyst - Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania (added 9.29.21) Program Coordinator and Research Assistant - Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS). Contact gerard.dipippo<at>gmail.com with questions. (added 9.29.21) Pre-Doctoral Research Fellow - Stanford Professor Heidi Williams (added 9.27.21) Pre-Doctoral Research Fellow - MIT Professor Amy Finkelstein (added 9.27.21) Analyst - Cornerstone Research: Economic and Financial Consulting and Expert Testimony (added 9.27.21) Analyst FT & Internship Opportunities - Analysis Group: Economic Consulting and Strategy AG Recruiting Brochure 2021 (added 9.27.21) Research Associates - Lab for Economic Opportunities (added 9.27.21) Pre-Doctoral Fellowships - Opportunity Insights at Havard University (updated 9.27.21) Research Assistants - Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (ongoing) This listing of research jobs suitable for bachelor's degree candidates, graduate students, or post-docs with faculty across the country, maintained by the National Bureau of Economic Research. (ongoing) Research jobs in the Federal Reserve System (Spring and Fall Recruiting Cycles). (ongoing) Research Associate positions at Precision Agriculture for Development, a small, but fast-growing global non-profit that uses tech, data science and behavioral economics to provide targeted information to farmers in developing countries. Note that the APPLICATIONS ARE OFTEN ACCEPTED BEGINNING IN THE EARLY FALL. Internships Summer Research Assistants (RAs), Summer 2022 - The University of Chicago Energy & Environment Lab is hiring summer RAs in five different locations: Chicago, IL, Denver, CO, Sacramento, CA, Albany, NY, and Washington, DC, as well as remote. Applications are on a rolling basis. Candidates should apply as soon as possible. If you have any questions, feel free to reach out to Meriem Fouad, Dartmouth '21, current Project Associate at the E&E lab at mfouad@uchicago.edu (added 1.25.22) Internship, Summer 2022 - Analysis Group is offering internships in a collegial, supportive, research-oriented environment, with a focus on delivering the highest-quality work to our clients. We work hard but strive to maintain balance with life outside the office, and require minimal travel. Many analysts go on to top graduate and professional programs. Contact Paul Jeon (Paul.Jeon@analysisgroup.com) for more information. (added 1.25.22) Intern, Winter, Spring or Summer 2022 - Consumer Finance Institute (CFI) is offering an excellent opportunity for undergraduate or graduate students who seeks real world experience with data and a potential opportunity to participate in research that could lead to co-authorship if their contributions are substantial. They are looking for candidates with strong skills working with large, complicated, and messy consumer finance data sets. Most of our programming is done using R or Python and Stata for smaller data sets. The largest data sets are worked using Spark R on our research cluster. (added 12.6.21) Undergraduate Fellowship, Summer 2022 - Center for Retirement Research at Boston college is sponsoring a new summer research program for undergraduate students in a variety of disciplines. The Fellowship program, funded by the U.S. Social Security Administration, combines hands-on research experience with one-on-one mentoring from senior Center researchers. Summer Analyst, Summer 2022 - Copenhagen Infrastructure Partners (CIP) is looking for a student to work closely with members of their investment team on industry research, due diligence and execution of CIP's investments in North America. CIP will constantly seek to challenge and inspire you, while focusing on your learning and personal development. The right candidate will build a strong commercial understanding of renewable energy and energy finance. Furthermore, ambitious and top performing Summer Analysts may receive an offer to join us as a full-time Analyst upon graduation. (added 11.04.21) Research Intern, Summer 2022 - Walleye Capital is looking for exceptional students graduating in 2023. Candidates should be both passionate about finance and highly proficient in writing code. https://app.joinhandshake.com/jobs/5493003. (added 10.14.21) AEA Summer and Scholarship Programs (ongoing) Overview Courses Dartmouth Economic Research Scholars (DERS) Fed Challenge Jobs, Fellowships and Interships Political Economy Project Study Abroad Share Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Economics About Why Econ? Careers in Economics Student Experiences Econ Alumni Undergraduate Overview The Major The Minor First Year FAQ Modified Major Honors Courses Class Schedule Syllabi About Wait-lists Transfer Credits Dartmouth Economic Research Scholars (DERS) Fed Challenge Jobs, Fellowships and Interships Political Economy Project Study Abroad Bocconi Exchange Information Dartmouth Oxford Exchange University College London Exchange Information Research Overview Faculty by Field Faculty Research Faculty Spotlight Globalization Cluster Inclusivity Inclusion at Dartmouth Resources for Undergraduates Statement on Racial Justice News & Events News & Events Seminars People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback