Home Research People Research Centers Academic Programs Events Princeton University News & Activities Search Toggle Mobile Menu Academic Programs Undergraduate Program Prospective Concentrators Concentration Requirements Course Selection Independent Work Other Rules and Grading Guidelines Economics Statistical Services (ESS) Certificates and Programs Study Abroad and Internship Milestone Credit Resources and Form Library Common Questions graduate Program Ph.D. Admissions Current Students Course Offerings Job Market and Placements Graduate Student Directory Celebrating the Princeton Economics Class of 2022 Student News Four Princeton Undergrads Dive into the Data at Annual Econometrics Competition May 02, 2022 Monetary Economics Central Bank Communication with the General Public: Promise or False Hope? Faculty News Office Hours with Owen Zidar March 28, 2022 Law and Economics The Effects of Legal Representation on Tenant Outcomes in Housing Court: Evidence from New York City’s Universal Access Program Princeton Economics Training the next generation The Economics Department at Princeton is dedicated to inspiring and training the next generation of academics and government and industry leaders. In recent years, we have been fortunate to work with many Ph.D. students who went on to earn faculty positions at leading research universities. In 2021, the majority of our graduating seniors started exciting careers in consulting, finance, public policy, academia, and more. Like all members of the Princeton community, our students and faculty approach their work in the nation’s service and the service of humanity. Upcoming Events Seminars and public forums are central to academic life at Princeton. Explore All Events Public June 2, 2022 Sylvain Chassang on Strategic Energy Purchases: Keeping Oil Prices Manageable With introductions by Markus Brunnermeier SERIES Markus' Academy Public June 9, 2022 Jonathan Payne on Token, Defi and Smart CBDC With introductions by Markus Brunnermeier SERIES Markus' Academy Invitation Only June 14-16, 2022 Princeton IES 2022 Summer Trade Workshop SERIES IES Summer Trade Workshop Moving research forward Our faculty are at the forefront of economics research, consistently developing new tools and methodologies to advance the science of economics and inform policy with evidence-based research. From our pioneering work on game theory to our innovations around quasi-experimental methods, all our research is rooted in efforts to set new technical standards around the rigor and reliability of economics. Research Centers The Latest Research People Our faculty are not only great researchers, but committed mentors and teachers. To complete their degrees, Princeton Economics students work alongside some of the best minds across a range of economic disciplines, including two Nobel laureates recognized for their work in development, macroeconomics, and econometrics. Our People Published Papers See recent research on development, econometrics, labor, international trade, macroeconomics, and more. 72 Papers Published In The Past 12 Months All Published Papers Journal of Political Economy May 2022 International Trade Trade, Structural Transformation, and Development: Evidence from Argentina 1869–1914 Pablo FajgelbaumStephen J. Redding Journal of Public Economics March 2022 Data-Driven Incentive Alignment in Capitation Schemes Mark BravermanSylvain Chassang Review of Financial Studies Winter 2021 Finance Learning about the Neighborhood Zhenyu GaoMichael SockinWei Xiong Graduate Studies Economics Ph.D. students have access to all that academic life at Princeton has to offer. Before applying, learn more about our faculty advisors and research opportunities. Learn More Undergraduate Studies The Economics major is one of the most popular majors at Princeton, with most graduating seniors starting careers in consulting, finance, or public policy or earning spots at competitive graduate programs. Learn More What's new on campus? Browse stories about student and faculty awards and activities. News & Activities Julis Romo Rabinowitz Building Princeton, NJ 08544 Main Office: 609-258-4000 Fax: 609-258-6419 Contact Us Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Research Research Centers People Join Our Team Upcoming Events News & Activities Junior Search Undergraduate Program Graduate Program © Copyright 2022 Princeton University Department of Economics | Privacy Policy