Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Economics Department of Economics Contact Us Facebook Twitter Economics@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About Why Econ? Careers in Economics Student Experiences Econ Alumni Back to Top Nav Undergraduate Overview The Major The Minor First Year FAQ Modified Major Honors Courses Class Schedule Syllabi About Wait-lists Transfer Credits Dartmouth Economic Research Scholars (DERS) Fed Challenge Jobs, Fellowships and Interships Political Economy Project Study Abroad Bocconi Exchange Information Dartmouth Oxford Exchange University College London Exchange Information Back to Top Nav Research Overview Faculty by Field Faculty Research Faculty Spotlight Globalization Cluster Back to Top Nav Inclusivity Inclusion at Dartmouth Resources for Undergraduates Statement on Racial Justice Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Seminars Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Why Economics? Economics provides a framework for understanding the choices humans make at an individual, organizational, national, or even a global level. Though economics is often associated with business and finance, it has been influential in addressing a much broader range of questions. What are the impacts of immigration and international trade on local communities? Do preschool programs help children succeed in school? Why do women earn less than men? What factors drive racial differences in economic opportunities? How long should patents and copyrights last? Does the US spend too much (or too little) on health care? What factors contribute to income inequality? Why are some nations more prosperous than others? The Economics Department offers courses that strive to answer these questions with an emphasis on applied statistical work (econometrics). Economics majors learn to ask clear questions based on economic theory and work with large data sets to provide rigorous answers that distinguish causation from correlation. Student Research All majors and minors conduct independent research projects, supervised by Economics faculty members, as part of our culminating experience courses. These research projects often address important social issues and topics students intend to pursue further in their careers. Recent examples include theses on: tracking the spread of COVID - 19 in real time, how companies are impacted by the choice to go public what interventions are most effective at reducing the burden of malaria in developing countries the role of legislation in reducing insider trading by members of the US Congress About her professors and her work in International Development Hannah Pruitt '19 Video of Development Econ Experiences, Hannah Pruitt &amp;#039;19 Resources Beyond Dartmouth aea_logo.png The American Economics Association website has extensive resources for students: https://www.aeaweb.org/resources/students. nea_logo.png The National Economics Association is "particularly interested in producing and distributing knowledge of economic issues that are of exceptional interest to promoting economic growth among native and immigrant African Americans, Latinos, and other people of color." Speaking about his work and growth as an Econ major... Adil Ashan '19 Video of Development Econ Experiences, Adil Ashan &amp;#039;19 Faculty Research In addition to their work with students, Dartmouth Economics faculty are deeply engaged with current public policy debates. A few recent examples are: Professor Eric Chyn's work, The Long-Run Effects of School Racial Diversity on Political Identity. Professor Nina Pavcnik's paper The Impact of Trade on Inequality in Developing Countries. Professor Na'ama Shenhav's research on undocumented immigrants and education. Professor Chris Snyder's research on accelerated vaccine development. Professor Steve Mello' paper, A Few Bad Apples? Racial Bias in Policing. More Resources diveq_logo.png Diversifying Economic Quality is a wiki that's purpose is to promote inclusive, innovative, and evidence-based teaching practices in economics. It has an extensive library of videos on economists and their research. sadie_collective_logo.png The Sadie Collective is addressing the pipeline and pathway problem for Black women in economics and related fields. Why Econ? Careers in Economics Student Experiences Econ Alumni Share Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Economics About Why Econ? Careers in Economics Student Experiences Econ Alumni Undergraduate Overview The Major The Minor First Year FAQ Modified Major Honors Courses Class Schedule Syllabi About Wait-lists Transfer Credits Dartmouth Economic Research Scholars (DERS) Fed Challenge Jobs, Fellowships and Interships Political Economy Project Study Abroad Bocconi Exchange Information Dartmouth Oxford Exchange University College London Exchange Information Research Overview Faculty by Field Faculty Research Faculty Spotlight Globalization Cluster Inclusivity Inclusion at Dartmouth Resources for Undergraduates Statement on Racial Justice News & Events News & Events Seminars People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback