Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Economics Department of Economics Contact Us Facebook Twitter Economics@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About Why Econ? Careers in Economics Student Experiences Econ Alumni Back to Top Nav Undergraduate Overview The Major The Minor First Year FAQ Modified Major Honors Courses Class Schedule Syllabi About Wait-lists Transfer Credits Dartmouth Economic Research Scholars (DERS) Fed Challenge Jobs, Fellowships and Interships Political Economy Project Study Abroad Bocconi Exchange Information Dartmouth Oxford Exchange University College London Exchange Information Back to Top Nav Research Overview Faculty by Field Faculty Research Faculty Spotlight Globalization Cluster Back to Top Nav Inclusivity Inclusion at Dartmouth Resources for Undergraduates Statement on Racial Justice Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Seminars Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview The Major The Minor First Year FAQ Modified Major Honors Courses Dartmouth Economic Research Scholars (DERS) Fed Challenge Jobs, Fellowships and Interships Political Economy Project Study Abroad Share Honors and High Honors The Honors Program in Economics provides qualified students with several different pathways to graduating with ‘Honors in Economics’ or with ‘High Honors in Economics,’ each of which are outlined below. To be eligible for the Program, a student must have a grade point average of at least 3.3 in courses counting toward the major (excluding ECON 1, ECON 10, and MATH 3), and an overall grade point average of at least 3.0. Additionally, in order to be eligible for ‘High Honors,’ a student must take ten major courses (beyond prerequisites), rather than just the nine courses required for a standard or ‘Honors’ major. Majors enrolled in a 60-level course or in ECON 80 or ECON 82 (“80-level”) whose research papers for that course are deemed of exceptional merit by the instructor, and who are otherwise eligible for the Program, shall be granted ‘Honors in Economics” with no additional coursework necessary. No more than two students per section may be granted ‘Honors’ in this way without a vote of the department. Students may subsequently enroll in ECON 87 and extend their research from the 60 or 80-level course in order to be eligible for ‘High Honors.’ Failure to enroll in or to complete ECON 87 will not forfeit the original ‘Honors’ designation. Additional students meeting requirements for the Program whose major paper in their 60 or 80-level course is considered to have excellent potential to develop further into a thesis may also be invited to enroll in ECON 87 to become eligible for either ‘Honors’ or ‘High Honors.’ An additional method of earning ‘Honors’ is to complete the ECON 80-81-82 sequence with an average grade of B+ and having received a grade of A- or better in each of the prerequisite classes (i.e. ECON 20, ECON 21 and ECON 22). The instructors of this sequence may additionally recommend that students who have done such outstanding work in these courses that it would achieve the ‘Honors’ designation by the method described above be granted ‘High Honors’ by vote of the Department, provided the student has completed ten major courses (beyond prerequisites). A final, more traditional method of achieving ‘Honors’ or ‘High Honors’ is by initiating a research project in ECON 85 and then writing an Honors thesis (ECON 87) in the senior year. Prior to enrolling in ECON 85 or ECON 87, the student must have the written approval of the vice chair and of a faculty member in the economics department who is willing to act as an adviser. The adviser would usually be a professor whose own research interests lie in the area in which the student wants to work. Students following this path will be expected to have taken all courses relevant to their topic prior to enrollment in ECON 85. Both regular majors and modified majors who wish to enroll in ECON 87 will be expected to have taken all courses relevant to their topic prior to enrollment. For those enrolling in ECON 87, an average grade of B+ (3.33) or better in ECON 85 and ECON 87, or the 60-level course and 87 for that approach to developing the Honors thesis, will entitle the student to graduate with ‘Honors in Economics.’ A vote of the Department is necessary to achieve ‘High Honors in Economics,’ along with one additional major course beyond those required for the standard or ‘Honors’ major. The Department will consider the student’s performance on the thesis and his or her record in Economics courses in awarding ‘High Honors.’ Honors Recipients 2020 - 2021 Graduating with Honors in Economics Ayan Agarwal Nicholas A. Awertschenko Katherine G. Cane Bruna Decerega Rijul Garg Paul Jeon Arvin I. Kumaran Henry Y. Liu Jonathan J. Liu Amanda C. Lu Caroline L. Sernett Graduating with High Honors in Economics (Thesis and Advisors) Steven A. Adelberg, "Identifying Risk Factors Created By COVID-19 CMBS Markets." (Advisor Bruce Sacerdote) Emily A. Bjorkman, "Playing the Blame Game: Teachers Unions and K-12 School Reopenings in the 2020-2021 Academic Year." (Advisor James Feyrer) Catalina A. Garcia Valenzuela, "Women in Undergraduate Economics: The Importance of Instructor's Gender and Grades." (Advisor Elizabeth Cascio) Samantha J. Goncalves, "The Impact of COVID-19 Related Export Restrictions Imposed Against the United States on Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Prices." (Advisor Nina Pavcnik) Amy Hu, "Does Earned Wage Access Reduce Payday Lending?" (Advisor Douglas Staiger) Kira S. Koehler, "Paychecks for Public Companies? An Econometric Analysis of Public Firm Borrowers of the Paycheck Protection Program." (Advisor Bruce Sacerdote) Arvin I. Kumaran, "A Game of Cat and Mouse: An Analysis of Shareholder Activism and Takeover Defense Strategies." (Advisor Bruce Sacerdote) Arun P. Maganti, "Does Community-Driven Development Make a Difference? Evidence from the KALAHI-CIDSS Program." (Advisor Bruce Sacerdote) Michael W. Nachman, "The Cyclicality of Income and Infant Mortality." (Advisor Eric Edmonds) Rachna R. Shah, "How Do Sanctions Impact Nursing Homes?" (Advisor Douglas Staiger) Cindy L. Shen, "Do Insurance Policies Increase Incentives to Innovate? A Look at Medicare Part D's Effects on Drug Patenting Activity." (Advisor Jonathan Skinner) Sophia A. Stone, "How Sustainable is an Annual Report? Quantifying ESG Disclosure in 10K and Proxy Statements." (Advisor Bruce Sacerdote) Benjamin H. Sugerman, "A "Shecession"? Evaluating the Heterogeneous Impact of the Coronavirus Shock on the Female Labor Force." (Advisor Patricia Anderson) Rahul Wunsch, "Jobs and the Economy: A Medium-Term Evaluation of the Refugee Crisis in Germany." (Advisor James Feyrer) Nelson A Rockefeller Prize (Best Performance in the Major) Emily A. Bjorkman Michael W. Nachman Lewis H. Haney Prize (Outstanding Honors Thesis) Catalina A. Garcia Valenzuela Amy Hu Economics Department Service and Leadership Award Emily A. Bjorkman Jonathan J. Liu 2019 - 2020 Graduating with Honors in Economics William F. Chisholm III Ivo Erben Abby E. Meyers Brandon N. Nye Samuel A. Wilson Graduating with High Honors in Economics (Thesis and Advisors) John A. Caramichael "Sentiment Analysis for Understanding News Media, Stock Price Movements and Efficiency Theory." (Advisors Bruce Sacerdote and Christopher Snyder) Albert A. Chen "Should I Stay or Should I Go?: The Role of Option Value in Trade Shock Adjustment." (Advisor Treb Allen) Elena A. Doty "NAEP Scores and Long Run Economic Outcomes." (Advisor Douglas Staiger) Yifan He "The Next Big Trade Deal: The Impact of ASEAN-China Free Trade Area on Global and Regional Trade Flows, 1994-2018." (Advisor Nina Pavcnik) Marc Sevastopoulo "Do Some Sponsors Know Better than Others in Public Equities Market? Explaining the Superior Performance of Growth Capital-Backed IPOs, 1980-2017." (Advisor Bruce Sacerdote) Nitya L. Thakore "The Quiet Revolution: Quantifying Patterns of Development with Markov Switching Models 1973-2017." (Advisor Andrew Levin) Ian J. Van Hoek "US Senators' Trading Portfolios: Measuring the Impact of the STOCK Act." (Advisor Bruce Sacerdote) Alexis R. Vannett "Attempting the Impossible: Tracking, Measuring and Analyzing the Spread and Impact of COVID-19 in Real Time." (Advisor Bruce Sacerdote) Daniel S. Warpecha "Do Credit Rating Downgrades Result in Undervaluation? A Closer Look at High-Yield and Distressed Bonds." (Advisor Bruce Sacerdote) Michelle Y. Wu "The Impact of Insider and Institutional Ownership on Firm Innovation and Returns." (Advisor Bruce Sacerdote) Nelson A Rockefeller Prize (Best Performance in the Major) Albert A. Chen Nitya L. Thakore Lewis H. Haney Prize (Outstanding Honors Thesis) Albert A. Chen Yifan He Nitya L. Thakore 2018-2019 Graduating with Honors in Economics Michael Bodek Hanting Guo Vibhor Khanna Ruoni Wang Graduating with High Honors in Economics (Thesis and Advisors) Muhammad A. Ahsan “Age of Exposure, Spatial Spillovers, and the Nepali Civil War: Understanding the Effects of Violence Exposure on the Educational Outcomes of Children.”(Advisor: Eric Edmonds) Se Hyuk (Solomon) Bang “The Effect of Heat on Productivity: Evidence from Bangladeshi Textile Factory.” (Advisor: James Feyrer) David P. Herrera “The Changing Burden of Malaria: Assessing Our Progress in the Era of Interventions.” (Advisor: James Feyrer) Peter J. Choi “Benefitting from the EITC without Using It: The Long Term Effects of Childhood EITC Exposure on Adult Health.” (Advisor: Elizabeth Cascio) Brian S. Curran “The Long-Run Effects of School Accountability Laws.” (Advisor: Douglas Staiger) John A. Fitz-Henley II “Echoes of an Epidemic: Effects of Youth Exposure to the Crack Cocaine Epidemic on Adult Outcomes.” (Advisor: Bruce Sacerdote) Matthew J. Hayes “Do Legal Homeless Camps Bring Crime into Neighborhoods? Evidence from Seattle.” (Advisor: Douglas Staiger) Yihang (Genna) Liu “Examining the Effect of DACA on Geographic Mobility.” (Advisor: Ethan Lewis) Alex Z. Magnuson “The Impact of System Affiliation on Product Differentiation in Hospitals.” (Advisor: Douglas Staiger) Katherine C. McCreery “Economic Determinants of Immigration Attitude: Evidence from the European Refugee Crisis.” (Advisor: Nina Pavcnik) Nalini A. Ramanathan “Labor Effects of Exporting Offshorable Business Services in the United States.” (Advisor: Treb Allen) James R. Schenck, Jr. “Bad Company?: Market Reactions to Securities Class Action Filings.” (Advisor: Bruce Sacerdote) Briana M. Tang “Do Legal Homeless Camps Bring Crime into Neighborhoods? Evidence from Seattle..” (Advisor: Douglas Staiger) Richard J. Yang “Assessment of the SEC Tick Size Pilot Program and Transaction Costs on Market Efficiency.” (Advisor: Eric Zitzewitz) Amanda K. Sload “The Regional Allocation of Talent: Analysis of the Trends, Determinants, and Effects of Regional Barriers.” (Advisor: James Feyrer “More Days, No Gains? The Impact of Additional School Days Prior to Standardized Testing in Florida” (Advisor: Douglas Staiger) Nelson A Rockefeller Prize (Best Performance in the Major) Amanda K. Sload Briana Tang Lewis H. Haney Prize (Outstanding Honors Thesis) Matthew Hayes Briana Tang 2017-2018 Graduating with Honors in Economics Rachel E. Citera Jonah H. Kelly Hung D. Nguyen Joshua A. Ufland Jiarui Wang Graduating with High Honors in Economics (Thesis and Advisors) Andrew W. Blackwell “More Companies are Staying Private: Are They Better Off As a Result?” Advisor: Bruce Sacerdote Helen M. Gu “The Effect of Medical Marijuana Laws on Opioid Utilization: Evidence from Medicare Part D Implementation.” Advisor: Elizabeth Cascio David P. Herrera “The Changing Burden of Malaria: Assessing Our Progress in the Era of Interventions.” Advisor: James Feyrer Akhila J. Kovvuri “Rural Workfare and Consumption Smoothing in India: Role of NREGS as Insurance against Rainfall Shocks.” Advisor: Elizabeth Cascio Luqman I. Sumartono “Health Insurance Reform in Indonesia: Expanding Insurance Coverage, Implementing a Single-Payer System, and Improving Healthcare Equity.” Advisor: Douglas Staiger Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Economics About Why Econ? Careers in Economics Student Experiences Econ Alumni Undergraduate Overview The Major The Minor First Year FAQ Modified Major Honors Courses Class Schedule Syllabi About Wait-lists Transfer Credits Dartmouth Economic Research Scholars (DERS) Fed Challenge Jobs, Fellowships and Interships Political Economy Project Study Abroad Bocconi Exchange Information Dartmouth Oxford Exchange University College London Exchange Information Research Overview Faculty by Field Faculty Research Faculty Spotlight Globalization Cluster Inclusivity Inclusion at Dartmouth Resources for Undergraduates Statement on Racial Justice News & Events News & Events Seminars People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback