Skip to Content Open Close primary navigation Search Search About Faculty Programs Research Give News Search Search Home Academics Biomedical and Chemical Engineering Programs Bachelor of Science in Bioengineering Bachelor of Science in Bioengineering Learn to apply physical science techniques to life-science problems in preparation for a career in bioengineering product development, medicine, or other fields that tackle global healthcare issues. “My professors have really guided me in achieving my academic goals and developing my career goals.” Avery Callahan ’19, Bioengineering This is a comprehensive education. You will study a broad array of technical topics, balanced with practical lessons in communication and ethics. To ensure your personal and professional success, this program focuses on small classes, attentive faculty, research and study abroad opportunities, and an exceptional support system. Request Information > Courses Link Sample courses for bioengineering majors include: Experimental Methods in Chemical Engineering and Bioengineering Biological Principles for Engineers Quantitative Physiology Bioinstrumentation Engineering Materials, Properties, and Processing Biomaterials and Medical Devices View official major requirements. Practical Experience Link Specialize your curriculum based on your desired career path—industry, research, or pre-medicine. If a career in medicine is your goal, choose electives that prepare you to meet the Association of American Medical College’s entrance requirements. Collaborate with faculty on research projects at the Syracuse Biomaterials Institute, SUNY Upstate Medical University, and the SUNY Institute for Human Performance. Join any of the College of Engineering and Computer Science’s 20 co-curricular organizations, or organizations like the Biomedical Engineering Society. The Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET accredits Syracuse University’s B.S. in bioengineering. The 5-year H. John Riley Dual Engineering/MBA Program allows you to earn a bachelor’s degree in bioengineering and an MBA from Syracuse University’s Whitman School of Management. The 4+1 B.S./M.S. Program allows you to earn a master’s degree in bioengineering one year after successful completion of the bachelor’s degree. Apply > Plan a Visit Students Resources Study Abroad Link Broaden your perspective and enhance your resume with an international experience through Syracuse Abroad, with more than 100 programs in 60 countries. Bioengineering majors most often go abroad to Syracuse University Centers in Florence, Madrid, Santiago, and Strasbourg, and World Partner Programs at the University College Dublin and the University of New South Wales. Life After Syracuse University Link As a College of Engineering and Computer Science graduate with a major in bioengineering, you can explore such careers as: Biomaterial designer Bioinstrumentation/medical device designer Orthopedic bioengineer/prosthesis design Cellular, tissue and genetic engineering Healthcare engineer Consulting Teaching You can also pursue graduate training in such areas as medicine, molecular and cellular engineering, quantitative biology, and more. Recent graduates of the program have attended some of the top graduate schools in the United States. View program details in the University Course Catalog Enrollment & Graduation Data, Program Educational Objectives, and Student Outcomes More from this Section 4+1 Bioengineering BS/Masters Program 4+1 Chemical Engineering BS/Masters Program Bachelor of Science in Chemical Engineering Doctor of Philosophy in Bioengineering Doctor of Philosophy in Chemical Engineering Master of Science in Bioengineering Master of Science in Chemical Engineering Contact BMCE 329 Link Hall Syracuse, NY 13244 (P) 315.443.1931 Apply Now About Academics Admissions Alumni Research Student Services Apply Contact Directory Events Calendar Give News Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter Subscribe to Us on YouTube Follow Us on Instagram 223 Link Hall, Syracuse, NY 13244 | 315-443-2545 © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy