Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Education Main Navigation Prospective Students Show Extended Admissions Office of Financial Aid Degrees & Credentials Doctoral Program Master's Program Credential Program Become a Teacher About CSUF Current Students Show Extended Resource Directory Scholarships & Financial Aid Student Clubs Center for Careers in Teaching Credential Preparation Center Events Show Extended Ed Week Honor an Educator Job Fair Commencement Carr Fellow Community Show Extended College Centers Webinar Series Emma Holmes Fellowship Funded Projects Researchers and Critical Educators Impact Newsletter Resources for Virtual Teaching and Learning Just, Equitable, and Inclusive Education Resources Anti-Racism Webinars Social Emotional Learning Resources CSU Deans Of Education DEI Statement Departments & Programs Show Extended Center for Careers in Teaching Educational Leadership Elementary & Bilingual Education Literacy & Reading Instructional Design Secondary Education Special Education Online Programs About the College Show Extended Dean's Message Strategic Plan Just, Equitable, and Inclusive Education Accreditation & Assessment CTC Preconditions Conceptual Framework Vision, Mission, & Values Faculty & Staff Faculty Directory Staff Directory Faculty Resources Engaged Scholarship Research in the College of Education Giving to the College Dean's Message Strategic Plan Just, Equitable, & Inclusive Education - JEIE Resources College Center Information Accreditation/Assessment - Conceptual Framework - Vision, Mission, & Values Our Faculty & Staff - Faculty Directory - Staff Directory - Faculty Resources -- Engaged Scholarship Strategic Plan Cal State Fullerton aims to become a model public comprehensive university, nationally recognized for exceptional programs that prepare our diverse student body for academic and professional success. Introduction In pursuit of the ideals of our mission, vision and core values, the College of Education (COE) develops a strategic plan every 5 years. Through a comprehensive planning process that involved faculty, staff, alumni, students and community representatives, beginning fall 2018, the College of Education will begin implementation of major initiatives related to the plan’s three major goals: Just, Equitable and Inclusive Education Technology Community Engagement This plan will help to guide the College in its continued success and growth. Achievements from the COE 2013-2018 Strategic Plan CoE Strategic Plan 2018-2023 Goal 1: Provide a transformative educational experience and environment for all students Objectives: JEIE 90% of credential completers demonstrate knowledge and use of teaching strategies that promote just, equitable and inclusive education by meeting the passing standard on selected assessments . 90% of masters and doctoral candidates demonstrate knowledge and leadership in just equitable and inclusive practices by meeting the passing standard on selected assessments. Technology 90% of credential completers demonstrate knowledge and effective use of t echnology in teaching by meeting the passing standard on selected assessments . 90% of masters and doctoral candidates demonstrate knowledge and leadership in the use of technology by meeting the passing standard on selected assessments. Community Impact Community Change 90% of all program candidates note an increased ability to work in different, linguistic, social or cultural settings resulting from opportunities to participate in community events (local, national, international) as reported by survey ratings of three or higher on related questions. Community Change We will increase the number of Birth-14 students and families served through COE supported community-based programs by 100%. Goal 2: Strengthen opportunities for student completion and graduation Objectives: Student Graduation Rate (Doctorate and Master’s) By 2023, 80% of all masters’ candidates graduate within three-years and 60% of all doctoral candidates in three and a half years (disaggregated by race and department). Recruiting and Retaining Diverse Candidates Increase underrepresented students of color in each initial credential and advanced program to equal the number of underrepresented students on campus. Professional Field/Clinical Experience Ensure that all students in advanced programs participate in professional field experience as it relates to the degree. Support Undergraduate Advising Improve graduate rate for students advised by the Center for Careers in Teaching to 4 year graduation rate and transfer to 2 year graduation rate Goal 3: Recruit and retain a high-quality and diverse faculty and staff Objectives: Faculty Development Ensure that all faculty participate in at least one professional development opportunity every year to enhance teaching in JEIE or Technology. Staff Development Ensure that all staff participate in at least one professional development opportunity every year in JEIE or Technology as it applies to their roles in the workplace. Recruitment and Retention of Diverse Faculty and Staff Increase the percentage of underrepresented faculty of color (full and part time) to better represent the percentage of students of color on campus while maintaining a 98% retention rate for all full-time faculty. Maintain at least 57% staff of color over the next five years. Goal 4: Expand and strengthen our financial and physical capacity Objective: Fundraising Secure a five-year average of $1,000,000 per year in combined private, corporate and grants focused on areas that advance the strategic plan. This site is maintained by College of Education. Last Published 4/6/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact COETech@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.