Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Education Main Navigation Prospective Students Show Extended Admissions Office of Financial Aid Degrees & Credentials Doctoral Program Master's Program Credential Program Become a Teacher About CSUF Current Students Show Extended Resource Directory Scholarships & Financial Aid Student Clubs Center for Careers in Teaching Credential Preparation Center Events Show Extended Ed Week Honor an Educator Job Fair Commencement Carr Fellow Community Show Extended College Centers Webinar Series Emma Holmes Fellowship Funded Projects Researchers and Critical Educators Impact Newsletter Resources for Virtual Teaching and Learning Just, Equitable, and Inclusive Education Resources Anti-Racism Webinars Social Emotional Learning Resources CSU Deans Of Education DEI Statement Departments & Programs Show Extended Center for Careers in Teaching Educational Leadership Elementary & Bilingual Education Literacy & Reading Instructional Design Secondary Education Special Education Online Programs About the College Show Extended Dean's Message Strategic Plan Just, Equitable, and Inclusive Education Accreditation & Assessment CTC Preconditions Conceptual Framework Vision, Mission, & Values Faculty & Staff Faculty Directory Staff Directory Faculty Resources Engaged Scholarship Research in the College of Education Giving to the College Events Ed Week Honor an Educator Job Fair Commencement Carr Fellow Honoring our Educators 2022 Honor an educator luncheon & ceremony Sunday, November 13, 2022 Registration open at 11:30 a.m. Program starts at 12:00 p.m. Cal State Fullerton Business Casual Attire The Honor an Educator program was created in 2006 as a special event paying tribute to community educators and partners who have made a difference in the lives of their students and communities. You have the opportunity to recognize and honor an extraordinary teacher in your life! Honoring an educator is a meaningful way to applaud the work of educators who impact others every day. By supporting at the sponsor or package level, alumni, faculty, and friends are invited to submit names of honorees with a brief description of why they are being honored. Honorees are sent a congratulatory letter from the Dean of the College, as well as being presented an engraved photo frame as a permanent memento of thanks and appreciation of their outstanding contribution to excellence in education. Honorees' names will be listed on the college’s website, along with donors’ names and descriptive paragraphs they wrote about the honorees. If you are interested in attending, purchasing seats, honoring your own educator, or becoming a sponsor, register today or call 657-278-2897. Event proceeds support scholarships for future teachers in Cal State Fullerton’s College of Education. Register Congratulations to the honorees and thanks to nominators for their generous support of the College of Education. Congratulations to the 2022 Distinguished Award Recipients! Congratulations to the honorees and thanks to nominators for their generous support of the College of Education. Sponsored by Teacher Created Materials Past Award Recipients Please select a year below to view honorees from the past: 2020 | 2019 | 2018 | 2017 | 2016 | 2015 | 2014 | 2013 | 2012 | 2011 | 2010 | 2009 | 2008 | 2007 | 2006 This site is maintained by College of Education. Last Published 4/6/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact COETech@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.