Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Education Main Navigation Prospective Students Show Extended Admissions Office of Financial Aid Degrees & Credentials Doctoral Program Master's Program Credential Program Become a Teacher About CSUF Current Students Show Extended Resource Directory Scholarships & Financial Aid Student Clubs Center for Careers in Teaching Credential Preparation Center Events Show Extended Ed Week Honor an Educator Job Fair Commencement Carr Fellow Community Show Extended College Centers Webinar Series Emma Holmes Fellowship Funded Projects Researchers and Critical Educators Impact Newsletter Resources for Virtual Teaching and Learning Just, Equitable, and Inclusive Education Resources Anti-Racism Webinars Social Emotional Learning Resources CSU Deans Of Education DEI Statement Departments & Programs Show Extended Center for Careers in Teaching Educational Leadership Elementary & Bilingual Education Literacy & Reading Instructional Design Secondary Education Special Education Online Programs About the College Show Extended Dean's Message Strategic Plan Just, Equitable, and Inclusive Education Accreditation & Assessment CTC Preconditions Conceptual Framework Vision, Mission, & Values Faculty & Staff Faculty Directory Staff Directory Faculty Resources Engaged Scholarship Research in the College of Education Giving to the College Dean's Message Strategic Plan Just, Equitable, & Inclusive Education - JEIE Resources College Center Information Accreditation/Assessment - Conceptual Framework - Vision, Mission, & Values Our Faculty & Staff - Faculty Directory - Staff Directory - Faculty Resources -- Engaged Scholarship Just, Equitable, and Inclusive Education (JEIE) JUST EDUCATION A commitment to meet the educational needs of all students in a fair, caring, respectful, non-discriminatory manner (NCATE, 2008). This includes recognizing and understanding the impact of one’s own privileges, biases, perspectives and beliefs on the interactions one has with students. EQUITABLE EDUCATION A process that goes beyond providing equal opportunities, seeking to guarantee access to resources and to the challenges and supports necessary for all students to attain high-quality outcomes, not predicted by race, ethnicity, SES, gender, family structure, first language, religion, sexual orientation, (im)migration status, or disability. INCLUSIVE EDUCATION A perspective that acknowledges, recognizes, and respects the knowledge and strengths all students bring from their communities (e.g., cultural, ethnic, disability, and linguistic) and makes community-based knowledge an integral component of curricular and pedagogical development. In this way, we as educators learn to value and draw upon students’ backgrounds not only as a means to support them in developing tools to participate with success in the broader society but also as a mechanism to transform how we do our work. COE Commitment to Creating a Just, Equitable and Inclusive Climate Spiritual, Religious, and/or Cultural Holiday Statement This site is maintained by College of Education. Last Published 4/6/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact COETech@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.