Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Education Main Navigation Prospective Students Show Extended Admissions Office of Financial Aid Degrees & Credentials Doctoral Program Master's Program Credential Program Become a Teacher About CSUF Current Students Show Extended Resource Directory Scholarships & Financial Aid Student Clubs Center for Careers in Teaching Credential Preparation Center Events Show Extended Ed Week Honor an Educator Job Fair Commencement Carr Fellow Community Show Extended College Centers Webinar Series Emma Holmes Fellowship Funded Projects Researchers and Critical Educators Impact Newsletter Resources for Virtual Teaching and Learning Just, Equitable, and Inclusive Education Resources Anti-Racism Webinars Social Emotional Learning Resources CSU Deans Of Education DEI Statement Departments & Programs Show Extended Center for Careers in Teaching Educational Leadership Elementary & Bilingual Education Literacy & Reading Instructional Design Secondary Education Special Education Online Programs About the College Show Extended Dean's Message Strategic Plan Just, Equitable, and Inclusive Education Accreditation & Assessment CTC Preconditions Conceptual Framework Vision, Mission, & Values Faculty & Staff Faculty Directory Staff Directory Faculty Resources Engaged Scholarship Research in the College of Education Giving to the College College Centers Webinar Series Emma Holmes Fellowship Funded Projects Impact Newsletter Virtual Teaching and Learning Resources Just, Equitable and Inclusive Education Resources Anti-Racism Webinars Social Emotional Learning Resources Webinar Series Welcome to the College of Education’s Webinar Series. These webinars are designed for educators. The webinars cover a range of topics. To attend a webinar, simply select the topic of your choice, save the date, and log in. Please send RSVP to Jamie Reim indicating which webinar you are interested in. Upcoming Webinars Presenter: Alison Dover Date: Monday, March 4th Time: 6:00 - 7:00 pm Webinar Link In this webinar, participants will examine strategies for teaching for social justice in contested classroom spaces, including those where emphases on standards, high-stakes accountability, and dominant narratives restrict and regulate teacher autonomy. Participants will consider examples of student-driven, social justice-oriented, and standards-conscious curriculum, and explore the implications for their own work as teachers. Presenter: Erica Howell Date: Monday, March 11th Time: 6:00 - 7:00 pm Webinar Link Learn about the opportunities at CSUF's Center for Autism, Education Core including service learning, research, on-campus programs, community work, and independent projects. The center offers many avenues for CSUF student involvement! Presenter: Tiffany Row Date: Monday, March 25 th Time: 6:00 - 7:00 pm Webinar Link Learn how to create an inclusive classroom for the success of students with and without disabilities. A brief background about inclusion will be shared, and then the bulk of this webinar will offer practical tips and strategies that teachers can begin using right away. Presenter: Natalie Tran Date: Monday, April 15 th Time: 6:00 - 7:00 pm Webinar Link Take a break and come join us for a session of deep relaxation through the practice of mindfulness. The facilitator will share concrete practice to help reduce stress and lower anxiety while cultivating positive self-esteem. Presenter: Melinda Pierson Date: Monday, April 29 th Time: 6:00 - 7:00 pm Webinar Link This webinar will focus on the benefits of study abroad opportunities for students in the field of education. Specific programs offered in the College of Education will be presented and participants will be encouraged to get involved in diverse opportunities to increase their experiences in different settings. Archived Webinars Discovering the Graduate Programs within the Department of Literacy and Reading Education Special Education Credential & Master's Program Overview The Art of Persuasion Single Subject Credential Program Exploring Doctoral Degree Programs Bringing Art Into Elementary Classrooms LinkedIn Profiles and the Job Search More About Migrant Education Classroom Mangement Skills for New Teachers Superheroes Wanted, Future Teacher Apply Mindfulness Eportfolios – Building Your Online Profile LGBTQ and Gender Diversity Inclusion in P- 12 Schools (site unavailable) Scholarship and Grant Opportunities Technology and 21st Century Skills CSUF Career Center Resources Exploring Doctoral Degrees Global Education Issues and Opportunities Cyber Bullying in Japan Education Websites and Apps Building Your Linkedin Profile Support for All Students Stay Connected! Find out more about the Alumni Association The Quest for a Perfect Resume Want to teach in higher education? What you need to know! This site is maintained by College of Education. Last Published 4/6/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact COETech@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.