Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Education Main Navigation Prospective Students Show Extended Admissions Office of Financial Aid Degrees & Credentials Doctoral Program Master's Program Credential Program Become a Teacher About CSUF Current Students Show Extended Resource Directory Scholarships & Financial Aid Student Clubs Center for Careers in Teaching Credential Preparation Center Events Show Extended Ed Week Honor an Educator Job Fair Commencement Carr Fellow Community Show Extended College Centers Webinar Series Emma Holmes Fellowship Funded Projects Researchers and Critical Educators Impact Newsletter Resources for Virtual Teaching and Learning Just, Equitable, and Inclusive Education Resources Anti-Racism Webinars Social Emotional Learning Resources CSU Deans Of Education DEI Statement Departments & Programs Show Extended Center for Careers in Teaching Educational Leadership Elementary & Bilingual Education Literacy & Reading Instructional Design Secondary Education Special Education Online Programs About the College Show Extended Dean's Message Strategic Plan Just, Equitable, and Inclusive Education Accreditation & Assessment CTC Preconditions Conceptual Framework Vision, Mission, & Values Faculty & Staff Faculty Directory Staff Directory Faculty Resources Engaged Scholarship Research in the College of Education Giving to the College Center for Careers in Teaching Educational Leadership Elementary & Bilingual Literacy & Reading Instructional Design Secondary Education Special Education Online Programs Bilingual Authorization (BiAu) Program Departments & Programs The College of Education consists of the following departments and programs: Department of Educational Leadership Department of Elementary and Bilingual Education Department of Literacy & Reading Education Department of Secondary Education Department of Special Education Master of Science in Instructional Design and Technology (MSIDT) Program About Our Departments The College offers a wide range of credential & degree programs, including six fully online options. EDUCATIONAL LEADERSHIP Our mission is to prepare school leaders who demonstrate strategic, instructional, organizational, political and community leadership; and to provide the community a source of scholarship and assistance in interpretation and application of scholarship. Graduates of our programs will be prepared educational leaders who demonstrate a clear committment to just, equitable and inclusive education. Our programs include: Clear Administrative Services Credential Doctorate in Educational Leadership M.S. in Education with a Concentration in Educational Administration M.S. in Education with a Concentration in Higher Education Preliminary Administrative Services Credential Professional Certificate in Community College Studies Explore Educational Leadership ELEMENTARY AND BILINGUAL EDUCATION (GRADES TK - 8) The department offers teacher credential & masters programs in a variety of areas, both face to face and online. Our programs include: Bilingual Added Authorization Certificates (several available) Combined Multiple Subject Teaching Credential and M.S. in Education M.S. in Education (several concentrations available) Multiple Subject Intern Credential Multiple Subject Teaching Credential Explore Elementary Education LITERACY AND READING EDUCATION Our graduate programs are designed to prepare a professional who promote diversity, engage in collaborative endeavors, think critically, maintain professional and ethical standards, and value lifelong learning. Our programs include: M.S. in Literacy and Reading Education Post Secondary Reading and Learning (PRL) Certificate Reading & Literacy Added Authorization Reading & Literacy Leadership Specialist Credential Explore Literacy and Reading Education MASTER OF SCIENCE IN INSTRUCTIONAL DESIGN AND TECHNOLOGY The Master of Science in Instructional Design and Technology is an interdisciplinary program housed within the College of Education. The program is fully online and designed to prepare professionals who wish to further their skills and education in instructional design at the national and international levels. Graduate students learn to use emerging technologies for teaching, learning, training, and curriculum development. Students develop skills in project management, learning management systems, technology enabled media literacy, research, critical thinking and problem solving. Our programs include: Certificates M.S. in Instructional Design and Technology Explore MSIDT SECONDARY EDUCATION (GRADES 6-12) The department offers teacher credential & masters programs in a variety of areas, both face to face and online. Our programs include: Bilingual Added Authorization Combined Single Subject Teaching Credential and M.S. in Education, Concentration in Culturally Responsive Teaching M.S. in Education, concentration in Secondary Education Single Subject Intern Credential Single Subject Teaching Credential Explore Secondary Education SPECIAL EDUCATION The department offers teacher credential & masters programs in a variety of areas, both face to face and online in the field of Special Education. Our programs include: Autism Added Authorization Early Childhood Special Education Added Authorization Early Childhood Special Education Credential M.S. in Education, Concentration in Special Education Mild/Moderate Disabilites Credential Moderate/Severe Disabilites Credential Resource Specialist Added Authorization Special Education Intern Credential Explore Special Education This site is maintained by College of Education. Last Published 4/6/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact COETech@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.