Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Education Main Navigation Prospective Students Show Extended Admissions Office of Financial Aid Degrees & Credentials Doctoral Program Master's Program Credential Program Become a Teacher About CSUF Current Students Show Extended Resource Directory Scholarships & Financial Aid Student Clubs Center for Careers in Teaching Credential Preparation Center Events Show Extended Ed Week Honor an Educator Job Fair Commencement Carr Fellow Community Show Extended College Centers Webinar Series Emma Holmes Fellowship Funded Projects Researchers and Critical Educators Impact Newsletter Resources for Virtual Teaching and Learning Just, Equitable, and Inclusive Education Resources Anti-Racism Webinars Social Emotional Learning Resources CSU Deans Of Education DEI Statement Departments & Programs Show Extended Center for Careers in Teaching Educational Leadership Elementary & Bilingual Education Literacy & Reading Instructional Design Secondary Education Special Education Online Programs About the College Show Extended Dean's Message Strategic Plan Just, Equitable, and Inclusive Education Accreditation & Assessment CTC Preconditions Conceptual Framework Vision, Mission, & Values Faculty & Staff Faculty Directory Staff Directory Faculty Resources Engaged Scholarship Research in the College of Education Giving to the College Events Ed Week Honor an Educator Job Fair Commencement Carr Fellow CSUF 2022 College of Education Commencement Ceremony Information A message from the College of Education Commencement Team: We are excited to announce 2022 Commencement information! The following is information for College of Education students completing their Master's, Ed. D., Multiple Subject, Single Subject, Special Education, or Preliminary Administrative Services credential in the Fall 2021, Spring 2022 or Summer 2022. More information can be found on the CSUF Commencement website. Date: Monday, May 23 Ceremony Time: 5:00 PM Location: Titan Stadium Line up time: Students must be lined up by 4:00pm Line up location: Students must line up in Parking Lot A South . Ceremony Speaker and vocalist We want to thank all of the students who took the time and shared their talents by auditioning for Student Speaker and/or Student Vocalist. Student Speaker: Brandy Garcia Student Vocalist(s): AJ Stevens Distinguished Faculty Marshal: Dr. Natalie Tran, Ph.D. COMMENCEMENT registration (for students) IS REQUIRED Registration is now closed. Please send an email to COEcommencement@fullerton.edu if you did not register by the deadline but would still like to attend. COMMENCEMENT TICKETS (for guests) Each student gets 8 guest tickets. You can access your guest tickets once you have registered for commencement. For more information about tickets please visit the CSUF Commencement website. COMMENCEMENT RECEPTIONS Your academic department will communicate with you if they plan to host a reception. COMMENCEMENT regalia requirements Caps and gowns are mandatory for the commencement ceremony and are available for purchase at the Titan Bookstore. Master's and Ed.D. candidates will be hooded during the ceremony. Comfortable shoes are highly recommended as there will be considerable walking and the graduate's chairs will be on a lawn. Regalia Attire Credential: CSUF's *NEW* bachelor's gown and mortarboard Master's: CSUF's Master's gown and mortarboard Ed.D.: CSUF's Doctoral gown (with velvet) and tam Tassel Color Credential: none Education: light blue Education Technology: light blue Instructional Design and Technology: purple Tassel Position Credential: none Master's or Ed. D.: left side of mortarboard PARKING Parking permits are not needed during the week of Commencement. Your ceremony location will determine the best parking lot or structure for you to park in, see campus map. ACCOMMODATIONS FOR PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES Disability Access Requests can be submitted until Friday, May 6th via the Commencement Accessibility page. COLLEGE OF eDUCATION COMMENCEMENT CONTACTS Heather Terry Aimee Nelson This site is maintained by College of Education. Last Published 5/12/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact COETech@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.