Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Education Main Navigation Prospective Students Show Extended Admissions Office of Financial Aid Degrees & Credentials Doctoral Program Master's Program Credential Program Become a Teacher About CSUF Current Students Show Extended Resource Directory Scholarships & Financial Aid Student Clubs Center for Careers in Teaching Credential Preparation Center Events Show Extended Ed Week Honor an Educator Job Fair Commencement Carr Fellow Community Show Extended College Centers Webinar Series Emma Holmes Fellowship Funded Projects Researchers and Critical Educators Impact Newsletter Resources for Virtual Teaching and Learning Just, Equitable, and Inclusive Education Resources Anti-Racism Webinars Social Emotional Learning Resources CSU Deans Of Education DEI Statement Departments & Programs Show Extended Center for Careers in Teaching Educational Leadership Elementary & Bilingual Education Literacy & Reading Instructional Design Secondary Education Special Education Online Programs About the College Show Extended Dean's Message Strategic Plan Just, Equitable, and Inclusive Education Accreditation & Assessment CTC Preconditions Conceptual Framework Vision, Mission, & Values Faculty & Staff Faculty Directory Staff Directory Faculty Resources Engaged Scholarship Research in the College of Education Giving to the College College Centers Webinar Series Emma Holmes Fellowship Funded Projects Impact Newsletter Virtual Teaching and Learning Resources Just, Equitable and Inclusive Education Resources Anti-Racism Webinars Social Emotional Learning Resources Our Centers Through our centers, the College of Education actively supports the scholarship, professional growth, and focused service of our faculty, staff, and students through our centers. The College of Education centers provide support to our community partners in a wide-variety of areas, such as assisting in program assessment; improving teacher quality (working toward National Board qualification); evaluating and providing intervention strategies for struggling readers; developing creativity collaboration, and critical thinking skills through arts and STEM integration in core curriculum; supporting innovative strategies for learners with autism spectrum disorder and their families; advising and counseling for Community College transfer students; and informing practice in math and science teaching and learning. Center for Autism The Center for Autism improves the lives of individuals with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and their families through research, teaching, clinical service, and community involvement.The Center is comprised of two related cores, the Education Core, housed in the College of Education, and the Applied Developmental Core, housed in the College of Health and Human Development. Erica Howell, Co-Director Rachel Fenning, Co-Director Jason Baker, Co-Director SchoolsFirst Federal Credit Union Center for Careers in Teaching The Center for Careers in Teaching provides informational workshops, direct advising, and credentialing support for all students who are interested in becoming teachers. As the College of Education does not award undergraduate degrees, the Center for Careers in Teaching acts as the support network for undergraduate students who wish to become teachers. Mrs. Aimee Nelson, Director Center for Research on Educational Access and Leadership (C-REAL) C-REAL is a data-driven, solution-focused interdisciplinary research center where PK-20 educational institutions in the Orange and Los Angeles counties partner with the College of Education at California State University, Fullerton (CSUF) to identify and respond to local problems and issues in educational institutions. Dr. Dawn Person, Director Hazel Miller Croy Reading Center The Reading Center supports reading and literacy development in a variety of settings for students, families, and teachers. Direct services are provided to students of various ages and learning styles in an engaging and supportive environment in our campus center. Ms. Kathryn Bartle Angus, Director Ms. JoAnne Chapman, Associate Director Schools First Federal Credit Union Center for Creativity and Critical Thinking We build partnerships with local schools by working with teachers to develop the knowledge, skills and attitudes that students need in order to thrive in this exciting, digital, and global century. Our partnerships focus on developing creativity, collaboration, critical thinking, and decision-making across the curriculum. Our primary focus is on technology integration and innovations such as virtual reality software and application into instruction. Dr. Cynthia Gautreau, Director This site is maintained by College of Education. Last Published 4/6/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact COETech@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.