Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Education Main Navigation Prospective Students Show Extended Admissions Office of Financial Aid Degrees & Credentials Doctoral Program Master's Program Credential Program Become a Teacher About CSUF Current Students Show Extended Resource Directory Scholarships & Financial Aid Student Clubs Center for Careers in Teaching Credential Preparation Center Events Show Extended Ed Week Honor an Educator Job Fair Commencement Carr Fellow Community Show Extended College Centers Webinar Series Emma Holmes Fellowship Funded Projects Researchers and Critical Educators Impact Newsletter Resources for Virtual Teaching and Learning Just, Equitable, and Inclusive Education Resources Anti-Racism Webinars Social Emotional Learning Resources CSU Deans Of Education DEI Statement Departments & Programs Show Extended Center for Careers in Teaching Educational Leadership Elementary & Bilingual Education Literacy & Reading Instructional Design Secondary Education Special Education Online Programs About the College Show Extended Dean's Message Strategic Plan Just, Equitable, and Inclusive Education Accreditation & Assessment CTC Preconditions Conceptual Framework Vision, Mission, & Values Faculty & Staff Faculty Directory Staff Directory Faculty Resources Engaged Scholarship Research in the College of Education Giving to the College Dean's Message Strategic Plan Just, Equitable, & Inclusive Education - JEIE Resources College Center Information Accreditation/Assessment - Conceptual Framework - Vision, Mission, & Values Our Faculty & Staff - Faculty Directory - Staff Directory - Faculty Resources -- Engaged Scholarship Dean's Message Welcome to the College of Education at Cal State Fullerton, where Educators Change the World. In the wake of current events, parents and caregivers alike have expressed their deep appreciation for the role (and patience) of these educators. Educators impact individuals, families, communities, and our society. A lot of attention is being placed on systemic racism (unfair and unequal policies and practices that give one race an advantage over another), but institutionalized racism is not new, and certainly not absent in the education system. When I say Educators Change the World, I am referring to how the education system as a whole, and teachers as conduits of that system, affect the trajectory of so many lives. Students in K-12 spend the majority of their day with their teachers, making them one of the most influential people in their formative years. A teacher can encourage and inspire, creating lasting memories and fondness. In higher education, an instructor can change the trajectory of a student’s career, which in many cases can perpetuate or end generational poverty. Educators are given the privilege to shape, mold, and educate our country’s unpolished gems. In the hands of a culturally competent teacher, our students will shine brightly. But left unchecked, a system that perpetuates institutional racism widens the opportunity gap and dims the light of future leaders who do not fit the mold of the dominant narrative. As educators, if we continue to allow this, we have failed. I believe that education is the great equalizer. In these challenging times education comes in many forms. The social climate calls for an education of the masses around systemic and institutional policies and practices that perpetuate racial disparities. In formal education we see the these disparities in the underrepresentation of teachers of color in the classroom, administration and in decision-making positions across institutions; we see them in the school to prison pipeline; and, we see them in a bourgeoning opportunity gap. For decades children of color have, and continue, to lag behind their white counterparts in academic achievement. Not because they lack the talent, capabilities or intellect, but because they lack access to resources, epistemic practices, and an infrastructure that levels the academic playing field. At the College of Education, we understand the power of education. We know that Educators Change the World. It’s why we take seriously our responsibility to train qualified, compassionate, and culturally competent teachers at every level of academia. It’s why we stand for Just, Equitable, and Inclusive Education. And why our mission is to close the opportunity gap. To create an equitable society, we have to start with intentionality and purpose. Equity does not mean we are all the same, it means that everyone receives the same distribution and access to resources. To fight for anything other than an equitable society is to perpetuate disparities. The College of Education is intentional about dismantling these paradigms by engaging community stakeholders to work together in redesigning the educational system. The purpose is justice. A shared vision is the first step to creating a system that works for all. In education, a just system is when every student is able to thrive irrespective of their zip code. As a college, we believe the classroom should be a safe space where students take risks. The purpose is equity. Our teachers’ pedagogical practices value individual learning styles, sets high standards, encourages, and takes ownership of what is taught and how it’s taught in the classroom because we have the opportunity and the responsibility to ensure every child has the same access and opportunity as any other child, regardless to their socioeconomic circumstance. How we leverage our power is especially important during these unprecedented times. In the College of Education, we are intentional about equipping educators to model (behavior, steps, etc.). The purpose is inclusion. The educator is like a conductor, and every student is a unique instrument of talent and unbridled potential—to be guided and shaped into the best person possible. The set tempo is nurturing, especially if the student dances to the beat of a different drum. The College of Education seeks to produce Educators who are committed to looking beyond the exterior and transforming a student into the best version of themselves. This is how we Reach Higher. If your values and philosophy align with the College of Education at Cal State Fullerton, we’d love for you to apply to any one of our programs. It Takes a Titan, and the College of Education is committed to leading the way. Sincerely, Lisa Kirtman, PhD Dean College of Education Dean Kirtman's Instagram Dean Kirtman's Twitter This site is maintained by College of Education. Last Published 4/6/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact COETech@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.