Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Education Main Navigation Prospective Students Show Extended Admissions Office of Financial Aid Degrees & Credentials Doctoral Program Master's Program Credential Program Become a Teacher About CSUF Current Students Show Extended Resource Directory Scholarships & Financial Aid Student Clubs Center for Careers in Teaching Credential Preparation Center Events Show Extended Ed Week Honor an Educator Job Fair Commencement Carr Fellow Community Show Extended College Centers Webinar Series Emma Holmes Fellowship Funded Projects Researchers and Critical Educators Impact Newsletter Resources for Virtual Teaching and Learning Just, Equitable, and Inclusive Education Resources Anti-Racism Webinars Social Emotional Learning Resources CSU Deans Of Education DEI Statement Departments & Programs Show Extended Center for Careers in Teaching Educational Leadership Elementary & Bilingual Education Literacy & Reading Instructional Design Secondary Education Special Education Online Programs About the College Show Extended Dean's Message Strategic Plan Just, Equitable, and Inclusive Education Accreditation & Assessment CTC Preconditions Conceptual Framework Vision, Mission, & Values Faculty & Staff Faculty Directory Staff Directory Faculty Resources Engaged Scholarship Research in the College of Education Giving to the College College Centers Webinar Series Emma Holmes Fellowship Funded Projects Impact Newsletter Virtual Teaching and Learning Resources Just, Equitable and Inclusive Education Resources Anti-Racism Webinars Social Emotional Learning Resources Anti-Racism Webinars The Secondary Education department is offering free webinars this Fall 2020 semester to address underlying racist policies and practices that exist in schools. The webinars are open to teachers, teacher candidates, faculty and community members. The webinars focus on dismantling racist policies, practices and ideas that influence schools, teachers and children, and most importantly, on taking actions that address anti-racist teaching. All webinars are offered from 4:00pm-5:30pm on Tuesdays. If you've missed a webinar, they will be made available on this webpage and on the College of Education YouTube Channel. If you're interested in registering and learning more about the webinars, please click the Anti-Racism Webinar registration link here. History of Anti-Racism Action in Education Presented by: Dr. Etta R. Hollins Dr. Antoinette S. Linton Related Documents: NEA Action for Social Justice Systemic Racism in School Discipline Systemic Racism in the School Curriculum and Pedagogy The Freedom School Program Becoming an Anti-Racist Educational Leader Presented by: Dr. Eugene Fujimoto Dr. Vita Jones Dr. Daniel Choi Dr. Ernest Black Dr. Dawn Person Dr. Nancy Watkins Identifying and Revising Curriculum for Anti-Racist Teaching Presented by: Dr. Nick Henning, Secondary Ed, CSUF Dr. Antoinette Linton, Secondary Ed, CSUF Related Documents: Checklists for Vetting Anti-Racist Curriculum Curriculum Cycle Slide Etta Hollins Reliable Teaching Practices NewsLetter Anti-Racist Teaching Practice Presented by: Dr. Antoinette S. Linton, Ed.D., CSUF Dr. Miguel Zavala, Ph.D., CSULA Mrs. Monique Marshall, Monique Marshall Strategy and Consulting LLC Other Anti-racism Files and links Anti-Racist Teaching by MxOrozco The Talk: A Journey Toward Anti-Racism A video series, "The Talk: A Journey Toward Anti-Racism" is a collaboration between the university’s Strategic Communications and Brand Management department and the Office of Diversity, Inclusion and Equity Programs. “The Talk: A Journey Toward Anti-Racism” focuses on campus community members talking about their personal journey to anti-racism, their concerns and their hopes for a world that no longer divides by color but instead celebrates the commonality of our humanity. Hopefully, this storytelling fosters a greater understanding of race and its effect on our world. This site is maintained by College of Education. Last Published 4/6/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact COETech@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.