Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Education Educational Leadership Main Navigation Academic Programs Show Extended Doctoral Programs Master's Program Credential Programs Certificate Program Admissions Show Extended Doctoral Program Admissions Master's Program Admissions Credential Program Admissions Certificate Program Admissions Cal State Apply Zoom Workshop (Online/virtual) Resources Show Extended Student Resources Scholarships & Financial Aid Assistant Dean Writing Support Tuition HELO Graduate Assistantships Mentorship Program About Us Show Extended About Us Faculty Directory Just, Equitable, & Inclusive Education EDAD 2021-2022 Faculty Entitlements EDD 2021-2022 Faculty Entitlements EDAD-EDD 2021-2022 Faculty Entitlements Upcoming Events Donate Academic Programs Doctoral Programs Master's Programs Credential Program Certificate Program Welcome to the Doctorate of Education (Ed.D.) Program Apply Now | FAQ's | Faculty/Staff | Entrance Requirements | C-REAL Writing Support | Tuition Cost | Interest Form | The Doctorate of Education (Ed.D.) program is one of few programs in the region that offers separate specializations in Pre K-12 Leadership and Higher Education Leadership for Community Colleges and Universities. This allows students to explore content in greater depth with peers and faculty who share their experience and interest. A new vista is opening for the American educational system, driven by rapid population growth and changes in the needs of children, adults, and families. Those who can best serve this system - and achieve personal success and satisfaction - are those who can effectively lead. Preparing for leadership requires academic training in a professional, culturally diverse environment that integrates the application of theory to practice with the use of practice to refine theory. The Cal State Fullerton Doctoral Program in Educational Leadership delivers that training, and does so through two unique doctoral program specializations: PreK-12 Leadership and Community College Leadership. The PreK-12 (inclusive of preschool and K-12) program cohort is totally immersed in and interfaces with PreK-12 students and faculty. In the Community College program, the cohort specifically focuses on and interfaces with community college students and faculty. The inquiry-based, problem-solving curriculum for both programs is designed to help education professionals learn by fully integrating their experiences in discussion, research, and fieldwork. *PROGRAM OPEN TO CALIFORNIA RESIDENTS ONLY* Admission Deadlines The doctoral programs only admit during the fall term. The department uses a priority application followed by rolling admissions. Priority Application: Students who apply before February 1st will receive an admissions decision within four weeks. This allows students to make informed decisions when considering the CSU Fullerton program and other doctoral programs that begin at the beginning of the summer. Rolling Admissions: CSU Fullerton's Ed.D. programs do not begin until the fall term, therefore rolling admissions are offered to students who apply after the February 1st deadline until May 31st. For students who apply during this period, decisions are typically provided within two weeks of the group interview. Ed.D. Community College Leadership The Ed.D. in Community College Leadership is designed to prepare educators to take on the roles in areas such as senior administration, faculty leadership, student affairs, or business and human resource administration in the community college setting. The curriculum is designed to develop socially- and globally-aware community college leaders who can appropriately respond, understand, and contribute to the rapidly changing world of community colleges and lead those institutions toward excellence. Courses build leadership skills and knowledge in such areas as the role and scope of community colleges, higher education law and policy, ethical decision making, policy and governance, research methods, and resource optimization. Program Information Ed.D. Community College Course Sequence Ed.D. P-12 Leadership The Ed.D. in P-12 Educational Leadership is designed to prepare preschool and K-12 educators as administrators, educational researchers, or teacher leaders to design and renew excellent educational institutions across the P-12 landscape. The curriculum is designed to prepare instructional leaders who can formulate and implement policies that support powerful, equitable teaching and learning and who can exercise significant and ethical influence on the quality of teaching and learning both in and out of schools. Courses build skills in strategic planning, collaborative problem solving, ethical decision making, technological proficiency, and leadership development. Program Information Ed.D P-12 Leadership Course Sequence CLEAR Administrative Services Credential* * CASC is on pause for the 2022-2023 academic year. *Admission into programs leading to licensure and credentialing does not guarantee that students will obtain a license or credential. Licensure and credentialing requirements are set by agencies that are not controlled by or affiliated with the CSU and requirements can change at any time. For example, licensure or credentialing requirements can include evidence of the right to work in the United States (e.g., social security number or tax payer identification number) or successfully passing a criminal background check. Students are responsible for determining whether they can meet licensure or credentialing requirements. The CSU will not refund tuition, fees, or any associated costs, to students who determine subsequent to admission that they cannot meet licensure or credentialing requirements. Information concerning licensure and credentialing requirements are available within programs or departments. Information Sessions: fall 2022 admission cycle Please attend one of the scheduled Ed.D. information sessions. If you would like to attend one of these information sessions ONLINE via Zoom please sign-up using this Registration Form at least 24 hours prior to the session to receive the link and password. September 23, 2021 5:00pm-6:00pm via Zoom October 6, 2021 5:00pm-6:00pm via Zoom October 19, 2021 5:00pm-6:00pm via Zoom November 10, 2021 5:00pm-6:00pm via Zoom November 30, 2021 5:00pm-6:00pm via Zoom December 9, 2021 5:00pm-6:00pm via Zoom December 13, 2021 5:00pm-6:00pm via Zoom January 6, 2022 5:00pm-6:00pm via Zoom January 18, 2022 5:00pm-6:00pm via Zoom March 7, 2022 5:00pm-6:00pm via Zoom March 17, 2022 5:00-6:00pm via Zoom This site is maintained by Dept. of Educational Leadership. Last Published 5/13/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact COETech@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.