Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Education Main Navigation Prospective Students Show Extended Admissions Office of Financial Aid Degrees & Credentials Doctoral Program Master's Program Credential Program Become a Teacher About CSUF Current Students Show Extended Resource Directory Scholarships & Financial Aid Student Clubs Center for Careers in Teaching Credential Preparation Center Events Show Extended Ed Week Honor an Educator Job Fair Commencement Carr Fellow Community Show Extended College Centers Webinar Series Emma Holmes Fellowship Funded Projects Researchers and Critical Educators Impact Newsletter Resources for Virtual Teaching and Learning Just, Equitable, and Inclusive Education Resources Anti-Racism Webinars Social Emotional Learning Resources CSU Deans Of Education DEI Statement Departments & Programs Show Extended Center for Careers in Teaching Educational Leadership Elementary & Bilingual Education Literacy & Reading Instructional Design Secondary Education Special Education Online Programs About the College Show Extended Dean's Message Strategic Plan Just, Equitable, and Inclusive Education Accreditation & Assessment CTC Preconditions Conceptual Framework Vision, Mission, & Values Faculty & Staff Faculty Directory Staff Directory Faculty Resources Engaged Scholarship Research in the College of Education Giving to the College Dean's Message Strategic Plan Just, Equitable, & Inclusive Education - JEIE Resources College Center Information Accreditation/Assessment - Conceptual Framework - Vision, Mission, & Values Our Faculty & Staff - Faculty Directory - Staff Directory - Faculty Resources -- Engaged Scholarship About the College On July 1, 2004, the College of Education was formally designated the 8th college of California State University, Fullerton. The College of Education is home to more than 1200 credential and graduate students. It is a destination of choice for students seeking the highest quality teacher preparation and advanced degrees in education. Cal State Fullerton is the only public institution in Orange County that offers professional education programs accredited by the National Council for Accreditation of Teacher Education (NCATE). The College of Education’s work focuses on closing the opportunity gap. The College’s impact is notable given the fact that we credential the largest number of teachers of any public institution in the state of California and have the largest Ed.D. program in the CSU system. We understand that the College cannot control all the complexities of TK-14 student success, but our faculty and staff ensure a level playing field through our focus on three main priorities for educator preparation: Technology Just Equitable and Inclusive Education Community Engagement This site is maintained by College of Education. Last Published 4/6/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact COETech@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.