Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Education Secondary Education Main Menu Single Subject Credential Program Show Extended SSCP Handbook Credential Program Information Credential Program Admission SSCP Handbook Master of Science in Secondary Education Show Extended Master's Program Information Master's Program Admissions Process Resources Show Extended Student Resources Scholarships & Financial Aid Assistant Dean About Us Show Extended Just, Equitable, & Inclusive Education (JEIE) Conceptual Framework Faculty Directory Staff Directory 2021-2022 Faculty Entitlements Update on CBEST/CSET exams: The Commission on Teacher Credentialing (CTC) has recently approved additional pathways for students to demonstrate "basic skills" and "subject matter competency" (competencies previously demonstrated via CBEST/CSET/SMPP). We are waiting for more guidance from the CTC regarding this amended law. We will update this annoucment with additional guidelines as soon as they are made available to us. Please contact us if you have any questions regarding these updates. We are here to support you. Impacting Our Future Programs Learn more > JEIE What is JEIE? > Resources Find resources > Apply Apply now > Mandatory Credential Program Overview To learn more about the Credential only and Combined Credential/Master's Programs and the application process, please attend one of our mandatory in-person overviews. We offer multiple overviews each month. Please see the overview calendar for dates, times and locations. Each overview is approximately 90 minutes. Attendees must attend the overview in full. We recommend parking in the Eastside Parking Structure (EPS) off of Folino drive. Two-hour parking permits may be purchased on the first floor of the parking structures. Please visit our programs section to learn more Overview Calendar Overview meetings will be held online via Zoom. The Zoom link for the meeting is: https://fullerton.zoom.us/j/454564915 *If you do not have the Zoom application downloaded to your computer, you will be prompted to do so. You may want to take a few minutes ahead of the meeting to ensure the Zoom application is downloaded and working on your computer. We apologize, but it appears that your browser does not support inline frames. Plese click on the link below to open Google Calendar in a new window instead of a frame. Open Larger Calendar CONTACT US CSUF College of Education P.O. Box 6868 Fullerton, CA 92831-6868 Department of Secondary Education Phone: (657) 278-7769 Fax: (657) 278-5518 Hours: Mon-Fri 8am-5pm Campus Directory Campus Map & Parking Campus Website Ranked #4 in the U.S. This site is maintained by Dept. of Secondary Education. Last Published 4/6/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact COETech@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.