Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Education Main Navigation Prospective Students Show Extended Admissions Office of Financial Aid Degrees & Credentials Doctoral Program Master's Program Credential Program Become a Teacher About CSUF Current Students Show Extended Resource Directory Scholarships & Financial Aid Student Clubs Center for Careers in Teaching Credential Preparation Center Events Show Extended Ed Week Honor an Educator Job Fair Commencement Carr Fellow Community Show Extended College Centers Webinar Series Emma Holmes Fellowship Funded Projects Researchers and Critical Educators Impact Newsletter Resources for Virtual Teaching and Learning Just, Equitable, and Inclusive Education Resources Anti-Racism Webinars Social Emotional Learning Resources CSU Deans Of Education DEI Statement Departments & Programs Show Extended Center for Careers in Teaching Educational Leadership Elementary & Bilingual Education Literacy & Reading Instructional Design Secondary Education Special Education Online Programs About the College Show Extended Dean's Message Strategic Plan Just, Equitable, and Inclusive Education Accreditation & Assessment CTC Preconditions Conceptual Framework Vision, Mission, & Values Faculty & Staff Faculty Directory Staff Directory Faculty Resources Engaged Scholarship Research in the College of Education Giving to the College About the College Accreditation/Assessment - Education Specialist Implementation Plan - CTC Preconditions - Conceptual Framework - Vision, Mission & Values - Program Outcomes - Candidate Dispositions - Annual Accreditation Report Measures (NCATE/CAEP) - Title II Annual Report Vision, Mission, & Values Our Vision We aspire to be transformational leaders who advance the readiness of all learners to actively participate in an ever-changing, diverse and digital world. Our Mission The College of Education is committed to the preparation and professional development of innovative and transformative educators who advance just, equitable, and inclusive education. As a professional community of scholar-practitioners, we promote creativity, collaboration, and critical thinking as fundamental to student achievement and success in a diverse and interconnected world. Our Core Values We value learning as a lifelong journey that transforms us. We value theory, research and the professional literature as guiding the learning process and informing professional practice. We value responsibility to self and to the group. We value diversity because it enriches the whole. We value multiple pathways to learning that includes the use of technology. We value critical inquiry and seeking necessary change. We value authentic and reflective assessment. This site is maintained by College of Education. Last Published 4/6/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact COETech@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.