Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Education SchoolsFirst Federal Credit Union Center for Careers in Teaching Main Navigation Advising Show Extended Welcome to the CCT! Advising Resources Basic Skills & Subject Matter Requirements Ethnic Studies Requirement How To Make An Appointment Math and Science Teacher Initiative Meet Our Advisors New Students Pathways To Teaching Subject Matter Preparation Programs Resources Show Extended Resources Scholarships & Financial Aid Assistant Dean Credential Overviews Titan Future Teachers Show Extended About the Program How To Join Program Highlights Men of Color in Education Show Extended Diversify Teaching About the Program How To Join Program Highlights About Us Show Extended About Us Just, Equitable & Inclusive Education Conceptual Framework Faculty Directory Staff Directory News Advising: To make an appointment with one of our Academic Advisors, please visit our How to Make an Appointment page. Students are encouraged to connect with us on Instagram for addtional resources and up-to-date information: @csuf_cct, @csuf_tft, @mce_csuf TK-12 Education Trailer Bill (AB 130): Governor Newsom recently signed AB130 creating additional pathways for aspiring teachers to demonstrate they have met the Subject Matter and Basic Skills Requirements to begin a teacher preparation program (in lieu of taking the CBEST or CSET exams). To learn more about these changes please watch our latest Student forum posted on our IG Movies @csuf_cct. Credential Program Applications: FALL 2022 or later: At this time, the subject matter competency requirement is NOT waived for admission purposes for fall 2022 or later. The basic skills requirement is waived for admission for fall 2022, however it must be completed by the end of the program. For applicants who took the EDEL 315, EDSC 310 or SPED 425 course (or the equivalent) in Spring 2020, Fall 2020, or Spring 2021, the 45 hour fieldwork requirement is waived for admission purposes. If fieldwork hours were not completed when the course was taken, those hours will have to be completed during the credential program. Impacting Our Future Advising Learn more > Diversifying Teaching Find out more > Resources Find resources > CURRENT News View more > Please contact us so we may assist you: Location: EC-379 Hours: Monday-Friday 8:00am-5:00pm Contact: (657) 278-7130, askcct@fullerton.edu If you would like to make an appointment with one of our Advisors please refer to our How To Make An Appointment page. Students who already have a bachelor's degree should refer to our Credential Programs page for advising and information about program overviews. For up-to-date announcements regarding COVID-19, visit the CSUF Covid-19 website. This site is maintained by Center for Careers in Teaching. Last Published 5/5/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact COETech@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.