Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Education Main Navigation Prospective Students Show Extended Admissions Office of Financial Aid Degrees & Credentials Doctoral Program Master's Program Credential Program Become a Teacher About CSUF Current Students Show Extended Resource Directory Scholarships & Financial Aid Student Clubs Center for Careers in Teaching Credential Preparation Center Events Show Extended Ed Week Honor an Educator Job Fair Commencement Carr Fellow Community Show Extended College Centers Webinar Series Emma Holmes Fellowship Funded Projects Researchers and Critical Educators Impact Newsletter Resources for Virtual Teaching and Learning Just, Equitable, and Inclusive Education Resources Anti-Racism Webinars Social Emotional Learning Resources CSU Deans Of Education DEI Statement Departments & Programs Show Extended Center for Careers in Teaching Educational Leadership Elementary & Bilingual Education Literacy & Reading Instructional Design Secondary Education Special Education Online Programs About the College Show Extended Dean's Message Strategic Plan Just, Equitable, and Inclusive Education Accreditation & Assessment CTC Preconditions Conceptual Framework Vision, Mission, & Values Faculty & Staff Faculty Directory Staff Directory Faculty Resources Engaged Scholarship Research in the College of Education Giving to the College Credential Preparation Center How to Apply Credential Resources Welcome to the Credential Preparation Center The Credential Preparation Center at California State University, Fullerton acts as the liaison between the Commission on Teacher Credentialing and the credential applicant. We are committed to assure the quality of professional educators in the California elementary and secondary schools and to provide quality advisement and certification services to all professional educators it serves. The materials provided here serve as resources as you prepare to apply for your teaching credential. Please call or visit us if you have questions. NOTICE TO STUDENTS re: PROFESSIONAL LICENSURE AND CERTIFICATION California State University programs for professions that require licensure or certification are intended to prepare the student to meet California licensure and certification requirements. Admission into programs for professions that require licensure and certification does not guarantee that students will obtain a license or certificate. Licensure and certification requirements are set by agencies that are not controlled by or affiliated with the California State University and licensure and certification requirements can change at any time. The California State University has not determined whether its programs meet other states’ educational or professional requirements for licensure and certification. Students enrolled in a California State University program who are planning to pursue licensure or certification in other states are responsible for determining whether they will meet their state’s requirements for licensure or certification. This disclosure is made pursuant to 34 CFR §668.43(a)(5)(v)(C). CONTACT US Sara Kirkpatrick, Credential Analyst Kristin Nichelini, Credential Analyst Credential Preparation Center 2600 East Nutwood Avenue, Suite 540 Fullerton, CA 92831 Phone: (657) 278-3205 Fax: (657) 278-2868 Email the Credential Preparation Center Campus Map and Directions Office Hours: Monday-Friday 8 a.m. – 5 p.m Mailing Address: CSUF Credential Preparation Center California State University, Fullerton P.O. Box 6868 Fullerton, CA 92834-6868 This site is maintained by College of Education. Last Published 4/6/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact COETech@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.