Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Education Main Navigation Prospective Students Show Extended Admissions Office of Financial Aid Degrees & Credentials Doctoral Program Master's Program Credential Program Become a Teacher About CSUF Current Students Show Extended Resource Directory Scholarships & Financial Aid Student Clubs Center for Careers in Teaching Credential Preparation Center Events Show Extended Ed Week Honor an Educator Job Fair Commencement Carr Fellow Community Show Extended College Centers Webinar Series Emma Holmes Fellowship Funded Projects Researchers and Critical Educators Impact Newsletter Resources for Virtual Teaching and Learning Just, Equitable, and Inclusive Education Resources Anti-Racism Webinars Social Emotional Learning Resources CSU Deans Of Education DEI Statement Departments & Programs Show Extended Center for Careers in Teaching Educational Leadership Elementary & Bilingual Education Literacy & Reading Instructional Design Secondary Education Special Education Online Programs About the College Show Extended Dean's Message Strategic Plan Just, Equitable, and Inclusive Education Accreditation & Assessment CTC Preconditions Conceptual Framework Vision, Mission, & Values Faculty & Staff Faculty Directory Staff Directory Faculty Resources Engaged Scholarship Research in the College of Education Giving to the College Giving to the College Support Teachers as they Change the World During this time of great uncertainty, we are proud of the commitment our College of Education faculty have made to the ongoing support of teachers and students in our community. The College of Education has provided direct services to the community by offering free webinars, virtual tutoring, online teaching, anti-racist curriculum, and learning opportunities to more than 500 students and 400 teachers. Over the last few months, teachers have proven once again that they are heroes, quickly adapting to a global pandemic so that their students’ learning can continue. Now, K-12 teachers are working harder than ever to support their students and ensure a quality education for all. College of Education students choose to become teachers and administrators because they want to have a positive impact on the lives of individuals, families, and communities. However, in order for them to continue making a difference, they need your support now more than ever. Your investment in the College of Education supports the growth and development of a highly trained and diverse teaching workforce. By making a gift today, you are helping the College train current and future teachers to address the challenges of today with innovative professional development, critical scholarship support, and continued learning for the virtual classroom. Your gift will empower the College to continue helping teachers continue their mission of changing lives, their communities, California, and the world. Thank you for investing in their future and the future of our community. Thanks to a special matching-gift challenge from Teacher Created Materials , gifts will be MATCHED DOLLAR FOR DOLLAR UP TO $10,000! GIVE NOW This site is maintained by College of Education. Last Published 4/6/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact COETech@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.