Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Education Main Navigation Prospective Students Show Extended Admissions Office of Financial Aid Degrees & Credentials Doctoral Program Master's Program Credential Program Become a Teacher About CSUF Current Students Show Extended Resource Directory Scholarships & Financial Aid Student Clubs Center for Careers in Teaching Credential Preparation Center Events Show Extended Ed Week Honor an Educator Job Fair Commencement Carr Fellow Community Show Extended College Centers Webinar Series Emma Holmes Fellowship Funded Projects Researchers and Critical Educators Impact Newsletter Resources for Virtual Teaching and Learning Just, Equitable, and Inclusive Education Resources Anti-Racism Webinars Social Emotional Learning Resources CSU Deans Of Education DEI Statement Departments & Programs Show Extended Center for Careers in Teaching Educational Leadership Elementary & Bilingual Education Literacy & Reading Instructional Design Secondary Education Special Education Online Programs About the College Show Extended Dean's Message Strategic Plan Just, Equitable, and Inclusive Education Accreditation & Assessment CTC Preconditions Conceptual Framework Vision, Mission, & Values Faculty & Staff Faculty Directory Staff Directory Faculty Resources Engaged Scholarship Research in the College of Education Giving to the College Researchers and Critical Educators Resources and Events Bylaws Brochure Researchers And Critical Educators is an organization of faculty at California State University, Fullerton. We are an interdisciplinary organization linked by our commitment to promoting excellent scholarship, applied research, and discussion of issues on the topics of race, ethnicity, class, culture, religion, linguistic diversity and gender. This organization recog- nizes the changing demographic profile of our societal landscape, and in order to respond to this challenge, Researchers And Critical Educators supports active research and scholar- ship that significantly contributes to this growing body of academic inquiry. To this end, Researchers And Critical Educators works with relevant college and university offices to support new research, advance ongoing projects, and showcase scholarship through conference presentations and aca- demic publications, and encourages individuals in the organization to enhance their leadership skills and become more actively involved in important university, community, and professional activities. GET IN TOUCH! For more information about RACE please visit our website: https://www.researchersandcriticaleducators.org/ CO-PRESIDENTS Co-Presidents: Lucia Alcalá & Benikia Kressler Executive Board Secretary: Keri Prelitz Treasurer: Nicholas Henning Member at Large: Jaya Dofe Board Members and Committee Chairs Public Relations: Scott Bolman & Penchan Phoborisut Teaching and Wellness Group Co-Chairs: Sapna Chopra & Benikia Kressler Writing Group Co-Chairs: Sarah Grant & Jennifer Goldstein This site is maintained by College of Education. Last Published 4/6/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact COETech@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.