Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Education Instructional Design and Technology Main Navigation Academic Programs Show Extended Master of Science Certificate Admissions Resources Show Extended Student Resources Scholarships & Financial Aid Assistant Dean About Us Show Extended Information Sessions and Free Webinars Just, Equitable, & Inclusive Education (JEIE) Conceptual Framework Faculty Directory Staff Directory Frequently Asked Questions Orientation Courses Program Structure Learning Goals and Outcomes Information Handout Certificate Program Future Students Join our live information sessions MSIDT Faculty, Lindsay O'Neill, will lead the session and share information about the program and admission requirements. Find out more about the Master's program and the ID Certificate. Ask questions and get immediate answers! Email us at msidt@fullerton.edu Just click on the link to log in to our video conference session. http://bit.ly/liveinfosession-idt 6/1/2018 Friday 12:00 PM PST 6/4/2018 Monday 7:00 PM PST 6/12/2018 Tuesday 1:00 PM PST 6/18/2018 Monday 7:00 PM PST 6/29/2018 Friday 12:00 PM PST MSIDT program overview videos If you are unable to attend a live video conference session, please review our videos on YouTube. MSIDT Info Session Recording - Part 1 MSIDT Info Session Recording - Part 2 The first fully online Master of Science program in the California State University System, the MSIDT program has been providing a high quality degree program for over 15 years. MSIDT provides an exceptional education, offering a graduate program designed to integrate instructional design theory and principles and featuring emerging technologies in each course. Program Information The MSIDT Program is designed to meet the needs of working professionals. Professionals who are working in the field of technology in kindergarten through higher education, the military, and corporate settings, or for those who wish to change careers. Individuals who wish to further their skills and education in direct applications of technology for teaching, learning and curriculum development used by professionals, including: Instructional technology trainers in business, industry, military, or corporations and universities Instructional designers Web developers Software consultants or designers Anyone working with curriculum development for training in e-learning and multimedia environments for an educational (K-12, community college, higher education, or extended education), corporate or business or military settings. Program Structure This is a cohort program consisting of 10 courses over 5 semesters. Read more about our Program Structure. Courses Core Courses, Advanced Pedagogy and Culminating Experience and full course details. Read more about our Courses. Boot-up Orientation Meeting After admission is confirmed, students attend a mandatory BOOT-UP ORIENTATION MEETING. Read more about our Boot-up Orientation Meeting. Get Started and Apply Apply and Gain Admission to Cal State Fullerton Visit https://www.calstate.edu/apply and begin your admission process to Cal State Fullerton. Visit our Apply Now page for more detailed instructions on what information you'll need to apply to Cal State Fullerton. Submit Your Application SUPPORT MATERIALS Your application support materials will be different for each program. Please visit our Apply Now page for detailed information about the support materials you'll need to gather and submit. This site is maintained by MSIDT Program. Last Published 4/6/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact COETech@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.