Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Education Main Navigation Prospective Students Show Extended Admissions Office of Financial Aid Degrees & Credentials Doctoral Program Master's Program Credential Program Become a Teacher About CSUF Current Students Show Extended Resource Directory Scholarships & Financial Aid Student Clubs Center for Careers in Teaching Credential Preparation Center Events Show Extended Ed Week Honor an Educator Job Fair Commencement Carr Fellow Community Show Extended College Centers Webinar Series Emma Holmes Fellowship Funded Projects Researchers and Critical Educators Impact Newsletter Resources for Virtual Teaching and Learning Just, Equitable, and Inclusive Education Resources Anti-Racism Webinars Social Emotional Learning Resources CSU Deans Of Education DEI Statement Departments & Programs Show Extended Center for Careers in Teaching Educational Leadership Elementary & Bilingual Education Literacy & Reading Instructional Design Secondary Education Special Education Online Programs About the College Show Extended Dean's Message Strategic Plan Just, Equitable, and Inclusive Education Accreditation & Assessment CTC Preconditions Conceptual Framework Vision, Mission, & Values Faculty & Staff Faculty Directory Staff Directory Faculty Resources Engaged Scholarship Research in the College of Education Giving to the College Admissions Office of Financial Aid Credentials & Degrees - Credential Programs - Master's Program - Doctoral Programs Become a Teacher About CSUF Picture Yourself Here The College of Education at CSUF offers more than just a degree or certification. In the ever-changing world of education, we strive to teach our students to become the next leaders of tomorrow. We offer research-driven experiences that pair theory and practice in collaborative, real-world environments. College of Education programs have a distinctive reputation for excellence. Cal State Fullerton is the only public institution in Orange County that offers professional education programs accredited by the National Council for Accreditation of Teacher Education (NCATE). This means that we offer intellectually rigorous programs that are relevant to the needs of today’s educational landscape. Admissions and application information are available in our Admissions section. Why The College of Education at Cal State Fullerton? Six 100% online programs Ed.D. programs with specializations in P-12 and Community College Award winning faculty earning over $14 million in Grants and Contracts between 2013-2017 Largest number of credentials granted by any public university in the state of California First CSU campus with an undergraduate Center for Careers in Teaching (started in 1999) Educational technology integrated into all programs Just, equitable, and inclusive education (JEIE) integrated into all programs Community partnerships serving over 3000 students in afterschool and summer programs in 2017 Partnerships with more than 70 school districts This site is maintained by College of Education. Last Published 4/6/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact COETech@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.