Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Education Main Navigation Prospective Students Show Extended Admissions Office of Financial Aid Degrees & Credentials Doctoral Program Master's Program Credential Program Become a Teacher About CSUF Current Students Show Extended Resource Directory Scholarships & Financial Aid Student Clubs Center for Careers in Teaching Credential Preparation Center Events Show Extended Ed Week Honor an Educator Job Fair Commencement Carr Fellow Community Show Extended College Centers Webinar Series Emma Holmes Fellowship Funded Projects Researchers and Critical Educators Impact Newsletter Resources for Virtual Teaching and Learning Just, Equitable, and Inclusive Education Resources Anti-Racism Webinars Social Emotional Learning Resources CSU Deans Of Education DEI Statement Departments & Programs Show Extended Center for Careers in Teaching Educational Leadership Elementary & Bilingual Education Literacy & Reading Instructional Design Secondary Education Special Education Online Programs About the College Show Extended Dean's Message Strategic Plan Just, Equitable, and Inclusive Education Accreditation & Assessment CTC Preconditions Conceptual Framework Vision, Mission, & Values Faculty & Staff Faculty Directory Staff Directory Faculty Resources Engaged Scholarship Research in the College of Education Giving to the College Events Ed Week Honor an Educator Job Fair Commencement Carr Fellow Education Week Education Week features activities for future teachers, current teachers, faculty, staff, and the community to gain insights about the field of education COE Education Week 2021 Cal State Fullerton’s College of Education (COE) presents Ed Week 2021. Ed Week is an opportunity for the campus community to learn about the impact of earning a credential or degree in education while providing a spotlight for students and alumni to shine. We encourage everyone to participate and visit all of the incredible events we have in store!   View/Download Ed Week Flyer Outline of Events Tuesday, November 09 Black Teachers in P12 Education Panel Hosted by SchoolsFirst Federal Credit Union Center for Careers in Teaching 5:00 PM - 7:00 PM via Zoom Did you know there is a high need for teachers of color in P12 education? Please join us for a discussion with Black teachers who have navigated the pathway to teaching and want to share their journeys with you! Zoom Meeting ID: 846 7756 4133 Monday, November 15 Latinx Teachers in P12 Education Panel Hosted by SchoolsFirst Federal Credit Union Center for Careers in Teaching 5:00 PM - 7:00 PM via Zoom Did you know there is a high need for teachers of color in P12 education? Please join us for a discussion with Latinx teachers who have navigated the pathway to teaching and want to share their journeys with you! Zoom Meeting ID: 861 9780 1261 Tuesday, November 16 C-REAL Open House Hosted by C-REAL 3:45 PM - 4:45 PM via Zoom Join the Center for Research on Educational Access and Leadership during our open house event to learn more about our work across communities, pre-k to 18 institutions, and non-profits. You will hear from faculty affiliates, community partners, and our research assistants on the impact C-REAL is making daily toward advancing access and equity in education and upcoming projects and endeavors for the center. Zoom link: https://fullerton.zoom.us/j/84006003813 Zoom Meeting ID: 840 0600 3813 Bilingual and Biliteracy Teacher Panel Hosted by SchoolsFirst Federal Credit Union Center for Careers in Teaching 5:00 PM - 7:00 PM via Zoom Proposition 58 and California 2030 have charged educators in K-12 schools to embrace, support, and promote, and most importantly implement plurilingualism for ALL students. Panelists will discuss their experiences as plurilingual, transcultural, and ideologically responsive educators. Dialogues will revolve around the idea of a just, equitable, and linguistically inclusive practices and how the Bilingual Authorization program prepared them to transform education. Zoom Meeting ID: 814 1930 7036 Wednesday, November 17 C-REAL Hot Topics Hosted by C-REAL 12:30 PM-1:30 PM via Zoom Join the C-REAL team for a Hot Topics session revolving around the preparation for educators in anti-racist pedagogies. We will dive into how different credential and master programs prepare educators to dismantle racist policies, practices, and ideas. Zoom link: https://fullerton.zoom.us/j/86168972451 Meeting ID: 861 6897 2451 Achieve Your Financial Goals / Budgeting 101 & SchoolsFirst Benefits/Free Membership Hosted by SchoolsFirst Federal Credit Union 3:30 PM- 4:30 PM via Zoom Creating good money habits and learning how to budget is the key to lasting financial success. Join SchoolsFirst to learn about free membership benefits and increase your financial budgeting knowledge. Zoom Link: https://schoolsfirstfcu-org.zoom.us/j/7949628341 Meeting ID: 794 962 8341 Using the Critical Race Tools of Racial Microaggressions and Microaffirmations to Examine Everyday Racism in Academic and Social Spaces Hosted by the College of Education 5:00 PM-7:00 PM via Zoom Professor Solorzano will use a Critical Race Theory framework and the tools of racial microaggressions to examine everyday racism inside and outside of educational institutions. He will focus on racial microaffirmations as one response to racial microaggressions. He will engage colleagues in an interactive dialogue about improving the learning environment to maximize engagement, learning, and discovery for our increasingly diverse community. Speaker’s Bio: Daniel Solorzano is a Professor of Social Science and Comparative Education and Chicana/o and Central American Studies at the University of California, Los Angeles. He is also the Director of the Center for Critical Race Studies in Education at UCLA. His teaching and research interests include critical race theory in education, racial microaggressions; racial microaffirmations; and critical race spatial analysis. Dr. Solorzano has authored more than 100 research articles, book chapters, and books on educational access and equity issues for underrepresented student populations and communities in the United States. For the last 50 years, Solorzano has served in all three segments of California public postsecondary education. In 2007, Professor Solorzano received the UCLA Distinguished Teaching Award. In 2012, Solorzano was presented the American Education Research Association (AERA) Social Justice in Education Award. In 2012, Solorzano was also awarded the Critical Race Studies in Education Association Derrick A. Bell Legacy Award. In 2014, Solorzano was elected a Fellow of the American Education Research Association. In 2017, Solorzano received the inaugural Revolutionary Mentor Award from the Critical Educators for Social Justice (CESJ) within the American Educational Research Association (AERA). In 2020, Solorzano was elected to the National Academy of Education. Zoom Meeting ID: 824 0873 8279 Thursday, November 18 COE Virtual Research Symposium Hosted by Educational Leadership and C-REAL Join us for our 11th annual Research Symposium. Program activities include an Ed.D. alumni panel and pre-recorded Ed.D. in Educational Leadership and master’s degrees research poster presentations. 4:30 pm - 6:00pm - Radical Partnership: Preparing Leaders to Break the Correlation between Race, Poverty, and Achievement Presenters: Jennifer Goldstein, Professor, Educational Leadership, CSUF Maritza Lozano, Assistant Professor, Educational Leadership, CSUF Claudia Ruiz, Assistant Principal, Orangeview Junior High School, Anaheim Union High School District (AUHSD) Zoom Link: https://fullerton.zoom.us/j/6108090224 6:00 PM - 7:00 PM - Ed.D. Alumni Panel: Dissertation and Beyond: Alumni Reflections on the Ed.D. Experience Zoom link: https://fullerton.zoom.us/j/85998726319 Meeting ID: 859 9872 6319 Archival - Ed.D. Dissertations: Impacting the Field from Theory to Practice: https://www.dropbox.com/sh/1zt6fynzz6ofk5a/AAADWzKdut9SYuh90ljU4SSea?dl=0 This site is maintained by College of Education. Last Published 4/6/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact COETech@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.