Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Education Main Navigation Prospective Students Show Extended Admissions Office of Financial Aid Degrees & Credentials Doctoral Program Master's Program Credential Program Become a Teacher About CSUF Current Students Show Extended Resource Directory Scholarships & Financial Aid Student Clubs Center for Careers in Teaching Credential Preparation Center Events Show Extended Ed Week Honor an Educator Job Fair Commencement Carr Fellow Community Show Extended College Centers Webinar Series Emma Holmes Fellowship Funded Projects Researchers and Critical Educators Impact Newsletter Resources for Virtual Teaching and Learning Just, Equitable, and Inclusive Education Resources Anti-Racism Webinars Social Emotional Learning Resources CSU Deans Of Education DEI Statement Departments & Programs Show Extended Center for Careers in Teaching Educational Leadership Elementary & Bilingual Education Literacy & Reading Instructional Design Secondary Education Special Education Online Programs About the College Show Extended Dean's Message Strategic Plan Just, Equitable, and Inclusive Education Accreditation & Assessment CTC Preconditions Conceptual Framework Vision, Mission, & Values Faculty & Staff Faculty Directory Staff Directory Faculty Resources Engaged Scholarship Research in the College of Education Giving to the College College Centers Webinar Series Emma Holmes Fellowship Funded Projects Impact Newsletter Virtual Teaching and Learning Resources Just, Equitable and Inclusive Education Resources Anti-Racism Webinars Social Emotional Learning Resources < Back to Home Just, Equitable, and Inclusive Education Resources The College of Education is committed to anti-racist teaching and learning. We are committed to dismantling racist polices, practice and ideas that influence schools, teachers and children. One of our strategic goals is to provide a just, equitable, and inclusive education. To that end, we have curated resources that encourage understanding the history behind and the current impact of systemic racism and oppression. As a college, we call upon our faculty, staff, students and community members to walk this journey with us and become part of the solution through awareness, advocacy and allyship. Allyship – Standing Together Articles Resolution Regarding Black Lives Matter at School , Rochester Teachers Association and the Rochester City School District Black Lives Matter resolution , Milwaukee Public Schools Milwaukee School District Earmarks Funds For Black Lives Matter Initiative , NonProfitQuarterly.org Hundreds of educators across Seattle to wear “Black Lives Matter” shirts to school , IAmAnEducator.com FAQ: Answering why hundreds of Seattle educators are wearing “Black Lives Matter” shirts to school , IAmAnEducator.com Performative Allyship 5 ways you can do better on your “statements of solidarity” 47 Very Specific Answers to ‘What Can I Do to Help? 75 Things White People Can do for Racial Justice White Women, Black Women: The Rub White Allyship Anti-Racism Being Anti-Racist: a conscious decision to make frequent, consistent, equitable choices daily. Articles Anti-Racist Worksheets and Guides Inside Higher Ed: Questions all institutions should answer about race Layla F Saad's Anti-Racist Reading List NEA activists launch series of video “primers” for anti-racist white educators, NEA EdJustice National Museum of African American History and Culture Releases “Talking About Race” Web Portal Don’t talk about implicit bias without talking about structural racism Talking about race 7 Ways Non-Black People of Color Perpetuate Anti-Blackness People of color, we need to address our own anti-Blackness and how we may be perpetuating injustice Books “Race Matters,” Dr. Cornel West How Racism Takes Place by George Lipsitz Video / Audio Brené Brown with Ibram X. Kendi on How to Be an Antiracist Podcast The People’s Institute for Survival and Beyond A brief video explains structural racism and oppression White Women Tears by Dr. Amanda Kemp Resource Guide Scaffolded Anti-Racist Resources & Curriculum Anti-Oppression LibGuide: Anti-racist resources Anti-racism resources for white people Anti-Racism Resource list from Art Equity Racial Equity Tools Anti-Racism Resources for all ages Diversity Activities and Ice Breakers Trainings/webinars CSUF College of Education Anti-Racism Webinar Recordings 2020-21 CSUF College of Education Anti-Racism Webinars 2021-22 Diversity and Resiliency Institute: Antiracist Training Podcasts Know Justice Know Peace End Racism Now- Educate 8:46 Websites CSU Toolkit for Activation, Encouraging, and Instigating Teachers for Equity and Inclusion Abolitionist Teaching Network founded by Dr. Bettina Love (Includes resources and training opportunities) Art and Activism Art and video, and ideas to engage classrooms and communities to support racial and social justice Articles Transformational action through Art Build, NEA EdJustice Share Art for Action, NEA EdJustice Video / Audio Grim – Do You Hear Us? (VIDEO) , NEA YouTube Channel Marley Dias talks Institutional Racism (VIDEO), NEA YouTube Channel Black Lives Matter Articles Kareen Abdul-Jabbar (Op-Ed) Movie: “When They See Us” Study Guide Some Seattle Things to Read and Watch to Better Understand the Protests BlackPast: Learn about African American History Video / Audio Understanding the “Black Lives Matter” Movement Trevor Noah shares his thoughts on the killing of George Floyd, the protests in Minneapolis, the dominos of racial injustice and police brutality, and how the contract between society and black Americans has been broken time and time again. An interview with the founders of Black Lives Matter (VIDEO), Ted Talks How the media controls the narrative - shifting focus to riots (Kevin Hart) A Decade of Watching Black People Die Interview with Dr. Bettina Love, author of “We want to do More than Survive” Misc Black Lives Matter at School Academics for Black Lives Training Institute Leaders and Action Needed in Education Articles 6 Considerations for School Leaders Making a Statement About George Floyd & Racism Teacher of Color Shortage Maintaining Professionalism in the Age of Black Death … Is A Lot Article Center for the Transformation of Schools Resource Guide Help to improve remote learning Employment Opportunities Black Edjoin Resources for Teachers Check out resources to help facilitate conversations about race, including classroom appropriate lesson plans, guides on how to have tough conversations with peers and students, and more. Articles Creating the Space to Talk about Race in Your School (PDF) , National Education Association Classroom Management - Restorative Justice Culturally Responsive Teaching Decolonizing the Classroom Books Teaching for Black Lives , Edited By Dyan Watson, Jesse Hagopian, Wayne Au. Rethinking Schools. Video / Audio Discussing Race, Racism and Other Difficult Topics With Students , NEA and Teaching Tolerance Webinar A webinar on abolitionist teaching Resource Guides Black Lives Matter at School , website of the national coalition organizing for racial justice in education. Lessons by grade-level and educator resources , Washington DC Black Lives Matter Classroom Activities, Circle Scripts, and Promoting Positive School Climate , Rochester City School District Black Lives Matter Week of Action in Schools – Schedule and Resources , DC Area Educators for Social Justice Free resources from the book “Teaching for Black Lives,” Rethinking Schools Teaching Guide , Seattle Education Association Classroom Lessons , Seattle Education Association Practicing Inclusion; Icebreakers and Teambuilders for Diversity Take Action Articles What to Send Up On Your Own New Era of Public Safety: An Advocacy Toolkit for Fair, Safe, and Effective Community Policing Books Decolonize Your Mind reading list by Duende District Resource Guides Action Steps Understanding Privilege, Whiteness and White Privilege Activities The Whiteness Project Whiteness Project is an interactive investigation into how Americans who identify as white, or partially white, understand and experience their race. Articles What Is White Privilege, Really? Recognizing white privilege begins with truly understanding the term itself. For Our White Friends Desiring to be Allies Article White Debt Article Books “White Fragility,” Robin Diangelo Or listen to Robin speak about the ebook Me and White Supremacy by Layla F Saad Video / Audio Let’s Talk About Whiteness Podcast The Talk- My Black is Beautiful Have a resource you want to recommend? Click to submit. This site is maintained by College of Education. Last Published 5/13/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact COETech@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.