Skip to content Skip to navigation Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Recruiters Enter your keywords for search News Directory Events Give Toggle navigation Enter your keywords for search Programs & Degrees Admissions & Aid Faculty & Research About Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Recruiters Enter your keywords for search News Directory Events Give Toggle navigation Our Vision Grand Challenges Our Work Strategic Initiatives We envision a world where all learners are prepared to thrive in a dynamic future. Now is a transformational time in education. We are on the cusp of imminent breakthroughs that will change our ability to improve teaching and learning for all. Stanford Graduate School of Education is helping students, educators, policymakers, parents and institutions make headway in areas that were once out of reach. We are advancing research, strengthening programs and creating new initiatives that catalyze the distinctive scholarship of Stanford. Explore our plan for improving lives through learning. Grand Challenges We pursue the greatest challenges and most promising opportunities facing education. We have identified nine grand challenges where Stanford's unique strengths can ignite breakthroughs that will transform learning. Through discovery and innovation, we are confident we can drive change and improve lives. Review the Grand Challenges Our Work Discover. Discovery reveals what was previously unknown. Discoveries pave the way for new approaches and create new opportunities. What's next in discovery→ Learn More Innovate. Innovation turns discovery and creativity into usable knowledge. It is derived from a culture of daring that prizes deep understanding of needs and possibilities. What's new in innovation→ Learn More Drive Change. Lasting change depends on sustained effort and leadership. Discoveries and innovations remain inert without additional work to put them into practice. Learn how to turn ideas into action→ Learn More Strategic Initiatives New initiatives will accelerate progress on education's grand challenges. From special education to data sciences, we are building new programs, spaces and tools to advance the best ideas, discover new knowledge and prepare the next generation of researchers and teachers. Explore our Initiatives Downloads Materials Download the GSE Vision at-a-glance, or the entire Vision Brochure. Download GSE Vision at-a-glance Download the Vision Brochure Let us commit to being a purposeful university, a courageous university, a university of unlimited potential. Let us be fearless. Marc Tessier-Lavigne President of Stanford University Stanford Graduate School of Education 482 Galvez Mall Stanford, CA 94305-3096 Tel: (650) 723-2109 Improving lives through learning Contact Admissions Site Feedback Site Map Web Accessibility HelpSU GSE IT Career Resources Faculty Open Positions Explore Courses Academic Calendar Office of the Registrar Cubberley Library Webmail StanfordWho StanfordYou 25Live Login Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Flickr Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.