Skip to content Skip to navigation Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Recruiters Enter your keywords for search News Directory Events Give Toggle navigation Enter your keywords for search Programs & Degrees Admissions & Aid Faculty & Research About Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Recruiters News Directory Events Give Alumni & Friends Toggle navigation Alumni Home Advance Your Career Events Award Get Involved Alumni & Friends You are here Home Alumni Home Alumni & Friends Your Stanford education journey continues long after you graduate. As a Stanford GSE alum you are part of a global community committed to improving lives through learning. The alumni relations team is here to help you connect with your community, continue learning, and share your expertise with the next generation of education leaders. Resources for alumni GSE resources for teachers and families Confronting racial injustice Stanford Alumni Association resources Get connected Get involved Advance your career Attend an event Support the GSE I want to ... Access my Stanford alumni email Find a Stanford alumni group Log in to the Stanford alumni directory 14k+ Graduate School of Education alumni are transforming education all around the world. Meet our alumni Our community of exceptional leaders is working to achieve equitable, accessible, and effective learning for all. Thu Cung, MA '22 Policy, Organization, and Leadership Studies Bridging policy to practice Read this story Christine Yeh, PhD '96 Advocating for cultural identity Read this story Salina Gray, PhD '14 Teaching science for social change Read this story See more profiles “Finding hope is opening ourselves to things that remind us of the glorious world just beyond the edge of our own suffering.” Eamonn Callan Emeritus Professor Eamonn Callan at GSE Commencement 2019 Learn more Catch up on the latest research, program, and faculty news. Research Stories New 'Segregation Index' shows American schools remain highly segregated by race, ethnicity and economic status Education Policy | Poverty and Inequality | Race and Equity Podcast The impact of the early years Brain and Learning Sciences | Early Childhood GSE News Early childhood expert Geoffrey Canada to deliver annual lecture at Stanford Early Childhood | Events | Race and Equity See all news and media Give to the GSE We are investing in new programs, spaces, research, and interdisciplinary collaborations to create a better future for all learners. Make a gift Annual Giving Annual gifts are a crucial source of unrestricted funding that allows the GSE to allocate financial resources where the need is greatest. Learn about annual giving Endowed student support Student fellowships are key to our ability to attract and support the most talented graduate students and train them to be the next generation of leaders Learn about endowed student support Strategic initiatives We are investing in new programs, spaces, research, and interdisciplinary collaborations to create a better future for all learners. Learn about our strategic initiatives Stay connected Alumni Connector View past issues, with news, events, and stories of fellow alumni. The Educator Subscribe to the GSE’s newsletter for the latest school news, events, and opportunities. School’s In Listen to our podcast exploring current issues in education with hosts Dean Dan Schwartz and Denise Pope. Contact us Have a question or need help? Contact alumni relations Holly Materman Director of Alumni Relations and Annual Giving holly.materman@stanford.edu (650) 723-0630 Back to the Top Stanford Graduate School of Education 482 Galvez Mall Stanford, CA 94305-3096 Tel: (650) 723-2109 Improving lives through learning Contact Admissions Site Feedback Site Map Web Accessibility HelpSU GSE IT Career Resources Faculty Open Positions Explore Courses Academic Calendar Office of the Registrar Cubberley Library Webmail StanfordWho StanfordYou 25Live Login Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Flickr Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.