Skip to content Skip to navigation Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Recruiters Programs & Degrees Admissions & Aid Faculty & Research About Enter your keywords for search News Directory Events Give Toggle navigation Enter your keywords for search Programs & Degrees Admissions & Aid Faculty & Research About Ideas & Research Student Stories Teachers & Families Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Recruiters News Directory Events Give Toggle navigation Search Ideas & Research Student Stories Teachers & Families Go to GSE You are here Home COVID 19 Education and COVID-19 Stanford Graduate School of Education is dedicated to solving education’s greatest challenges. The coronavirus crisis has shined a spotlight on deep-rooted inequities and illuminated the critical role that schools play in communities. We’ve gathered resources from across the GSE to support educators and families. We also look to the future with conversations, programming, and research focused on what comes next. To learn more about GSE instructors' move to the online classroom, including digital resources and strategies for higher education, visit Journeys Online, from GSE Information Technology. Resources for teachers and families We’ve gathered stories, activities, tips, and resources from across the GSE to support learning and well-being at home. Kids under pressure: A study by Challenge Success and NBC News A study of over 10,000 high school students nationwide sheds light on student well-being and academic engagement during the pandemic. Visit Website Special ed during COVID-19 [podcast] Associate Professor Christopher Lemons discusses the remote learning challenges facing students with learning disabilities, and how parents can advocate for their children with special needs. Taking the focus off of "screen time" [podcast] Communications professor and social media expert Jeff Hancock discusses why the concept of "screen time" is not a useful metric as children spend more time online during the pandemic. See all resources Ideas and research Our faculty bring their expertise to what we are learning now, as well as to the impact of disruption on the future of teaching and learning. More scientific instruction improves compliance with COVID-19 guidelines Research shows that a longer video explaining scientific concepts led to more lasting behavior change than a short, "just-the-facts" approach. Reimagine and rebuild: Restarting school with equity at the center This policy brief from Policy Analysis for California Education (PACE) makes recommendations for rebuilding and recovery with equity at the center. Visit Website Student stress during the pandemic [podcast] In this episode of School's In, Denise Pope talks about COVID-19's impact on students' mental health and engagement with school. View more stories Student stories Though sheltering at home means many in the GSE community are scattered, all share a continued commitment to education. Read more about how our students are using their creativity and resourcefulness to support education in the time of COVID-19. Video Creativity—and community—in virtual hands-on learning Mathieu Penot “ One of the good things that this situation [shelter at home] brought to me is that I had to reimagine my master’s project. I started to do hands-on workshops online on Zoom. For the last eight... Keep Reading Read this story Empathy and connected learning Luis A. Gonzalez “ Sending my students a quick text or email is just not the same as standing by the door greeting them with a firm handshake, looking them in the eyes, calling them by their names, and welcoming... Keep Reading Read this story Field work in the time of social distancing Ana Trindade Ribeiro “ As a social person, I admit that working from home and social distancing hasn't been easy on me or my field research. Still, I was lucky to be able to redesign one project—investigating how a... Keep Reading Read this story View more stories Get the Educator Subscribe to our monthly newsletter. Email ⟶ Back to the Top Stanford Graduate School of Education 482 Galvez Mall Stanford, CA 94305-3096 Tel: (650) 723-2109 Improving lives through learning Contact Admissions Site Feedback Site Map Web Accessibility HelpSU GSE IT Career Resources Faculty Open Positions Explore Courses Academic Calendar Office of the Registrar Cubberley Library Webmail StanfordWho StanfordYou 25Live Login Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Flickr Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.