Skip to content Skip to navigation Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Recruiters Enter your keywords for search News Directory Events Give Toggle navigation Enter your keywords for search Programs & Degrees Admissions & Aid Faculty & Research About Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Recruiters News Directory Events Give Faculty & Research Toggle navigation Faculty & Research Home Faculty Faculty Research Interests Research Centers Open Positions Faculty You are here Home Faculty Profiles Peter Williamson Peter Williamson Peter Williamson Associate Professor (Teaching) peterw@stanford.edu Office: CERAS 413 Biography Peter Williamson is an Associate Professor, Teaching, at Stanford University. He served as the Faculty Director of the Stanford Teacher Education Program (STEP) for Secondary Teachers from 2015 to 2021. Before coming to Stanford, Peter was an associate professor at the University of San Francisco, were he co-founded the San Francisco Teacher Residency Program. He earned his doctorate at Stanford, and he studies urban education, English education, education with incarcerated youth, curriculum, and literacy. Peter began his career as a special education teacher working with students who were identified with emotional and behavioral challenges, and then later taught middle and high school English and journalism in the Bay Area’s urban schools. More Other Titles Associate Professor (Teaching), Graduate School of Education Program Affiliations CTE CTE: Literacy, Language, and English Education CTE: Teacher Education (MA) CTE See GSE Programs > Research Interests Civic Education | Curriculum and Instruction | Diversity and Identity | Equity in Education | Literacy and Language | Poverty and Inequality | Professional Development | Race and Ethnicity | School Reform | Secondary Education | Social and Emotional Learning | Teachers and Teaching See a full list of GSE Faculty research interests > Recent Publications Williamson, P., & Appleman, D. (Eds.). (2021). School, not jail: What educators can do to disrupt school pushout and mass incarceration. Teachers College Press. Williamson, P., & George, M. A. (2017). Toward Clinically Rich English and Literacy Teacher Preparation: A Tale of Two Programs. Innovations in English Language Arts Teacher Education (pp. 185–202). Emerald Group Publishing Limited. Williamson, P., Apedoe, X., & Thomas, C. (2016). Context as Content in Urban Teacher Education: Learning to Teach in and for San Francisco. URBAN EDUCATION, 51(10), 1170–97. View full profile on Stanford Profiles ⟵ Go to Faculty Back to the Top Stanford Graduate School of Education 482 Galvez Mall Stanford, CA 94305-3096 Tel: (650) 723-2109 Improving lives through learning Contact Admissions Site Feedback Site Map Web Accessibility HelpSU GSE IT Career Resources Faculty Open Positions Explore Courses Academic Calendar Office of the Registrar Cubberley Library Webmail StanfordWho StanfordYou 25Live Login Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Flickr Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.