Skip to content Skip to navigation Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Recruiters Enter your keywords for search News Directory Events Give Toggle navigation Enter your keywords for search Programs & Degrees Admissions & Aid Faculty & Research About Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Recruiters News Directory Events Give Professional Learning Toggle navigation Professional Learning Home Upcoming and Ongoing Opportunities Resources for Educators Programs & Degrees You are here Home Professional Learning Home Professional Learning Welcome to professional learning at Stanford Graduate School of Education. We offer a variety of research-based learning opportunities for educators and school system leaders. Take a look at what we have to offer and consider joining our community of education professionals, learning together to support excellence and equity in education. Subscribe to the professional learning quarterly newsletter Upcoming opportunities Attend a webinar, workshop, or multi-day institute. Our learning opportunities are designed to be engaging and model effective teaching practices. Join us! Online | Math | Data science | Fee Data Science Virtual Workshop for High School Teachers: Units 1-4 of the Youcubed Curriculum June 8, 2022 - June 9, 2022 Center: youcubed An introductory workshop for high school teachers to prepare to implement the youcubed data science course. Includes in-depth sessions on four units of the curriculum and is highly recommended for anyone planning to teach the course in the fall. Learn more Online | History | Fee Reading Like a Historian with Younger Students June 15, 2022 - June 17, 2022 Center: Stanford History Education Group This interactive workshop is intended for upper elementary and middle school teachers. Each session will include opportunities to engage with Stanford History Education Group materials as part of a large group and in small breakout groups. Learn more In-person | Well-being | All content areas | Fee Summer Leadership Seminar with Challenge Success June 16, 2022 Center: Challenge Success Designed for K-12 educators, admin, and counselors interested in learning research-based strategies to improve student well-being and academic engagement. Workshops and topics include staff & student well-being, belonging, assessment, and homework. Learn more See all upcoming opportunities Programs and fellowships Our cohort-based learning experiences leverage Stanford faculty and research, collaboration with peers, and ongoing support to take your career to the next level. Stanford EdLEADers Stanford EdLEADers is a professional certificate program for K–12 school system leaders. Flexible, 100% virtual, and cohort-based, EdLEADers is offered jointly with Stanford Graduate School of Business and is designed to equip education leaders to effect systemic improvements in their districts. Learn more and apply Aspen Rising Presidents Fellowship This year-long fellowship for aspiring community college presidents aims to develop exceptional leaders who can push the field forward and achieve high levels of student success. Learn more The Hollyhock Program Hollyhock is a suite of programs that offer transformational professional learning to early-career high school teachers, leadership development for graduates of the program, and professional development and community for school leaders of participating schools. Learn more National Board Candidate Support Program The GSE’s National Board Resource Center offers an online, cohort-based program of support for educators seeking National Board certification. The program is open to all teachers interested in high-quality collaboration and professional development. Learn more and register Ongoing learning opportunities Our research centers offer a variety of online, self-paced learning opportunities for educators and school leaders. Online | In-person | Hybrid Developing Performance Assessments for the NGSS Classroom Learn how to develop performance assessments to support 3D science learning. Learn more Online | In-person | Hybrid | Fee Building Blocks for Belonging Center: Challenge Success Explore concrete classroom strategies and school-wide policies that foster belonging and connection. Learn more Online | In-person | Hybrid Evaluating Student Work from Performance Assessments to Guide NGSS Teaching and Learning Learn how to develop and use rubrics as part of efficient, responsive, and equitable instructional practices for supporting 3D science learning. Learn more See more ongoing opportunities >40k people participated in professional learning developed by Stanford GSE in 2019-20 Our research centers develop a variety of resources for educators at all levels as well as teacher educators. Visit our resource page to browse our offerings. View our resources Professional learning research centers Our research centers work in partnership with educators and schools to develop learning opportunities that are responsive to the needs of school communities. Visit our centers’ websites to learn more and subscribe to their content. Center to Support Excellence in Teaching works in educational partnerships to solve persistent problems of practice by improving the quality of instruction, keeping equity at the center of the work, and developing leaders. Visit the CSET website Challenge Success provides schools and families with proven strategies that promote well-being and engagement with learning to transform the student experience. They offer resources and learning experiences for schools, families, and students. Visit the Challenge Success website Stanford History Education Group’s professional learning, curriculum, and assessments support research-based instructional methods in history. SHEG also offers the Civic Online Reasoning curriculum for educators in all subject areas to teach critical online inquiry skills. Visit the SHEG website Stanford Center for Assessment, Learning, and Equity seeks to improve instruction and learning through the design and development of performance assessments, and by building the capacity of schools to use these assessments. Visit the SCALE website The California World Language Project (CWLP) is a collaborative project that conducts research on topics pertaining to Second Language Acquisition and sponsors professional learning opportunities for World Language educators. Visit the CWLP website Youcubed’s mission is to inspire, educate, and empower teachers of mathematics, transforming the latest research into accessible and practical forms. Youcubed offers learning opportunities, community, and resources. Visit the youcubed website GSE faculty bring the latest advances in the social sciences, technology, and teacher preparation to the field of education. You can learn more through our research centers page. Learn more about our research centers Connect with us! Subscribe to our professional learning newsletter for quarterly updates on learning opportunities and resources. Subscribe to the PL newsletter Subscribe to the GSE’s monthly newsletter, The Educator, for the latest on our education research. Subscribe to The Educator Interested in hiring our graduates? You can list your open positions in our careers portal on our career resources website. Hire GSE students and alumni We’d love to hear from you! For questions or to inquire about customized learning experiences for your school or district, please contact Heidi Chang Director of Professional Learning gse_learning@stanford.edu Back to the Top Stanford Graduate School of Education 482 Galvez Mall Stanford, CA 94305-3096 Tel: (650) 723-2109 Improving lives through learning Contact Admissions Site Feedback Site Map Web Accessibility HelpSU GSE IT Career Resources Faculty Open Positions Explore Courses Academic Calendar Office of the Registrar Cubberley Library Webmail StanfordWho StanfordYou 25Live Login Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Flickr Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.