Skip to content Skip to navigation Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Recruiters Enter your keywords for search News Directory Events Give Toggle navigation Enter your keywords for search Programs & Degrees Admissions & Aid Faculty & Research About Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Recruiters News Directory Events Give About Toggle navigation About Home Our Community Diversity and Inclusion GSE Leadership Visit About Our Community You are here Home Thu Cung Thu Cung Thu Cung, MA '22 Policy, Organization, and Leadership Studies Bridging policy to practice SHARE: Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn At age 28, Thu Cung became the youngest person on the leadership team of the San Francisco Unified School District (SFUSD), managing the budget for the sixth-largest school district in California. “I knew it was a huge undertaking,” she says of her role as executive director of budget services, where she oversaw a $1.1 billion budget, making funding decisions that affected 55,000 students and more than 9,000 full-time employees. “But I was really excited to make change and help the district become more equitable in its allocations. I thought, what better way to fix it than through money?” For three years, she tried to shift inequities while working to engage the community in the district’s budgeting process. But her efforts “weren’t moving the needle enough for me,” she says of both her time at SFUSD and later as a freelance education consultant. Cung’s first teacher was her mother, who in Vietnam had taught elementary school before fleeing to the United States as a refugee. The family settled in a suburb north of Seattle, where Cung’s K-12 public education was supplemented with workbooks handpicked by her mom. “Education was very much a priority to my parents,” says Cung, the eldest of three. She enrolled in Stanford GSE’s Policy, Organization and Leadership Studies (POLS) master’s program in the fall of 2021 in order to study the U.S. education system across disciplines, digging into its roots as a historian or an anthropologist would. “I was like, ‘Yes! I would love to be able to take courses on public policy and philosophy and psychology and bring that together,” she says. “Bridging policy to practice is something that has shaped a lot of my work. And I hope that through POLS – by connecting with peers and faculty, and by gaining new perspectives and tools – my work will continue to evolve.” May 26, 2022 Photo by Rod Searcey More Community stories Montse Cordero, '17, YouCubed Changing ideas about math education Read this story Irene Castillon, MA '10 Being a ‘college first responder’ Read this story Muchemi Njuguna, MA '17 International Comparative Education Teaching life skills through sport Read this story ⟵ Go to all Community stories Back to the Top Stanford Graduate School of Education 482 Galvez Mall Stanford, CA 94305-3096 Tel: (650) 723-2109 Improving lives through learning Contact Admissions Site Feedback Site Map Web Accessibility HelpSU GSE IT Career Resources Faculty Open Positions Explore Courses Academic Calendar Office of the Registrar Cubberley Library Webmail StanfordWho StanfordYou 25Live Login Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Flickr Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.