Skip to content Skip to navigation Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Recruiters Enter your keywords for search News Directory Events Give Toggle navigation Enter your keywords for search Programs & Degrees Admissions & Aid Faculty & Research About Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Recruiters News Directory Events Give Faculty & Research Toggle navigation Faculty & Research Home Faculty Faculty Research Interests Research Centers Open Positions Faculty You are here Home Faculty Profiles Guillermo Solano-Flores Guillermo Solano-Flores Guillermo Solano-Flores Professor gsolanof@stanford.edu Assistant: Elayne Weissler-Martello Office: Littlefield 381 Biography Dr. Guillermo Solano-Flores is Professor of Education at the Stanford University Graduate School of Education. He specializes in educational assessment and the linguistic and cultural issues that are relevant to both international test comparisons and the testing of cultural and linguistic minorities. His research is based on the use of multidisciplinary approaches that use psychometrics, sociolinguistics, semiotics, and cognitive science in combination. He has conducted research on the development, translation, localization, and review of science and mathematics tests. He has been principal investigator in several National Science Foundation-funded projects that have examined the intersection of psychometrics, semiotics, and linguistics in testing. He is the author of the theory of test translation error, which addresses testing across cultures and languages. Also, he has investigated the use of generalizability theory—a psychometric theory of measurement error—in the testing of English language learners and indigenous populations. He has advised Latin American countries on the development of national assessment systems. Also, he has been the advisor to countries in Latin America, Asia, Europe, Middle East, and Northern Africa on the adaptation and translation of performance tasks into multiple languages. More Other Titles Professor, Graduate School of Education Program Affiliations DAPS Learning Sciences and Technology Design (LSTD) Race, Inequality, and Language in Education (RILE) (MA) ICE/IEPA (MS) LDT (MS) EDS See GSE Programs > Research Interests Assessment, Testing and Measurement | Diversity and Identity | International and Comparative Education | Leadership and Organization | Literacy and Language | Standards See a full list of GSE Faculty research interests > Recent Publications Altavilla, J., Elosua, P., & Solano-Flores, G. (2021). Academic achievement in a language revitalisation context: a study on the influence of language and socioeconomic factors. JOURNAL OF MULTILINGUAL AND MULTICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT. Zhao, X., & Solano-Flores, G. (2020). Testing across languages in international comparisons: cultural adaptation of consensus-based test translation review procedures. JOURNAL OF MULTILINGUAL AND MULTICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT. Solano-Flores, G. (2020). Boolean Analysis of Interobserver Agreement: Formal and Functional Evidence Sampling in Complex Coding Endeavors. EDUCATIONAL MEASUREMENT-ISSUES AND PRACTICE. View full profile on Stanford Profiles ⟵ Go to Faculty Back to the Top Stanford Graduate School of Education 482 Galvez Mall Stanford, CA 94305-3096 Tel: (650) 723-2109 Improving lives through learning Contact Admissions Site Feedback Site Map Web Accessibility HelpSU GSE IT Career Resources Faculty Open Positions Explore Courses Academic Calendar Office of the Registrar Cubberley Library Webmail StanfordWho StanfordYou 25Live Login Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Flickr Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.