Skip to content Skip to navigation Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Recruiters Enter your keywords for search News Directory Events Give Toggle navigation Enter your keywords for search Programs & Degrees Admissions & Aid Faculty & Research About Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Recruiters News Directory Events Give Admissions & Aid Toggle navigation Admissions Home Application Requirements Financing Options Apply Diversity Profile Connect Admissions & Aid You are here Home Admissions & Aid Admissions Our vision is that all learners are prepared to thrive in a dynamic future. Our programs leverage Stanford’s interdisciplinary strengths as well as the latest advancements in technology, data science, neuroscience, and other fields to prepare the next generation of educators, researchers, and education leaders. We invite you to explore our programs to see if Stanford GSE is the right fit for your learning and career goals. Explore and apply 1 Explore programs We offer PhD, MS, and MA programs in a wide array of disciplines, whether your interests are teaching, research, or policy and leadership. For current Stanford undergraduates, we offer minor and honors programs. Programs and degrees Attend an admission event Faculty and research 2 Review application requirements Find out what’s required to complete your application, and get tips on preparing a successful application. Application requirements 3 Understand financing options Learn more about the cost of attendance and how to finance your Stanford GSE education. Financing PhD Financing MA/MS Financing STEP 4 Apply Ready to take the next step? Our application opens in late September for the following autumn. Review deadlines and apply Announcements and updates Application closed: The PhD and Master's program applications for 2022 entry are closed. The application for 2023 entry will open in October 2022. Explore our graduate programs here, and review the admission timeline for 2023-2024 admission here. Application guide: To view a copy of last year's application for reference, please see our Fall 2021 Application Guide here. GRE requirement: GSE will not require the GRE for admission for the 2023-2024 academic year. However, some GSE programs will provide the opportunity to submit optional GRE scores. Learn more here. Contact us: Our recruitment season for the 2023-2024 academic year has resumed! Register for a webinar and express your interest in one of our programs here. Connect and learn more Admission events Connect with us at a live Q&A or informative webinar on programs and the application process (from May-November). View upcoming events FAQs Visit our frequently asked questions page, packed with information that might answer any remaining questions you have. Visit our FAQ page Careers after Stanford Learn more about GSE graduates and their career paths beyond Stanford. Visit EdCareers page Introduce yourself Back to the Top Stanford Graduate School of Education 482 Galvez Mall Stanford, CA 94305-3096 Tel: (650) 723-2109 Improving lives through learning Contact Admissions Site Feedback Site Map Web Accessibility HelpSU GSE IT Career Resources Faculty Open Positions Explore Courses Academic Calendar Office of the Registrar Cubberley Library Webmail StanfordWho StanfordYou 25Live Login Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Flickr Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.