Skip to content Skip to navigation Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Recruiters Enter your keywords for search News Directory Events Give Toggle navigation Enter your keywords for search Programs & Degrees Admissions & Aid Faculty & Research About Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Recruiters News Directory Events Give Faculty & Research Toggle navigation Faculty & Research Home Faculty Faculty Research Interests Research Centers Open Positions Faculty You are here Home Faculty Profiles Jonathan Rosa Jonathan Rosa Jonathan Rosa Associate Professor jdrosa@stanford.edu Assistant: Chris Cobb Office: CERAS 425 Biography Jonathan Rosa is Associate Professor in the Graduate School of Education, Center for Comparative Studies in Race and Ethnicity, and, by courtesy, Departments of Anthropology, Linguistics, and Comparative Literature at Stanford University. Dr. Rosa is also Director of Stanford’s Program in Chicanx-Latinx Studies and Co-Director of the Center for Global Ethnography, as well as President of the Association of Latina/o and Latinx Anthropologists of the American Anthropological Association. His research examines the co-naturalization of language and race as a key feature of modern governance. Specifically, he tracks colonially structured interrelations among racial marginalization, linguistic stigmatization, and institutional inequity. Dr. Rosa collaborates with local communities to track these phenomena and develop tools for understanding and challenging the forms of disparity to which they correspond. This community-based approach to research, teaching, and service reflects a vision of scholarship as a platform for imagining and enacting more just societies. Dr. Rosa is author of the award-winning book Looking like a Language, Sounding like a Race: Raciolinguistic Ideologies and the Learning of Latinidad (2019, Oxford University Press) and co-editor of the volume Language and Social Justice in Practice (2019, Routledge). His work has appeared in scholarly journals such as the Harvard Educational Review, American Ethnologist, Journal of Linguistic Anthropology, and Language in Society, as well as media outlets such as The New York Times, The Nation, NPR, and Univision. Dr. Rosa obtained his M.A. and Ph.D. from the Department of Anthropology at the University of Chicago, and his B.A. in Linguistics and Educational Studies from Swarthmore College. More Other Titles Associate Professor, Graduate School of Education Associate Professor (By courtesy), Linguistics Associate Professor (By courtesy), Anthropology Associate Professor (By courtesy), Comparative Literature Program Affiliations Race, Inequality, and Language in Education (RILE) SHIPS (PhD): Anthropology of Education SHIPS (PhD): Educational Linguistics SHIPS (PhD): Social Sciences in Education (MA) STEP See GSE Programs > Research Interests Diversity and Identity | Immigrants and Immigration | Literacy and Language | Poverty and Inequality | Race and Ethnicity | Sociology | Teachers and Teaching See a full list of GSE Faculty research interests > Recent Publications Rosa, J., & Flores, N. (2021). Decolonization, Language, and Race in Applied Linguistics and Social Justice. APPLIED LINGUISTICS, 42(6), 1162–1167. Smalls, K. A., Spears, A. K., & Rosa, J. (2021). Introduction: Language and White Supremacy. JOURNAL OF LINGUISTIC ANTHROPOLOGY, 31(2), 152–156. Rosa, J., & Diaz, V. (2019). Raciontologies: Rethinking Anthropological Accounts of Institutional Racism and Enactments of White Supremacy in the United States. AMERICAN ANTHROPOLOGIST. View full profile on Stanford Profiles Jonathan Rosa in the News & Media August 4, 2021 GSE News Stanford undergrads join local high school students and their teachers for an uncommon learning experience October 16, 2020 GSE News Stanford GSE conference explores educational equity during COVID-19 The Nation Latinxs Don’t Need to Speak Spanish Stereotypes about language and stereotypes about race are constructed together, says Associate Professor Jonathan Rosa. June 18, 2020 The Floyd Protests Show That Twitter Is Real Life A hashtag ethnography of the Ferguson protests by Associate Professor Jonathan Rosa notes that social media participation becomes a key site from which to contest mainstream media silences and the long history of state-sanctioned violence against racialized populations. June 10, 2020 March 30, 2020 Podcast ‘We can’t simply respond with a spirit of recuperation’: Remaking schools after COVID-19 ⟵ Go to Faculty Back to the Top Stanford Graduate School of Education 482 Galvez Mall Stanford, CA 94305-3096 Tel: (650) 723-2109 Improving lives through learning Contact Admissions Site Feedback Site Map Web Accessibility HelpSU GSE IT Career Resources Faculty Open Positions Explore Courses Academic Calendar Office of the Registrar Cubberley Library Webmail StanfordWho StanfordYou 25Live Login Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Flickr Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.