Skip to content Skip to navigation Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Recruiters Enter your keywords for search News Directory Events Give Toggle navigation Enter your keywords for search Programs & Degrees Admissions & Aid Faculty & Research About Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Recruiters News Directory Events Give News and Media Toggle navigation News & Media Home Research Stories School's In Media Mentions GSE News School's In You are here Home News Media Supporting children through loss Supporting children through loss Tatiana Zaets / iStock Parenting | Social and Emotional Learning | Teaching Supporting children through loss Patricia Karlin-Neumann talks about how to help young people experiencing grief. May 11, 2020 SHARE: Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn PRINT Now more than ever, young people are coping with grief as they face loss of all kinds, including that of loved ones, routine and their own sense of safety. Resisting the impulse to try and “fix” the situation can go a long way toward healing, says Rabbi Patricia Karlin-Neumann, senior associate dean for religious life at Stanford University. “We’re so good at fixing things, at being able to just shove our emotions away and do our work with our heads down,” she says. “But this is one of those things that just can’t be fixed.” On this episode of School’s In, Rabbi Karlin-Neumann joins Stanford Graduate School of Education Dean Dan Schwartz and Senior Lecturer Denise Pope to talk about the different ways in which young people experience grief, and how adults can support their children through whatever form it takes. “Children feel their emotions very powerfully,” she says. “To preclude them from feeling pain is not helpful to them.” When it comes to preparing young people for the discomfort of grief, Rabbi Karlin-Neumann suggests being “far more honest than you might be inclined to be.” “Children know when something’s wrong. They know when someone’s ill, they know when there’s a shock to the system,” she says. “By trying to protect them, part of what you’re doing is closing off an avenue for them to be able to ask questions, to share what they’re feeling, to understand something about the world.” You can listen to School's In on SiriusXM, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts, Spotify, Stitcher and Soundcloud. More Episodes April 8, 2022 An optimistic look at Generation Z Parenting | Social and Emotional Learning | Technology July 5, 2021 Is now the time to revolutionize school? Education Policy | School Leadership | Technology February 11, 2022 A fair shake for public schools Education Policy | K-12 | Research and Practice December 10, 2021 Going to bat for kids Education Policy | Impact ⟵ Go to all School's In Get the Educator Subscribe to our monthly newsletter. Email ⟶ Back to the Top Stanford Graduate School of Education 482 Galvez Mall Stanford, CA 94305-3096 Tel: (650) 723-2109 Improving lives through learning Contact Admissions Site Feedback Site Map Web Accessibility HelpSU GSE IT Career Resources Faculty Open Positions Explore Courses Academic Calendar Office of the Registrar Cubberley Library Webmail StanfordWho StanfordYou 25Live Login Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Flickr Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.