Skip to content Skip to navigation Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Recruiters Enter your keywords for search News Directory Events Give Toggle navigation Enter your keywords for search Programs & Degrees Admissions & Aid Faculty & Research About Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Recruiters News Directory Events Give Programs & Degrees Toggle navigation Programs & Degrees Home Doctoral Master's Undergraduate Courses Professional Learning Programs & Degrees You are here Home Master's Master's Programs Master's programs are full-time, intensive programs that integrate educational theory and practice. The small cohort sizes provide an intimate setting for academic inquiry and foster individual contact with faculty and fellow students. Education Data Science (EDS) Application open Early Oct 2022 Start of classes Sep 25, 2023 Duration 2 years Degree conferred MS The EDS program combines modern data science analyses and computational methods with a deep understanding of learning, schools, and education policy. With rigorous academics and real-world experience, the program prepares the first generation of education data science leaders. Learn about EDS Play Video Individually Designed MA (for current Stanford doctoral students) The Individually Designed MA in Education is intended for doctoral students at Stanford who would like to earn a master's in education while studying for their PhD outside of the GSE. Students develop their individual program of study in consultation with a GSE advisor and must finish in three years. Learn about the Individually Designed MA International Comparative Education / International Education Policy Analysis (ICE/IEPA) Application open Early Oct 2022 Start of classes Sep 25, 2023 Duration 12 months Degree conferred MA ICE/IEPA addresses educational practice in a rapidly changing global context, in both less-developed and industrialized countries. Students examine such problems as the political economy of underdevelopment and educational planning in comparative perspective. The major research project requirement provides students the opportunity to develop excellent research skills. Learn about ICE/IEPA Play Video Learning Design and Technology (LDT) Application open Early Oct 2022 Start of classes Sep 25, 2023 Duration 12 months Degree conferred MS LDT integrates powerful contemporary ideas about learning with emergent technologies to design and evaluate learning environments, products, and programs. LDT graduates bring their skills to bear in a variety of settings, including schools, museums, research institutions, and educational technology companies. Learn about LDT Play Video Policy, Organization, and Leadership Studies (POLS) Application open Early Oct 2022 Start of classes Sep 25, 2023 Duration 9 months Degree conferred MA POLS emphasizes the knowledge, theory, and skills necessary for effective leadership in a variety of education-focused organizations. Students design their own programs of study focused on pre-K-12 education, non-profit leadership, policy analysis, higher education, or a combination of these broad areas. Learn about POLS Play Video Stanford Teacher Education Program (STEP) Application open Early Oct 2022 Start of classes June 26, 2023 Duration 12 months Degree conferred MA + teaching credential STEP offers both an elementary and secondary route. Both programs lead to teacher certification in the state of California, and both require intensive, supervised practice at school sites as well as academic course work that focuses on cutting-edge, school-based research. Learn about STEP Play Video Curriculum and Teacher Education (CTE) Application open N/A Start of classes N/A Duration 9 months Degree conferred MA CTE is an individualized, research-intensive program intended for students with prior professional experience in education. CTE will not admit students for the 2022-2023 academic year. Please check back in July 2022 for information on the 2023-2024 academic year. Learn about CTE Joint MA programs Joint MA/JD in law and education The joint MA/JD degree combines study for the JD degree in law with an individualized program in education. Learn more about the joint MA/JD Joint MA/MBA in education and business administration The joint MA/MBA allows students to pursue an MA in education at the GSE and an MBA at the Graduate School of Business. Students complete both degrees in two years. Learn more about the joint MA/MBA Joint MA in public policy and education The MA/MPP joint degree allows students in the POLS program to simultaneously pursue a master's in public policy from the School of Humanities and Sciences. Students complete both degrees in two years. Learn more about the joint MA/MPP STUDENT VOICES | Carl Steib “No matter how you want to make an impact in education, Stanford has everything to offer. Everyone here dreams big and works hard to turn their dreams into a reality.” 79% Master’s graduates working in roles or organizations related to education 98% STEP graduates hired as teachers Contact us For more information about GSE admissions and to see upcoming events and appointments: Connect and visit page To meet the Academic Services team: Academic Services team page Back to the Top Stanford Graduate School of Education 482 Galvez Mall Stanford, CA 94305-3096 Tel: (650) 723-2109 Improving lives through learning Contact Admissions Site Feedback Site Map Web Accessibility HelpSU GSE IT Career Resources Faculty Open Positions Explore Courses Academic Calendar Office of the Registrar Cubberley Library Webmail StanfordWho StanfordYou 25Live Login Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Flickr Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.