Skip to content Skip to navigation Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Recruiters Enter your keywords for search News Directory Events Give Toggle navigation Enter your keywords for search Programs & Degrees Admissions & Aid Faculty & Research About Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Recruiters News Directory Events Give News and Media Toggle navigation News & Media Home Research Stories School's In Media Mentions GSE News School's In You are here Home News Media Supporting students exposed to school shootings Supporting students exposed to school shootings Photo: Altmodern/Getty Images K-12 | Parenting | Students Supporting students exposed to school shootings Maya Rossin-Slater talks about her research into the mental health impact of severe school violence. March 2, 2020 SHARE: Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn PRINT In the last two decades, more than 240,000 children have been directly exposed to school shootings, says Maya Rossin-Slater, an assistant professor of health research and policy at Stanford and senior fellow at the Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research. “These are things that have become the new normal in American society, and we know very little about how they affect kids and families,” she says. On this episode of School’s In, Rossin-Slater joins GSE Dean Dan Schwartz and Senior Lecturer Denise Pope to talk about the broader cost of school shootings and how she is using the tools of applied microeconomics to study the impact of school shootings on young people’s mental and emotional well-being. “We found that in the two years following a fatal school shooting, the antidepressant prescription rate increased by 21 percent,” she says. “This effect persisted three years out in the local vicinity of schools that experienced fatal shootings.” Given the shortage of school counselors nationwide, Rossin-Slater says it’s critical that schools and communities put mental health care resources in place to help students—especially those from disadvantaged backgrounds—effectively cope with the long-term effects of school shooting trauma. You can listen to School's In on SiriusXM Insight channel 121, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts, Spotify, Stitcher and Soundcloud. More Episodes November 17, 2021 The future of digital education Higher Education | Innovation | Teaching May 16, 2022 The impact of the early years Brain and Learning Sciences | Early Childhood November 29, 2021 Improving education around the world Education Policy | International Education | Poverty and Inequality February 3, 2022 COVID-19 and children: What will 2022 bring? Early Childhood | Parenting ⟵ Go to all School's In Get the Educator Subscribe to our monthly newsletter. Email ⟶ Back to the Top Stanford Graduate School of Education 482 Galvez Mall Stanford, CA 94305-3096 Tel: (650) 723-2109 Improving lives through learning Contact Admissions Site Feedback Site Map Web Accessibility HelpSU GSE IT Career Resources Faculty Open Positions Explore Courses Academic Calendar Office of the Registrar Cubberley Library Webmail StanfordWho StanfordYou 25Live Login Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Flickr Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.