Skip to content Skip to navigation Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Recruiters Enter your keywords for search News Directory Events Give Toggle navigation Enter your keywords for search Programs & Degrees Admissions & Aid Faculty & Research About Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Recruiters News Directory Events Give About Toggle navigation About Home Our Community Diversity and Inclusion GSE Leadership Visit About You are here Home Visit Connect and Visit Stanford Graduate School of Education is located at the heart of the Stanford campus, near the university bookstore, Green Library, the historic Quad, and Meyer Green. Due to construction of a new state-of-the-art home for the school, two of our buildings are currently closed. Our remaining spaces on campus house our faculty, staff, research centers, classes and events. CERAS The Center for Education Research at Stanford (CERAS) provides the main hub for students, faculty, and research centers at the GSE. Designed as collaborative space, CERAS hosts classes and events, as well as our popular GSE Makery. Parking: Wilbur Field Garage See directions to CERAS Galvez Modular During construction of our new GSE campus, Galvez modular provides the temporary home of our staff administrative offices—the operational center of the GSE. Parking: Wilbur Field Garage See directions to Galvez Modular School of Education Building and Barnum Center We’re renovating and joining these historic buildings to create our new GSE home, a state-of-the-art learning and event space. Once complete, our new campus will house all faculty, staff, and research centers, and provide an interdisciplinary hub at the heart of the Stanford campus. Learn more about our new home - CERAS, - Education Building, - Barnum, - Wilbur Field Garage, - Tresidder Union Parking Lot Roughly halfway between San Francisco and San Jose, Stanford University is in the heart of Silicon Valley, covering nearly 13 square miles that span six governmental jurisdictions. Contact us Stanford Graduate School of Education 482 Galvez Mall, Stanford, CA 94305 Tel: (650) 723-2109 Fax: (650) 725-7412 Connect with admissions To learn more about our programs, visit our program pages. To attend an information session or view a recorded webinar, visit our admissions pages. Visit our program pages Connect with the admissions office Explore Stanford Come spend a day on The Farm and get a feel for campus and student life. Visit Stanford Campus Walking Tour Campus Life Learn what we have to offer GSE Leadership Partnerships Faculty and Research Diversity and Inclusion Back to the Top Stanford Graduate School of Education 482 Galvez Mall Stanford, CA 94305-3096 Tel: (650) 723-2109 Improving lives through learning Contact Admissions Site Feedback Site Map Web Accessibility HelpSU GSE IT Career Resources Faculty Open Positions Explore Courses Academic Calendar Office of the Registrar Cubberley Library Webmail StanfordWho StanfordYou 25Live Login Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Flickr Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.