Skip to content Skip to navigation Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Recruiters Enter your keywords for search News Directory Events Give Toggle navigation Enter your keywords for search Programs & Degrees Admissions & Aid Faculty & Research About Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Recruiters News Directory Events Give Programs & Degrees Toggle navigation Programs & Degrees Home Doctoral Master's Undergraduate Courses Professional Learning Undergraduate Programs You are here Home Programs & Degrees Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs in Education Welcome to UP@GSE—Undergraduate Programs at the Graduate School of Education. The GSE is the only graduate school on campus with an office dedicated to undergraduates. Come explore what we have to offer, and consider joining the GSE community in its mission to achieve equitable, accessible, and effective learning for all. Take the first step and schedule an advising appointment to learn more about courses, academic degrees, and research and service opportunities in education. Schedule an advising appointment Degree programs Undergraduate Minor The minor provides a substantial introduction to the field of education through the broad-based and focused study of research, theory and practice. Learn more Undergraduate Honors The honors program provides the opportunity to pursue independent inquiry under the mentorship of GSE faculty. Learn more Opportunities for undergrads Research and job opportunities Undergraduates interested in education-related positions can request access to the EdCareers portal by completing this survey (declared students in UP@GSE’s minor and honors programs are automatically granted access to this resource). This portal contains a list of research, internship, and job opportunities, as well as employer profiles. For more information, please contact edcareers@stanford.edu Residential life The Education and Society Theme (EAST) house provides undergraduate students with a residential experience focused on engagement in education. EAST resident fellows are GSE faculty members who provide support and advising to EAST residents. To learn more, visit residential education or the EAST web page. Public service The GSE, in partnership with the Haas Center for Public Service, sponsors Cardinal Courses that connect undergraduate students with local classrooms, schools, and education organizations. Examples of courses offering students guided opportunities in teaching and tutoring include Ravenswood Reads (EDUC 103A) and Preschool Counts (EDUC 171). Explore Cardinal Courses in education. Stanford Pre-Education Society (SPREES) SPREES is Stanford’s pre-professional society for undergraduates considering careers in education. This student-led organization provides guidance, mentoring, and community, as well as outreach opportunities. Go to SPREES web page Have questions? Visit our FAQ page or schedule an UP@GSE advising appointment to learn more about education courses, programs, and career paths. Our Community Get to know some Stanford undergraduates and alumni who have studied education at the GSE. Emma Clark, '21, MA '22 Stanford Teacher Education Program Pursuing a lifelong love of teaching Read this story Jeanette Mina Kaleikau-Buxton, '21 As an undergrad, finding community at the GSE Read this story Jeremy Quach, '18, MA '19 Stanford Teacher Education Program Becoming a teacher Read this story See community profiles Explore what we have to offer Undergraduate Minor Undergraduate Honors Undergraduate FAQ Back to the Top Stanford Graduate School of Education 482 Galvez Mall Stanford, CA 94305-3096 Tel: (650) 723-2109 Improving lives through learning Contact Admissions Site Feedback Site Map Web Accessibility HelpSU GSE IT Career Resources Faculty Open Positions Explore Courses Academic Calendar Office of the Registrar Cubberley Library Webmail StanfordWho StanfordYou 25Live Login Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Flickr Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.