Skip to content Skip to navigation Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Recruiters Enter your keywords for search News Directory Events Give Toggle navigation Enter your keywords for search Programs & Degrees Admissions & Aid Faculty & Research About Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Recruiters News Directory Events Give Giving Toggle navigation Giving Home Annual Giving Student and Faculty Support Planned Giving How to Make a Gift Giving You are here Home Giving Home Giving Your support is critical to achieving the GSE’s mission: advancing equitable, accessible, and effective learning for all. Make a gift Giving opportunities It’s an exciting time to be a part of the GSE’s future. You can join our community of support in a variety of ways. Annual giving Annual gifts are a crucial source of unrestricted funds, supporting need- and merit-based financial aid, innovative approaches to teaching, and research-practice collaborations with school districts across the country. Learn more about annual giving Student Fellowships Student fellowships are key to our ability to attract and support the most talented and diverse graduate students and prepare them to be the next generation of education leaders. Learn more about endowed and expendable student support Professorships Professorships help ensure the GSE’s continued excellence and leadership, and strengthen our ability to recruit top scholars. Learn more about endowed faculty support Planned giving Remembering the GSE in your estate plans, through bequest intentions or life-income gifts, helps sustain and strengthen the school for future generations of education leaders. Learn more about planned giving Strategic initiatives We are investing in new programs, spaces, research, and interdisciplinary collaborations to prepare all learners to thrive in a dynamic future. Learning Differences and the Future of Special Education Advancing Early Childhood Learning State-of-the-Art Spaces Learn more about our strategic initiatives Ways to make a gift There are many easy, secure ways to give to the GSE. Choose the option that works best for you Contact us For more information about gift opportunities at the Graduate School of Education, as well as supporting the Stanford Transforming Learning Accelerator, contact: Make a gift Back to the Top Stanford Graduate School of Education 482 Galvez Mall Stanford, CA 94305-3096 Tel: (650) 723-2109 Improving lives through learning Contact Admissions Site Feedback Site Map Web Accessibility HelpSU GSE IT Career Resources Faculty Open Positions Explore Courses Academic Calendar Office of the Registrar Cubberley Library Webmail StanfordWho StanfordYou 25Live Login Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Flickr Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.