Skip to main content SEARCH: This Site Cornell more options Search This Site menu Featured Toggle the sub-menu Ag Sentinel Emergency Situation Reporting COVID-19 Resources and Updates Topics Toggle the sub-menu Agrosecurity Toggle the sub-menu Ag Sentinel Emergency Situation Reporting Agrosecurity and Agroterrorism Food Supply Contamination Manure Spill Response and Recovery Families & Pets Toggle the sub-menu Animals in Emergencies Families & Children People with Special Needs or Disabilities Infectious Disease Toggle the sub-menu Bioterrorism Influenza & Pandemics Toggle the sub-menu COVID-19 Resources and Updates Zoonoses Natural Hazards Toggle the sub-menu Drought Flooding Heat Waves Hurricanes and Tropical Storms Severe Summer Storms Space Weather and Astro-hazards Tornadoes Winter Storms Security Toggle the sub-menu Bioterrorism Cybersecurity Mass Shootings Terrorism Other Hazards Toggle the sub-menu Fire Hazardous Materials Power Outages Radiological Incidents Preparedness and recovery About NY EDEN Extension Educators Toggle the sub-menu Training Research Ag Sentinel Cornell Cooperative Extension New York Extension Disaster Education Network Featured Toggle the sub-menu Ag Sentinel Emergency Situation Reporting COVID-19 Resources and Updates Topics Toggle the sub-menu Agrosecurity Toggle the sub-menu Ag Sentinel Emergency Situation Reporting Agrosecurity and Agroterrorism Food Supply Contamination Manure Spill Response and Recovery Families & Pets Toggle the sub-menu Animals in Emergencies Families & Children People with Special Needs or Disabilities Infectious Disease Toggle the sub-menu Bioterrorism Influenza & Pandemics Toggle the sub-menu COVID-19 Resources and Updates Zoonoses Natural Hazards Toggle the sub-menu Drought Flooding Heat Waves Hurricanes and Tropical Storms Severe Summer Storms Space Weather and Astro-hazards Tornadoes Winter Storms Security Toggle the sub-menu Bioterrorism Cybersecurity Mass Shootings Terrorism Other Hazards Toggle the sub-menu Fire Hazardous Materials Power Outages Radiological Incidents Preparedness and recovery About NY EDEN Extension Educators Toggle the sub-menu Training Research Ag Sentinel Influenza & Pandemics HomeInfectious DiseaseInfluenza & PandemicsCOVID-19 Resources and Updates COVID-19 Resources and Updates The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and World Health Organization (WHO) continue to monitor a novel strain of coronavirus that originated in Wuhan, China. On Feb. 11, 2020 the World Health Organization announced an official name for the disease that is causing the novel coronavirus outbreak, COVID-19. There are simple steps we can all take to stop the spread of COVID-19 and other respiratory viruses. New Yorkers can call the Department of Health’s coronavirus hotline at 1-888-364-3065 with any concerns about symptoms or travel. In addition, visit the Department of Health’s dedicated website for more resources and updates about COVID-19. NYS Department of Agriculture and Markets also provides realtime updates on COVID-19 for the ag community. If you have COVID-19 resources, programs, or information to submit to NY EDEN, please use this form. Businesses Empire State Development: COVID-19 resources, web portal for questions and FAQ page Individuals or groups looking to volunteer or contribute to the State’s effort should contact the Governor’s Office at covid19assistance@exec.ny.gov Businesses Empire State Development: COVID-19 resources, web portal for questions and FAQ page Individuals or groups looking to volunteer or contribute to the State’s effort should contact the Governor’s Office at covid19assistance@exec.ny.gov Companion Animals Coronavirus and pets: FAQs for Owners – University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign College of Veterinary Medicine COVID-19 and Dogs (PDF) COVID-19 and Service Dogs (PDF) Farms Building Farm Resilience During COVID-19 – Cornell Small Farms Program Cornell Cooperative Extension Agricultural Workforce Development COVID-19 Management Resources – Cornell PRO-DAIRY Program Cornell Farmworker Program | El Programa de Apoyo a Los Trabajadores Agrícolas de Cornell Farm Stress Management | NY FarmNet Finances Guidance on Coronavirus Resources and Warnings about Consumer Scams – NY Attorney General Protect yourself financially from the impact of the coronavirus – Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Food Industry Food industry resources for Coronavirus COVID-19 – Cornell Institute for Food Safety Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) FAQs: Food – U.S. Food & Drug Administration (FDA) COVID-19 Resources For Food, Beverage, and Agriculture Businesses – Center for Excellence for Food and Agriculture at Cornell Agritech COVID-19 Updates Q & A Webinar Regarding COVID-19 Vaccines Available in English and Spanish Mar 11, 2021 The Cornell Farmworker Program and Finger Lakes Community Health are co-hosting an upcoming Q and A about COVID-19 vaccines in both English and... Military Family Readiness Academy Series: Disaster and Hazard Readiness in Action Feb 25, 2021 The Military Families Learning Network (MFLN) is excited to continue in March with the 2021 Military Family Readiness Academy series, Disaster and... Crisis Counseling Program Offers Free Confidential Support During COVID-19 Feb 11, 2021 NY Project Hope helps New York residents understand their reaction and emotions during the COVID-19 pandemic. Through an emotional support helpline,... Food Industry Virtual Office Hours on February 10th Feb 3, 2021 The New York Integrated Food Safety Center of Excellence and the Institute for Food Safety at Cornell University are hosting a facilitated... Participation Sought for Survey on the COVID-19 Pandemic and Its Impact on Agricultural Operations Jan 22, 2021 The New York Center for Agricultural Medicine and Health, Cornell Agricultural Workforce Development and the Center for Agricultural Development and... Updates on NYS COVID-19 Vaccine Distribution and Eligibility Jan 13, 2021 The first COVID-19 vaccines have arrived in NYS, but due to limited supply from the federal government, availability is limited. More and more New... Food Industry COVID-19 Virtual Office Hours on January 7th Dec 23, 2020 The New York Integrated Food Safety Center of Excellence and the Institute for Food Safety at Cornell University invite you to join their first... COVID-19 Update on Horticultural and Agritourism Businesses in Cluster Sites Nov 18, 2020 As we enter the colder months, we must remain vigilant in maintaining health and safety requirements to stop the spread of COVID-19. The New York... Food Industry COVID-19 Virtual Office Hours: Observations from the Field Nov 9, 2020 The New York Integrated Food Safety Center of Excellence and the Institute for Food Safety at Cornell University are hosting a special session of... New York Launches COVID Alert NY App to Help Stop the Spread of COVID-19 Oct 2, 2020 New York just launched COVID Alert NY— the official Exposure Notification App created by the New York State Department of Health in partnership with... « Older Entries Featured Ag Sentinel Emergency Situation Reporting COVID-19 Resources and Updates Training for Extension Educators Winter Storms Updates by tag Ag Agribusiness agriculture AgriTech Agritourism Animal Care Animals Business Relief Cornell Cornell Agricultural Workforce Development Cornell Small Farms Dairy Industry Employees Employers Equine Essential Services. Ag Family Farm Business Farm Employers Farmers Markets Farm Workers Financial Stress Food Industry Food Safety Food Science H-2A Health Horticulture Housing Institute for Food Safety Livestock Loans Mental Health Migrant Farmworkers New York Forward NY Forward Podcast Seafood Social Distancing Spanish Spanish-language Utilities Virtual Office Hours Webinar Workforce Tweets by CCE_Disaster Email updates Get email updates when new NY EDEN updates are added. Opt out any time. Please, insert a valid email. Thank you, your email will be added to the mailing list once you click on the link in the confirmation email. Your Email Leave this field blank Spam protection has stopped this request. Please contact site owner for help. This form is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Facebook Twitter Cornell University©2022University PrivacyWeb Accessibility Assistance Hosted by CampusPress