Skip to main content Tulane Home Admissions Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About Vision, Mission & History Our Focus Areas Staff Land Acknowledgment Advocacy Presidential EDI Initiatives EDI Faculty Council Anti-Racism Professional Development Council LGBTQ+ EDI Working Committee Faculty and Staff Affinity Groups EDI Partners at Tulane Community Engagement Education EDI Interactive Reports Faculty and Staff Resources Student Resources Media Request an EDI Training Consultation Conflict Resolution Program Meet with Us Request an EDI Consultation Bias Resources For Faculty and Students Report a Bias Concern Bias and Harm Reduction Council Strategy for Tomorrow Admissions Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... OFFICE OF EQUITY, DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion in ACTION We are building a Tulane where we practice our lived values of equity, justice, inclusion, and anti-racism every day. The Office of Equity, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) coordinates university-wide EDI and anti-racism efforts and collaborates with university leaders to create, implement, and evaluate programs designed to ensure every single community member can grow and thrive together. We partner with campus schools and units to craft a vision for EDI and anti-racism that is unique to the Tulane community, and accountable to our place in New Orleans, the Gulf Region, and the world. In doing so, we engage our Tulane community in crucial, brave conversations about the most challenging issues of our times - including the impacts of racism, sexism, heterosexism, ableism, classism, xenoprejudice, and other intersectional societal inequities – to identify social change efforts we can make now and in the future. On this website, you can find our EDI Office activities, initiatives, and resources and get connected to those across campus. You Belong Here Our Areas of Focus Driving Cultural Change Sustaining Racial Equity Promoting EDI Excellence Inclusive Environments Equity-Minded Research Community Partnership Signature Initiatives A Plan for Now provides structure and direction for initiatives already underway and identifies actions we can undertake in the coming weeks and months that will have an immediate and positive impact toward becoming a more diverse, equitable and inclusive Tulane. Alongside existing university initiatives included in A Plan for Now, A Strategy for Tomorrow will be a long-range plan to advance EDI and anti-racism from 2022-2027. See Presidential EDI and Anti-Racism Initiatives Apply for the Anti-Racism Leadership Program Student Resources Quick ViewLearn More Faculty & Staff Resources Quick ViewLearn More Bias Resources Quick ViewLearn More EDI Interactive Reports Quick ViewLearn More Student Resources Inclusive resources and support for all Tulane students. Learn More Faculty & Staff Resources Resources, tips, training courses and more for Tulane faculty and staff. Learn More Bias Resources Information for reporting a bias concern, Tulane's Office of Institutional Equity, conflict resoltion, and Title IX compliance. Learn More EDI Interactive Reports Student headcounts are provided by term, level, primary school, time status, gender, and race/ethnicity. Faculty headcounts are provided by term, track, academic rank, school, and tenure status. Degrees awarded are provided by year, degree type, degree, school, gender, and race/ethnicity. Learn More Get Involved 
Join Faculty and Staff Affinity Groups

Participate in the Carolyn Barber-Pierre Center for Intercultural Life "All of our initiatives have the single, urgent goal of building and sustaining an anti-racist environment and a community where all are welcomed, supported and valued – these efforts are essential for creating a world-class institution that conducts the best research, offers the best education and has the greatest positive impact on the world." – Michael A. Fitts, President, Tulane University "Our EDI Office was created to coordinate and enhance the crucial multi-faceted work taking place around the entire campus to identify and address inequities and to combat racism. This work is essential to our commitment to excellence and must be embedded into all aspects of our mission." – Robin Forman, Ph.D., Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost "We must move beyond acknowledging that every member of our community has value to addressing the barriers and how our past has limited the contributions of our most marginalized groups on campus. We must revise who we are, what we do, and what we value in an actionable and intentional strategy to truly become the anti-racist institution we aspire to be." – Carolyn Barber-Pierre, Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs & Intercultural Life Office of Equity, Diversity and Inclusion News Psychologist explores history of anti-API racism and advocates for a united community Anti-Racism and EDI Teach-In with Faculty and Staff focuses on racial equity change at Tulane Professional Development Day announces schedule for 2022 virtual learning event Tulane faculty, staff and alumni take the stage at New Orleans Book Festival View More Office of Equity, Diversity and Inclusion News Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University Office of Equity, Diversity and Inclusion 6823 St. Charles Avenue 204 Gibson Hall New Orleans, LA 70118 504-314-2821 edioffice@tulane.edu Maps & Directions Our Focus Areas Faculty / Staff Resources Student Resources Bias Resources Meet with Us News Give to Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University