Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Incident Reporting Subscribe Funding Search Schools / Units Search About Our Team 2020-21 Community Update Strategy I&B Task Force Data Harvard Terms and Acronyms Events Events and News Submissions Past OEDIB Events Lost and Found Event BIPOC Connections Welcome Juneteenth at Harvard Commencement 2021 Community Conversations Our Initiatives Affirmative Action Affinity Spaces Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Commemorative Lecture EDIB Forum Changemakers Community Dialogues Culture Lab Grants Across Harvard Schools and Units Affinity Graduation Ceremonies DIB Leadership Council DIB Network DIB Link Heritage Months and Identity Recognitions Reflecting on Harvard's History Work at Harvard Get Support AAAPI Community Community Care Resources Latinx Community LGBTQ+ Resources LOST & FOUND: Pandemic Reflections Native American and Indigenous Resources Learn Guides & Toolkits Learning Hub DEI Syllabus Explorer Essential Reading News HOME / PEOPLE / Sherri Charleston Sherri Charleston Chief Diversity and Inclusion Officer Sherri Ann Charleston serves as the first Chief Diversity and Inclusion Officer (CDIO) at Harvard University. She is one of the nation’s leading experts in diversity and higher education, and assumed her role in August 2020. Dr. Charleston is a historian trained in U.S. history with a focus on race, women, gender, citizenship, and the law, and an attorney with a specialization in constitutional and employment law. Most recently, she served as the Assistant Vice Provost for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion and Chief Affirmative Action Officer at the University of Wisconsin (UW)-Madison. She was responsible for evaluating progress toward the goals of a campus-wide strategic diversity plan. During her leadership, she also oversaw the Office of Employee Disability Resources and undergraduate scholarship programs focused on recruiting and retaining students from historically underrepresented communities. As an academician and administrator, she has expertise in affirmative action, Title IX, and Americans with Disability Act enforcement and compliance. Her focus is on translating diversity and inclusion research into practice for students, staff, researchers, postdoctoral fellows and faculty of color. She also held faculty affiliations with the Departments of Gender and Women’s Studies, teaching courses on women, inequality, and policy analysis at UW-Madison. In 2019, Diverse Issues in Higher Education magazine named her one of the “Top 35 Women in Higher Education.” Dr. Charleston received a B.A. from Columbia University in history and African American studies, a M.A. and Ph.D. in history from the University of Michigan, and J.D. from the University of Wisconsin Law School. “My approach to the work is very much grounded in my academic interests in history and the law, and in thinking about how we’ve evolved, and how we haven’t evolved, around questions of race and gender, and it comes from a deep passion toward effecting sustainable organizational change, and creating structures that outlast all of us, so that we can actually make progress. I fundamentally believe that many of the challenges that we face in higher education relative to diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging have answers rooted in applied research. We must work together in the field to find them.” Websites Read Sherri's Messages to the Harvard Community EDIB Office Role CDIO EDIB Office Staff Read the Latest Messages from the CDIO Changing Names and Narratives Stepping Into a New Normal A Call to Dismantle Intersecting Oppressions 1 of 4 »More EDIB the News Fresh strides in equity, diversity, inclusion, and belonging Sherri Ann Charleston named chief diversity and inclusion officer Office for Equity, Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging (OEDIB) Harvard University Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, 9th Floor Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138-3834 edib@harvard.edu | 617-496-9678 a48fdedc2800853f70ab573bdf1b4f66 f84a807da87210fde457c5f05a9187e7 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement