Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Incident Reporting Subscribe Funding Search Schools / Units Search About Our Team 2020-21 Community Update Strategy I&B Task Force Data Harvard Terms and Acronyms Events Events and News Submissions Past OEDIB Events Lost and Found Event BIPOC Connections Welcome Juneteenth at Harvard Commencement 2021 Community Conversations Our Initiatives Affirmative Action Affinity Spaces Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Commemorative Lecture EDIB Forum Changemakers Community Dialogues Culture Lab Grants Across Harvard Schools and Units Affinity Graduation Ceremonies DIB Leadership Council DIB Network DIB Link Heritage Months and Identity Recognitions Reflecting on Harvard's History Work at Harvard Get Support AAAPI Community Community Care Resources Latinx Community LGBTQ+ Resources LOST & FOUND: Pandemic Reflections Native American and Indigenous Resources Learn Guides & Toolkits Learning Hub DEI Syllabus Explorer Essential Reading News HOME / ACROSS HARVARD / Affinity Graduation Ceremonies Affinity graduation ceremonies are student-led, staff supported events that aim to recognize and celebrate the accomplishments of graduates from historically marginalized and underrepresented communities. These events provide an opportunity for graduates to honor those who have helped them achieve their milestone while centering their cultural traditions and values. Affinity celebrations are open to all Harvard graduates; preregistration is required. Championing student organizations plan the ceremonies, hosted by the Harvard community. In 2022, Harvard will host six affinity graduation ceremonies. They are: AAPI/APIDA Graduation - May 23, 7–9 p.m. in Tercentenary Theater Black Graduation - May 24, 3:30–5:30 p.m. at Sanders Theatre Latinx Graduation - May 24, 7-9 p.m. at Sanders Theatre Lavender Graduation - May 24, 1–3 p.m. at Harvard Divinity School Next Gen (FGLI+) Graduation - May 24, 9:30–11:30 a.m. at Harvard Memorial Church University-wide Native American Program and Indigenous Graduation - May 26, 4–5 p.m., Sheraton Commander Hotel These celebrations offer keynote speakers, performances, and cultural celebrations in addition to the Harvard University Commencement and School-based ceremonies. Graduates recieve a stole created for their affinity group. Dates and details will follow. Watch the live stream on the OEDIB YouTube channel. Visit the Harvard Commencement Office website for details about the University's 2022 ceremonies. Graduates and Guests: Frequently Asked Questions How do I register and/or request an affinity graduation stole? Registration for affinity graduation events and stoles closed on Friday, May 6. If you missed the registration deadline and have questions, you may email edib@harvard.edu. When do graduates get their stoles? The deadline to pick-up stoles was Wednesday, May 25 at 3 p.m. ET. Stoles cannot be mailed. Class of 2020 or 2021: Graduates who completed a stole request form recieved an email with pick-up information at their respective Schools' DIB office or student affairs office. a 2022 degree candidates who completed the registration received their stole at the affinity graduation ceremony. Students who confirmed that they would not attend the ceremonies in person recieved an email with the stole pick-up times and locations. Can I request a stole for more than one ceremony? Graduates may register for a stole for each affinity ceremony that they identify with. Is there a cost to participate in any of the ceremonies? Participation in the affinity graduation ceremonies is free for students and guests. When and where are the ceremonies taking place? Times and location of affinity celebrations will be announced. Ceremonies will be held from May 23 through May 26 as follows: Monday, May 23, 2022 AAPI/APIDA Graduation, 7 p.m. in Tercentenary Theater Tuesday, May 24, 2022 Black Graduation, 3:30–5:30 p.m. at Sanders Theatre Latinx Graduation, 7–9 p.m. at Sanders Theatre Next Gen (FGLI+) Graduation, 9:30–11:30 a.m. at Harvard Memorial Church Lavender Graduation, 1–3 p.m. at Harvard Divinity School Harvard College students interested in participating in the BGLTQ Center Lavender Ceremony should contact the Harvard College BGLTQ Center at BGLTQ@fas.harvard.edu. Thursday, May 26, 2022 University-wide Native American Program and Indigenous Graduation - May 26, 4–5 p.m., Sheraton Commander Hotel Do my guests need a ticket to attend? Graduates who completed the RSVP form by the May 6, 2022 deadline have recieved a confirmation email with ticket pick-up information. Please check spam or alternate email addresses to ensure you do not miss this message. Will there be affinity ceremonies for the classes of 2020/2021? Currently, we are only able to accommodate affinity graduation ceremonies for the Class of 2022. Graduates from the Class of 2020 and 2021 who will be partipating in this year's University Commencement ceremonies and did not receive a stole may pick one up on campus. Classes of 2020, 2021, and 2022 that would like to request an affinity graduation stole can place a stole order by Friday, May 6, 2022 at midnight. Pick up will be available at your designated school, and exact locations will be posted in late May. Stoles cannot be mailed. How can I be involved with planning the affinity graduations? Current Harvard students interested in serving on a student planning committee, can reach out to the host student organization for that respective ceremony. AAPI/APIDA: Led by a coalition of student leaders from the AAPI Caucus at Harvard Kennedy School and the Pan Asian Coalition for Education at Harvard Graduate School of Education Black Graduation - Led by Black Graduate Students Alliance (harvardbgsa@gmail.com) Latinx Graduation - Led by Comunidad Latinx (hgsecomunidadlatinx@gmail.com) Lavender Graduation - Led by Queer Rites and LGBTQ+ Coalition (studentlife@hds.harvard.edu) Native American and Indigenous Graduation - Led by Harvard University Native American Program (hunap@harvard.edu) Next Gen (FGLI+) Graduation - Led by the Next Gen Initiative (https://projects.iq.harvard.edu/nextgen/home) Who are the keynote speakers? Students are actively planning the 2022 ceremonies. Keynote speakers will be announced at a later date. What are the COVID protocols for the ceremonies? Harvard University is closely monitoring the ongoing Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic. Our top priority remains the health, safety, and well-being of our community, on and off campus.  We will continue to update the community regularly to keep you informed of additional measures. To stay up to date on Harvard's response to the outbreak, visit the University's COVID-19 website, which will be updated with information as it becomes available. Where can I park for the ceremonies? Please visit the Harvard Commencement website for more information on parking during Commencement week. How can I request accommodations for the graduation ceremonies? Information regarding captioning, accessible entry gates, ticketed accessible seating section, accessible toilet rooms, and first aid stations will be provided here in the coming weeks after ceremony locations are announced. For graduating students, please contact University Disability Services for requests for accommodations at disabilityresources@harvard.edu or call 617-495-1859. To find useful information regarding accessible pathways and building entrances in a variety of areas, please visit the Harvard University Campus Map. Visit Harvard’s Commencement website for details on the University-wide program. Who do I contact if I have other questions? If you have any additional questions about affinity graduation ceremonies, please email edib@harvard.edu. Will the ceremony be live streamed? You can watch the live streams of the 2022 Affinity Graduations on the OEDIB YouTube channel. Class of 2022 2022 Affinity Graduations Office for Equity, Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging (OEDIB) Harvard University Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, 9th Floor Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138-3834 edib@harvard.edu | 617-496-9678 a48fdedc2800853f70ab573bdf1b4f66 f84a807da87210fde457c5f05a9187e7 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement