Georgia Tech Home Map Directory Offices Menu Close Home Our Team Contact Us We help communities, governments, and universities strengthen their Innovation Economies What is your Innovation Economy? A collaboration of your manufacturing base and your startup community that energizes a value-added export economy and grows your GDP. We energize your Innovation Economy through: Policy Establishing the foundation for a healthy economy begins with a vision and a plan. Our practitioners help with assessments, benchmarking, visioning, policy guidance and more. Practice With capacity-building programs, we help communities grow into the success story they envision. Our practitioners help with ecosystem building, soft landings, incubation programming, entrepreneurial education, and more. Impact Measuring progress keeps an initiative on track and builds momentum. Our practitioners help with assessments, fiscal and impact analysis, sustainability planning and more. As an arm of Georgia Tech's Enterprise Innovation Institute (EI2), the Economic Development Lab (EDL) operates in Georgia and around the world with three interconnected Innovation Economy programs. Science, Technology and Innovation Policy Emerging fields of innovation Societal impact of innovation Infusion of innovation into manufacturing base Innovation ecosystem formation Innovation Ecosystems Lean Innovation Ecosystem Building Technology Extension Innovation Neighborhoods and Cluster support Soft Landings for international firms Center for Economic Development Research Strategic Planning for Community-based Initiatives Economic Development Projects for distressed communities Economic Development Professional Education Fiscal and Economic Impact Modeling EDL Past and Present Looking for more? Our Team Contact Us Resources Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Log In RSS Feed Powered by Professional Web Presence (PWP) Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Accessibility Accreditation Employment © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology