Skip to content Toggle navigation Enterprise Data Management Home Data Governance Governance Data Governance Structure Data Governance Committee Management Data Domains Data Management Categorization Systems Inventory Data Element Dictionary Security Data Protection Categorization Access Procedures Separation of Duties Compliance Data Regulation Categorization Regulatory Compliance Training Monitor Audit Policies Data Warehouse Data Business Intelligence LITE Portal About EDM Get Started Access & Service Request CONTACT US Search Search form Enter your keywords Enterprise Data Management Provide timely and meaningful information to inform decisions within the Institute. Learn More You are here: GT Home Home Create forward-looking strategies and integrated solutions for: Data Governance Manage the Institute’s data safely and properly Learn More Data Warehouse Centralize the storage of the Institute’s data Learn More Business Intelligence Provide insights for decision making within the Institute Learn More Enterprise Reporting: LITE Leading Insight Through Empowerment (LITE) provides a new, simpler way of accessing data on campus. LITE Portal Documentation Quick Start Check out our services and resources. Data Access & Services Apply for access to the data in Enterprise Data Warehouse (EDW) for your reports or analysis. What’s in the EDW? Check out what data is available for consumption in the Enterprise Data Warehouse. Policy Library Find out what polices we need to comply with in order to ensure the safety of data consumption. Frequently Asked Questions How do I get access to LITE? Georgia Tech users can access LITE Reports at lite.gatech.edu. At this time, the majority of the reports are built for student data. Some of the reports contain sensitive data that require approval by the Registrar due to FERPA Compliance. In order to get access to those reports, please contact the designator in your department. In July 2019, Financial Reports will roll onto LITE as well in coordination with the Workday Financials implementation. You can learn more about that at transformation.gatech.edu. What if I can't find the report I want? Submit a ticket with the EDM team regarding your request. A representative from the Business Intelligence Team will reach out. Where can I get LITE training? LITE Documentation can be found on the EDM Knowledgebase. The knowledgebase contains report overviews, data sources, and more. Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © Georgia Institute of Technology Login