Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search SEHD Home SEHD Home SEHD News Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning About Us History Mission Accreditation Diversity Degrees Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Bachelor's Programs Online Programs Certificates Minors Degrees by Department Admission Undergraduate Graduate Financial Contact Us People Administration Faculty Staff Students Undergraduate Graduate International Students Organizations Job & Internship Openings Well-Being Our Work Research Centers Projects Institutes Outreach Resources Happenings News Events Publications Social Media Friends & Giving GIVE TO SEHD Alumni & Volunteers Community Partners About Us Degrees Admission People Students Our Work Happenings Friends & Giving Search About Us History Mission Accreditation Diversity Degrees Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Bachelor's Programs Online Programs Certificates Minors Degrees by Department Admission Undergraduate Graduate Financial Contact Us People Administration Faculty Staff Students Undergraduate Graduate International Students Organizations Job & Internship Openings Well-Being Our Work Research Centers Projects Institutes Outreach Resources Happenings News Events Publications Social Media Friends & Giving GIVE TO SEHD Alumni & Volunteers Community Partners Honored with National Athletic Trainers Service Award For more than 20 years, Kysha Harriell has worked diligently to bring more ethnic diversity to the athletic training profession. Honored with National Athletic Trainers Service Award For more than 20 years, Kysha Harriell has worked diligently to bring more ethnic diversity to the athletic training profession. Alumni profile: Olympic Champion Lindsay Dare Shoop An Olympic gold medalist, Lindsay Shoop, M.S.Ed. ‘18, is a coach, speaker and author of a new book, Better Great Than Never. Her inspirational work focuses on her lifelong experiences as an athlete. Alumni profile: Olympic Champion Lindsay Dare Shoop An Olympic gold medalist, Lindsay Shoop, M.S.Ed. ‘18, is a coach, speaker and author of a new book, Better Great Than Never. Her inspirational work focuses on her lifelong experiences as an athlete. Research Explores How the Brain Functions Brian Anwari, clinical associate professor, can answer many questions about how our brains work. Research Explores How the Brain Functions Brian Anwari, clinical associate professor, can answer many questions about how our brains work. GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply Education should be a tool for transformation. For individuals & communities. That is the core of Dean Laura Kohn-Wood’s mission. Building on the well-laid foundation of integrating educational, psychological, and physical wellbeing into formal education, established by former Dean Isaac Prilleltensky, Kohn-Wood intends to harness the immense talent, research skills & know-how of her faculty, staff & students to solve real-life problems. Educational and Psychological Studies Intellectual stimulation and cooperation characterize the academic culture within the Department of Educational and Psychological Studies. Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Students in our programs receive an outstanding clinical and academic background while having wonderful opportunities to work in both amateur and professional sport industries. Teaching and Learning We prepare the next generation of teachers, teacher educators, researchers, and practitioners to improve education for all students. Request info Request Information about School of Education and Human Development or schedule a visit of our amazing campus. GRADUATE PROGRAMS Applied Learning Sciences - M.S.Ed. Applied Learning Sciences - Ed.D. Applied Physiology - M.S.Ed. Athletic Training - M.S.AT. Community and Social Change - M.S.Ed. Community Well-Being - Ph.D. Counseling - M.S.Ed. Counseling Psychology - Ph.D. Education and Social Change - M.S.Ed. Exercise Physiology, Ph.D. Higher Education Administration - M.S.Ed. Higher Education Leadership, Ed.D. Research, Measurement and Evaluation - M.S.Ed. Research, Measurement & Evaluation, Ph.D. Special Education - M.S.Ed. Sport Administration - M.S.Ed. Teaching and Learning - Ph.D. UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMS Community and Applied Psychological Studies - B.S.Ed. Elementary/Exceptional Student Education (ESE) with ESOL & Reading Endorsements - B.S. Exercise Physiology - B.S. Sport Administration - B.S.Ed. How To Apply You have done your homework, you’ve researched our departments, and now you are ready to become a Cane. Click here to start your application. Undergraduate Graduate Meet your Advisor Welcome to the SEHD. Now that you are enrolled it’s time to get expert advice on your course of study. Click here to meet your academic advisors. Undergraduate Graduate Our Events From webinars on the latest topics to interactive discussions with industry experts the SEHD always curates engaging and relevant programming. Upcoming Events Past Events Our Research Cutting edge. Innovative. Transformative. These are just a few adjectives to describe the research initiatives that our faculty and students pursue. Centers Projects Give To What Matters Most To You We appreciate the generosity from donors and hope to grow our philanthropic community to continue the good work our faculty and students continue to do. Give News and Events EVENTS SEHD MIAMI ON: University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 School of Education and Human Development 5202 University Drive Merrick Bldg. Rm. 312 Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-3711 305-284-3711 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices