Skip to main content College of Education Menu Service to the State Protect Texas Give Now Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Search Search College of Education Search Search Students Expand Career Engagement Commencement Educator Programs and Certification Overview For Families Graduate Students How to Apply See Yourself Here Undergraduate Students Welcome Longhorns Departments Expand Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Research Expand Overview Centers and Institutes Featured Research Find Faculty Research Support Alumni & Friends Expand Overview Advisory Council Alumni Stories Contact Us Update Your Information About Expand Overview Building Renovations Contact Us Facts and Rankings Map to Sánchez Building & Brazos Garage Dean's Office Units Office of the Dean Social Justice, Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Visit the College of Education Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Service to the State Home Students : Career Engagement Career Engagement alt="An employer speaking to prospective students about a career opportunity " Career Engagement Career Events We host a variety of workshops and career fairs designed to help you find and define your career path year-round. View our events Meet with Us Meet with your Career Engagement Coordinator by phone, email, or Zoom to have your career questions answered. Schedule now Join HireUTexas HireUTexas is an all-inclusive job board where you can connect with local, national, and global employers offering jobs, internships, and more. Join now Join HookedIn Sponsored by Texas Exes, HookedIn has more than 14,000 users willing to help you connect, network, and explore career opportunities. Join now Serving Our Students Texas Education Career Engagement empowers College of Education undergraduate students to discover meaningful career goals. We support all students as they form bridges between their career visions and potential employers, resources, opportunities, and organizations. Student Resources Helping New Alumni If you are still less than one year from graduating and would like some career guidance, we can help! Young Alumni Resources Partnering with Faculty and Staff College of Education Faculty and Staff play an important role in our students' lives, serving as instructors and mentors. We have compiled resources that will help you guide our students when they come to you with career questions. Faculty/Staff Guides Working with Recruiters We are committed to offering our employer partners comprehensive recruiting services to help connect with our student talent. Recruiter Information Contact Us Texas Education Career Engagement empowers our undergraduate students to discover meaningful career goals and provides employers equitable access to diverse talent within our student body. We are available to serve you Monday - Friday, 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. (512) 471-3223 or 471-9903 Email us! College of Education Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Educator Certification Academics See Yourself Here How to Apply Student Affairs Mailing Address College of Education 1912 Speedway, Stop D5000 Austin, Texas 78712 View Map Undergraduate Student Affairs (512) 471-3223 Contact Us Helpful Links Counseling and Support Emergency Information UT Directory UT Direct Policies and Procedures Help Support Faculty Directory Manage Email Preferences Protect Texas Departments Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Administration Office of the Dean Development and Alumni Relations Business Services Career Engagement Facilities Services Office of Student Success and Recruitment Field Experiences Office of Educational Research Support Information Technology Office Office of Instructional Innovation Marketing and Communications Employment Opportunities © College of Education at the University of Texas at Austin 2021 Feedback | Site Policies | Web Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Policy | Adobe Reader