Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Education Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home Academics Undergraduate Graduate People Faculty Staff Graduate Students News & Events News Upcoming Events Events Archive About History Mission & Goals Contact & Directions Stay Connected Brown Summer High School 2022 Course Descriptions Apply to BSHS Search Department of Education Urban Education Policy A.M. Our immersive 12-month degree in urban education policy equips students with the essential skills they need to fight for more equitable urban schools at the policy level. Breadcrumb Home Academics Graduate Sub Navigation In This Section Master of Arts in Teaching Urban Education Policy A.M. Outcomes Program Overview How to Apply Cost and Financial Aid Connect with Us 5th-Year UEP Frequently Asked Questions Urban Education Policy A.M. Our immersive 12-month degree in urban education policy equips students with the essential skills they need to fight for more equitable urban schools at the policy level. Reforming systems. Transforming lives. Now more than ever, urban schools need policy analysts and leaders who can improve students’ opportunities and outcomes. The yearlong program in urban education policy prepares students to become education change agents who can lead the fight. Over the course of a year, UEP students complete an independent research project, take rigorous courses, and gain community experience through internships with Brown’s community partners. Through this integration of research, theory, and practice, students learn how urban education policy works, how decisions are made, how to measure policy consequences, and how to make an impact. Together in a cohort setting, students learn the perspectives and tools of school governance, policy redesign, data analysis, diversity and inclusion, community building, and economic analysis, applying each to the complex context of urban education systems. The cross-disciplinary UEP program prepares students for a variety of professional careers and can also act as a springboard for advanced study involving policy analysis, planning, and development in urban public education. 20 average cohort size 2 out of 3 students receive financial support 3:1 student: faculty ratio Why we’re different From its focus on urban schools to its practice-based curriculum, the UEP program distinguishes itself in several ways. Small, tight-knit cohort Students collaborate closely throughout their time at Brown, working together to solve problems in complex, high-need school systems. Nine months of hands-on experience Students apply what they’ve learned in the classroom and engage in the Providence community. Some students intern with institutes, while others choose to intern with local municipal offices, state agencies or non-profit organizations. Focus on racial and economic inequality in schools Our recently revised UEP curriculum pays special attention to race, class, community and inequality in the context of urban education, exploring the unique opportunities and challenges faced by schools in America’s cities. Integration of theory and practice Students’ internships in Providence coincide with academic courses — guided by experienced practitioners — that build relevant knowledge and skills. Forging connections between the classroom and the meeting room allows students to connect theory to practice in deep and meaningful ways. World-class faculty Education Week has ranked several Brown faculty members among the most influential scholars shaping educational policy and practice today. Cross-campus collaboration Collaborations with the Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs and other academic departments at Brown augment the program's practical and interdisciplinary aspects. https://www.youtube.com/embed/14c-L78hSiM How It All Works Heather Johnson's Urban Education Policy experience at Brown Alumni Spotlight: Breaking down barriers in Washington’s public schools Zaneta Han UEP’09 has played a crucial role in removing barriers to a good education for underserved students in Washington, D.C. Read More Program Overview Both inside and outside the classroom, students receive top-notch preparation for careers in policy, research, or consulting. Urban Education Fellows UEP graduates can apply to serve in a three-year, full-time position within a public sector education organization or non-profit entity in Providence’s urban core. Any loan debt that fellows have accrued while in the UEP program will be canceled. Admission Inquiry Form Connect with a UEP student ambassador Important Dates The academic year begins in June and concludes the following May. The application deadline for 2022 entry into our graduate programs was January 19, 2022. The application portal will reopen in early September 2022 for the next admissions cycle. Request more information. How to Apply We seek candidates for admission to the Urban Education Policy master's program who combine an interest in education policy issues with a high motivation to be successful in a rigorous and fast-paced master's program. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Academics Undergraduate Graduate People Faculty Staff Graduate Students News & Events News Upcoming Events Events Archive About History Mission & Goals Contact & Directions Stay Connected Brown Summer High School 2022 Course Descriptions Apply to BSHS Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Urban Education Policy A.M. Open details for Urban Education Policy A.M. Bookmark this Page