Skip to Main Content Brown University School of Public Health Brown University Academic and Student Affairs Search Menu Site Navigation Home Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Postdoctoral Fellowships Online Programs Student Resources Academic Resources Funding and Teaching Opportunities Advising and Mentoring Resources Career Advising Student Life Faculty Resources Teaching Resources Advising and Mentoring Resources SPH Office of Faculty Affairs Who We Are Events Search Academic and Student Affairs Employer Resources Breadcrumb Home Career Advising Sub Navigation In This Section Student Resources Alumni Resources Employer Resources Graduate Outcomes Career Webinars Employer Resources Connect with Brown School of Public Health students & alumni. Brown's unique curriculum helps students learn to engage with others, analyze complex problems, think critically, and create solutions that have real-world impact. With a strong entrepreneurial spirit and a commitment to helping others, our students and alumni are ready to make significant contributions to your organization. 136 Graduates in the Class of 2021 95% Employed within 12 Months of Graduation 36% Undergraduates with Honors in Class of 2021 I want to... Share an opportunity with your students School of Public Health Students Please email the following information to sph-careers@brown.edu and we will be happy to share your opportunity in our School of Public Health career portal: Position title Application link Organization name Type of opportunity (e.g. job, internship, fellowship, etc.) Full-time, part-time (please include hours/range) or both Qualifications (e.g. bachelor's, current student, 2022 master's graduate, etc.) Application deadline (if applicable) All Brown University Students In addition to posting your opportunity in our School's portal, you can reach over 9,000 students at Brown by creating an account and posting your positions in Handshake. Learn about Brown graduates' outcomes For a general overview of our graduates' next steps, explore our undergraduate post-graduation data and graduate career outcomes. Host a virtual webinar or interviews We want you to maximize your time and effort when recruiting at Brown. As attendance at online information sessions has been increasingly difficult to predict at the school level, we encourage hiring managers to share career opportunities primarily through the School's digital channels. If you would like to host an online information session and hope to reach a broader audience, we recommend using Brown CareerLAB's recruiting resources. Connect one-on-one with School of Public Health students Search Brown's current student and alumni networks on LinkedIn by location, industry, graduation year, etc. Please note that many more public health graduates are connected to the greater Brown LinkedIn page. School of Public Health Brown University Access resources for Brown alumni employers You bring the resources, expertise, and connections of your fellow Brown alumni with you. For a general overview of our graduates' next steps, explore our undergraduate post-graduate data and graduate career outcomes. To support your outreach, we encourage you to take advantage of the opportunities below: SPH Opportunities Database: Please email the following information to sph-careers@brown.edu and we will be happy to share your opportunity with an alumni referral notation in our School of Public Health career portal: Position title Application link Organization name Type of opportunity (e.g. job, internship, fellowship, etc.) Full-time, part-time (please include hours/range) or both Qualifications (e.g. bachelor's, current student, 2022 master's graduate, etc.) Application deadline (if applicable) LinkedIn: Share your opportunities directly with students and alumni by joining our LinkedIn Alumni & Current Students Group Brown CareerLAB: Register for a recruiting event or learn more about our on-campus interviewing program with CareerLAB BrownConnect: Support students at Brown by sharing internships, research opportunities, and funding with BrownConnect Handshake: Reach over 9,000 students at Brown by creating an account and posting your positions in Handshake Get Involved: Engage with prospective School of Public Health graduate students as an Alumni Ambassador Questions? Sean Kelley MS, EMT-B Assistant Director, Career Advising sean_kelley@brown.edu Pronouns he/him/his Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Public Health Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Postdoctoral Fellowships Online Programs Student Resources Academic Resources Funding and Teaching Opportunities Advising and Mentoring Resources Career Advising Student Life Faculty Resources Teaching Resources Advising and Mentoring Resources SPH Office of Faculty Affairs Who We Are Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Employer Resources Open details for Employer Resources Bookmark this Page