Skip to Main Content Brown University School of Public Health Brown University Academic and Student Affairs Search Menu Site Navigation Home Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Postdoctoral Fellowships Online Programs Student Resources Academic Resources Funding and Teaching Opportunities Advising and Mentoring Resources Career Advising Student Life Faculty Resources Teaching Resources Advising and Mentoring Resources SPH Office of Faculty Affairs Who We Are Events Search Academic and Student Affairs Faculty Resources Sub Navigation In This Section Teaching Resources Advising and Mentoring Resources SPH Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Resources Instructors and advisors can learn about the academic processes at the School and the University that support teaching and advising. We have curated extensive resources to assist faculty with teaching, advising and mentoring, and other responsibilities related to our shared academic and educational mission. Teaching Resources Comprehensive teaching support resources – from course proposals to inclusion resources to teaching support. Advising and Mentoring Resources Effective advising is a cornerstone of successful graduate education. Advisors are responsible for supporting and overseeing students’ scholarly and professional development. Faculty Affairs The Office of Faculty Affairs provides support to the faculty members in our School’s four departments; we oversee recruitment, appointments and promotions, sabbatical leaves, and annual reviews. I want to... Propose a new course or modify an existing one. Ensure my syllabus meets CEPH requirements. Hire a teaching assistant. Learn about mentoring resources. Know what career resources exist for students. Ask a question; I can't find the answer! Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Public Health Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Postdoctoral Fellowships Online Programs Student Resources Academic Resources Funding and Teaching Opportunities Advising and Mentoring Resources Career Advising Student Life Faculty Resources Teaching Resources Advising and Mentoring Resources SPH Office of Faculty Affairs Who We Are Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Faculty Resources Open details for Faculty Resources Bookmark this Page