Skip to main content College of Education Menu Service to the State Protect Texas Give Now Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Search Search College of Education Search Search Students Expand Career Engagement Commencement Educator Programs and Certification Overview For Families Graduate Students How to Apply See Yourself Here Undergraduate Students Welcome Longhorns Departments Expand Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Research Expand Overview Centers and Institutes Featured Research Find Faculty Research Support Alumni & Friends Expand Overview Advisory Council Alumni Stories Contact Us Update Your Information About Expand Overview Building Renovations Contact Us Facts and Rankings Map to Sánchez Building & Brazos Garage Dean's Office Units Office of the Dean Social Justice, Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Visit the College of Education Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Service to the State Home Students : Welcome Longhorns Welcome Longhorns alt="A diverse group of students celebrate at a Gone to Texas event. " Welcome, Longhorns! Congratulations! You have been admitted to one of the best colleges in the nation for education and health. We are looking forward to meeting you in person and helping you develop the skills you will need to succeed and thrive in education and healthcare. Here are some important resources that will help you get started! Updated Spaces We are thrilled that you are joining us this fall as many of the renovations designed to enhance your learning experience while you are here will be complete. We are particularly proud of the new Student Services Center, located in the heart of the George I. Sánchez Building, as it brings together the offices that are working to ensure your success. Learn more about the renovation In the Classroom We offer a variety of opportunities for you to dig deeper into your academic interests: Minor in Educational Psychology Minor in Kinesiology and Health Education Transcript-recognized Minor and Certification Programs Undergraduate Tracks Specializations for Kinesiology and Health Education Students Beyond the Classroom Be sure to explore the variety of experiences that can be gained outside the classroom: First-year (FIG) or transfer interest groups (TrIG) are a great way to meet fellow students with similar interests. Make connections that will stay with you long after graduation by joining a student organization. Learn about other cultures by participating in one of our study abroad programs. Longhorns Online access all the University resources you need. Housing and Dining has all the information you need to Mooov-in! Health and Wellness The university has many resources that will help you stay strong in both mind and body: UT RecSports manages eight facilities in support of team sports, individual fitness and wellness, and more. Counseling and Mental Health Center (CMHC) has a 24/7 Crisis Line, 512-471-2255, if you ever need to speak with a trained counselor. The Multicultural Engagement Center serves as a resource for students of color at the university. The Gender and Sexuality Center provides opportunities to explore, organize, and promote learning around issues of gender and sexuality. First-Generation Longhorns works to ensure first-generation students are aware of and have access to the many resources available on campus. College Resources Our award-winning academic advisors help you register for classes, share important information, and help you stay focused on your goals. Plan to meet with an advisor at least once per semester to review your progress. Texas Education Career Engagement will help you discover meaningful career goals and form bridges between your career visions and potential employers, resources, opportunities, and organizations. Do you have questions about placement exams and claiming credit earned in high school? We have you covered. Costs The rising cost of a college education is a concern for many and the university is committed to making a first-class education affordable. Texas Advance is designed to help lower- to middle-income families. The university's Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid also can assist. The college also has several scholarships available solely to our students. For Families The university has many resources in place to ensure a safe and secure environment for all members of our community, including our SURE Walk, emergency call boxes, a Night Rides program, and an office dedicated to emergency preparedness. The Title IX Office is committed to supporting the University’s mission to create and maintain an educational and work environment free from all forms of sexual harassment, sex discrimination, exploitation, and intimidation where all students, faculty, and staff can learn, work and thrive. Additional resources are available on our Education Families page and Texas Parents. Additional University Resources Be sure to sign up for a student email account! University shuttles are free to ride with your UT ID card. Student parking is available, but not necessarily recommended as there is no guarantee you will find a spot. College of Education Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Educator Certification Academics See Yourself Here How to Apply Student Affairs Mailing Address College of Education 1912 Speedway, Stop D5000 Austin, Texas 78712 View Map Undergraduate Student Affairs (512) 471-3223 Contact Us Helpful Links Counseling and Support Emergency Information UT Directory UT Direct Policies and Procedures Help Support Faculty Directory Manage Email Preferences Protect Texas Departments Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Administration Office of the Dean Development and Alumni Relations Business Services Career Engagement Facilities Services Office of Student Success and Recruitment Field Experiences Office of Educational Research Support Information Technology Office Office of Instructional Innovation Marketing and Communications Employment Opportunities © College of Education at the University of Texas at Austin 2021 Feedback | Site Policies | Web Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Policy | Adobe Reader