Skip to main content College of Education Menu Service to the State Protect Texas Give Now Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Search Search College of Education Search Search Students Expand Career Engagement Commencement Educator Programs and Certification Overview For Families Graduate Students How to Apply See Yourself Here Undergraduate Students Welcome Longhorns Departments Expand Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Research Expand Overview Centers and Institutes Featured Research Find Faculty Research Support Alumni & Friends Expand Overview Advisory Council Alumni Stories Contact Us Update Your Information About Expand Overview Building Renovations Contact Us Facts and Rankings Map to Sánchez Building & Brazos Garage Dean's Office Units Office of the Dean Social Justice, Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Visit the College of Education Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Service to the State Home Departments : Educational Psychology Educational Psychology alt="A young man writes an equation on a chalk board. " Educational Psychology #9 Ranked Program by U.S. News & World Report Leadership in Science and Practice Our department is dedicated to advancing knowledge of human behavior as it relates to education. We train our students to work as teachers, counselors, evaluators, and researchers in educational environments. Students develop skills in the areas of human development and behavior, psychology of education, learning theory, and research and evaluation methods. This year, U.S. News and World Report ranked our department seventh among public institutions and ninth overall. Apply to a Graduate Program Faculty Listing Contact Us Graduate Programs Our master’s and doctoral programs explore theory through research and apply data driven approaches in a wide variety of settings. Students gain the skills necessary to make significant impacts in research and education. Learn more about our graduate programs Undergraduate Minor Our department offers a minor in Educational Psychology. Undergraduate students have the opportunity to take our courses as electives, minor in Educational Psychology, and/or participate in EDP research. Learn more about our undergraduate minor Featured Research Faculty and students conduct research that is aimed at promoting and understanding learning, mental health, and school success. We have several labs and centers dedicated to examining cognition, culture, and coping and stress. Learn more about our research About the Department About Us > National Deaf Center > Psychological and Educational Assessment Center > Subject Pool Participants > Prospective Student Resources > Current Student Resources > Faculty Resources > Features Trauma, Teacher Stress, and Covid-19 One graduate student’s research sheds light on the pandemic’s impact on teachers. Read the story Whole Communities Whole Health We’re meeting families in their homes and neighborhoods. We’re welcoming them as engaged, contributing community scientists—finding answers to their questions and sharing results with them in real time. Read the story A Conversation with Elizabeth Minne, Virtual Vida for Austin ISD Students When EDP alumna Elizabeth Minne, Ph.D. ‘06, founder of the Vida Clinics, learned that Austin Independent School District was closing schools due to the COVID-19 pandemic, she and her team quickly made plans to pivot from in-person counseling to online services. Read the story Upcoming Events June 3, 2022 Internal Student Transfer Sessions June 6, 2022 The Teacher Tipping Point: Developing and Sustaining the Texas Educator Workforce See more events > Latest News Kizzy Albritton Discusses Black Students’ Mental Health Kevin Cokley: Promoting Black Mental Health and Wellness College of Education Mourns Passing of Barbara Dodd Germine Awad Honored with American Psychological Association Presidential Citation See more news > Alumni Notes Educational Psychology Alumni Co-Author Book to Help Parents Manage Their Children’s Digital World Educational Psychology Alumnus Research Leads to Meaningful Career See more alumni notes > College of Education Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Educator Certification Academics See Yourself Here How to Apply Student Affairs Mailing Address College of Education 1912 Speedway, Stop D5000 Austin, Texas 78712 View Map Undergraduate Student Affairs (512) 471-3223 Contact Us Helpful Links Counseling and Support Emergency Information UT Directory UT Direct Policies and Procedures Help Support Faculty Directory Manage Email Preferences Protect Texas Departments Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Administration Office of the Dean Development and Alumni Relations Business Services Career Engagement Facilities Services Office of Student Success and Recruitment Field Experiences Office of Educational Research Support Information Technology Office Office of Instructional Innovation Marketing and Communications Employment Opportunities © College of Education at the University of Texas at Austin 2021 Feedback | Site Policies | Web Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Policy | Adobe Reader