Skip to main content College of Education Menu Service to the State Protect Texas Give Now Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Search Search College of Education Search Search Students Expand Career Engagement Commencement Educator Programs and Certification Overview For Families Graduate Students How to Apply See Yourself Here Undergraduate Students Welcome Longhorns Departments Expand Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Research Expand Overview Centers and Institutes Featured Research Find Faculty Research Support Alumni & Friends Expand Overview Advisory Council Alumni Stories Contact Us Update Your Information About Expand Overview Building Renovations Contact Us Facts and Rankings Map to Sánchez Building & Brazos Garage Dean's Office Units Office of the Dean Social Justice, Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Visit the College of Education Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Service to the State Home Departments : Special Education Special Education alt="Special Education Professor Sarah Powell writes a math equation on a clear board in front of a green screen. " Special Education/Educación Especial #9 Ranked Program by U.S. News & World Report / Clasificado como el 9° mejor programa por U.S. News & World Report Innovative Research with a Global Impact Investigaciones innovadoras con impacto global The Department of Special Education is routinely ranked among the top 10 peer departments in the nation. This year, U.S. News & World Report ranked us ninth among publics and seventh overall. We offer students the opportunity to gain specialist training and research experience with diverse populations across the lifespan. Our faculty are actively involved in innovative research that has a global impact. We study topics such as supporting bilingual students with disabilities, math and reading interventions, design and evaluation of assistive technology, educating students with autism spectrum disorders, and the transition and post-school employment for people with disabilities. El Departamento de Educación Especial se encuentra entre los 10 mejores departamentos de Educación Especial en el mundo. Ofrecemos a los estudiantes la oportunidad de adquirir formación especializada y experiencia en la investigación con poblaciones diversas a lo largo de la vida. Nuestra facultad participa activamente en investigaciones innovadoras que tienen un impacto global. Estudiamos temas como el apoyo a estudiantes bilingües con discapacidades, las intervenciones en matemáticas y lectura, el diseño y evaluación de tecnología de asistencia, la educación de estudiantes con trastornos del espectro autista y la transición y el empleo para personas con discapacidades. Faculty Listing Contact Us Apply to a Graduate Program Become a Special Education Teacher Become a Board Certified Behavioral Analyst (BCBA) Graduate Programs Master’s and doctoral programs designed to inspire students as advocates for special education. Our students engage in coursework led by experts in the field, and innovative research aimed at improving the lives of individuals with disabilities. Learn more about our Graduate Programs Undergraduate Studies Undergraduate students can major in special education that leads to a recommendation for teacher certification in special education (EC-12) and general education (EC-6). Students learn the foundations of teaching and supporting children with mild to severe disabilities. Learn more about our Undergraduate Program Featured Research Our research has an important global impact. The underlying drive of our research aims to improve the quality of life and access to equitable education for individuals with disabilities and their families, particularly in K-12 education. Learn more about our research Programas de postgrado Programas de maestría y doctorado diseñados para inspirar a los estudiantes como defensores de la educación especial. Nuestros estudiantes participan en cursos dirigidos por expertos en el campo y en investigaciones innovadoras destinadas a mejorar la vida de las personas con discapacidades. para más información Estudios de pregrado Los estudiantes de pregrado pueden especializarse en educación especial que conduce a una recomendación para la certificación de maestros en educación especial (EC-12) y educación general (EC-6). Los estudiantes aprenden los fundamentos de la enseñanza y el apoyo a los niños con discapacidades de leves a graves. para más información Investigaciones destacadas Nuestra investigación tiene un impacto global importante. El impulso subyacente de nuestra investigación tiene como objetivo mejorar la calidad de vida y el acceso a una educación equitativa para las personas con discapacidades y sus familias, en particular para niños de los 3 a los 19 años. para más información About the Department Learn more about how our department supports equitable educational opportunities for all members of society. About Us > Faculty Listing > Graduate Admissions > Faculty and Staff Resources > Prospective Student Resources > Videos > Contact Us > Current Student Handbooks > Financial Support Resources > Features Special Education Courses Taught in Spanish Inclusion in the classroom is a cornerstone of education and should be no different for special education students. Our Spanish-taught courses will prepare you to connect with Spanish-speaking students with disabilities, their families and communities. Learn more Using Self-Determination Skills to Boost Reading Achievement is Focus of $1.9 Million Grant Associate Professor Jessica Toste will lead a multi-year study to develop a program that will improve outcomes of 4th and 5th graders with reading difficulties. Learn more Helping Your Kid With… Educational experts at the Meadows Center for Preventing Educational Risk (MCPER) have created videos to help parents and guardians use effective practices to teach students at home due to COVID-19. Videos will be posted regularly, so be sure check the MCPER page often to get the latest information. Learn more Latest News Faculty Grant Awards and Achievements: May 2022 College of Education Alumnus and UT Elementary School Teacher Kameron Koeffler Recognized as Outstanding Educator of the Year UT Austin Receives $3.6 Million Grant to Support Doctoral Students Focused on Mathematics in Learning Disabilities Congratulations to this Year’s Endowed Professorship Recipients See more news > Upcoming Events June 3, 2022 Internal Student Transfer Sessions June 6, 2022 The Teacher Tipping Point: Developing and Sustaining the Texas Educator Workforce July 29, 2022 Internal Student Transfer Sessions See more events > Alumni Notes Learning Disabilities and Behavioral Disorders Alumnae Awarded Special Education Alumna Awarded Classroom Set-Up Grant Special Education Alumna named AISD Elementary Teacher of the Year See more alumni notes > College of Education Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Educator Certification Academics See Yourself Here How to Apply Student Affairs Mailing Address College of Education 1912 Speedway, Stop D5000 Austin, Texas 78712 View Map Undergraduate Student Affairs (512) 471-3223 Contact Us Helpful Links Counseling and Support Emergency Information UT Directory UT Direct Policies and Procedures Help Support Faculty Directory Manage Email Preferences Protect Texas Departments Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Administration Office of the Dean Development and Alumni Relations Business Services Career Engagement Facilities Services Office of Student Success and Recruitment Field Experiences Office of Educational Research Support Information Technology Office Office of Instructional Innovation Marketing and Communications Employment Opportunities © College of Education at the University of Texas at Austin 2021 Feedback | Site Policies | Web Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Policy | Adobe Reader