Skip to main content College of Education Menu Service to the State Protect Texas Give Now Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Search Search College of Education Search Search Students Expand Career Engagement Commencement Educator Programs and Certification Overview For Families Graduate Students How to Apply See Yourself Here Undergraduate Students Welcome Longhorns Departments Expand Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Research Expand Overview Centers and Institutes Featured Research Find Faculty Research Support Alumni & Friends Expand Overview Advisory Council Alumni Stories Contact Us Update Your Information About Expand Overview Building Renovations Contact Us Facts and Rankings Map to Sánchez Building & Brazos Garage Dean's Office Units Office of the Dean Social Justice, Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Visit the College of Education Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Service to the State Home About : Reimagine Education Reimagine Education alt="Photo of a group of young children in an elementary classroom looking up at the camera and smiling. " Reimagine Education We invite you to join us as we Reimagine Education. In the College of Education, we engage in deep interdisciplinary work in how we prepare students, how we conduct cutting-edge research, and how we leverage our strengths. Signature Impact Areas Our signature impact areas align with our college's strengths. They represent our major goals, and help to determine how we will align our resources to reach our vision. Equity Context Transitions Advancing Equity and Eliminating Disparities in Education and Health We work to ensure that systems, and the people within them, are accountable for inequities that impact the most vulnerable. We recognize and build upon the strengths of individuals, families, and communities to advance equitable outcomes in education and health across the lifespan. We develop, test, and implement programs and interventions that contest these inequities. Attending to Place and Context How and where people live matters. We respect the influence of home and community factors in the health and wellbeing of children and adults. We respond comprehensively to individual needs, and seek to understand and build on existing strengths within families and communities to improve education and health outcomes. Thriving through Transitions We work to understand how people adapt to transitions in life, whether expected or unexpected. We seek to support resiliency and healthy adjustment in the face of life’s transitions, including those related to changing social, economic, health, school, and community circumstances. Mirrors and Windows Learn how reading mastery can advance racial equity. Learn more A Holistic Approach to Preventing HIV in Women at Risk Discover how understanding contexts leads to better health. Learn more Breaking the Cycle with Comprehensive Counseling Learn how just-in-time support can make a difference. Learn more College of Education Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Educator Certification Academics See Yourself Here How to Apply Student Affairs Mailing Address College of Education 1912 Speedway, Stop D5000 Austin, Texas 78712 View Map Undergraduate Student Affairs (512) 471-3223 Contact Us Helpful Links Counseling and Support Emergency Information UT Directory UT Direct Policies and Procedures Help Support Faculty Directory Manage Email Preferences Protect Texas Departments Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Administration Office of the Dean Development and Alumni Relations Business Services Career Engagement Facilities Services Office of Student Success and Recruitment Field Experiences Office of Educational Research Support Information Technology Office Office of Instructional Innovation Marketing and Communications Employment Opportunities © College of Education at the University of Texas at Austin 2021 Feedback | Site Policies | Web Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Policy | Adobe Reader