Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | College of Education Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home Future Students Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Online Programs Certificate Programs Incoming Freshmen TEACHER EDUCATION PATHWAYS Parents Graduate Students Transfer Students International Students Admissions Student Experience Scholarships & Aid Current Students Office of Academic Services and Intern Support (OASIS) Career Services College of Education Student Organizations Student Leadership Council Technology Resources Statistical and Research Design Consultation Services Research Consultation Service FAQs for Graduate Students Graduation Scholarships & Aid Alumni & Friends Support the College Dean's Circle Distinguished Alumni Awards Events The Torch Magazine Research COE Office of Research Latest Faculty Research Initiatives Marvalene Hughes Research in Education Conference Research Centers, Teams, & Initiatives About Faculty & Staff Directory College News News & Media Contact Us Department of Educational Leadership & Policy Studies Department of Educational Psychology & Learning Systems Department of Sport Management School of Teacher Education Centers & Institutes Facilities Tallahassee COE Employment Project ElevatED Strategic Plan Innovation Faculty & Staff Resources Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU College of Education Toggle navigation Home Future Students Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Online Programs Certificate Programs Incoming Freshmen TEACHER EDUCATION PATHWAYS Parents Graduate Students Transfer Students International Students Admissions Student Experience Scholarships & Aid Current Students Office of Academic Services and Intern Support (OASIS) Career Services College of Education Student Organizations Student Leadership Council Technology Resources Statistical and Research Design Consultation Services Research Consultation Service FAQs for Graduate Students Graduation Scholarships & Aid Alumni & Friends Support the College Dean's Circle Distinguished Alumni Awards Events The Torch Magazine Research COE Office of Research Latest Faculty Research Initiatives Marvalene Hughes Research in Education Conference Research Centers, Teams, & Initiatives About Faculty & Staff Directory College News News & Media Contact Us Department of Educational Leadership & Policy Studies Department of Educational Psychology & Learning Systems Department of Sport Management School of Teacher Education Centers & Institutes Facilities Tallahassee COE Employment Project ElevatED Strategic Plan Innovation Faculty & Staff Resources Home Adult Learning Evaluation Center (ALEC) Faculty & Staff Directory College News News & Media Contact Us Department of Educational Leadership & Policy Studies Department of Educational Psychology & Learning Systems Department of Sport Management School of Teacher Education Centers & Institutes Adult Learning Evaluation Center (ALEC) Human Services Center (HSC) The Florida Center for Reading Research (FCRR) Facilities Tallahassee COE Employment Project ElevatED Strategic Plan Innovation Faculty & Staff Resources Adult Learning Evaluation Center (ALEC) Service Update: ALEC will be offering evaluation services in-person, including ADHD & LD evals. We will have a waitlist for ASD evals. ADHD coaching will have in-person and telehealth options. Our physical office is open by appt. only. We appreciate your patience and look forward to providing you services! The Adult Learning Evaluation Center (ALEC) provides psychoeducational evaluations for college students and other adults who may be experiencing scholastic difficulties due to a learning disability, Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD), and/or other mental health difficulties (e.g., depression, anxiety, bipolar, autism, etc.) that may negatively affect one’s academic performance. ALEC also provides ADHD coaching services to assist students in achieving their goals by developing skills and strategies to compensate for areas of functioning affected by ADHD or poorly developed study skills. ALEC is open Monday through Friday from 8:30-5:00. We are located in Room 2207 of the Stone Building. It is closed during certain holidays, and generally when FSU is closed. For more information, contact (850) 644-3611 or e-mail us. COVID-19 Safety Procedures FSU ALEC has started offering limited in-clinic evaluations, by appointment only. Our office has taken steps to reduce the risk of spreading the coronavirus within the office. The office and our equipment will be sanitized and/or quarantined prior to and after your visit. Common areas are thoroughly disinfected daily. We schedule appointments at specific intervals to minimize the number of people in the clinic at any given time. FSU ALEC staff are required to wear face coverings any time they are interacting with you or each other. FSU ALEC staff are required to maintain 6-feet physical distancing in the office. For some evaluations, you may be given a private space to participate in your evaluation and will be asked to remain in this room excluding break times. For other evaluations, you will be placed in the same room as your evaluator. In this case, a plexiglass barrier will be present to protect both you and your evaluator. FSU restroom soap dispensers are maintained, and hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol is available in the clinic in all major areas, including testing rooms. It is required that it is used, at a minimum, at the beginning and end of the session. FSU ALEC staff are also strongly encouraged to use sanitizer again any time you sneeze or cough, touch your face, and at other regular intervals (e.g., every hour). If anyone present at FSU ALEC at the time of your appointment(s) tests positive for COVID-19, we will notify you so that you can take appropriate precautions. If you have an upcoming in-clinic appointment with us, please let us know if you have questions about these efforts. Clinic Services Psychoeducational Evaluations: The evaluation includes a series of academic and cognitive processing assessments to determine patterns of strengths and weaknesses that help explain one’s academic performance, to determine the presence of a learning disability, and to provide appropriate recommendations. ADHD Evaluations: The assessment evaluates for the presence of inattention, hyperactivity, or impulsivity that may be adversely affecting academic, occupational, or social functioning. It involves the completion of a variety of self-report measures, an extensive clinical interview, and a screening of cognitive abilities and educational skills. We also seek permission to send forms to parents, significant other/roommate/close friend, spouse, teacher, or employers (at your discretion) that ask them to rate you on common symptoms of ADHD. Other Mental Health Evaluations: This assessment serves to determine the presence of other mental health conditions that may be adversely affecting academic, occupational, or social functioning, such as anxiety, depression, bipolar, autism, etc. The assessment includes a variety of self-report measures, an extensive clinical interview, and a screening of cognitive abilities and educational skills. ADHD Coaching: Clients will commit to 8 individualized sessions with an ADHD Coach to achieve their goals by developing skills and strategies to compensate for areas of functioning affected by ADHD. We also offer an ADHD Coping Skills group in the fall and spring semesters. INFORMATION FOR CLIENTS Procedure for Evaluation If you are interested in an evaluation, please complete an Application for Services. Once we receive your application, you will be called to schedule a free consultation with the Clinical Director, to determine if our services are appropriate for you. You will have the opportunity to schedule your evaluation at that appointment. For evaluation of Learning Disability: A confirmation notice of the day(s) and time of your evaluation will be emailed to you, that will include a link to an online study skills survey and information regarding other documents that you must bring on the day of your evaluation (e.g., copies of unofficial transcripts, test scores, previous psychoeducational reports). The evaluation itself is approximately 5 to 7 hours in length and will be scheduled for either 1 entire day, or it may be distributed over 2 half-days. All evaluations are conducted one-to-one in a private interview room in the Center. For evaluation of ADHD: A confirmation notice of the day(s) and time of your evaluation will be emailed to you, that will include a link to an online study skills survey and information regarding other documents that you must bring on the day of your evaluation (e.g., copies of unofficial transcripts, test scores, previous psycho-educational reports). During the evaluation, you will complete a variety of self-report measures. You will have an extensive interview, and you will be given a screening of cognitive abilities and educational skills. You will also be given some forms that you may give to parents, significant other/roommate/close friend, spouse, teacher, or employers (at your discretion) that ask them to rate you on common symptoms of ADHD. The evaluation itself is approximately 5 hours in length and is usually scheduled to be completed in 1 day. All evaluations are conducted one-to-one in a private interview room in the Center. Preparation for the Evaluation For evaluation of Learning Disability: The evaluation will consist of assessments that were specifically developed for identifying problems in learning. The assessments were designed to pinpoint strengths and weaknesses in your ability to problem-solve novel tasks; answer questions related to basic reading, writing and math skills; and process information. No preparation is needed for the evaluation except for bringing the requested documentation. It will be in your best interest to be physically prepared for the evaluation: get a good night’s sleep, eat breakfast and lunch, etc.. Breaks will be provided during the evaluation, including a lunch break if you are tested in one whole day. Also, please note that it is in your best interest to put forth your best effort during the evaluation. A diagnosis of learning disability is determined by a particular pattern of scores and not an overall deficit in performance. For evaluation of ADHD: No preparation is required for the testing other than gathering information to bring with you. Because a diagnosis of ADHD requires documentation of difficulties in childhood, it is important that you gather any relevant information such as report cards, prior evaluations, or high school transcripts. If you are currently taking medication to treat ADHD symptoms, you may take the regular dose of such medication on the day of your assessment. Taking or not taking such medications will not influence a diagnosis. Results Results of your evaluation will be available within four to six weeks after the evaluation date. Your evaluator will contact you to schedule a “feedback session” in which you will receive your results. At that time, you will be provided with a copy of your report. Research The Adult Learning Evaluation Center conducts research regarding the assessment of learning disabilities and ADHD. With your consent, we reserve the right to utilize data from your testing in research projects. No identifying data will be included, and your name will not be associated with this data. All research will utilize group information. Confidentiality/Limits of Confidentiality The code of ethics for psychologists and state laws protect your confidentiality. This means that if you are over age 17, no record of your attendance or participation in assessment is released without your written permission. In a very small number of cases, however, counselors are legally required to disregard confidentiality. The limits to confidentiality include: There is information that suggests that there is a probability of imminent physical injury by the client to himself/herself or others. The counselor is required by law to report knowledge of abuse or neglect of an incompetent (this includes children under 18) or disabled persons. In cases of criminal prosecution in which the client is a victim or defendant, the Court may order that records of assessment be made available. Supervision For your protection and for the benefit of trainees, all work done in the Center by students is closely supervised by licensed psychologists. This supervision is provided by discussion of cases between supervisors and trainees, both individually and in small groups. Supervisors may also observe student trainees in their work with you by means of a one-way mirror. On rare occasions, graduate students who are part of our training program may also observe the test administration. In cases where assessment is observed, please note that the supervisors are there to watch the trainee, and not you. Additionally, in all instances of supervisory work, great care is taken to preserve confidentiality as discussed above. Billing Full payment for testing is due on the day of the evaluation. We accept FSU’s University Health Insurance, but we are not in-network with any other insurance companies. The Center takes personal checks, money orders, Visa and MasterCard, and FSU debit cards. Cash is not accepted. Those who do not remit payment on the day of the evaluation will not be evaluated. The fee schedule is as follows: Assessment of Learning Disability: $550 Assessment of ADHD and/or Mental Health evaluations $550 Comprehensive Evaluation (ADHD/Mental Health + Learning Disability) $950 ADHD Coaching (8 Sessions) $115 Please note that standardized tests such as the GRE, LSAT, MCAT, GMAT, etc. may require additional measures in order for students to be considered for accommodations. Such cases may result in additional evaluation time and cost for the evaluation. Please consult ALEC staff for specific information regarding these test batteries. Missed Appointments/Failure to Pay If you must reschedule, please do so at least 24 hours in advance. Persons who do not cancel within 24 hours of the appointment, will be assessed a $50.00 fee and likely will not be rescheduled. Failure to pay the fee will result in a “stop” being placed on your academic record, which will prevent you from registering for classes, obtaining grades, receiving transcripts, etc. Grievances If you are dissatisfied with any procedures, you may contact: Dr. Taylor Thompson, Clinical Director (850) 644-4838 Email Dr. Deborah Ebener, Executive Director (850) 644-1789 Email Mailing Address: Adult Learning Evaluation Center 2207 Stone Building Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306-4464 Application for Services Application for Services Future Students Incoming Freshmen Parents Graduate Students Transfer Students International Students About Department of Educational Leadership & Policy Studies Department of Educational Psychology & Learning Systems Department of Sport Management School of Teacher Education Centers & Institutes Faculty & Staff Tallahassee Facilities Employment Student Resources Academic Services (OASIS) Scholarships & Aid Learning Resource Center Career Services LiveText Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Research C.O.R.E. Latest Initiatives Research Centers Office of Research Degrees & Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Certificate Programs Online Programs Study Abroad Faculty & Staff Resources Office of Information and Instructional Technologies News & Media College News Services Alumni & Friends Events The TORCH Magazine Make a Donation Distinguished Alumni Stone Building · 1114 W. Call Street · Tallahassee, Florida · 32306-4450 850.644.6885 © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media