Skip to main content College of Education Menu Service to the State Protect Texas Give Now Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Search Search College of Education Search Search Students Expand Career Engagement Commencement Educator Programs and Certification Overview For Families Graduate Students How to Apply See Yourself Here Undergraduate Students Welcome Longhorns Departments Expand Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Research Expand Overview Centers and Institutes Featured Research Find Faculty Research Support Alumni & Friends Expand Overview Advisory Council Alumni Stories Contact Us Update Your Information About Expand Overview Building Renovations Contact Us Facts and Rankings Map to Sánchez Building & Brazos Garage Dean's Office Units Office of the Dean Social Justice, Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Visit the College of Education Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Service to the State Home About : Social Justice, Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Faculty Researchers Faculty Researchers Below is a list of College of Education faculty whose research specifically focuses on equity, inclusion, social justice, and diversity topics. Note that as stated in our commitment, the College of Education aspires that all research, teaching, and service embrace social justice, equity, diversity, and inclusion tenets. Curriculum and Instruction Paty Abril-Gonzalez Assistant Professor Studies long-term relationships with Latinx bilingual students and teachers using arts-based biliteracy approaches to affirm and amplify silenced perspectives. Jennifer K. Adair Associate Professor Research interests focus on inequities in early schooling and the intersection of immigration, race and early childhood. Doris Baker Associate Professor Develops and evaluates interventions and assessments using technology to support the academic success of Latinx students and other students whose home language is not English. Keffrelyn Brown Professor, Program Advisor Suzanne B. and John L. Adams Professor in Education Creates scholarship based around teacher education, especially relating to race and culture. Adam Crawley Assistant Professor Researches the inclusion and censorship of LGBTQ+ representation in elementary contexts, particularly via literacy and literature. Denise Davila Assistant Professor Studies children’s literature and researches the home literacy practices of families with young children in under-resourced communities. Noah De Lissovoy Professor Examines effects of race, class and capital in schools and society; investigates and extends traditions of critical pedagogy and philosophy. Tracey Flores Assistant Professor Interests include family literacy, specifically family writing and practices for Latina mothers and daughters, as a springboard for advocacy and empowerment of families and teachers. María Fránquiz Professor Examines ethnographic language and literacy practices in K-12 classrooms, specifically focusing on how Latinx critical race theory explains the relationship between heritage language and culture and the evolving identities of future teachers. Carlos Nicolas Gomez Assistant Professor Investigates intersections of race, language and mathematics through the experiences of Latinx students learning and doing mathematics. María González-Howard Assistant Professor Research explores the intersections of multilingualism, scientific sensemaking, and teacher education, with a specific focus on the ways multilingual students engage in science practices through translanguaging. Joan Hughes Associate Professor Research focuses on school contexts and teacher knowledge and experiences that support the establishment of digital equity for learning in K-12 schools, classrooms, and communities. Grace MyHyun Kim Assistant Professor Studies literacy, language, and multicultural education, especially involving new media and globalization. Eric Knuth Professor Explores how to democratize access to algebra for students who historically have had limited access to the STEM pipeline due to algebra’s gatekeeper role. Min Liu Professor Designs and researches interactive learner-centered environments for all ages with emerging technologies; examines inequities in digital spaces and focuses on creating technology-enhanced learning opportunities for socioeconomically disadvantaged students. Tia Madkins Assistant Professor Engages humanizing research approaches to examine equity-focused PK-16 STEM teaching and learning across urban contexts with a focus on Black girls. Katherina A. Payne Associate Professor Researches civic education, early childhood/elementary education, and teacher education to examine the role of relationships, community, and justice to make classrooms democratic and equitable spaces. Catherine Riegle-Crumb Professor Focuses on gender and racial/ethnic inequality in educational experiences and student achievement in STEM fields. Cinthia Salinas Professor, Department Chair Ruben E. Hinojosa Regents Professor in Education Research focuses on inclusive citizenship narratives in diverse, bilingual and/or ESL K-12 social studies classroom settings. Victor Sampson Associate Professor Studies ways to make STEM learning experiences more equitable and inclusive, focusing on creating instructional materials that give learners more opportunities to participate. Allison Skerrett Professor Focuses on secondary English and literacy education in urban contexts, including among transnational youth. Luis Urrieta, Jr. Professor, Program Coordinator Charles H. Spence, Sr. Centennial Professor in Education Follows trends around cultural and racial identities, agency, migration, and social movements in education. Melissa Wetzel Professor Focuses on how preservice teachers integrate critical literacy and culturally relevant practices into field-based literacy teaching. Educational Psychology Ricardo Ainslie Professor M. K. Hage Centennial Professorship in Education Explores the intersection of psychology and culture through such topics as the psychological experience of immigration, ethnic conflicts and the impact of violence within communities, and the relationship between individual and collective identity. Germine Awad Associate Professor Studies the effects that acculturation and identity have on discrimination, specifically in populations of Arab/Middle Eastern and African American women. Stephanie Cawthon Professor, HDCLS Area Chair Elizabeth Glenadine Gibb Teaching Fellowship in Education Explores individual, school, community, and system level factors that affect education, employment, and quality of life outcomes for deaf and hard of hearing individuals. Kevin Cokley Professor, Department Chair Oscar and Anne Mauzy Regents Professor for Educational Research and Development Researches themes related to understanding the psychological and environmental factors that impact African American student achievement, and the impact of the impostor phenomenon in academic and mental health outcomes. Karen Haas Assistant Professor of Instruction, CE Director of Training Supports the clinical training of graduate students in the Counselor Education program, teaches courses related to counselor skill development primarily in educational settings, and supervises students in their practicum experiences. Michael Parent Associate Professor, Counseling Psychology Area Chair Focuses on the intersections of gender, sexuality, and behavioral health in topics of men’s health, gender roles, and muscularity; conducts outreach with gender and sexual minority communities. Erin Rodriguez Associate Professor Studies family, linguistic, and sociocultural influences on children’s adaptation to stress, to better understand how family coping, language and communication, and sociocultural context impact children’s mental and physical health outcomes. Marie-Anne Suizzo Associate Professor Research interests are centered around how parent-child relationships, parental involvement, and child socialization shape children's and adolescents' development and learning across cultures and ethnic groups. Educational Leadership and Policy Aileen Bumphus Assistant Professor of Practice, Associate Vice President for Academic Diversity Initiatives in the Division of Diversity and Community Engagement Research interests include educational leadership, emotional intelligence, and resiliency. Norma Cantú, J.D. Ken McIntyre Professor for Excellence in School Leadership With a background as assistant secretary of education for Civil Rights in the Clinton Administration, she teaches topics in civil rights and the intersection of law and policy in education. Joshua Childs Assistant Professor Examines collaborative approaches involving community organizations and stakeholders that improve academic achievement and reduce opportunity gaps for students. Gerardo De Los Santos Senior Fellow, Civitas Learning Stella Flores Associate Professor Examines the effects of state and federal policies on college access and completion outcomes for low-income and underrepresented populations including immigrant and English Learner students. Denisa Gándara Assistant Professor Explores higher education policy and finance, focusing on college access and success for populations historically underserved in higher education. Carrie Lou Garberoglio Assistant Professor of Practice Serves as Co-Director of the National Deaf Center on Postsecondary Outcomes, focused on dismantling systemic barriers in the transition period through high school and beyond that prevent deaf people from reaching their goals. Liliana Garces Associate Professor Studies educational inequality, higher education equity and access policies for underrepresented populations, use and influence of research in Supreme Court cases. Michael Anthony Goodman Assistant Professor of Practice Focuses on student governance and involvement in the areas of college student government, sorority/fraternity life (SFL), equity and justice issues, experiences of new professionals, queer students, social justice, and social media in SFL, and bias-response in SFL. Terrance Green Associate Professor Examines principals and school-community engagement/community development, and issues of educational equity and opportunity. Jennifer Jellison Holme Professor, Graduate Advisor Focuses on the politics and implementation of educational policy with an emphasis on school reform, equity and diversity in schools. Huriya Jabbar Associate Professor, EPP Doctoral Program Coordinator Examines the social and political dimensions of market-based reforms and privatization in education, including school choice and decision-making in K-12 and higher education contexts. Michael Nava Executive Director, Student Success Initiatives Associate Professor of Practice Colette Pierce Burnette President, Huston-Tillotson University Soncia Reagins-Lilly Professor of Practice, Vice President for Student Affairs Shares her expertise in higher education policy, administration and finance, strategic planning, and leadership development as the Vice President for Student Affairs and Dean of Students. Richard J. Reddick Associate Dean for Equity, Community Engagement, and Outreach Examines the experiences of faculty of color at predominantly White institutions; mentoring relationships between faculty and Black students; and work-life balance in academia. Pedro Reyes Ashbel Smith Professor of Education Policy Focuses on school conditions that foster high academic success for children of poverty, stratification of learning opportunities for children of color, and on state policy that facilitates student success across the education pipeline. Victor B. Sáenz Professor, Chair W. K. Kellogg Professor of Community College Leadership Leads the Project MALES (Mentoring to Achieve Latino Educational Success Initiative focused on Latino males in education; seeks to advance research-informed policy solutions that enhance educational outcomes for underserved students in secondary and post-secondary education. Lauren Schudde Associate Professor Studies the impact of educational policies and practices on college student outcomes using quantitative methods. Patricia Somers Associate Professor Serves as a faculty affiliate in Women’s and Gender Studies and Lozano Long Institute for Latin American Studies. Researches topics such as campus safety, higher education law, academic freedom, and higher education in Brazil. Betty Jeanne Taylor Assistant Professor of Practice Assistant Vice President, Division of Diversity and Community Engagement Focuses on university-wide campus climate initiatives including bias incident reporting and response as well as implementing best practices for inclusive classroom climates and faculty recruitment and retention. Angela Valenzuela Professor Specializes in urban education from a sociological and multicultural perspective, with a focus on minority youth in schools, particularly at the K-12 level. Aaron Voyles Assistant Professor of Practice Serves as the Associate Director for Student Learning and Development and researches post-qualitative and post-structuralist methodologies, discourse analysis, and gender performance. Kinesiology and Health Education Darren Kelly Assistant Professor of Instruction Associate Vice President, Div. of Diversity & Community Engagement Research focuses on race and sport, leadership, and community building via sport. Lara Latimer Assistant Professor of Instruction Studies mental health, stress reduction, and tobacco prevention among college students. Liesl Nydegger Assistant Professor Focuses research on reducing sexual health risk behaviors in women with multiple vulnerabilities, ethnic minorities, and illicit drug users. Miguel Pinedo Assistant Professor Focuses on how migration-related factors contribute to health disparities related to substance abuse, HIV risk, and related harms among Latino populations in the United States and Mexico. Special Education North Cooc Associate Professor Explores how family background, culture, and school contextual factors influence decisions and trajectory outcomes within special education. Audrey Sorrells Associate Professor, Associate Dean of Students for Research Explores topics in ethnically diverse students with disabilities, veteran students with resulting trauma issues, and professional development for disabled students. Equity, Inclusion, Social Justice, & Diversity Faculty Courses Resources Contact Information Minority Liaison Officers Luis Urrieta (CI) Germine Awad (EDP) Norma Cantu (ELP) Matthew Bowers (KHE) North Cooc (SPED) Rich Reddick (ex officio, CREED) Dean Charles Martinez, Jr. (ex officio) Laura Costello (ex officio) Email the committee Title IX and Senate Bill 212 All employees who witness or receive information about sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking that involve a student or employee must promptly report the incident to the University’s Title IX Coordinator or a Deputy Title IX Coordinator. Reports can be made by phone: (512) 471-0419, email, or online. Additional information and resources are available on the university’s Title IX website. College of Education Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Educator Certification Academics See Yourself Here How to Apply Student Affairs Mailing Address College of Education 1912 Speedway, Stop D5000 Austin, Texas 78712 View Map Undergraduate Student Affairs (512) 471-3223 Contact Us Helpful Links Counseling and Support Emergency Information UT Directory UT Direct Policies and Procedures Help Support Faculty Directory Manage Email Preferences Protect Texas Departments Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Administration Office of the Dean Development and Alumni Relations Business Services Career Engagement Facilities Services Office of Student Success and Recruitment Field Experiences Office of Educational Research Support Information Technology Office Office of Instructional Innovation Marketing and Communications Employment Opportunities © College of Education at the University of Texas at Austin 2021 Feedback | Site Policies | Web Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Policy | Adobe Reader