Skip to main content College of Education Menu Service to the State Protect Texas Give Now Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Search Search College of Education Search Search Students Expand Career Engagement Commencement Educator Programs and Certification Overview For Families Graduate Students How to Apply See Yourself Here Undergraduate Students Welcome Longhorns Departments Expand Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Research Expand Overview Centers and Institutes Featured Research Find Faculty Research Support Alumni & Friends Expand Overview Advisory Council Alumni Stories Contact Us Update Your Information About Expand Overview Building Renovations Contact Us Facts and Rankings Map to Sánchez Building & Brazos Garage Dean's Office Units Office of the Dean Social Justice, Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Visit the College of Education Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Service to the State Home Find Faculty Find Faculty All Faculty Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Studies long-term relationships with Latinx bilingual students and teachers using arts-based biliteracy approaches to affirm and amplify silenced perspectives, build connections, and develop bilingualism and biculturalism. Paty Abril-Gonzalez Assistant Professor, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Areas of expertise include early childhood education, racial justice and equity in early learning, educational anthropology, video-cued ethnography, immigration and education, impact of social injustices on childhoods, project-based learning led by community expertise and early childhood educational leadership and program transformation. Jennifer K Adair Associate Professor, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Explores the intersection of psychology and culture through such topics as the psychological experience of immigration, ethnic conflicts and the impact of violence within communities, and the relationship between individual and collective identity. Is also interested in US-Mexico health, including addressing health disparities. Note: Dr. Ainslie will not be taking new students for the 2023 academic year. Ricardo C Ainslie M. K. Hage Centennial Professor in Education, Department of Educational Psychology Examines ways that school psychologists can improve the academic, social-emotional, and behavioral outcomes for young children (i.e., preschool) from minoritized and marginalized backgrounds in early childhood settings. Kizzy Albritton Associate Professor, Department of Educational Psychology Manages and coordinates multiple research and evaluation grants and contracts for the Educational Research Center. Celeste D Alexander Research Associate and Lecturer, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Focuses research on student success and graduation initiatives, including innovative college readiness assignments, student success programs and understanding the completion agenda. Cassandre G Alvarado Executive Director, College of Education Studies the effects that acculturation and identity have on discrimination, specifically in those of Arab/Middle Eastern descent and African Americans. Note: Dr. Awad will not be taking new students for the 2023 academic year. Germine Gigi Awad Associate Professor, Department of Educational Psychology Investigates the nature of STEM interests and interest-driven participation and learning, foundations of cognition in STEM disciplines, and learning out of schools. Flávio S Azevedo Associate Professor, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Develops and evaluates interventions and assessments using technology to support the academic success of Latinx students and other students whose home language is not English. Doris L Baker Associate Professor, Department of Special Education Researches the effect of exercise on mental health to improve mood and reduce stress. John Bartholomew Department Chair, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Dr Bearman's research focuses on the effectiveness and implementation of empirically supported practices for common mental health concerns (anxiety, depression, PTSD, OCD, and disruptive behavior) in publicly-funded settings that serve historically underserved populations of children and families Sarah Kate Bearman Associate Professor, Department of Educational Psychology Teaches courses on sport history and strength and conditioning. Research focuses on physical culture history. Kimberly A Beckwith Assistant Professor of Instruction, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Interested in statistical models with a focus on deriving and evaluating multilevel model extensions and meta-analysis models for educational, behavioral, social and medical science data. Tasha Beretvas Senior Vice Provost for Faculty Affairs, Faculty Affairs Research interests center on student success at community colleges and the effects of enrollment status and developmental education on persistence and completion. Mike Bohlig Senior Research Associate, Center for Community College Student Engagement Studies engineering and STEM higher education, including faculty, graduate students and undergraduates. Maura Borrego Professor, Department of Mechanical Engineering, Cockrell School of Engineering Examines the management of systems for athlete development, including how different sport settings influence performance and participation over the lifespan. Focuses on re-imagining the youth sport experience, with a specific interest in the developmental role that playing in unstructured sports settings like sandlot/pickup sports or sports video games can have on shaping experiences and outcomes. Matthew Bowers Associate Professor of Instruction, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Focuses on historical and contemporary issues and discourses concerning African American students in schools and society. Anthony L Brown Professor, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Creates scholarship based around teacher education, especially relating to race and culture. Keffrelyn D Brown Professor, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Focuses on predicting sexual health outcomes, such as unintended pregnancy, among adolescents and young adults using structural equation or hierarchical linear modeling and large longitudinal data sets. Emily C Brown Assistant Professor of Instruction, Department of Educational Psychology Researches how early childhood stakeholders respond to and conceptualize policies affecting the the complex educational, cultural, and individual goals and aspirations of teachers, children, and their families. Christopher P Brown Professor, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Research interests include college student mental health and suicide prevention, collaborative care models of behavioral health in primary care, and the intersection of mental health and academic success. Note: Dr. Brownson will not be taking new students for the 2023 academic year. Chris Brownson Associate VP for Student Affairs, CMHC Director, UHS and CMHC Researches instructional strategies and assistive technology adaptations for students with learning disabilities, specifically in Mathematics. Diane P Bryant Mollie Villeret Davis Professor in Learning Disabilities, Department of Special Education Seeks to understand how effective physical education and community programs enhance relationships and human capital in adolescents. Lynne J Bryant Assistant Professor of Practice, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Specializes in adapted physical education and working with children with disabilities by providing sensory and motor integration training. Pamela S Buchanan Assistant Professor of Instruction, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education A member of the UT Proyecto Maestría Collaborative, she is a leader in Bilingual and Bicultural Education. Lucy Camarillo Assistant Professor of Practice, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Curriculum Leads and develops curriculum content, scope and sequence, standards alignment and performance assessments for higher education and school district curriculum. Certification Leads policies, practices and designs systems required by Texas Education Agency for admissions, clinical experiences and certification for the program and department. Leadership Development Develops equity-centered PK-12 school leaders. Designs and coordinates learning objectives, knowledge development, and effective practices for graduate students to apply theory into practice in their internship based on the following learning outcomes: *Develop Capacity for Teaching and Learning Excellence *Advocate for and Ensuring Equitable Support Systems for All *Foster School Culture that Values Inclusiveness, Diversity and Cultural Proficiency *Build Executive Leaders to Promote Ethical Policies and Practices *Partner Authentically and Equitably with Families and Communities Debra Cantu UT Austin Principalship Program Assistant Professor of Practice, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Teaches topics in civil rights and the intersection of law and policy in education; served as assistant secretary of education for Civil Rights during the Clinton administration. Norma V Cantu Ken McIntyre Professor for Excellence in School Leadership, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Examines instructional practices for improving reading outcomes, particularly for at-risk students Philip Capin Research Assistant Professor, Department of Special Education Active in current healthcare reform endeavors, studies integrated behavioral health, attachment theory, and consultation theories and processes such as home-school partnership and family-centered treatment. Cindy Carlson is not currently accepting new graduate students. Cindy I Carlson Professor, Department of Educational Psychology Studies the relationship between physical activity and cognitive performance in children, adolescents, and emerging adults. Darla M Castelli Professor, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Investigates issues of access and equity for disabled people, with a special focus on systems change, research translation, and assessment. Stephanie W Cawthon Professor, Department of Educational Psychology Focuses on language and cultural influences on teaching and learning mathematics, particularly equity issues involving Latinx students’ mathematical thinking, the simultaneous learning of English as a second language and math and preparing teachers to work with culturally and linguistically diverse students. Sylvia Celedón-Pattichis Professor, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Teaches Karate and Self defense courses. Specializes in the striking arts. Jason Chartouni Assistant Professor of Practice, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Andy Cheshire Assistant Professor of Instruction, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Examines collaborative approaches involving community organizations and stakeholders that improve academic achievement and reduce opportunity gaps for students. Also studies chronic absenteeism, the role of high school athletics in school settings, and computer science education. Joshua Childs Assistant Professor, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Interests include the development and dissemination of computerized adaptive testing applications in educational and psychological testing and patient-reported outcome measurements. Seung W Choi Professor, Department of Educational Psychology I work to improve interventions for students with dyslexia and other forms of significant reading difficulty, better understand assessment and assessment practices that best inform instruction, and improve educators' ability to make data-based decisions. Some of my representative publications are listed below. For a full list of my published research and other work, please see the links above for my CV or my Google Scholar page. (*indicates student co-author) Clemens, N.H., & Fuchs, D. (2021). Commercially-developed tests of reading comprehension: Gold standard or fools’ gold? Reading Research Quarterly, Advance online publication. Austin, C., Vaughn, S.R., Clemens, N.H., Pustejovsky, J., & Boucher, A. (in press). Relative effects of instruction linking word reading and word meaning compared to word reading instruction alone on the accuracy, fluency, and word meaning knowledge of 4th-5th grade students with dyslexia. Scientific Studies of Reading. Clemens, N.H., * Lee, K., *Henri, M., Simmons, L., Kwok, O., & Al Otaiba, S. (2021). Growth in sublexical fluency during early reading instruction and its relation to decoding acquisition. Journal of School Psychology. Capin, P., Roberts, G., Clemens, N.H., & Vaughn, S.R. (in press). When Treatment Adherence Matters More: Interactions Among Treatment Adherence, Instructional Quality, and Student Characteristics on Reading Outcomes. Reading Research Quarterly. Barnes, M.A., Clemens, N.H., Fall, A.M., Roberts, G., Klein, A., Starkey, P.,…& Flynn, K. (in press). Cognitive Predictors of Difficulties in Math and Reading in Pre-Kindergarten Children at High Risk for Learning Disabilities. Journal of Educational Psychology. Clemens, N.H., Oslund, E., Fogarty, M., Kowk, O., Davis, J., & Simmons, D. (2019). Skill moderators of the effects of a reading comprehension intervention. Exceptional Children, 85, 197-211. Clemens, N.H., Hsaio, Y., Simmons, L., Kwok, O., *Greene, E., *Soohoo, M., *Henri, M., Luo, W., *Prickett, C., Rivas, B., & Al Otaiba, S. (2019). The predictive validity of kindergarten progress monitoring measures across the school year: An application of dominance analysis. Assessment for Effective Intervention, 44, 241-255. Filderman, M. J., Toste, J. R., Didion, L. A., Peng, P., & Clemens, N. H. (2018). Data-based decision making in reading interventions: A synthesis and meta-analysis of the effects for struggling readers. Journal of Special Education, 52, 174-187. Oslund, E.L., Clemens, N.H., Simmons, D.C., & Simmons, L.E. (2018). A multicomponent model of adolescent reading comprehension: Comparing struggling and adequate comprehenders. Reading and Writing, 31, 355-379. Clemens, N.H., *Soohoo, M., *Wiley, C.P., *Hsiao, Y., *Estrella, I., *Allee-Smith, P.J., & Yoon, M. (2018). Advancing stage 2 research on measures for monitoring kindergarten reading progress. Journal of Learning Disabilities, 51, 85-104. Clemens, N.H., *Lai, M., Burke, M., & Wu, J. (2017). Interrelations of growth in letter-name and sound fluency in kindergarten and implications for subsequent reading fluency. School Psychology Review, 46, 272-287. Forgarty, M., Clemens, N.H., Simmons, D., Simmons, L., Anderson, L., Oslund, E., Davis, J., & Smith, A. (2017). The impact of a technology-mediated intervention on adolescents’ reading comprehension. Journal of Research in Educational Effectiveness, 10, 326-353. Clemens, N.H., & Simmons, D., Simmons, L., *Wang, H., & Kwok, O. (2017). The prevalence of reading fluency and vocabulary difficulties among adolescents struggling with reading comprehension. Journal of Psychoeducational Assessment, 35, 785-798. Nathan Clemens Associate Professor, Department of Special Education Researches themes related to understanding the psychological and environmental factors that impact African American student achievement, and the impact of the impostor phenomenon in academic and mental health outcomes. Kevin Cokley is not currently accepting new graduate students for the 2022-23 Academic Year. Kevin O Cokley Department Chair, Department of Educational Psychology Explores how family background, culture, and school contextual factors influence decisions and trajectories within special education. North Cooc Associate Professor, Department of Special Education Investigates metabolic and cardiovascular factors that limit exercise performance. Edward F Coyle Professor, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Researches the inclusion and censorship of LGBTQ+ representation in elementary contexts, particularly via literacy and literature. Adam Crawley Assistant Professor, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Directs the department's Nutrition & Development program. Brittany N Crim Lecturer, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Experienced superintendent who focuses on how social, cultural, and political contexts in education impact school district administrators and their ability to serve all students. Kelly Crook Associate Professor of Practice, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Experienced swimming and diving coach and water safety expert who teaches courses related to swimming. Don S Crowley, Jr Assistant Professor of Practice, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Kelly Cruise Assistant Professor of Practice, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Experienced urban school superintendent and executive leader who focuses on social justice and high academic success for all students, school leadership, and equity in educational opportunities. Paul Cruz Professor of Practice, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Cohort Coordinator, Field Supervisor, Assistant Professor of Practice The University of Texas Austin, Austin TX · Teach and coordinate in a lecture position in the College of Education preparing, mentoring, developing, and coaching pre-service teachers for EC-6 ESL certification · Coordinate undergraduate cohort of EC-6 teacher preparation students during their Professional Development Sequence (PDS). · Instructor EDC331E-School Organization and Classroom Management. Courses which are designed to equip students with the necessary skills in making ethical decisions in their adult and professional life and working with young children · Initiate, develop, and maintain ongoing effective communication and rapport with AISD, RRISD, LISD and charter schools and district administrators and faculty for the outcome of quality field placements for pre-service teachers · Supervise field supervisors through training and on-going guidance and support with collaboration on data gathered through observations and reflective conferences, reporting, and collaboration with student’s success in mind. · Attend and participate in professional development lectures. Rosemary M Cuellar Torres Assistant Professor of Practice, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Studies children’s literature and researches the home literacy practices of families with young children in under-resourced communities. Denise Davila Assistant Professor, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Examines effects of race, class and capital in schools and society; investigates and extends traditions of critical pedagogy and philosophy. Noah De Lissovoy Professor, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Gerardo E De Los Santos Professor of Practice, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Rosario C Deleon Assistant Professor of Neurology, Department of Neurology, Dell Medical School Focuses on urban school and district leadership, inclusive practices for students with disabilities, and school improvement with an emphasis on addressing inequities in classrooms, schools, and communities. David E DeMatthews Associate Professor, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Focuses on the instructional design and efficacy testing of early STEM interventions for at-risk learners, including English learners and students marginalized and underserved communities. Christian Doabler Assistant Professor, Department of Special Education Susan K Dubois Adjunct Assistant Professor, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Develops urban school leaders and assists them in their efforts to implement continued improvement strategies, create professional learning communities, and foster equity and high levels of student achievement within schools. Terrence M Eaton Assistant Professor of Practice, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy J. Mark Eddy's primary area of expertise is the development, refinement and rigorous testing of culturally informed multimodal preventive and clinical psychosocial interventions to improve physical and mental health outcomes for children and families. This work is done in collaboration with families and professionals from schools and other community-based service systems. Areas of interest include parent-child relationships; intimate partner relationships; family violence; parent management training; couples intervention; youth mentoring; early childhood education and family-based intervention; mothers and fathers involved with the juvenile justice or criminal justice systems and their families; children and families involved with the child welfare system; immigrant families; observational research; social interactional theory; coercion theory; cognitive behavioral therapy; longitudinal growth modeling; survival analysis; the development and refinement of effective communication processes between and among researchers, practitioners, and policymakers in order to provide children and families with the most effective preventive and clinical interventions; training and mentoring the next generation of implementation and prevention scientists. J. Mark Eddy Professor, Department of Educational Psychology Focuses on preparing school professionals to address legal issues they will be required to consider as administrators based on her significant experience advising and representing public school officials and administrators in legal matters. Criselda G Elizalde Assistant Professor of Practice, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Researches and teaches social dances from the 19th century to the present. Nicholas Enge Lecturer, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Vanessa L Errisuriz Research Associate, Latino Research Institute Falbo uses both quantitative and qualitative methodologies to address problems in education and health. She is an internationally recognized expert on only children, including their academic, social, emotional, and health outcomes. Falbo is also an expert on conducting cross-cultural research and research aimed at improving the education of ethnic minorities in the U.S. Toni Falbo Professor, Department of Educational Psychology Focuses primarily on the assessment and treatment of severe challenging behavior displayed by individuals with autism and other developmental disabilities. Terry S Falcomata Professor, Department of Special Education Serves as Director of the Athletic Training Education Program and specializes in sports medicine, training athletes, athletic injuries, strength and conditioning, and sports rehabilitation. Brian K Farr Director, Athletic Training Program Child welfare, child and family policy, foster care, teen pregnancy prevention, Latino families Monica Faulkner Research Associate Professor, School of Social Work Focuses on managerial mobility and retention, gender equity and personnel management issues in sport law, and effective marketing of participant focused sports. Maureen P Fitzgerald Assistant Professor of Instruction, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Dr. Flores' research focuses on Latina mothers and daughters language and literacy practices, the teaching of young writers in culturally and linguistically diverse classrooms, and family and community literacies. Tracey T Flores Assistant Professor, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Examines the effects of state and federal policies on college access and completion outcomes for low-income and underrepresented populations including immigrant and English Learner students. Stella M Flores Associate Professor, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy African American student achievement; intersection of sports and academics; impact of race and gender on student academic outcomes; cultural theory in education; Improvement of academic outcomes for African American, Latina/o and other students; education; race relations Kevin M Foster Acting Department Chair, African and African Diaspora Studies, College of Liberal Arts Works with culturally diverse individuals with Autism Spectrum Disorders to assess and treat challenging behavior. Christina Fragale Assistant Professor of Practice, Department of Special Education Examines ethnographic language and literacy practices in K-12 classrooms, specifically focusing on how Latinx critical race theory explains the relationship between heritage language and culture and the evolving identities of future teachers. Maria E Franquiz Professor, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Uses repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation and fMRI to identify mechanisms that support learning and memory in order to develop targeted therapies for patients suffering from memory loss. Mike Freedberg Assistant Professor, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Higher education finance and policy, with a focus on equity in policymaking processes and the effects of policies Current research topics include: • the differential effects of free college (or Promise) programs on students and higher education institutions, • the development and effects of performance-based funding and other accountability policies for higher education, • varying notions of equity and adequacy in state funding of public higher education, • methods for incorporating fairness in predictive analytics used in higher education, • the use of research evidence in higher education policymaking, including the engagement of scholars of color in higher education policymaking, and • racial discourse in higher education policymaking. Denisa Gandara Assistant Professor, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Carrie Lou Garberoglio Director - National Deaf Center on Postsecondary Outcomes, Department of Special Education Expertise on the intersection of law and educational policies and practices focused on access, diversity, and equity in higher education, including affirmative action, freedom of expression and inclusion, and the use and influence of research in law. Liliana M Garces Associate Professor, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Oversees the Center’s community college relations and serves as a point of contact for state leaders, funders and national higher education organizations. Linda L Garcia Assistant Director, Center for Community College Student Engagement Interests include higher education policy and planning focused on expanding participation in higher education, improving graduation rates, and ensuring success in the workforce. David W Gardner Adjunct Professor, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Explores the intersection of the sociopolitical and mathematical lives of children with a focus on identity and learning. Emma Gargroetzi Postdoctoral Fellow of STEM Education, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Serves as Associate Vice President for Campus Life and Senior Associate Dean of Students, and teaches courses related to on-campus culture in higher education. Douglas C Garrard Assistant Professor of Practice, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Focuses on policies, practices, and interventions that promote social mobility and reduce socioeconomic stratification in K12 and higher education. Matt S Giani Director of Research and Data Science, OnRamps Develops school leaders with the knowledge, skill, and disposition to foster collaborative instructional systems to produce high levels of adult engagement in their unique school environments to assure every student learns well and thrives, with a focus on equity and continuous improvement. Barbara H Gideon Assistant Professor of Practice, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Specializes in behavior, sports performance, and decision making in golf; teaches golf and courses need to be certified in physical education. Erik Gnagy Clinical Assistant Professor, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Vickie Godfrey Assistant Professor of Instruction, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Investigates intersections of race, language, and mathematics through the experiences of Latinx students learning and doing mathematics. Carlos Nicolas Gomez Marchant Assistant Professor, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Research explores the intersections of multilingualism, scientific sensemaking, and teacher education, with a specific focus on the ways multilingual students engage in science practices through translanguaging. María GonzÃ¡lez-Howard Assistant Professor, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Dr. Juan C. Gonzalez is Clinical Professor in the College of Education within the Program in Higher Education Leadership (PHEL). His expertise in student affairs leadership and administration, improving the college student experience, and expanding access to higher education for first-generation college students. Dr. Gonzalez served as the Vice Chancellor-Student Affairs at UC San Diego from 2014 till the end of 2017. González has served as vice president for Student Affairs at a number of prestigious universities spanning a 25-year period. Prior to his tenure at UC San Diego, he held the vice president position at the University of Texas at Austin. Prior to that, he served as Vice President for Student Affairs at Arizona State University; Georgetown University; California Polytechnic State University, San Luis Obispo; and California State University, San Bernardino. Juan C Gonzales Professor of Practice, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Focuses on student governance and involvement in the areas of college student government, sorority/fraternity life (SFL), equity and justice issues, experiences of new professionals, queer students, social justice, and social media in SFL, and bias-response in SFL. Michael A Goodman Assistant Professor of Practice, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Supports the clinical training of doctoral students, teaches clinically-focused courses and prepares students for psychology internship training. Jane Gray does not serve as a research mentor for students in the School Psychology program. Jane S Gray Assistant Professor of Practice, Department of Educational Psychology Examines principals and school-community engagement/community development, and issues of educational equity and opportunity. Terrance L Green Associate Professor, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Emily S Greenspahn Assistant Professor of Neurology, Department of Neurology, Dell Medical School Investigates neuromuscular control mechanisms during fatigue, training, rehabiltiation and aging with single-motor unit recording, and designs electrical stimulation protocols for individuals with paralysis. Lisa Griffin Associate Professor, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Interests include curriculum and instruction, educational administration, bilingual/bicultural education, principalship preparation, and public school executive leadership. Sheila B Guzman Assistant Professor of Practice, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Research centers on the integration of career and mental health counseling and the fostering of resiliency in the K-12 and university underserved student population. Karen L Haas Assistant Professor of Instruction, Department of Educational Psychology Explores ethical campus leadership and factors that lead to successful leadership of educators. Dottie R Hall Assistant Professor of Practice-CURR, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Researches fitness education, physical activity promotion among k-16 students, and technologies related to physical education teacher education. Xiaofen D Hamilton Professor, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Studies how to optimize early interventions for young children with challenging behavior and communication delays including those with autism. Lauren H Hampton Assistant Professor, Department of Special Education Investigates biomarkers that are predictive of diseases with an underlying inflammatory component. Michelle Harrison Research Assistant Professor, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Katelyn Hatfield Assistant Professor of Instruction, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Studies organizational change in sport through qualitative inquiry and historical methods. Florian Hemme Assistant Professor of Instruction, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Restorative practices; school-to-prison pipeline. Lorna Hermosura Assistant Professor of Instruction, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Arcelia L Hernandez Assistant Professor of Practice, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Focuses on the politics and implementation of educational policy with an emphasis on school reform, equity and diversity in schools. Jennifer J Holme Professor, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Studies the biomechanical and neuromuscular control mechanisms of human movement and translates this knowledge into practical solutions that reduce walking-related disability. Hao-Yuan Hsiao Assistant Professor, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Research focuses on school contexts and teacher knowledge and experiences that support the establishment of digital equity for learning in K-12 schools, classrooms, and communities. Joan Hughes Associate Professor, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Examines the intersection of sport and international political history. Thomas M Hunt Associate Professor, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Studies neural control of voluntary and skilled movements, development of brain stimulation interventions to promote motor function after stroke, motor learning, neuroplasticity, and brain oscillations. Sara J Hussain Assistant Professor, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Myra Infante Sheridan Assistant Professor of Practice, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Mitch's research interests include the role of humor as a site for the mobilization of community cultural wealth, relajo in bilingual contexts and he is passionate about the different linguistic varieties, dichos, refranes, modismos, and chistes of the Spanish-speaking world. In addition, he is fascinated by how minoritized mono/bilingual Spanish-speakers leverage humor in both affiliative and disaffiliative ways to navigate the US education system and what this could mean for theory, pedagogy, and practice. Mitchell D Ingram Assistant Professor of Practice, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Research interests focus on using Bayesian statistical methods to employ hierarchical linear modeling, specifically working with longitudinal and mediation data. Anita Israni Assistant Professor of Instruction, Department of Educational Psychology Examines the social and political dimensions of market-based reforms and privatization in education, including school choice and decision-making in K-12 and higher education contexts. Huriya Jabbar Associate Professor, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Studies school and community-based interventions regarding physical activity, healthy eating, and the prevention of chronic disease. Esbelle M Jowers Research Assistant Professor, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Interests include: student affairs administration, professional staff development, college student development, retention programs for students of color. Sharon H Justice Assistant Professor of Practice, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Bringing the experience of 28 years as dean of the College of Education, Justiz shares his expertise in topics of public policy, the politics of education, and providing equal access for minorities in education. Manuel J Justiz Professor, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Interests include academic administration, faculty in higher education, and college student development with research on college teaching and minorities in higher education. Marilyn C Kameen Professor, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Statistical methods related to psychometrics, such as uni- and multi-dimensional item response theory, response time modeling, cognitively diagnostic assessment, and stochastic test design. Hyeon-Ah Kang Assistant Professor, Department of Educational Psychology Interests include racial disparities in vascular function and blood pressure responses during exercise in health and disease, and investigating the potential mechanisms for elevated sympathetic activation in patient populations such as type 2 diabetes and chronic kidney disease. Jasdeep Kaur Assistant Professor, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Missing data, Bayesian statistics, multilevel modeling, structural equation modeling, general modeling frameworks, statistical computing, and philosophy of science. Brian T Keller Assistant Professor, Department of Educational Psychology Research focuses on race and sport, leadership, and community building via sport. Darren D Kelly Associate Vice President, DDCE Academic Diversity Initiatives Brings her experience in literacy education to UT with a specialization in preparing secondary teachers to work in urban schools. Deborah C Kelt Assistant Professor of Practice-CURR, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Studies literacy, language, and multicultural education, especially involving new media and globalization. Grace MyHyun Kim Assistant Professor, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Focuses on creating positive learning communities via social and emotional learning, organization/management, and differentiating instruction. Amy L Kinkade Assistant Professor of Practice, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Teaches courses that examine the intersectionality of culture, organizations, and systems of privilege, power, and difference in higher education. Mylon Kirksy Senior Director of Residence Life, University Housing and Dining Explores how to democratize access to algebra for students who historically have had limited access to the STEM pipeline due to algebra’s gatekeeper role. Eric Knuth Professor, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Specializes in public health, epidemiology and the study and promotion of physical activity for health. Harold W Kohl, III Research Professor, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education social context of education, early childcare centers and early childhood education, educational policy, policy implications on early childhood education Da Hei Ku Assistant Professor of Practice, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Studies the limiting factors to exercise capacity in healthy individuals and clinical populations. Sophie Lalande Assistant Professor, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Teaches from a holistic health perspective, with a focus on personal health including meditation and other stress reduction/management techniques, and mental health. Lara Latimer Assistant Professor of Instruction, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Executive Director of the National Institute for Staff and Organizational Development, a consortium of community and technical colleges that share a philosophical commitment to support excellence in teaching, learning, and leadership. Edward J Leach Executive Director, National Institute for Staff and Organizational Development Focuses on the ways students learn in science courses using computational modeling. Kemper Lipscomb Assistant Professor of Practice, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Examines inequities in digital spaces and focuses on creating technology-enhanced learning opportunities for socioeconomically disadvantaged middle school students and supporting in-service teachers to integrate technology in their classrooms. Min Liu Professor, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Focuses on adolescent and young adult problem behavior development, and tobacco use and cessation. Alexandra Loukas Associate Dean for Research and Graduate Studies, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Interests also include critical race theory specifically Latinx critical race theory and multigenerational subtractive schooling experienced by a marginalized majority. Nora A Luna Assistant Professor of Practice, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Engages humanizing research approaches to examine equity-focused PK-16 STEM teaching and learning across urban contexts with a focus on Black girls. Tia Madkins Assistant Professor, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Examines literacy teacher preparation, specifically the role of coaching and mentoring that occurs inside programs. Beth Maloch Senior Associate Dean, College of Education Teaches yoga classes as both a physical practice and educational experience. Zoe Mantarakis Assistant Professor of Practice, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Focuses on identifying factors that hinder or promote the success of children and families from vulnerable and underserved populations. Charles Martinez Dean, College of Education Studies stress and coping as it relates to professionals in educational settings, health and wellness, and the identification of psychological resources that can help prevent stress. Note: Dr. McCarthy will not be taking new students for the 2023 academic year. Chris J McCarthy Professor, Department of Educational Psychology Teaches courses in weight training, conditioning, and aerobic activities. Nicole K McLagan Assistant Professor of Practice, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Mark D Milliron Professor of Practice, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Studies managerial economics in sport relating to the market power of pro sports leagues under three primary branches: industrial organization, labor markets, and public policy and economic development. Brian M Mills Associate Professor, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Celena Mondie-Milner Associate Vice President, Strategy and New Student Support and Executive Director, New Student Services, New Student Services Focuses on motivation and how individual beliefs and social-contextual factors influence students’ achievement and academic behaviors. Katherine Muenks Assistant Professor, Department of Educational Psychology Coordinates the placement of teachers in field experiences and prepares students for ESL education. Sheri Mycue Clinical Assistant Professor, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Michael E Nava Executive Director of Student Success Initiatives, Student Success Initiatives Focuses on social justice leadership as well as specific strategies to create optimal learning environments for students and teachers. Glenn L Nolly Assistant Professor of Practice, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Serves as Program Manager of Special Projects for the Center for Community College Student Engagement, teaches courses focused on community colleges. Coral M Noonan Assistant Professor of Practice, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Focuses research on reducing sexual health risk among women who experience health disparities. Liesl Nydegger Assistant Professor, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Supports the clinical training of MA/SSP students, teaches clinically-focused courses, provides supervision for students, and prepares students for MA/SPP internship. Jessica O'Bleness does not serve as a research mentor for students in the School Psychology program. Jessica J O'Bleness Assistant Professor of Practice, Department of Educational Psychology Assesses and supports individuals with intellectual disabilities and develops social skill/communication interventions for children with ASD. Mark F O'Reilly Department Chair, Department of Special Education Scholarly work has concentrated on understanding the processes related to the supervision of instruction, as well as on instructional leadership. Martha N Ovando Professor, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Studies the historical, philosophical, sociocultural, and political dimensions of sport and physical culture. Tolga Ozyurtcu Associate Professor of Instruction, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education A former Vice President for Student Affairs at UT Austin who focuses on leadership development for individuals and teams as founder of Gage Paine Consulting, LLC. Gage E Paine Clinical Professor, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Examines the contributions of strengths-based approaches in literacy instruction with Spanish-speaking bilingual teacher candidates and in-service teachers in the U.S. and in Latin America. Desiree Pallais-Downing Assistant Professor of Instruction-CURR, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Raymund A Paredes Professor of Practice, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Focuses on the intersections of gender, sexuality, and behavioral health in topics of men’s health, gender roles, and muscularity; conducts outreach with gender and sexual minority communities; development of mobile health interventions. Note: Dr. Parent will not be taking new students for the 2023 academic year. Mike Parent Associate Professor, Department of Educational Psychology Examines the relation between marketing influence on adolescent risk behavior such as substance use, nutrition, sleep and energy drink consumption. Keryn E Pasch Associate Professor, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Focuses on adults with disabilities and their participation in higher education, study skills, instruction, and interaction with the criminal justice system. James R Patton Associate Professor of Instruction, Department of Special Education Researches civic education, early childhood/elementary education, and teacher education to examine the role of relationships, community, and justice to make classrooms democratic and equitable spaces. Katherina A Payne Associate Professor, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Focuses on embedding high-level cognitive skills training into academic instructions for children with severe learning disabilities that address the cognitive impairments underlying those disabilities. Peng Peng Assistant Professor, Department of Special Education Serves as Clinical Education Coordinator of the Athletic Training Program with responsibilities revolving around preparing learners for professional practice through the integration of content knowledge into clinical education experiences. Kelvin Phan Clinical Assistant Professor, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Colette Pierce Burnette Professor of Practice, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy My work primarily investigates how social- and structural-level factors relate to the epidemiology of substance abuse and related harms among Latinos. This research has expanded the focus from individual-level factors that influence health and underscores the importance of social determinants of health that especially affect Latinos (e.g., migration-related factors, acculturation) in shaping substance use behaviors. Miguel Pinedo Assistant Professor, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Develops and tests interventions for students with mathematics difficulties, emphasizing word-problem solving, mathematics writing, and the vocabulary within math. Sarah R Powell Associate Professor, Department of Special Education Martha I Pyron Affiliate Faculty, Department of Population Health, Dell Medical School Studies predictors of risk for mental health problems in early childhood. Laura E Quiñones Camacho Assistant Professor, Department of Educational Psychology Prepares students to become educators in bilingual and ESL education and mentors novice bilingual educators. Nayelli Ramos Assistant Professor of Practice, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Focuses on the efficacy of different kinds of sexuality education programs: teacher preparation for the sexuality education classroom, anddifferences between evidence-informed and evidence-based programs, and differences between teaching and facilitating within a sex-ed context. Karen J Rayne Assistant Professor of Instruction, Department of Educational Psychology Shares her expertise in student affairs, higher education policy, administration and finance, strategic planning, and leadership development. Soncia Reagins-Lilly Vice President for Student Affairs and Dean of Students, Vice President for Student Affairs Examines the experiences of faculty of color at predominantly White institutions; mentoring relationships between faculty and Black students; and work-life balance in academia. Richard J Reddick Associate Dean for Equity, Community Engagement, and Outreach, College of Education Colleen K Reutebuch Senior Project Manager, Department of Special Education I study student success for children experiencing poverty. I analyze how school leadership and state policy facilitate student success across the education pipeline. Pedro Reyes Professor, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Prepares school district executives to lead socially just and equitable learning centers focused on academic excellence for all students. Sylvia R Reyna Assistant Professor of Practice, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Richard M Rhodes Professor of Practice, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Studies the culture of youth sports through elementary and secondary physical education curricula, and teacher education. Geoff B Rich Assistant Professor of Practice, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Focuses on gender and racial/ethnic inequality in educational experiences and student achievement in STEM fields from a sociological perspective. Methodological expertise in quantitative research methods and analyses of large scale datasets. Catherine Riegle-Crumb Professor, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Research focuses on men and traditional masculinity, with a particular emphasis on men's mental health, depression, help-seeking patterns, and their underutilization of counseling services. Note: Dr. Rochlen will not be taking new students for the 2023 academic year. Aaron B Rochlen Clinical Professor, Department of Educational Psychology Dr. Erin Rodríguez studies family, sociocultural, and contextual influences on children’s development and health outcomes, with a focus on understanding and reducing health disparities affecting low-SES Latinx youth. Erin Rodriguez is not currently accepting new graduate students for Fall 2022. Erin M Rodriguez Associate Professor, Department of Educational Psychology Engages in training and supervision of clinicians to support individuals with challenging behavior and difficulty transitioning between activities, particularly for students with autism spectrum disorders. Laura Rojeski Assistant Professor of Practice, Department of Special Education instructional technology innovation for learning transformation game-based learning playful learning & enactive role-play augmented / virtual reality for learning instructional systems design online / blended learning environments connected learning & digital equity Jason A Rosenblum Assistant Professor of Instruction, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Leads the Project MALES (Mentoring to Achieve Latino Educational Success Initiative focused on Latino males in education; seeks to advance research-informed policy solutions that enhance educational outcomes for underserved students in secondary and post-secondary education. Victor Saenz Department Chair & Professor, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Dr. Salinas is a member of the Social Studies Education program area and is an affiliate faculty member in the Bilingual/Bicultural and the Cultural Studies in Education program areas. Her focus in the social studies includes critical historical inquiry in elementary bilingual and secondary education late arrival immigrant ESL classroom settings, as well as broader understandings of citizenship. Her work also examines social studies teachers' enactment/countering of curriculum through narratives that include civic identities, agency, and membership of others. Cinthia S Salinas Ruben E. Hinojosa Regents Professor in Education, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Studies the ways culturally and linguistically diverse groups of people use disciplinary the core ideas and practices of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) to explain phenomena or to solve problems that are meaningful and consequential to them. Victor Sampson Associate Professor, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Focuses research on South Asian American college students, diversity training efficacy for student leaders, and work/life integration for student affairs administrators. Justin T Samuel Assistant Dean for Student Affairs, College of Pharmacy Supports school leaders in their efforts to implement continuous improvement strategies that promote growth for self, staff, students, and community in his role as an external campus intervention team member, professional service provider and effective school framework facilitator. Trinidad San Miguel Assistant Professor of Practice, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Researches factors that influence language acquisition for children with autism by analyzing naturalistic language samples and neural measures of speech processing. Uses meta-analysis to examine intervention effects for children with autism. Contributes to investigations that use generalizability theory to examine factors that influence scores of reading and writing. Micheal P Sandbank Assistant Professor, Department of Special Education Investigates issues in social justice and rehabilitation systems in relation to gender, race, and disability, and transition into employment from special education. James L Schaller Associate Professor, Department of Special Education College teaching and learning, online teaching and learning, online education, higher education, postsecondary education, distance education, remote learning, virtual learning, technology and education, design pedagogy, design education, design thinking, learning design, the science of learning Julie Schell Assistant Dean, Instructional Continuity and Innovation, College of Fine Arts Studies the implementation and impact of educational policies and practices using quantitative and qualitative methods. Lauren Schudde Associate Professor, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Identity, acculturation, cultural stress, crisis migration, adolescent development, family functioning, substance use, mental health, well-being Seth Schwartz Professor, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Studies the biomechanics of infants in commercial baby gear and orthopedic devices, and parents/caregivers carrying infants during activities of daily living. Safeer F Siddicky Assistant Professor of Instruction, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Cohort coordinator for the Department of Special Education's undergraduate teaching program. Lisa Sigafoos Assistant Professor of Practice, Department of Special Education Focuses on secondary English and literacy education in urban contexts, including among transnational youth. Allison Skerrett Professor, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Serves as the Title IX Coordinator and Associate Vice President of University Compliance Services to ensure the university holds high levels of integrity and ethical standards. LaToya C Smith Vice President for Diversity and Community Engagement, Office of the Vice President for Diversity and Community Engagement Teaches preservice K-12 teachers how to teach meaningful STEM content in innovative, student- and community-centered ways. Jennifer C Smith Assistant Professor of Instruction-CURR, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Serves as a faculty affiliate in Women’s and Gender Studies and Lozano Long Institute for Latin American Studies. Researches topics such as campus safety, higher education law, academic freedom, and higher education in Brazil. Patricia A Somers Associate Professor, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Explores topics in ethnically diverse students with disabilities, veteran students with resulting trauma issues, and professional development for disabled students. Audrey M Sorrells Associate Dean of Students for Research, Vice President for Student Affairs Focuses on the development of sport policies and the ways in which professional sport teams can be leveraged to generate economic, social, and tourism benefits for host communities. Emily Sparvero Assistant Professor of Instruction, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Preschool children’s media use, survey design, formative research and program development for low-literacy populations Carol J Spaulding Assistant Professor of Instruction, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Jeanne M Spencer Lecturer, Department of Special Education Recognized health and fitness expert with a background in both exercise science and strategic health communication. Dixie Stanforth Professor of Instruction, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education As the Executive Director of the Fitness Institute of Texas, trains students on the techniques of fitness assessment. Philip R Stanforth Clinical Associate Professor, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Focuses on how individuals successfully adapt to stress and build health resilience. Mary A Steinhardt Professor, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Autonomic control of circulation during exercise in health and disease, specifically in type 1 and type 2 diabetes Audrey J Stone Assistant Professor, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Natasha M Strassfeld Assistant Professor, Department of Special Education Research interests center around how parent-child relationships, parental involvement, and child socialization shape children's and adolescents' development and learning across cultures and ethnic groups. Marie-Anne Suizzo Associate Professor, Department of Educational Psychology All of my work focuses on developing and testing literacy practices for struggling readers. This includes: * infusing literacy practices into elementary and middle school content area classes; * providing intervention to struggling readers; * translating research to practice for teachers; * designing effective professional development; * translating research into usable products for parents. Elizabeth Swanson Research Associate Professor, Department of Special Education Event management professional who developed the X Games for ESPN. Teaches courses in event management and media relations. Deane Swanson Lecturer, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Oversees the undergraduate program for Special Education, including internships, student teaching, coursework, as well as teaching at the graduate level. Katie K Tackett Associate Professor of Practice, Department of Special Education Effects of vascular dysfunction due to aging, and the lifestyle habits that can prevent or reverse dysfunction. Role of peripheral vascular dysfunction in the pathogenesis of cognitive and cerebrovascular dysfunction Reduction in physiological functional capacity with advancing age Community-based studies in minority cardiovascular health Masters athletes as a model of successful aging Hirofumi Tanaka Professor, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Focuses on university-wide campus climate initiatives such as developing inclusive classrooms, campus climate issues and support, and recruitment/retention of faculty of color at predominantly white institutions. Betty Jeanne Taylor Assistant Vice President, Office of the Vice President for Diversity and Community Engagement Specializes in the history of strength and conditioning, doping, women and sport, and history of physical culture. Janice (Jan) S Todd Professor, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Focuses on effective interventions for students with and at-risk for reading disabilities, with a focus on motivational process and use of data to improve instructional decision making. Jessica R Toste Associate Professor, Department of Special Education Introduces students to the sport of tennis and studies the history of sport, specifically the evolvement of sports in Eastern Europe since its beginning in ancient Greece and Thrace. Galia I Tzvetkov Assistant Professor of Practice, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Follows trends around cultural and racial identities, agency, migration, and social movements in education. Luis Urrieta Professor, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Specializes in urban education from a sociological and multicultural perspective, with a focus on minority youth in schools, particularly at the K-12 level. Angela Valenzuela Professor, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Investigates effective interventions for a diverse group of students with reading difficulties and students who are English language learners. Sharon Vaughn Professor, Department of Special Education Serves as the Associate Director for Student Learning and Development and researches post-qualitative and post-structuralist methodologies, discourse analysis, and gender performance. Aaron W Voyles Director, Residence Halls Operations, University Housing and Dining Directs operations at the Fitness Institute of Texas and manages undergraduate internships. Rachel M Watson Assistant Professor of Instruction, Department of Kinesiology and Health Education Literacy teacher preparation, coaching and mentoring, equity and justice in literacy instruction Melissa Wetzel Professor, Department of Curriculum and Instruction My principal methodological research interest deals with the various facets of model specification, including, but not limited to, model comparison/selection and model modification methods. With the use of simulation techniques, I examine the performance of these different model specification approaches under manipulated conditions. With the use of real data sets, I also provide illustrations and demonstrations of alternative model parameterizations for pedagogical purposes. There are numerous models that may be employed to explain the relationships among variables. I am interested in employing models within the structural equation modeling (SEM), multilevel modeling (MLM), and item response theory (IRT) arenas. My other research interest deals with real-world data applications with these various modeling techniques. This is, in large part, due to requests from applied researchers to help with the methodological aspects of their study given my knowledge in quantitative methods. I enjoy these opportunities to collaborate with researchers in different disciplines because real-world data issues provide me with methodological research ideas as well as interesting examples to use in my courses when I am teaching. Tiffany A Whittaker Associate Professor, Department of Educational Psychology Research focuses on preservice teacher education, critical literacy pedagogy, and restorative practices in education. Molly Trinh Wiebe Assistant Professor of Practice, Department of Curriculum and Instruction Expertise in Title IV policy and administration and higher education fundraising. Focused on issues of college affordability, under-represented student recruitment, and donor relations. Joe Wilcox Program Director, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Uses lenses from organizational sociology to study how district administrators, school leaders, and teachers implement educational reform. Sarah L Woulfin Associate Professor, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Studies the cognitive underpinnings of learning and instruction (memory & metacognition), integrated with social-psychological processes (motivation & mindset), in direct applications to classroom practices, online instruction, and self-regulated learning. Veronica Yan Assistant Professor, Department of Educational Psychology Nina I Zuna Associate Director, School of Social Work College of Education Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Educator Certification Academics See Yourself Here How to Apply Student Affairs Mailing Address College of Education 1912 Speedway, Stop D5000 Austin, Texas 78712 View Map Undergraduate Student Affairs (512) 471-3223 Contact Us Helpful Links Counseling and Support Emergency Information UT Directory UT Direct Policies and Procedures Help Support Faculty Directory Manage Email Preferences Protect Texas Departments Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Administration Office of the Dean Development and Alumni Relations Business Services Career Engagement Facilities Services Office of Student Success and Recruitment Field Experiences Office of Educational Research Support Information Technology Office Office of Instructional Innovation Marketing and Communications Employment Opportunities © College of Education at the University of Texas at Austin 2021 Feedback | Site Policies | Web Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Policy | Adobe Reader