Skip to main content College of Education Menu Service to the State Protect Texas Give Now Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Search Search College of Education Search Search Students Expand Career Engagement Commencement Educator Programs and Certification Overview For Families Graduate Students How to Apply See Yourself Here Undergraduate Students Welcome Longhorns Departments Expand Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Research Expand Overview Centers and Institutes Featured Research Find Faculty Research Support Alumni & Friends Expand Overview Advisory Council Alumni Stories Contact Us Update Your Information About Expand Overview Building Renovations Contact Us Facts and Rankings Map to Sánchez Building & Brazos Garage Dean's Office Units Office of the Dean Social Justice, Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Visit the College of Education Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Service to the State Home Students : Educator Programs and Certification Overview Educator Programs and Certification Overview Certification Officer Shannon Hewgley The University of Texas at Austin offers state and Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) approved teacher preparation programs. The College of Education works with students across campus so that they can become certified teachers in early childhood, elementary, middle, and high school classrooms. We also have programs that prepare students for administrative and other support roles in schools. Our teacher preparation programs, rated as “Accredited” by the Texas Education Agency (TEA) for the last 10 years, are available to everyone regardless of where you are in your academic career. We offer paths to certification for undergraduates, postbaccalaureates, graduate students, and working professionals. Professional Development Sequence for Teaching Certification In addition to completing your coursework, you must apply to and complete the Professional Development Sequence (PDS). Please note that all students entering the PDS must have access to a laptop. The PDS provides you with plenty of classroom experience through fieldwork, observation, and student teaching. You will work closely with mentors who will guide you as you develop your teaching skills. By the time you are finished, you will be well prepared to take the exams required for teacher certification in Texas. The passing rate for our graduates typically exceeds 95%. Please note that TEA charges students in the teacher preparation program fees that must be paid in order to be officially certified. More information about the certification fees is available on our wiki. University Recommendation Once you successfully complete all of the steps to become a teacher and the certification requirements, you may be recommended for certification to the TEA by our certification officer. Be sure to reference the Certification Checklist on our wiki for additional information. Teacher Preparation Programs for Undergraduate Students Students seeking initial teacher certification in any K-12th grade area and a bachelor's degree can enroll in one of the university's undergraduate certification degree programs. Learn more about undergraduate teacher preparation programs Teacher Preparation Programs for Those Seeking a Graduate Degree We offer graduate programs for those seeking both a master’s degree and initial teacher certification in English, social studies, special education, natural sciences, or physical education. Learn more about our graduate-level programs Postbaccalaureate Teacher Certification Options If you already have a bachelors' degree and wish to become a certified teacher, you may apply to the university as a non-degree seeker. You will enroll in courses and a professional development sequence that will qualify you for the teacher certification exams. Learn more about options for degree holders Administrator, School Counselor, and Librarian Programs The university offers options to become a certified principal, a school counselor, a superintendent, or a school librarian. A graduate degree and teaching experience are required in order to pursue these certifications in Texas. Learn more about these programs Out-of-State Certified Educators If you are a certified educator from out of state seeking to be certified by the State of Texas, you must apply to the Texas Education Agency (TEA) to have your credentials reviewed. Learn more on TEA’s website Alternative and Emergency Certifications These certification programs are NOT offered through the University of Texas at Austin. For information about alternative certifications, please call the Texas Education Agency at (512) 463-9734. Texas Education Agency Educator Programs and Certification Overview Teacher Preparation Programs for Undergraduates Teacher Preparation Programs for Graduate Students Postbaccalaureate Teacher Preparation Administrator, School Counselor, and Librarian Programs Teacher Certification FAQs All Teacher Preparation Programs Certification and Licensing Requirements for Working in Other States Texas Education START: Supporting New Teachers Contacts Dr. Sharon Evans, Director, Education Services Dr. Evans oversees Field Experiences, Career Services, and Certification. She serves as a lead liaison with the University, school districts, and education-related entities working with our preservice teachers. She ensures that state-of-the-art career services are available to all College of Education undergraduate students. Office: SZB 2.110 Phone: (512) 471-1511 E-mail: dr.sharonevans@austin.utexas.edu Shannon Hewgley, Certification Officer Shannon serves as a certification officer for all certification programs at the university. She manages test approvals for certification exams, recommends students for certification, and handles appeals. She also gathers data and prepares reports for outside entities. Office: SZB 2.110 Phone: (512) 471-3485 Email: COE-Certification@austin.utexas.edu College of Education Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Educator Certification Academics See Yourself Here How to Apply Student Affairs Mailing Address College of Education 1912 Speedway, Stop D5000 Austin, Texas 78712 View Map Undergraduate Student Affairs (512) 471-3223 Contact Us Helpful Links Counseling and Support Emergency Information UT Directory UT Direct Policies and Procedures Help Support Faculty Directory Manage Email Preferences Protect Texas Departments Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Administration Office of the Dean Development and Alumni Relations Business Services Career Engagement Facilities Services Office of Student Success and Recruitment Field Experiences Office of Educational Research Support Information Technology Office Office of Instructional Innovation Marketing and Communications Employment Opportunities © College of Education at the University of Texas at Austin 2021 Feedback | Site Policies | Web Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Policy | Adobe Reader