Skip to Main Content Brown University School of Public Health Brown University Academic and Student Affairs Search Menu Site Navigation Home Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Postdoctoral Fellowships Online Programs Student Resources Academic Resources Funding and Teaching Opportunities Advising and Mentoring Resources Career Advising Student Life Faculty Resources Teaching Resources Advising and Mentoring Resources SPH Office of Faculty Affairs Who We Are Events Search Academic and Student Affairs Student Resources Breadcrumb Home Career Advising Sub Navigation In This Section Student Resources Career Options in Public Health Resources at Brown Resources Beyond Brown Internship, Research, and Fellowship Resources Resume, Cover Letter, and Interview Resources Applying to Graduate School LinkedIn Resources Career Webinars Biostatistics Career Resources Alumni Resources Employer Resources Graduate Outcomes Career Webinars Student Resources Prepare for your next steps with public health-focused resources. Our office will help you to discover new pathways, connect you with alumni, keep your application materials current, and introduce you to experiences to inform and solidify your academic, professional, and personal goals. Career Options in Public Health Confronting systemic public health challenges requires expertise from the academic, public, and private sectors. Learn about diverse career pathways with a degree in public health. Resources at Brown The School of Public Health partners with CareerLAB and many other campus departments to offer comprehensive career support. Resources Beyond Brown In addition to Brown's career resources, we encourage you to maximize your portfolio using popular career sites and search engines. Internship, Research, and Fellowship Resources Looking for a part-time research assistantship during the academic year, a full-time internship for the summer, or a postdoctoral fellowship? Start here. Resume, Cover Letter, and Interview Resources Creating and updating your application materials should be an ongoing, iterative process. Applying to Graduate School Brown offers a variety of resources to support your graduate and professional school goals. LinkedIn Resources LinkedIn offers many resources to help you learn new skills, search for opportunities, and optimize your professional online presence. Career Webinars We strongly believe that the best career advice comes from Brown alumni and industry experts. In these thematic webinars, you'll learn firsthand about diverse public health career pathways. Public Health Career Portal Explore the School of Public Health's curated database for assistantships, internships, fellowships, and jobs. Explore Opportunities Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Public Health Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Postdoctoral Fellowships Online Programs Student Resources Academic Resources Funding and Teaching Opportunities Advising and Mentoring Resources Career Advising Student Life Faculty Resources Teaching Resources Advising and Mentoring Resources SPH Office of Faculty Affairs Who We Are Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Student Resources Open details for Student Resources Bookmark this Page