Skip to main content College of Education Menu Service to the State Protect Texas Give Now Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Search Search College of Education Search Search Students Expand Career Engagement Commencement Educator Programs and Certification Overview For Families Graduate Students How to Apply See Yourself Here Undergraduate Students Welcome Longhorns Departments Expand Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Research Expand Overview Centers and Institutes Featured Research Find Faculty Research Support Alumni & Friends Expand Overview Advisory Council Alumni Stories Contact Us Update Your Information About Expand Overview Building Renovations Contact Us Facts and Rankings Map to Sánchez Building & Brazos Garage Dean's Office Units Office of the Dean Social Justice, Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Visit the College of Education Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Service to the State Home About : Dean's Office Units Information Technology Office Information Technology Office Quick Links Open a Help Ticket Reserve Equipment Technology Classrooms Tutorials and Tools The Information Technology Office (ITO) supports the College of Education students, faculty, and staff by providing technology facilities, data networking services, and digital media equipment. The ITO is currently operating with minimum in-person staffing in accordance with COVID-19 precautions. We are available to serve you during our standard operating hours of M-F 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.; however, we are requiring reservations for any in-person needs to ensure a staff member will be present in the building to assist you. Please make an appointment by emailing help@education.utexas.edu. Reservations College of Education students, faculty, and staff can reserve technology classrooms conference rooms huddle rooms equipment for checkout or classroom delivery For general inquiries regarding reservations, email the Service Desk or call 512-471-4357. COVID-19 UPDATES In keeping with the College of Education practice for maintaining student assistance while also respecting social distancing, the ITO Service Desk will still be available for equipment checkout but on a Reservation Only basis. Submit your equipment request using the “Make Reservation Now” button and we will respond with a timeframe of availability where you can come in and pick up the requested equipment. If at all possible please avoid walking up to the ITO Service Desk without a reservation – we are operating with limited staff and we may not be able to assist. Make a Reservation Now Open a Help Ticket Services Overview The ITO provides a wide array of services for the students, faculty, and staff of the College of Education. To request any of the following services, please email the Service Desk. Equipment Checkout and Delivery for Classrooms Checkout of laptops, projectors, and other digital media equipment is available to College of Education students, faculty, staff, or anyone currently enrolled in an Education course. The loan period varies with the type of equipment borrowed and the demand for it. There are no charges for this service, although there could be a loss of privileges due to equipment turned in late. Delivery of equipment to rooms in SZB can also be requested during ITO Service Desk hours. For a more detailed list of ITO Service Desk policies and procedures, please see: ITO Service Desk Policies and Procedures. Reservations are encouraged and can be made using the ITO’s online reservation system. Reservation requests should be submitted at least 48 hours before a resource is needed. Patrons should come to the ITO Service Desk in SZB 2.110 and present a current UT ID to pick up equipment. Available equipment includes but is not limited to: Apple Laptops Laptop Pointer/Remote Control "Clickers" HD Digital Camcorders Digital Audio Recorders Portable Projectors Speakers Conference Phones Tripods Dongles Apple Laptop Chargers Reserve Equipment Online Computer/Technical Support The ITO provides computer and other technical assistance to College faculty and staff. Submit assistance requests for all technical matters to the ITO’s Help system. If computer access is down, call 512-471-4357. E-mail the Help Desk Zoom Videoconferencing Videoconferencing allows for audio and video communications between you and a classmate, professor, or guest lecturer who is not able to physically attend a class or meeting. You can host a videoconference in a room in the college or from your personal computer at any location. Participants are able to remote in using software installed on their devices. More information is available on our wiki. If you are an instructor interested in using video conferencing in your class, contact the Office of Instructional Innovation. Video Conferencing Tech Support is available via the Service Desk. Automated Computer Backups for Faculty and Staff Code 42, formerly CrashPlan Pro, provides many benefits, including: After the initial full backup, any changed files are backed up every 10 minutes. Laptops can be backed up over any Internet connection. Users can find and restore their own files with the easy-to-use interface. Data transfer encryption secures all files. All data is backed up in accordance with the University of Texas at Austin disaster recovery requirements. This free service is for university-owned computers only. Send a message to help@education.utexas.edu to request the backup service. We Are Unable To Perform repairs or part replacements. Fully support any hardware or software not specified by the College of Education laptop requirements. Give a 100% guarantee of the proper backup of user data. Sell hardware or software. Contact the Campus Computer Store. ITO Hours & Contact Email the ITO 512-471-4357 (HELP) Walk-up Hours: 8 a.m. - 7 p.m. M-TH 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. F SZB 2.110 Desktop Support: by appointment FTE Staff Hours: 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. M-F College of Education Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Educator Certification Academics See Yourself Here How to Apply Student Affairs Mailing Address College of Education 1912 Speedway, Stop D5000 Austin, Texas 78712 View Map Undergraduate Student Affairs (512) 471-3223 Contact Us Helpful Links Counseling and Support Emergency Information UT Directory UT Direct Policies and Procedures Help Support Faculty Directory Manage Email Preferences Protect Texas Departments Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Administration Office of the Dean Development and Alumni Relations Business Services Career Engagement Facilities Services Office of Student Success and Recruitment Field Experiences Office of Educational Research Support Information Technology Office Office of Instructional Innovation Marketing and Communications Employment Opportunities © College of Education at the University of Texas at Austin 2021 Feedback | Site Policies | Web Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Policy | Adobe Reader