Class syllabi Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Contact us Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook More Sign Ons... Skip To Main Content School of Education Search the website Open Search Box College of Human Sciences Open Mobile Menu Search the website Open Search Box Fred Duffelmeyer Reading Improvement Clinic Home> SOE Outreach> Fred Duffelmeyer Reading Improvement Clinic Fred Duffelmeyer Reading Improvement Clinic The Fred Duffelmeyer Reading Improvement Clinic offers tutoring in reading for children who are entering kindergarten through 12th grade. Tutoring sessions are conducted by advanced students in reading and related areas under the guidance of the literacy education faculty. The literacy faculty also provides outreach services in family and community literacy through ISU Extension activities. Fall 2021 Tutoring Fall 2021 tutoring will be held each Tuesday and Thursday, September 21st – November 18th from 5:30-6:40 pm. Enrolling a Student Please fill out all of the forms in the following survey in order to enroll a student in the Duffelmeyer Reading Improvement Clinic. For any problems with enrollment, please email reading@iastate.edu. Note: Please register only if your child can attend all sessions. About the Clinic The Duffelmeyer Reading Improvement Clinic is a non-profit educational service that is operated by the Department of Curriculum & Instruction within the College of Human Sciences at Iowa State University. The clinic has been offering assessment and instruction services for children who struggle with reading and writing for many years. It serves an estimated 80 to 100 school-aged children per year in Ames and the surrounding communities. Clinic Services Offered The Fred Duffelmeyer Reading Improvement Clinic offers tutoring assistance in reading for children in kindergarten through 12th grade. ISU graduate and undergraduate students specializing in reading assessment and instruction, and supervised by literacy faculty, serve as tutors. Instruction provided is designed to build confidence while improving children’s reading skills and strategies. Clinic Schedule of Services Tutoring services are offered during the fall and spring semesters as well as in the summer: During the fall and spring semesters, tutoring sessions are offered for 70 minutes per session, twice a week for 9 weeks. During the summer semester, tutoring sessions are offered for 75 minutes per session, four times a week for three weeks. All tutoring is offered both on campus in classroom space monitored by School of Education staff and faculty or virtually. Students will need their own electronic device to log in for the tutoring session for virtual tutoring. Tutors work closely with parents via periodic notes and individual conferences to communicate progress. Clinic Service Fees The tutoring is currently offered at no cost. Need More Information? Fred Duffelmeyer Reading Improvement Clinic reading@iastate.edu SOE Outreach Algebra Screening and Progress Monitoring Technical Reports Project Team Publications and Presentations Conceptual Measures Procedural Measures Checkout STEM Cyclone Learning Zone Fred Duffelmeyer Reading Improvement Clinic Small Talk Story County Iowa School Business Management Academy New SBO Authorization Mentoring Program Spring Academies Recent Graduates Professional Growth Advisory Committee Close Video Player Facebook Link Twitter Link LinkedIn Link Iowa State University Merit Pages Link iastate.edu Contact School of Education 1620 Lagomarcino Hall 901 Stange Road Ames, IA 50011-1041 515-294-9531 schoolofed@iastate.edu Teacher Education Services 133 MacKay Hall 2302 Osborn Drive Ames, IA 50011-1078 515-296-8837 edadvise@iastate.edu Quick Links iastate.edu Copyright © 1995-2022, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility