Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box College of Education Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search About Academics Advising Research Equity and Inclusion Contact Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift About Academics Advising Research Equity and Inclusion Contact Change the World Find Your Major Apply The College of Education develops change agents in the form of researchers, scholars, learning leaders, teachers and counselors. Future Students Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Class of 2022: Visit the College of Education Commencement information page. RSVP for the college event on June 10 and find information about University celebrations. Visit the page His mentor convinced him to stick with teaching. Now he’s Oregon History Teacher of the Year “Mike O’Malley is the entire reason why I’m in education right now. Every day I’m in the classroom I’m thankful Mike¬ convinced me to stay.” College of Education alumni, Greg Garcia, was named 2021 Oregon History Teacher of the Year. Professor Amanda Kibler and co-authors receive Arthur Applebee Award The Arthur Applebee Award for Excellence in Research on Literacy is presented annually to honor an outstanding article in literacy research published in a refereed journal. Faculty Research Highlight: Dr. Cass Dykeman “The number of people I’ve been able to help obtain a doctorate at OSU is my biggest accomplishment.” Dr. Cass Dykeman is anticipating moving to the top spot for the most completed dissertations of all time at at Oregon State. Donor Highlight: Dr. Elaine Copeland “I will continue to give as long as I’m living." Dr. Elaine Copeland graduated from OSU in 1974 with a Ph.D. in Counseling from the College of Education. She continues to touch the lives of students by donating to the College of Education Read More News and Stories Grow Your Own grants awarded for the second year in a row The OSU College of Education is pleased to announce that we have again received two partner pathway “Grow Your Own” grants from the Oregon Educator Advancement Council. These grants, totaling nearly $700,000 in year one and $700,000 in year two, enable OSU to build and strengthen our district partnerships in order to diversify the teacher workforce. We are excited to be continuing this work and look forward to potential additional funding over the next few years. Learn more about applying to these scholarships gerardo-chavez.png Gerardo Chavez (He/Him) "This scholarship presents me an opportunity to continue pursuing my dream. I’m grateful that OSU can provide so many opportunities that reward hard work. I look forward to passing the knowledge I have attained as an educator in my community." View Full Event Calendar $605,328 Scholarships awarded in 2021-2022 18,138 College of Education Alumni 2018 – 2020 Created the most licensed teachers in Oregon than any other college or university Support the future of education Every gift to Oregon State University’s College of Education will help meet the needs and fulfill the dreams of students and faculty, enhance beautiful old Education Hall, or complete critical research. Ways to Give Contact Info College of Education Joyce Collin Furman Hall 200 SW 15th Street, Corvallis, OR 97331 541.737.4661 as[email protected] Land Acknowledgement Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer