Skip to main content College of Education Menu Service to the State Protect Texas Give Now Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Search Search College of Education Search Search Students Expand Career Engagement Commencement Educator Programs and Certification Overview For Families Graduate Students How to Apply See Yourself Here Undergraduate Students Welcome Longhorns Departments Expand Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Research Expand Overview Centers and Institutes Featured Research Find Faculty Research Support Alumni & Friends Expand Overview Advisory Council Alumni Stories Contact Us Update Your Information About Expand Overview Building Renovations Contact Us Facts and Rankings Map to Sánchez Building & Brazos Garage Dean's Office Units Office of the Dean Social Justice, Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Visit the College of Education Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Service to the State Home News : Reflection and Caring After Uvalde Reflection and Caring After Uvalde May 25, 2022 There are no words to express our collective grief. "Our thoughts and prayers..." and "heartbroken," while genuine and deep, ring as utterly hollow and fail to measure up to the gravity of the horrifying events at Uvalde’s Robb Elementary School, which took the lives of 19 children and two teachers; others are still fighting to survive. Like many of you, we have witnessed the power of schools as places of safety, security, love for children and pride for communities, even within contexts that are quite fragile. In our time spent working in the United States and abroad, we have visited schools with no electricity, no curriculum and limited seating for student learning, as well as schools embedded in communities that were steeped in violence and local warfare. Yet, even in those places of limited resources and dangerous conditions, we still observed the uniquely sacred protection of schools as sanctuaries for students, families and teachers. What occurred in Uvalde, the second deadliest K12 school shooting in U.S. history, is another in a long line of events that shatter this basic, sacred premise of schools as safe and secure places for students. If our children are not safe there, then where? Like many of you, we are left with a feeling of desperation, of helplessness. Our schools—like places of worship—should be protective safe havens. They are where we go to be cared for, to gain perspective, to learn and to grow, to find identity and to flourish. They are places of nurturing and understanding. But with each new tragedy, from Sandy Hook, to Columbine, Santa Fe, Parkland and Uvalde, these safe and precious spaces have become less so. As a community invested in the development of educators and those who care for young people in schools, we are profoundly devastated by these events. Despite the immediate sense of hopelessness and grief that something so cherished has been fully disrupted, we will soon raise the memories of the lives cut short by senseless violence as we again dedicate ourselves to healing and supporting our students, teachers, communities and one another. On behalf of the college’s leadership team, we hope we all find the support—through counseling, meditation, and constructive and supportive engagement with colleagues and loved ones—to remember the flickering glimmer of purpose that draws us to lead our community in advancing equity, eliminating disparities in health and education, attending to place and context, and thriving through transitions. We are stronger than we may feel right now. With caring, Charles R. Martinez, Jr., Dean Beth Maloch, Senior Associate Dean Sherry Field, Associate Dean for Faculty Development and Educator Preparation Alex Loukas, Associate Dean for Research and Graduate Studies Richard Reddick, Associate Dean for Equity, Community Engagement and Outreach Share this page Email Twitter Facebook News Filters Program Categories Podcasts and Videos Grant Awards Alumni Notes In the Media Op-eds Leadership Communication All News Program Categories Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education See more news College of Education Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Educator Certification Academics See Yourself Here How to Apply Student Affairs Mailing Address College of Education 1912 Speedway, Stop D5000 Austin, Texas 78712 View Map Undergraduate Student Affairs (512) 471-3223 Contact Us Helpful Links Counseling and Support Emergency Information UT Directory UT Direct Policies and Procedures Help Support Faculty Directory Manage Email Preferences Protect Texas Departments Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Administration Office of the Dean Development and Alumni Relations Business Services Career Engagement Facilities Services Office of Student Success and Recruitment Field Experiences Office of Educational Research Support Information Technology Office Office of Instructional Innovation Marketing and Communications Employment Opportunities © College of Education at the University of Texas at Austin 2021 Feedback | Site Policies | Web Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Policy | Adobe Reader