Skip to main content College of Education Menu Service to the State Protect Texas Give Now Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Search Search College of Education Search Search Students Expand Career Engagement Commencement Educator Programs and Certification Overview For Families Graduate Students How to Apply See Yourself Here Undergraduate Students Welcome Longhorns Departments Expand Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Research Expand Overview Centers and Institutes Featured Research Find Faculty Research Support Alumni & Friends Expand Overview Advisory Council Alumni Stories Contact Us Update Your Information About Expand Overview Building Renovations Contact Us Facts and Rankings Map to Sánchez Building & Brazos Garage Dean's Office Units Office of the Dean Social Justice, Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Visit the College of Education Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Service to the State Home Students : See Yourself Here See Yourself Here alt="A diverse group of students celebrate at a Gone to Texas event. " See Yourself Here Welcome College is a time of transition. At the College of Education, you will have opportunities to learn, grow, and explore at one of the best public universities in one of the most vibrant cities in the U.S. Whether you’re looking to become a hands-on educator or participate in research and studies aimed at improving the ways we live and learn, there are incredible opportunities. The Undergraduate Experience The College of Education has a long history of preparing educators for the classroom and beyond. We’re also focused on developing leaders who go on to work in a wide variety of health-related professions or out in the community. You will have the support of world-class faculty, academic advisors, career coordinators, and student organizations that are ready to help you achieve your academic and professional goals. The Graduate Experience Our graduate students learn the skills and theories that lead to positive change in education, policy, and public health. You will work alongside expert faculty and top-notch graduate students, tackling issues that have a direct effect on the lives and education of children and communities. Visit Our Campus Our campus is like a small city with its own attractions, including libraries, museums, and public art displays, located near the heart of downtown Austin. The College of Education is located in the George I. Sánchez Building near the corner of Martin Luther King Blvd. and Congress Ave, just blocks north of the Texas Capitol and next door to the Blanton Museum. Our Department of Kinesiology and Health Education is located in L. Theo Bellmont Hall, attached to DKR Texas Memorial Stadium. Plan a visit, take a virtual tour, and learn more about the 40 acres! Enjoy Austin Austin has something for everyone: great food (especially breakfast tacos); a vibrant music, film, and art scene; strong technology, engineering, and healthcare industries; and many of the parks and trails along Austin’s Greenbelt and Lady Bird Lake are ready to be explored. We think you’ll enjoy checking out everything Austin has to offer. College of Education Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Educator Certification Academics See Yourself Here How to Apply Student Affairs Mailing Address College of Education 1912 Speedway, Stop D5000 Austin, Texas 78712 View Map Undergraduate Student Affairs (512) 471-3223 Contact Us Helpful Links Counseling and Support Emergency Information UT Directory UT Direct Policies and Procedures Help Support Faculty Directory Manage Email Preferences Protect Texas Departments Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Administration Office of the Dean Development and Alumni Relations Business Services Career Engagement Facilities Services Office of Student Success and Recruitment Field Experiences Office of Educational Research Support Information Technology Office Office of Instructional Innovation Marketing and Communications Employment Opportunities © College of Education at the University of Texas at Austin 2021 Feedback | Site Policies | Web Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Policy | Adobe Reader