Skip to main content College of Education Menu Service to the State Protect Texas Give Now Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Search Search College of Education Search Search Students Expand Career Engagement Commencement Educator Programs and Certification Overview For Families Graduate Students How to Apply See Yourself Here Undergraduate Students Welcome Longhorns Departments Expand Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Research Expand Overview Centers and Institutes Featured Research Find Faculty Research Support Alumni & Friends Expand Overview Advisory Council Alumni Stories Contact Us Update Your Information About Expand Overview Building Renovations Contact Us Facts and Rankings Map to Sánchez Building & Brazos Garage Dean's Office Units Office of the Dean Social Justice, Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Visit the College of Education Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Service to the State Home Students : Welcome Education Families Welcome Education Families alt="A recent graduate receives a kiss from her mother after commencement ceremonies." For Families Welcome! Your belief in your student helped spark their interest in one of the best colleges in the nation for education and health. We are looking forward to working with your student and helping them develop the skills they need to succeed--and thrive--in education and healthcare environments. Please join us at one of our Prospective Student Information Sessions so you can learn more about the benefits of joining Texas Education. We can't wait to see you here! Commencement The College of Education Fall 2021 commencement ceremony will take place on the afternoon of December 4 in Bass Concert Hall. Additional details are available on our commencement page. Visiting The Office of Admissions hosts campus tours and information sessions. You are welcome to pay us a visit, too. Please email us two to three weeks ahead of time so we can be sure Student Success and Recruitment staff and an advisor will be available to meet with you. Supporting Your Student Our academic advisors will guide your student during their time with us by helping them register for classes and share important information and advice that will keep your student focused on their career goals. Your student should meet with an advisor at least once per semester to review their progress. Please note that the Federal Education Rights and Privacy Act, known as FERPA, has established guidelines around access to educational records. Learn more about FERPA. Beyond the Classroom Your student will benefit in several ways from the variety of experiences that can be gained outside the classroom: Participating in a first-year (FIG) or transfer interest group (TrIG) will introduce your student to others who have similar interests. Joining a student organization enables your student to make connections, friends, and memories that will stay with him or her after graduation. Participating in a study abroad program will help your student develop communication skills and expose your student to other cultures. Encourage your student to embrace all that the university has to offer. Health and Wellness The university has many resources that will help your student stay strong in both mind and body: UT RecSports manages eight facilities on and off-campus in support of team sports, individual fitness and wellness, outdoor recreation, and more. Counseling and Mental Health Center (CMHC) including a Crisis Line, 512-471-2255, a confidential service that offers UT Austin students the opportunity to speak with trained counselors about urgent concerns 24/7. University Ombuds a free and confidential resource that students, faculty, and staff can use to share concerns. Important Dates Be sure to check the university's academic calendar as it contains all of the important dates your student needs to know. All incoming students are required to attend orientation. During orientation, your student will meet with an advisor and start planning his or her academic career. Texas Parents hosts an additional orientation for families and a Family Weekend later in the semester, giving you another opportunity to see the campus and visit with faculty and administrators with your student. Celebrate the end of four years of hard work by participating in both college commencement and university commencement ceremonies. Costs The rising cost of a college education is a concern for many families and the university is committed to making a first-class education affordable. Texas Advance is a new program designed to help lower- to middle-income families. The university's Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid also can assist. The college also has several scholarships available solely to our students. Safety The university has many resources in place to ensure a safe and secure environment for all members of our community, including our SURE Walk, emergency call boxes, a Night Rides program, and an office dedicated to emergency preparedness. In the event you have concerns about your student's behavior, the university also has a Behavior Concerns Advice line at 512-232-5050 that is open 24/7. The Title IX Office is committed to supporting the University’s mission to create and maintain an educational and work environment free from all forms of sexual harassment, sex discrimination, exploitation, and intimidation where all students, faculty, and staff can learn, work and thrive. College of Education Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Educator Certification Academics See Yourself Here How to Apply Student Affairs Mailing Address College of Education 1912 Speedway, Stop D5000 Austin, Texas 78712 View Map Undergraduate Student Affairs (512) 471-3223 Contact Us Helpful Links Counseling and Support Emergency Information UT Directory UT Direct Policies and Procedures Help Support Faculty Directory Manage Email Preferences Protect Texas Departments Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Administration Office of the Dean Development and Alumni Relations Business Services Career Engagement Facilities Services Office of Student Success and Recruitment Field Experiences Office of Educational Research Support Information Technology Office Office of Instructional Innovation Marketing and Communications Employment Opportunities © College of Education at the University of Texas at Austin 2021 Feedback | Site Policies | Web Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Policy | Adobe Reader