Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Education Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home Academics Undergraduate Graduate People Faculty Staff Graduate Students News & Events News Upcoming Events Events Archive About History Mission & Goals Contact & Directions Stay Connected Brown Summer High School 2022 Course Descriptions Apply to BSHS Search Department of Education Cost and Financial Aid Breadcrumb Home Academics Graduate Urban Education Policy A.M. Sub Navigation In This Section Outcomes Program Overview How to Apply Cost and Financial Aid Urban Education Fellowship Connect with Us 5th-Year UEP Frequently Asked Questions Cost and Financial Aid We offer financial aid opportunities through need-based and merit-based scholarships, as well as research and teaching assistantships. Tuition for the 2022-2023 academic year is $7,835 per course or $70,515 for the nine courses required for the UEP degree. Generally, tuition increases by 3-5% from year to year. The program awards merit-based and need-based scholarships to about 2/3 of all applicants, ranging from 10-100% of tuition cost. If you apply by the January deadline, you will be automatically considered for merit-based scholarships. In addition, research and teaching assistantships and other work opportunities are available to help offset the program costs. Domestic applicants interested in a need-based scholarship must complete a FAFSA form by the application deadline. International students and students without an SSN are not eligible for federal loans but are eligible for merit-based and need-based aid from the UEP program. These applicants will need to submit the CSS profile. Brown University’s code is 3189. Urban Education Fellowship Students are welcome to apply for the Urban Education Fellowship (UEF). As part of Brown University’s commitment to the local Providence community, the Fellowship offers loan forgiveness if the Fellow works for three years after program completion in a full-time position within a public sector education organization or non-profit entity in the Rhode Island urban core region. Additional Sources of Aid ETS GRE Fee Reduction Program. ETS provides the GRE Fee Reduction Program for individuals who can demonstrate financial need, for those who are unemployed and receiving unemployment compensation, and for national programs that work with underrepresented groups. Ruth J. Simmons Urban Education Policy Scholarship. This permanent annual award goes to the UEP graduate student who most epitomizes the former Brown University president’s commitment to educational equity and social justice. No additional application materials are required to be considered. The student is selected by the Annenberg Institute’s Board of Overseers. Native American and Indigenous Studies Initiative (NAISI) Graduate Fellowship. This fellowship supports a one- or two-year graduate student who is enrolled in a full-time Master’s program and whose work advocates for and/or engages in scholarship that contributes to the wellbeing of Native American or Indigenous communities. NAISI asks for a 2-page personal statement in order to be considered. Teach for America Rhode Island Partnership. TFA RI corps members are eligible for 25 percent discounted tuition and can obtain a master's degree in urban education policy (UEP) on a part-time basis, starting between year one and year two of teaching. Many corps members choose to continue teaching for a third year as they finish the UEP program. Please indicate your affiliation within your application for consideration. City Year Partnership. City Year corps members and alumni for at least one year of service and City Year staff members employed for at least two years are eligible for a 25 percent tuition scholarship as well as an application fee waiver. Please indicate your affiliation within the application and request a service verification letter from City Year for consideration. FAFSA U.S. citizens and permanent residents may be eligible to borrow funds through the Federal Direct Student Loan Program. Candidates applying for need-based financial aid must complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) online. Resources for Prospective Graduate Students Learn more about financial support for Master's students from the Office of Financial Aid. Application Inquiry Form Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Academics Undergraduate Graduate People Faculty Staff Graduate Students News & Events News Upcoming Events Events Archive About History Mission & Goals Contact & Directions Stay Connected Brown Summer High School 2022 Course Descriptions Apply to BSHS Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Cost and Financial Aid Open details for Cost and Financial Aid Bookmark this Page