Skip to main content College of Education Menu Service to the State Protect Texas Give Now Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Search Search College of Education Search Search Students Expand Career Engagement Commencement Educator Programs and Certification Overview For Families Graduate Students How to Apply See Yourself Here Undergraduate Students Welcome Longhorns Departments Expand Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Research Expand Overview Centers and Institutes Featured Research Find Faculty Research Support Alumni & Friends Expand Overview Advisory Council Alumni Stories Contact Us Update Your Information About Expand Overview Building Renovations Contact Us Facts and Rankings Map to Sánchez Building & Brazos Garage Dean's Office Units Office of the Dean Social Justice, Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Visit the College of Education Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Service to the State Home About : Dean's Office Units Office of Instructional Innovation Office of Instructional Innovation The Office of Instructional Innovation partners with instructors in the College of Education to create high-quality learning experiences that benefit all students. To accomplish this goal, we provide instructional design consulting, advise on teaching techniques, help select appropriate educational technologies, and develop clear and engaging learning resources. Whether you’re new to college teaching or an experienced faculty member, we want you to be successful. We invite you to work with us for all your teaching and educational technology needs by emailing oi2@utexas.edu. Services Offered Consulting on course design, course redesign, and academic program development, including face-to-face, online, and hybrid learning scenarios Design, implementation, and support for social and experiential learning Development of meaningful student learning assessments and assignments Production of digital course resources, including multimedia and interactive content presentation Design and development of custom learning tools Facilitation of professional learning for faculty, including online resources, communities of practice, and technology workshops Support for digital literacy assessment and instruction across the college Responsive support on the use of Canvas, Zoom, Panopto, Qualtrics, Poll Everywhere, and other educational technology resources Quick Tips for Teaching Strategies for Supporting Absent Students Strategies for Supporting Absent Students With the increase in on-campus teaching and learning, we'd like to pass along some suggestions for negotiating student absences. We recommend that you continue maintaining flexible attendance policies and consider options other than lecture capture for students who miss class. Combining the use of student note-takers and a single five-minute video recording per class session, here's an approach that's quick, easy, and effective. Strategies for Supporting Absent Students Related: A Quick Panopto Tour Professional Development Opportunities Faculty Working Groups Working groups provide opportunities for instructors to share successes and innovations, troubleshoot teaching challenges, and engage in a collaborative learning process to become even better teachers and users of educational technology. The groups are small, personalized to your interests, and typically meet once per month. Each group is facilitated by a staff member from the Office of Instructional Innovation. Contact OI2 to join. CAMP OI2: Teaching in an Online/Hybrid Environment Designed to prepare instructors to teach online and hybrid courses, this collection of 15-minute self-paced modules provides an excellent starting point for those who are new to these approaches. Topics covered include: Organizing Online Learning Experiences, Building Online Community, Presenting Information (Live) Effectively Online, Facilitating Discussion Online, Scaling Online Instruction, and Assessing Learning Online. Camp OI2 is available for any member of the UT-Austin community. Participants receive virtual badges for the successful completion of each module. Get started OI2 Training: Preservice Teacher Preparation Designed to ready preservice teachers to work with K-12 students in online environments, these 15-minute self-paced modules introduce fundamental frameworks for understanding how we communicate and learn in virtual spaces. Introductory modules include: Computer-Mediated Communication Online Learning & K-12 Learners -- while examples come from younger learners, the lessons can be applied to college students Podcast Series: Learning from Texas Education Innovators This podcast from the Office of Instructional Innovation covers teaching, learning, and innovation. Faculty experts share what it is like to conduct cutting-edge research, how an innovative course came into being, or what happens when they try a new teaching strategy for the first time. Digital Literacy Repository The Digital Literacy Repository is a collection of resources for anyone interested in learning how to smartly navigate the digital age. Learn more Teaching with Technology We have curated the following collection of tutorials to help you become productive with tools such as Canvas, Zoom, and Panopto. Canvas: a learning management system used by faculty and students to access and manage online learning materials and communications. Zoom: an easy, reliable cloud platform for video conferencing, webinars, and classes. Panopto: a video platform that allows faculty to record and share videos within and outside of Canvas. Resources Canvas Canvas Instructor Guide Copy a Canvas course Copy specific content from one course to another one Add people (i.e., TA, observer) to a Canvas course Create Canvas groups Use Canvas Collaborations Zoom Use Zoom in Canvas Zoom polling Add an alternative host or a co-host Screen sharing and whiteboard Breakout rooms Waiting room Set up Zoom office hours in Canvas Panopto Upload media to Panopto Record a video using Panopto for Windows Record a video using Panopto for Mac Trim a Panopto video Make an interactive Panopto video Add auto captioning in Panopto Embed a Panopto video in a Canvas course Create a Panopto video assignment in Canvas Use a Panopto quiz as a Canvas assignment We also have developed two tools that extend the capabilities of Canvas to create new opportunities for learning. OI2 Canvas Tool: Journal The journal app provides a blog-like experience where each student has a personal space for reflections, reading responses, and other writing assignments. Journals can be private (shared only between the student and instructor) or public (shared with other members of the class). Learn more about the journal tool OI2 Canvas Tool: Chat Our chat app enables real-time, small-group discussions using text. Transcripts of each chat session are recorded and made available to the instructor. The app supports variation in how discourse occurs in a classroom. Learn more about our chat tool About Us Lucas Horton, Director Lucas holds a Ph.D. in Curriculum and Instruction with a specialization in Learning Technologies. His interests include the application of web and interactive multimedia technologies to support face-to-face, blended, and online instruction. Karen French, Associate Director Karen holds a Ph.D. in Curriculum and Instruction with a specialization in Instructional Technology and a master's degree in Anthropology. She is also a certified teacher and taught high school Latin for seven years. Rui Zeng, Instructional Designer Rui holds a Ph.D. in Instructional Technology and an M.S. in Educational Technology. Research Corner Stop by every Monday to find new information about how you can implement evidence-based practice into your teaching. OI2 Professor Spotlight Series: Dr. Veronica Yan Fostering Undergraduate Innovation Instructional Design for Multimedia Learning Instructional Design Principles for In-Person and Video-Based Learning Using Productive Failure to Drive Instruction Instruction Then Problem-Solving, or Vice Versa? In-Person, Online Discussion: The Best of Both Learning Worlds? Incorporating Retrieval Practice in Your Course Read more posts Contact Us Email or call us for any questions you may have or to make an appointment with an OI2 member. oi2@utexas.edu 512-232-2189 SZB 4.706 Director: Lucas Horton 512-232-4199 @oi2ut on Twitter College of Education Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Educator Certification Academics See Yourself Here How to Apply Student Affairs Mailing Address College of Education 1912 Speedway, Stop D5000 Austin, Texas 78712 View Map Undergraduate Student Affairs (512) 471-3223 Contact Us Helpful Links Counseling and Support Emergency Information UT Directory UT Direct Policies and Procedures Help Support Faculty Directory Manage Email Preferences Protect Texas Departments Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Administration Office of the Dean Development and Alumni Relations Business Services Career Engagement Facilities Services Office of Student Success and Recruitment Field Experiences Office of Educational Research Support Information Technology Office Office of Instructional Innovation Marketing and Communications Employment Opportunities © College of Education at the University of Texas at Austin 2021 Feedback | Site Policies | Web Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Policy | Adobe Reader