Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Education Minor in Education Contact Us Twitter Education@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Minor Cameron-Glickenhaus Family Fund Prize Application Courses Careers Opportunities in Peer Mentoring Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search David Kraemer |Associate Professor of Education Academic Appointments Graduate Advisor, Psychological and Brain Sciences I view my role as a teacher equally as an opportunity to impart knowledge as well as to further explore - and question - the very foundations of that accepted knowledge. Much of my excitement about the courses I teach stems from the prospect of thinking critically about the topics I present and from being challenged by my students to consider new ways of advancing our understanding of those topics. The fields of Education, Cognitive Psychology, and Neuroscience can contribute a great deal to each other and in my courses I draw connections between key research findings in each of these areas. Many of the traditionally "accepted practices" in education are currently the subject of ongoing debates and there is a wealth of new information constantly emerging from active lines of research. It is crucial for students of education to have an understanding of which claims about learning are supported by credible evidence and which are not. My goal is both to inform students of the current state of knowledge, and to help them become lifelong critical consumers of this information. Developing this skill will enable them to continue to learn about and evaluate current research findings the as they progress beyond the college classroom. Research and Teaching Interests Research in the Kraemer Lab is focused on the neural and behavioral correlates of learning and complex cognition, with a particular focus on individual differences. Key questions include, "How does the information we receive from our senses form lasting conceptual representations in the brain?" and, "How does this process vary for different individuals?" as well as, "What behaviors, strategies, and conditions allow for successful learning of complex concepts?" In the service of investigating these questions we employ various experimental methods including fMRI, psychophysiology, and computerized behavioral testing. Professor Kraemer is also a faculty member in the Graduate program in Psychological and Brain Sciences. + View more View Curriculum Vitae Personal Website Contact David.J.M.Kraemer@Dartmouth.edu 603-646-3140 212 Raven House HB 6207 Education B.S. Tufts University, 2002 Ph.D. Dartmouth College, 2007 Areas of Expertise cognitive neuroscience /individual differences /semantic knowledge /learning and reasoning Selected Publications Kraemer, D.J.M., Hamilton, R.H., Messing, S.B., DeSantis, J., & Thompson-Schill, S.L. (2014) Cognitive styles, cortical stimulation, and the conversion hypothesis. Frontiers in Human Neuroscience, 8:1-9. Hsu, N.S., Kraemer, D.J.M., Oliver, R.T., Schlicting, M.L., & Thompson-Schill, S.L. (2011). Color, context, and cognitive style: Variations in color knowledge retrieval as a function of task and subject variables. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 23(9):2544-57. Kraemer, D.J.M., Rosenberg, L.M., & Thompson-Schill, S.L. (2009). The neural correlates of visual and verbal cognitive styles. Journal of Neuroscience, 29(12):3792-8. Cross, E.S., Kraemer, D.J.M., Hamilton, A.F., Kelley, W.M., & Grafton, S.T. (2009). Sensitivity of the action observation network to physical and observational learning.Cerebral Cortex, 19(2):315-26. Green, A.E., Kraemer, D.J.M., Fugelsang, J.A., Gray, J.R., & Dunbar, K.N. (2012). Neural Correlates of Creativity in Analogical Reasoning. Journal of Experimental Psychology-Learning Memory and Cognition, 38(2), 264–272. Courses EDUC 16 Educational Psychology EDUC 56 STEM and Education EDUC 51 Individual Differences and Assessment Related Links Laboratory Website Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Education Undergraduate Minor Cameron-Glickenhaus Family Fund Prize Application Courses Careers Opportunities in Peer Mentoring News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback