Skip to main content College of Education Menu Service to the State Protect Texas Give Now Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Search Search College of Education Search Search Students Expand Career Engagement Commencement Educator Programs and Certification Overview For Families Graduate Students How to Apply See Yourself Here Undergraduate Students Welcome Longhorns Departments Expand Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Research Expand Overview Centers and Institutes Featured Research Find Faculty Research Support Alumni & Friends Expand Overview Advisory Council Alumni Stories Contact Us Update Your Information About Expand Overview Building Renovations Contact Us Facts and Rankings Map to Sánchez Building & Brazos Garage Dean's Office Units Office of the Dean Social Justice, Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Visit the College of Education Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Service to the State Home About : Dean's Office Units Field Experiences Field Experiences Quick Links COE Field Experiences Wiki Calendar - PDS Teacher Education Cross-Cutting Themes and Creed Apply to the PDS PDS Handbooks Cohort Registration Cooperating Teacher Training Student Assessments Laptop Requirement and Tech Support The Field Experiences Office oversees the Professional Development Sequence (PDS) that encompasses all the professional development courses and on-site training that may lead to a recommendation for teacher certification. These courses are restricted. Students apply during the long semester prior to entering the program, the length of which varies by certification program. Admission to the PDS is dependent upon meeting the required GPA and successful completion of prerequisite coursework. The PDS application runs from February 1 to March 1 for fall entry and September 1 to October 3 for spring entry. Check the COE Field Experiences Wiki for important information, documents, and forms needed for the teacher education program. Please send us feedback so we can continue to make improvements to better suit your needs. Our Mission Field Experiences at The University of Texas at Austin are an integral component of our teacher preparation programs, built on strong collaboration between school districts and colleges of the University. Our future teachers engage in purposefully crafted field experiences that cultivate depth of knowledge, research-based practices, and professional ethics. These experiences are designed to be sequential, cumulative, and performance-based while preparing our graduates to implement and evaluate effective practices with diverse student populations in varied settings. As a result, teachers prepared at the University will master subject knowledge and pedagogical skills, work collaboratively with all stakeholders, develop dispositions to be active citizens, and offer their students the opportunity to develop these characteristics themselves. Our Staff Dr. Sharon Evans Director, Education Services Dr. Evans oversees Field Experiences, Career Engagement, and Certification. She serves as a lead liaison with the University, school districts, and education-related entities working with our preservice teachers. She ensures that state-of-the-art career services are available to all College of Education undergraduate students. Office: SZB 2.110 Phone: (512) 471-1511 E-mail: dr.sharonevans@austin.utexas.edu Mary Ann Gustafson Administrative Program Coordinator Mary Ann monitors PDS applications and admission status, coordinates school placements,and facilitates background checks for the Professional Development Sequence (PDS). She also manages the Online Placement System, PDS Online Application, and Online Evaluation System. Office: SZB 2.110 Phone: (512) 471-1308 E-mail: redset@austin.utexas.edu Elsa Rennie Senior Administrative Associate Elsa is responsible for general office payments and purchasing. She pays cooperating teacher honoraria as well as tracking the School Law Seminar requirements. Elsa coordinates the preparation and scheduling of EC-6 Core Subjects Representative Test. She serves as assistant to the director of Education Services. Office: SZB 2.110 Phone: (512) 471-7841 Fax: (512) 471-8808 E-mail: elsa.rennie@austin.utexas.edu Jenny Carney Administrative Associate Jenny oversees the general administrative duties of the office. She also processes field supervisor mileage, tracks mentor training, is responsible for website updates, and coordinates the PDS Orientations. Office: SZB 2.110 Phone: (512) 232-9574 E-mail: jenny.carney@austin.utexas.edu Contact Information Mailing Address The University of Texas at Austin College of Education 1912 Speedway D5200, SZB 2.110 Austin, TX 78712 View Map (512) 471-1511 fieldexp@austin.utexas.edu College of Education Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Educator Certification Academics See Yourself Here How to Apply Student Affairs Mailing Address College of Education 1912 Speedway, Stop D5000 Austin, Texas 78712 View Map Undergraduate Student Affairs (512) 471-3223 Contact Us Helpful Links Counseling and Support Emergency Information UT Directory UT Direct Policies and Procedures Help Support Faculty Directory Manage Email Preferences Protect Texas Departments Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Administration Office of the Dean Development and Alumni Relations Business Services Career Engagement Facilities Services Office of Student Success and Recruitment Field Experiences Office of Educational Research Support Information Technology Office Office of Instructional Innovation Marketing and Communications Employment Opportunities © College of Education at the University of Texas at Austin 2021 Feedback | Site Policies | Web Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Policy | Adobe Reader