Skip to main content College of Education Menu Service to the State Protect Texas Give Now Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Search Search College of Education Search Search Students Expand Career Engagement Commencement Educator Programs and Certification Overview For Families Graduate Students How to Apply See Yourself Here Undergraduate Students Welcome Longhorns Departments Expand Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Research Expand Overview Centers and Institutes Featured Research Find Faculty Research Support Alumni & Friends Expand Overview Advisory Council Alumni Stories Contact Us Update Your Information About Expand Overview Building Renovations Contact Us Facts and Rankings Map to Sánchez Building & Brazos Garage Dean's Office Units Office of the Dean Social Justice, Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Visit the College of Education Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Service to the State Home About : Building Renovations Building Renovations alt="Architects rendering of the SZB Lobby" New Spaces Creating Learning Environments That Support Our Bold New Vision Renovations have begun on the George I. Sánchez and L. Theo Bellmont facilities. These renovations will enhance teaching, learning, and community across our programs. The new spaces and upgrades put our students at the heart of our buildings and reflect the fresh ideas, new vision, and renewed commitment to serving children, individuals, families, schools, and communities across Texas. Construction Updates George I. Sánchez Building Community and collaboration are vital to the learning experience, so the College of Education is transforming lobbies, alcoves, and walkways into warm and welcoming spaces that foster discussion and discovery among students and faculty. Texas Education Research, 5th Floor Construction on Texas Education Research, the new hub for several of the college’s largest research enterprises, is underway on the 5th floor. We anticipate move-in will be complete in the spring of 2021. Student Services Center, 2nd Floor As home to all Texas Education student services, which includes Academic Advising, Texas Career Engagement, and teacher preparation, the new Student Services Center will be the heart of our building. Our Information Technology Office and its Help Desk also will be moving to this floor to better serve the needs of our faculty, staff, and students. Construction on this space also will begin in 2021. Main Lobby The Main Lobby on the second floor serves as the front door to the College of Education and its supporting offices. It also serves as a gateway to four of our five departments. Construction will begin in 2021 to transform this space into a hub for students, faculty, and researchers, and create a welcoming space for visitors to the college. Lobby Landings The college also plans to renovate the lobby landings on the 3rd, 4th, and 5th floors to provide additional community and study spaces. L. Theo Bellmont Hall Renovations in 2019 created new student study spaces on the 8th, 9th, and 10th floors of Bellmont with new furniture, paint, artwork, and specialty lighting. KHE’s graduate students are now able to take advantage of a new conference room and collaboration spaces on the third floor of Bellmont and locker rooms have been updated with new lockers, seating, paint, and lighting Help Us with the Transformation Your gift to help fund these renovations will enable the facility to reflect the stature of the college and provide inviting spaces for our community of educators and researchers. While all gifts in support of our building renovations make a difference, there are a select number of premier recognition opportunities available to thank and honor those donors who contribute leadership gifts. For more information, contact Stacey Oliver, assistant dean for development, at 512-471-8178. Learn how to make a gift College of Education Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Educator Certification Academics See Yourself Here How to Apply Student Affairs Mailing Address College of Education 1912 Speedway, Stop D5000 Austin, Texas 78712 View Map Undergraduate Student Affairs (512) 471-3223 Contact Us Helpful Links Counseling and Support Emergency Information UT Directory UT Direct Policies and Procedures Help Support Faculty Directory Manage Email Preferences Protect Texas Departments Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Administration Office of the Dean Development and Alumni Relations Business Services Career Engagement Facilities Services Office of Student Success and Recruitment Field Experiences Office of Educational Research Support Information Technology Office Office of Instructional Innovation Marketing and Communications Employment Opportunities © College of Education at the University of Texas at Austin 2021 Feedback | Site Policies | Web Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Policy | Adobe Reader