Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box College of Education Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search About Academics Advising Research Equity and Inclusion Contact Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift About Academics Advising Research Equity and Inclusion Contact Transfer Students Transfer Students The College of Education offers guided pathways for transfer students. Prospective students are welcome to visit with an advisor about their future options. Transfer Guides Advising Education Double Degree quick facts: The Education Double Degree allows you to earn two undergraduate degrees. Your first and primary degree will give you content knowledge of a subject area to teach. Your second degree in Education will give you methods and strategies needed to teach your subject area. For example, if you want to be a high school Biology teacher, your primary degree might be in Biology or Biochemistry with a second degree in Education. The Education Double Degree is 38-40 credits, depending on subject area. If you decide to get a second degree, you will need 212 credits to graduate from Oregon State University. For most students, the addition of the Double Degree adds three terms to their program of study. Check out our education major sheet to find out the classes you will take. Alongside the Education Degree, you will earn an Oregon teaching license. With the Education Double Degree, you are able to teach one level (age group). These levels are: Early Childhood/Elementary: Ages 3 to 8th Grade (self-contained classrooms) Secondary: Middle level and High School With the Education Double Degree, middle level and high school teachers are able to teach one endorsement area (subject). These endorsements are Social Studies, Language Arts, Biology, Physics, Chemistry, Integrated Science, Mathematics, Health, and Family and Consumer Science. In addition to the main subject area, students are able to pursue an ESOL endorsement. To view the double degree prerequisites and requirements, click here. Transfer Guides Use these transfer guides to help you maximize your time at your current community college Blue Mountain Community College Central Oregon Community College Chemeketa Community College Clackamas Community College Clatsop Community College Lane Community College Linn Benton Community College Mount Hood Community College Portland Community College Rogue Community College Southwestern Oregon Community College Treasure Valley Community College Umpqua Community College ‹ Post-Baccalaureate Admission Process up History of the College of Education › Education Double Degree Advising Program Requirements How to Apply Transfer students Learning Outcomes Handbook (PDF) Content Mastery Sheets Licensure & Placement Scholarships Teacher Accreditation Contact Info College of Education Joyce Collin Furman Hall 200 SW 15th Street, Corvallis, OR 97331 541.737.4661 [email protected] Land Acknowledgement Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer