Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University Medical Education Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Curriculum Initiatives People Records and Registration MD Curriculum Pre-Clerkship Clerkship / Post-Clerkship Academic Calendar Curriculum Committee Policies & Attestation News & Updates Assessment & Evaluation Scholarly Concentrations Integration Into Clinical Years Program Gallery of Scholarly Projects Application Process Student Enrichment Annual Community Events Community Engagement Research and Study Opportunities Student Interest Groups Search Medical Education People Faculty and staff within the Office of Medical Education (OME) oversee classroom and clinical teaching and curricular innovation in undergraduate medical education. Sub Navigation In This Section Curriculum Initiatives People Records and Registration People Faculty and staff within the Office of Medical Education (OME) oversee classroom and clinical teaching and curricular innovation in undergraduate medical education. Sarita Warrier, MD, FACP Interim Associate Dean for Medical Education Sarita_Warrier@brown.edu 401-863-3198 Sarita Warrier oversees the Year II curriculum and the pre-clerkship electives. Thais Mather, PhD Assistant Dean for Medical Education - Year 1 Curriculum Thais_Mather@brown.edu 401-863-1751 Thais Mather oversees and directs the Year I curriculum. Heather McGee, PhD Director, Assessment and Evaluation Heather_McGee@brown.edu 401-863-1000 Heather McGee coordinates assessment and evaluation curriculum and research initiatives. Jillian Turbitt Instructional Technology Specialist Jillian_Turbitt@brown.edu 401-863-2006 Provides IT curriculum and administrative support in the Office of Medical Education. Abigail Morse Assessment and Evaluation Coordinator abigail_morse1@brown.edu 401-863-5164 Abigail Morse provides administrative support to the Assessment and Evaluation team. Angela Morris LCME Coordinator Angela_Morris@brown.edu 401-863-9834 Angela Morris oversees coordination efforts required in preparation for LCME visits and continually monitors standards to ensure AMS is meeting them. Elizabeth Smith, MBA Assistant Director, Office of Medical Education and Project Director, Primary Care-Population Medicine Elizabeth_Smith_1@brown.edu 401-863-5078 Elizabeth Smith is lead administrator of the Office of Medical Education and the Primary Care-Population Medicine Program and oversees the Longitudinal Integrated Clerkship. Shannon Hartman Administrative Coordinator Shannon_Hartman@brown.edu Shannon supports the third year clerkships and the Primary-Care Population Program, including the Longitudinal Integrated Clerkship. Alex Grover Administrative Coordinator Alexander_Grover@brown.edu Alex is part of the front office staff in the Office of Medical Education. He coordinates the pre-clerkship electives, tutoring, Integrated Clinical Arts and Interprofessional Education Day. Jeffrey Kulie Longitudinal Integrated Clerkship Coordinator Jeffrey_Kulie@brown.edu 401-863-5071 Jeffrey Kulie coordinates the Longitudinal Integrated Clerkship with responsibility for managing the administrative aspects of the clerkship. Steven Rougas, MD, MS Director, Doctoring Program Steven_Rougas@brown.edu 401-863-2357 Steven Rougas oversees the administration of the Doctoring Program (and serves as course leader for Doctoring III & IV), co-directs the Clinical Skills Clerkship and oversees the 4th year OSCE. K. Scarlett Handley, RN, BSN Director, Clinical Skills Simulation Center K_Scarlett_Handley@brown.edu 401-863-5091 K. Scarlett Handley administers and manages the Standardized Patient Program and the Clinical Skills Simulation Center. Julia Noguchi, MA, MPH Director, Service-Learning and Community Mentoring and the Scholarly Concentrations julia_noguchi@brown.edu 401-863-9717 Julia Noguchi directs the community-based clinical mentoring program, oversees service-learning opportunities in Doctoring and is responsible for managing student absences in any Doctoring courses. She also directs the Scholarly Concentrations program. Dana Chofay, MD Course Leader, Doctoring I & II julia_noguchi@brown.edu 401-863-9717 Dana Chofay oversees the first year Doctoring curriculum. Sri Mitta Assistant Course Leader Doctoring I & II srilakshmi_mitta@brown.edu Sri Mitta helps to run the first year Doctoring curriculum in conjunction with the course leader. Rory Merritt, MD, MEHP Assistant Course Leader, Year II julia_noguchi@brown.edu 401-863-9717 Rory Merritt helps to execute the second year Doctoring curriculum as well as the 4th year OSCE. Jennifer DiTusa Program Manager, Doctoring Program Jennifer_DiTusa@brown.edu 401-863-2881 Jennifer DiTusa coordinates all classroom aspects of the Doctoring program and is responsible for recruiting and supporting all small group faculty who teach in the course. Jared A. Dichiara Clinical Skills Clerkship IT Specialist, Doctoring Program Jared_DiChiara@brown.edu 401-863-5092 Jared A. Dichiara provides technical support in administering the clinical skills training and examination process in the Clinical Skills Suites. Telma Woodson Administrative Coordinator, Doctoring Program Telma_Woodson@brown.edu 401-863-5857 Telma Woodson provides administrative support to the Doctoring team. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Curriculum Initiatives People Records and Registration MD Curriculum Pre-Clerkship Clerkship / Post-Clerkship Academic Calendar Curriculum Committee Policies & Attestation News & Updates Assessment & Evaluation Scholarly Concentrations Integration Into Clinical Years Program Gallery of Scholarly Projects Application Process Student Enrichment Annual Community Events Community Engagement Research and Study Opportunities Student Interest Groups Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search People Open details for People Bookmark this Page