Skip to main content College of Education Menu Service to the State Protect Texas Give Now Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Search Search College of Education Search Search Students Expand Career Engagement Commencement Educator Programs and Certification Overview For Families Graduate Students How to Apply See Yourself Here Undergraduate Students Welcome Longhorns Departments Expand Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Research Expand Overview Centers and Institutes Featured Research Find Faculty Research Support Alumni & Friends Expand Overview Advisory Council Alumni Stories Contact Us Update Your Information About Expand Overview Building Renovations Contact Us Facts and Rankings Map to Sánchez Building & Brazos Garage Dean's Office Units Office of the Dean Social Justice, Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Visit the College of Education Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Service to the State Home About : Office of the Dean Counseling and Support Counseling and Support College and campus-wide mental health resources are available to students, faculty, and staff. As a community of scholars, leaders, learners, and practitioners, the College of Education is committed to advancing efforts that lead to safer and healthier communities for children and adults. Student Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Student Resources College-based Counseling Danie White is our Counselor in Academic Residence (CARE). She is available to meet with you if you need mental health assistance. Call 512-232-6862 and ask to schedule a CARE appointment. Please include your name, EID, and contact number should you need to leave a voicemail. Students may also contact the Counseling and Mental Health Center (CMHC), (512) 471-3515, and ask to be scheduled with CARE Counselor Danie White directly. Contacting the main office is the quickest way to schedule since everyone is working remotely and checking voicemail systems remotely may delay scheduling. In-person office hours for CARE counseling are set to resume when staff return to campus. All services are confidential and no information will be shared without written consent. University Resources Counseling and Mental Health Center Student Health Crisis Line: (512) 471-2255 Counseling and Mental Health Center provides counseling, psychiatric, consultation, and prevention services that facilitate students' academic and life goals and enhance their personal growth and well-being. (512) 471-3515 Student Emergency Services Through individualized consultation, Student Emergency Services provides assistance, intervention, and referrals to support students navigating challenging or unexpected issues that impact their well-being and academic success. The fastest way to get assistance is to go to SSB 4.400, Monday through Friday between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. 512-471-5017 (Mon.-Fri., 8-4:30) 512-232-5050 (24/7) – Behavior Concerns Advice Line Student Ombuds Staff in the Student Ombuds Office will listen to your concerns about life at the university and confidentially discuss interpersonal difficulties, university policies, university bureaucracy, and conflict resolution techniques. Title IX Office Provides leadership and support around Title IX regulations and implement best practices for preventing sexual discrimination and gender-based violence at the University of Texas at Austin. Faculty and Staff Resources College The college is home to several human resource professionals, including a Title IX coordinator, who are members of our Business Services Team. College-based Counseling for Students Danie White our the Counselor in Academic Residence (CARE) counselor available to meet with students in need of mental health assistance. Students can schedule an appointment with Danie by calling 512-232-6862 and asking to schedule a CARE appointment. Please let them know they should include their name, EID, and contact number if they have to leave a voicemail. They also may schedule an appointment online. Danie also has walk-in hours on Mondays and Wednesdays from 1 - 2 PM in JES A115 and Tuesdays and Fridays from 1 – 2 PM in SZB 216. Students should check-in at the front desk of the office, and they will let Danie know you're waiting. All services are confidential and none of their information will be shared without their written consent. University Resources Employee Assistance Program The Employee Assistance Program (EAP) provides counseling, grief and trauma support, and stress management for all university employees. Faculty Ombuds The Office of the Faculty Ombuds at The University of Texas at Austin provides faculty with a prompt and professional way to resolve conflicts, disputes, or complaints beyond turning to their supervisors. The office assists faculty with any work-related difficulty, including interpersonal conflict or misunderstandings, as well as academic or administrative concerns. Student Emergency Services If you are concerned about a student, contact Student Emergency Services via their 24/7 Behavior Concerns Advice Line. Anyone encountering a situation that requires immediate police, medical, psychological or other emergency services should call 911 or the University of Texas Police Department at (512) 471-4441 for assistance 24/7/365. Office of the Dean Dean Charles Martinez, Jr. College Leadership Dean's Support Staff Our Mission Counseling and Support Organization Chart Reimagine Education Employment Opportunities Contact Us Mailing Address College of Education 1912 Speedway, Stop D5000 Austin, Texas 78712 View Map Dean's Office Units Intranets (Wikis) Business Policies and Procedures: for college staff and faculty Research Administration: for college faculty Sánchez Facilities/Building Resources: for college faculty and staff (UT EID required) Marketing and Communication: for college faculty and staff Field Experiences: for students, cooperating teachers, coordinators, and field supervisors involved in the Professional Development Sequence for future teachers Tutorials from the Information Technology Office Emergency Contacts University of Texas Police Department – Call 911 Behavior Concerns Advice Line – Call 512-232-5050 Title IX Office – for reporting violence, misconduct, harassment, or discrimination College of Education Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Educator Certification Academics See Yourself Here How to Apply Student Affairs Mailing Address College of Education 1912 Speedway, Stop D5000 Austin, Texas 78712 View Map Undergraduate Student Affairs (512) 471-3223 Contact Us Helpful Links Counseling and Support Emergency Information UT Directory UT Direct Policies and Procedures Help Support Faculty Directory Manage Email Preferences Protect Texas Departments Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Administration Office of the Dean Development and Alumni Relations Business Services Career Engagement Facilities Services Office of Student Success and Recruitment Field Experiences Office of Educational Research Support Information Technology Office Office of Instructional Innovation Marketing and Communications Employment Opportunities © College of Education at the University of Texas at Austin 2021 Feedback | Site Policies | Web Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Policy | Adobe Reader