Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | College of Education Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home Future Students Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Online Programs Certificate Programs Incoming Freshmen TEACHER EDUCATION PATHWAYS Parents Graduate Students Transfer Students International Students Admissions Student Experience Scholarships & Aid Current Students Office of Academic Services and Intern Support (OASIS) Career Services College of Education Student Organizations Student Leadership Council Technology Resources Statistical and Research Design Consultation Services Research Consultation Service FAQs for Graduate Students Graduation Scholarships & Aid Alumni & Friends Support the College Dean's Circle Distinguished Alumni Awards Events The Torch Magazine Research COE Office of Research Latest Faculty Research Initiatives Marvalene Hughes Research in Education Conference Research Centers, Teams, & Initiatives About Faculty & Staff Directory College News News & Media Contact Us Department of Educational Leadership & Policy Studies Department of Educational Psychology & Learning Systems Department of Sport Management School of Teacher Education Centers & Institutes Facilities Tallahassee COE Employment Project ElevatED Strategic Plan Innovation Faculty & Staff Resources Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU College of Education Home Future Students Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Online Programs Certificate Programs Incoming Freshmen TEACHER EDUCATION PATHWAYS Parents Graduate Students Transfer Students International Students Admissions Student Experience Scholarships & Aid Current Students Office of Academic Services and Intern Support (OASIS) Career Services College of Education Student Organizations Student Leadership Council Technology Resources Statistical and Research Design Consultation Services Research Consultation Service FAQs for Graduate Students Graduation Scholarships & Aid Alumni & Friends Support the College Dean's Circle Distinguished Alumni Awards Events The Torch Magazine Research COE Office of Research Latest Faculty Research Initiatives Marvalene Hughes Research in Education Conference Research Centers, Teams, & Initiatives About Faculty & Staff Directory College News News & Media Contact Us Department of Educational Leadership & Policy Studies Department of Educational Psychology & Learning Systems Department of Sport Management School of Teacher Education Centers & Institutes Facilities Tallahassee COE Employment Project ElevatED Strategic Plan Innovation Faculty & Staff Resources College of Education title-inside title-centered 2 An Ideal Educational Environment The Florida State University College of Education offers a unique combination of global-class academics and a close-knit, student-focused community for an exclusive educational experience. Here, you will work as peers with some of the finest minds in the educational world. You will engage in leading educational research and technology and emerge with an educational advantage from an institution that holds the Carnegie Foundation’s highest designation - Doctoral/Research University-Extensive. Student-Focused Join a world-class institution committed to challenging and nurturing each student. Innovation See how we have earned our reputation as a respected innovator in education. FSU Family Build strong, lifelong bonds with friends and faculty alike. The Heart of it All Start your career surrounded by the state’s educational movers and shakers. More about the College It's my calling to give back. I chose higher education because it is my calling to give back to students from similar (and even more disadvantaged) backgrounds like me. The vast nature of education allows me to transform the minds of students and the policies affecting their success. Read My Story A Student-Focused Approach Our students are our one and only priority. Everything we do is driven by our commitment to creating the best possible student experience across all aspects of their lives – academic, social, and personal. As a student in the FSU College of Education, you have direct access to some of the best minds in the education field. You are challenged through innovative programs and unique teaching methodologies. You are given almost limitless opportunities within an educational setting that no other school can offer. Your entire student experience is what prepares you to become the educational leaders of tomorrow. The Student Experience Innovation in Education As quickly as the world of education evolves, students in the FSU College of Education are uniquely trained to adapt and set the standards by which tomorrow’s educators will be measured. We have a commitment to sending the best, most-prepared educational professionals into the world, and we will provide all the support and guidance you need. But you will also be challenged and pushed to achieve things you never dreamed you could do. Innovative programs, exceptional facilities, and unparalleled resources give you the ideal setting to take your educational career in any direction you can imagine. Research Dig deeper with faculty who have built a preeminent research institution. Job-Ready Hit the real world running (and better prepared than almost everyone else). Hands-On Technology Explore our high-tech facilities and affect how your children’s children will learn. Future Students Incoming Freshmen Parents Graduate Students Transfer Students International Students About Department of Educational Leadership & Policy Studies Department of Educational Psychology & Learning Systems Department of Sport Management School of Teacher Education Centers & Institutes Faculty & Staff Tallahassee Facilities Employment Student Resources Academic Services (OASIS) Scholarships & Aid Learning Resource Center Career Services LiveText Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Research C.O.R.E. Latest Initiatives Research Centers Office of Research Degrees & Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Certificate Programs Online Programs Study Abroad Faculty & Staff Resources Office of Information and Instructional Technologies News & Media College News Services Alumni & Friends Events The TORCH Magazine Make a Donation Distinguished Alumni Stone Building · 1114 W. Call Street · Tallahassee, Florida · 32306-4450 850.644.6885 © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media