Skip to main content College of Education Menu Service to the State Protect Texas Give Now Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Search Search College of Education Search Search Students Expand Career Engagement Commencement Educator Programs and Certification Overview For Families Graduate Students How to Apply See Yourself Here Undergraduate Students Welcome Longhorns Departments Expand Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Research Expand Overview Centers and Institutes Featured Research Find Faculty Research Support Alumni & Friends Expand Overview Advisory Council Alumni Stories Contact Us Update Your Information About Expand Overview Building Renovations Contact Us Facts and Rankings Map to Sánchez Building & Brazos Garage Dean's Office Units Office of the Dean Social Justice, Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Visit the College of Education Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Service to the State Home Students : Career Engagement Resources for Students Career Paths for Teachers Career Paths for Teachers A degree in education creates many opportunities for people who are invested in teaching and enriching the lives of children. Our teachers are thoroughly prepared to be leaders in their schools and classrooms and take on administrative, research, and leadership positions in their future careers. A Leader in the Classroom Our teachers complete ample hours of fieldwork and student teaching so that they are prepared from day one to create a stimulating, culturally responsive classroom where all students can learn and thrive. After you gain classroom teaching experience, opportunities may arise to expand your responsibilities in your school. Many of our teachers enhance their careers by becoming: Mentor and Master Teachers After teaching for three years, you are eligible to start the process of becoming a master teacher in a specified subject. As a mentor teacher, you will help student teachers and new teachers find their comfort zone in the classroom. This position will allow you to teach children as well as adults who are adjusting to being classroom teachers. Master teachers serve as leaders in their school, ensuring that students are achieving certain academic standards and while helping other teachers develop their skills as educators. Instructional Specialists Help improve the teaching methods of colleagues by becoming an expert in pedagogy. Instructional specialists work to improve the curriculum and ensure that children are learning through the best resources available and with technologies that keep them engaged. Teaching Middle or High School Electives The College of Education primarily provides programs for those interested in teaching Pre-K and elementary school students, special education students, and students in urban settings. Programs are available across the university for certification to teach middle and high school; music, art, or dance; and foreign languages. Open Doors by Pursuing an Advanced Degree A master’s or doctoral degree will further prepare you to improve education standards, develop innovative curriculum, and become an advocate for underrepresented communities in education. Continue to Work in Schools Elementary, middle and high schools have a variety of positions that support students academically, emotionally, and developmentally. Specialists can guide students who may have reading, learning, and behavioral disabilities to achieve their full potential. School librarians introduce students to reading, research, and new technologies. Instructional Specialist School Counselor School Librarian Move into K-12 Administration School administrators are responsible for ensuring that their schools are performing in a way that best serves all of their students. School administrators use data to inform decisions that serve their teachers and staff to make sure they have the resources they need by managing the budget and organization of their department. School leadership also influence the curriculum and programming that is offered throughout their district. Principal/Assistant Principal Superintendent Curriculum Developer Subject Matter Director Data Analyst Higher Education and Education Policy Teachers make great advocates for education because of their direct experience in the classroom. Master’s and doctoral degrees in education can prepare you to work in administrative positions in colleges and universities, become a researcher of issues in education, or become prepare future teachers as a professor. Policy Advisor/State or Federal Government Positions Higher Education Leadership Professor/Education Research Academic Advisors Lead Change in Education There are careers outside of schools and universities that can have a significant influence on education practices, policy, and society at large. Work for government agencies that improve education policy, organizations that work to transform education from outside schools, consulting firms that help advise teaching practices in schools or businesses, or work towards creating social change. Learning Technologies/Learning Experience Designer/Instructional Designer Language and Literacy Studies Lawyer After School and Youth Organizations Careers in Health-related Fields Many of our graduates pursue graduate programs in health-related fields. Restorative practices can serve as a springboard into careers in caregiving, holistic wellness, and community organizing. Speech-Language Pathology Physical Therapy Occupational Therapy Health Behavior and Health Education Restorative Practice Career Engagement Resources for Students Career Coaching Appointments Kinesiology and Health Education Career Paths Teacher Career Paths Career Fair Preparation Youth and Community Studies Career Paths Job Search Strategies Interviewing Dress for Success Career Closet Tips for Online Applications Transferable Skills Internships Four-Year Career Checklist Social Media for Professional Networking Planning and Preparing for Graduate and Professional School Information for Recruiters Alumni Resources Guides for Faculty and Staff Events Contact Information Sánchez Building Monday - Friday 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. (512) 471-3223 or 471-9903 Email us! Schedule an appointment College of Education Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Educator Certification Academics See Yourself Here How to Apply Student Affairs Mailing Address College of Education 1912 Speedway, Stop D5000 Austin, Texas 78712 View Map Undergraduate Student Affairs (512) 471-3223 Contact Us Helpful Links Counseling and Support Emergency Information UT Directory UT Direct Policies and Procedures Help Support Faculty Directory Manage Email Preferences Protect Texas Departments Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Administration Office of the Dean Development and Alumni Relations Business Services Career Engagement Facilities Services Office of Student Success and Recruitment Field Experiences Office of Educational Research Support Information Technology Office Office of Instructional Innovation Marketing and Communications Employment Opportunities © College of Education at the University of Texas at Austin 2021 Feedback | Site Policies | Web Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Policy | Adobe Reader