Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box College of Education » Education Double Degree Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Advising Program Requirements How to Apply Request Information Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Advising Program Requirements How to Apply Request Information Education Double Degree BA, BS - Corvallis 2 Degrees Earn degrees in Education and a content area Delivery In person fall and winter, spring Ecampus 37-39 Credits To complete student teaching year Cohort Model Small personalized cohorts of ~25 students Become a teacher and an educational leader Earn two degrees concurrently – education and a content area with a teaching license reciprocal in other states. Using a collaborative cohort approach, this program allows you to build rapport and professional relationships with fellow pre-service educators.  Students take classes with instructors who have teaching experience in K-12 classrooms. Highly trained supervisors in your content area work closely with you as you complete your student teaching experience. Our faculty and staff believe teachers are the key to social change and stability in our communities. They provide personalized support students to students through the application, teacher licensure and job application process. Folks coming back to college looking for a second bachelor's degree are encouraged to apply as a post-baccalaureate student, or may apply to our MS or MAT programs. ahe_landing.jpg Endorsements and Options The Double Degree program is qualified to recommend a license for teacher candidates in the following endorsements. Advanced Math Biology Chemistry Elementary Education Foundational Math Family and Consumer Sciences Health Language Arts Physics Social Studies Students who would like to teach Physical Education, Music or Agricultural Education are required to contact the designated cognate college (e.g. College of Liberal Arts for Music Education). Students enrolled in one of the teaching prep programs at their designated cognate college do not meet with anyone from the College of Education. All advising will be provided through their primary program/cognate college. Students who would like to teach World Languages (Spanish, French, German, etc.), Special Education, Art or other endorsement areas not offered by Oregon State University will need to look for approved programs in Oregon by visiting this link. The College of Education produces the most licensed teachers in Oregon. More than any other college or university. Student and Ambassador Nathan Ratalsky "It’s extremely satisfying to stand in front of a classroom and use what I’ve learned throughout my college career to achieve my long-held goal of becoming a teacher." As an Education Double Degree student at Oregon State you will Have career opportunities in either degree, with added value together. Learn from faculty involved in research and local district teachers with extensive K-12 experience. Be a part of a collaborative cohort during the final year of academic study and student teaching. Pay undergraduate tuition while pursuing your teacher license. Opportunity to add an ESOL and/or Dual Language Specialization endorsements. Live and study in Corvallis, one of the nation’s top ranked college towns. Receive job search assistance as a senior and student support from peer ambassadors and advisors through every stage of your degree. Tuition and Funding You can receive funding through scholarship opportunities. Students may use OSU ScholarDollars to submit an application for the nearly $50 million in campus-based scholarship funding available for the academic year. OSU Tuition Info Scholarships Your experience as a Double Degree student Handbook: What you'll learn and details about the experience Courses & Requirements: What you'll take as a Double Degree student Content Mastery Sheets: Prepare for your desired teaching endorsement area (also referred to as an option) Licensure & Placement: Learn about Oregon teaching licensure and program placements Frequently Asked Questions We’re here to help. We’re happy to connect with you by email, phone or virtual meetings. If you are exploring Education programs, registering for courses or a first-year student, connect with a peer advisor. Peer Advising Attend a pre-education orientation session to learn about teacher education programs at OSU. Double Degree Advising The College of Education offers guided pathways for transfer students. Visit the transfer student page Advising Program Requirements How to Apply Request Information Advising › Contact Info College of Education Joyce Collin Furman Hall 200 SW 15th Street, Corvallis, OR 97331 541.737.4661 [email protected] Land Acknowledgement Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer