Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Education Minor in Education Contact Us Twitter Education@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Minor Cameron-Glickenhaus Family Fund Prize Application Courses Careers Opportunities in Peer Mentoring Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Minor Courses Careers Opportunities in Peer Mentoring Teaching Certification Resource at Teach.org Interested in Graduate School? Opportunities to work with Children and Adolescents Opportunities in Peer Mentoring Share Careers What Can You Do with Education? What do you want to be when you grow up? Parent? Pediatrician? Counselor? Child advocate? Speech-language pathologist? Tutor? Principal? Educational researcher? Family court lawyer? School administrator? Teacher? Scientist? Reading specialist? Developmental neuroscientist? Educational consultant? Special educator? Child psychologist? Foster parent? Bilingual educator? Educational policymaker? If you want to make a difference in children's lives, or if you want a job that involves learning and teaching (and what job doesn't, when you stop to think about it…), you will want to pursue Education courses at Dartmouth. You may be interested in teaching as a career if you thrive on challenge, love to learn, work hard, and care about equity. Research clearly shows that a good teacher can have a positive impact on both learning and nonacademic life outcomes. Public school teaching requires certification and licensing. If you are interested in pursuing this route, here are the requirements by state: https://www.teach.org/teaching-certification. Although Dartmouth College does not offer a path to teaching certification and licensing during your undergraduate years, our research-based, interdisciplinary approach helps you to build a knowledge base that can lead to teaching jobs that do not require certification and licensing and can strengthen applications to graduate teacher certification programs. Many of our students believe that children deserve skilled and knowledgeable teachers and leaders, are professionally committed to education in many ways (including teaching), and go on to shape conversations about education in their communities. Interested in graduate school? Here is the list of top Education schools with specialties and rankings from U.S. News to get you started: http://grad-schools.usnews.rankingsandreviews.com/best-graduate-schools/top-education-schools. Opportunities to Work with Children and Adolescents Many students who are interested in the field of Education are also interested in working with and learning from children and adolescents. There are peer mentoring and work with children and adolescent local volunteerism opportunities offered through many different campus organizations. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Education Undergraduate Minor Cameron-Glickenhaus Family Fund Prize Application Courses Careers Opportunities in Peer Mentoring News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback