Skip to main content College of Education Menu Service to the State Protect Texas Give Now Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Search Search College of Education Search Search Students Expand Career Engagement Commencement Educator Programs and Certification Overview For Families Graduate Students How to Apply See Yourself Here Undergraduate Students Welcome Longhorns Departments Expand Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Research Expand Overview Centers and Institutes Featured Research Find Faculty Research Support Alumni & Friends Expand Overview Advisory Council Alumni Stories Contact Us Update Your Information About Expand Overview Building Renovations Contact Us Facts and Rankings Map to Sánchez Building & Brazos Garage Dean's Office Units Office of the Dean Social Justice, Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Visit the College of Education Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Service to the State Home Students : Undergraduate Students Becoming a Teacher Becoming a Teacher alt="teacher reaching out to student while sitting on the floor" Become a Teacher Inspire students as an educator The Importance of Teachers For 130 years, we’ve helped prepare teachers to change the world. Many of us have our own stories about a teacher who made a difference in our lives and we value the role teachers play in our society as we work towards achieving equity and inclusivity for all. We look forward to helping you grow into a leader that sparks minds and ultimately shapes our society in the classroom and beyond. Steps to Become a Teacher The University of Texas at Austin offers multiple paths to be certified by the Texas Education Agency (TEA) as a teacher, giving you the flexibility to choose a major that best fits your interests and career goals. As you progress through your degree plan, you will join a cohort of classmates with similar interests in a teacher preparation program that will prepare you for the classroom and to take the certification exams TEA requires of Texas teachers. UT Austin College of Education graduates’ exam passing rates for these tests typically exceed 95%. Step 1. What Do You Want To Teach? Do you know what grade level and what subject you plan to teach? If so, excellent! Go on to Step 2. If not, these pages list all of the teacher preparation programs available across UT Austin and will direct you to the appropriate websites as you consider your options: Elementary School Bilingual Students Middle or High School Physical Education Special Education Step 2. Talk to Your Advisor Whether you choose to major in the College of Education or another college at UT Austin, your advisor will walk you through the process of becoming a teacher. This is necessary to make sure that you are taking the right courses at the right time. During your meeting, be sure to ask your advisor about student organizations you could join that fit your interests. Step 3. Apply to the Teacher Preparation Program in Your College Every University of Texas at Austin student who wishes to teach in Texas will need to complete a teacher preparation program. Teacher preparation programs at UT Austin consist of specific coursework, classroom experience, and student teaching in order to be recommended for certification by the Texas Education Agency (TEA). The teacher preparation program in the College of Education is called the Professional Development Sequence (PDS). Once accepted to the PDS, you will join a cohort of students lead by a cohort coordinator that you will take classes with for the rest of your undergraduate program, giving you a great opportunity to work with and meet future colleagues and friends. Step 4. Participate in Mandatory Seminars, Training While you're in the PDS, there will be opportunities for you to attend mandatory seminars and training that cover important topics in education. These seminars are meant to prepare you for issues in the classroom beyond academics and teaching. Step 5. Get Our Certification Officer’s Recommendation Near the end of your studies, your cohort coordinator will have you reach out to the College of Education's certification officer to ask for the recommendation you will need in order to apply for a TExES certification exam. Step 6. Take TExES Certification Tests The Office of Educator Testing in the Texas Education Agency oversees the requirements for testing. You will take the exam based on what you plan to teach.Elementary teachers will take the core subjects exam and supplemental exams for English as a Second Language, Bilingual, or Special Education. Step 7. Apply to Graduate Undergraduate students in the College of Education must apply online to graduate during their final semester of coursework. The online Graduation Application is available from the twelfth class day (fourth class day in summer) until the mid-semester deadline. Be sure to reach out to your advisor if you have any questions. Step 8. Apply for Teacher Certification You can apply for teacher certification in Texas through the TEA website after you have passed all the required certification exams, completed the TEA certification application, finished all coursework, and completed the TEA required fingerprinting process. A social security number is required as a part of the fingerprinting and certification processes. Step 9. Start Your Career Our vast alumni network and connections with local school districts can help you find the right teaching position when you graduate. In fact, 95% of those who responded to a survey sent to alumni who graduated 2016-2017 reported that they were teaching the following year. Visit with Career Engagement, attend a career fair, or consider furthering your education with a graduate degree. A degree in education opens doors for career opportunities beyond teaching. Supporting New Teachers: Texas Education START The College of Education launched Texas Education START to provide resources and targeted support for new teachers through school-based learning communities with customized coaching and mentorship from experienced teacher leaders. Visit the website Contact Information Student Affairs SZB 2.110 (512) 471-3223 Field Experiences SZB 2.110 (512) 471-1511 fieldexp@austin.utexas.edu Certification Office SZB 2.110 (512) 471-1511 COE-Certification@austin.utexas.edu Career Engagement SZB 2.110 (512) 471-1306 edcareerengagement@austin.utexas.edu Student Success and Recruitment SZB 2.110 (512) 471-3223 coe_info@austin.utexas.edu College of Education Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Educator Certification Academics See Yourself Here How to Apply Student Affairs Mailing Address College of Education 1912 Speedway, Stop D5000 Austin, Texas 78712 View Map Undergraduate Student Affairs (512) 471-3223 Contact Us Helpful Links Counseling and Support Emergency Information UT Directory UT Direct Policies and Procedures Help Support Faculty Directory Manage Email Preferences Protect Texas Departments Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Administration Office of the Dean Development and Alumni Relations Business Services Career Engagement Facilities Services Office of Student Success and Recruitment Field Experiences Office of Educational Research Support Information Technology Office Office of Instructional Innovation Marketing and Communications Employment Opportunities © College of Education at the University of Texas at Austin 2021 Feedback | Site Policies | Web Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Policy | Adobe Reader