Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University Medical Education Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Curriculum Initiatives People Records and Registration MD Curriculum Pre-Clerkship Clerkship / Post-Clerkship Academic Calendar Curriculum Committee Policies & Attestation News & Updates Assessment & Evaluation Scholarly Concentrations Integration Into Clinical Years Program Gallery of Scholarly Projects Application Process Student Enrichment Annual Community Events Community Engagement Research and Study Opportunities Student Interest Groups Search Medical Education About Medical Education at Brown The Office of Medical Education oversees all aspects of the MD curriculum at Brown. Sub Navigation In This Section Curriculum Initiatives People Records and Registration Student Resources for COVID-19 Visit the student hub for COVID-19 for information on volunteer activities, wellness programs, and advocacy opportunities. More information About Medical Education at Brown The Office of Medical Education oversees all aspects of the MD curriculum at Brown. The Office of Medical Education a oversees the four-year, competency-based curriculum at The Warren Alpert Medical School. In addition, our office oversees the Doctoring program, service-learning and patient advocacy programs. Our office is also responsible for reviewing courses and faculty evaluations, and for carrying out the initiatives of the Medical Curriculum Committee. In addition, the OME ensures the continuous improvement and quality of The Warren Alpert Medical School curriculum. The OME believes that all curriculum should be diverse, representative of our community, and inclusive of, but not limited to, those of all races, sexes, genders, ethnicities, and abilities. The OME will work with faculty and students to promote diversity and inclusion in its curriculum throughout the four year continuum in line with our anti-racism values at The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. Vision To innovate, inspire, and promote an exemplary medical education program that serves our learners, the local community, and the wider population. Mission To foster the growth of students, staff, and faculty through collaborative continuous quality improvement of an inclusive, visionary medical education program that graduates compassionate, highly skilled, and scholarly physicians who are dedicated to positively impacting people and society. Learn More People Faculty and staff within the Office of Medical Education (OME) oversee classroom and clinical teaching and curricular innovation in undergraduate medical education. Visit Page Open details for People Curriculum Committee The Warren Alpert Medical School has several standing committees that focus on the various aspects of medical education. Visit Page Open details for Curriculum Committee Policies & Attestation The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University requires that students, faculty, and staff review integral features of our academic and learning environments each year. Visit Page Open details for Policies &amp; Attestation Student Resources for COVID-19 Visit the student hub for COVID-19 for information on volunteer activities, wellness programs, and advocacy opportunities. More information Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Curriculum Initiatives People Records and Registration MD Curriculum Pre-Clerkship Clerkship / Post-Clerkship Academic Calendar Curriculum Committee Policies & Attestation News & Updates Assessment & Evaluation Scholarly Concentrations Integration Into Clinical Years Program Gallery of Scholarly Projects Application Process Student Enrichment Annual Community Events Community Engagement Research and Study Opportunities Student Interest Groups Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search About Medical Education at Brown Open details for About Medical Education at Brown Bookmark this Page