Skip to Main Content Brown University School of Public Health Brown University Academic and Student Affairs Search Menu Site Navigation Home Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Postdoctoral Fellowships Online Programs Student Resources Academic Resources Funding and Teaching Opportunities Advising and Mentoring Resources Career Advising Student Life Faculty Resources Teaching Resources Advising and Mentoring Resources SPH Office of Faculty Affairs Who We Are Events Search Academic and Student Affairs Academic and Student Affairs Academic and Student Affairs Comprehensive academic and co-curricular resources for the School of Public Health community. Our office provides support to diverse student populations at the School of Public Health — from undergraduates considering the Public Health concentration to graduate students seeking postgraduate opportunities — as well as dynamic teaching support for faculty. We encourage you to explore our academic programs and comprehensive resources below, many of which will connect you with our collaborative campus partners. Academic Programs Our students bring their passion, discipline, intelligence, and compassion to bear on the most pressing public health challenges we face. We equip them with the skills they need to translate that passion into meaningful work that impacts population health. Visit Page Open details for Academic Programs Student Resources Students at Brown live active, engaged lives learning and making an impact within a diverse and supportive community. Visit Page Open details for Student Resources Faculty Resources Instructors and advisors can learn about the academic processes at the School and the University that support teaching and advising. Visit Page Open details for Faculty Resources Career Advising Public health-focused career resources for students and alumni. Visit Page Open details for Career Advising Who We Are Meet our dedicated team of academic and student services professionals. Visit Page Open details for Who We Are Student Leadership Our students are empowered to lead at both the School and University levels. Visit Page Open details for Student Leadership Additional Resources Diversity and Inclusion Our mission at the School of Public Health is to advance health as a human right for all. Building a diverse and inclusive School is central to this mission. Communications Resources Communication tools, training, and support from the School of Public Health’s Office of Communications. Computing Resources The School of Public Health offers various IT and software services to its students. Our Spaces 121 South Main Street houses multiple classrooms, computer labs, conference rooms, and lounge spaces. Accreditation Our School is accredited by the Council on Education for Public Health (CEPH). Upcoming Events Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Public Health Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Postdoctoral Fellowships Online Programs Student Resources Academic Resources Funding and Teaching Opportunities Advising and Mentoring Resources Career Advising Student Life Faculty Resources Teaching Resources Advising and Mentoring Resources SPH Office of Faculty Affairs Who We Are Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Academic and Student Affairs Open details for Academic and Student Affairs Bookmark this Page