Skip to main content College of Education Menu Service to the State Protect Texas Give Now Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Search Search College of Education Search Search Students Expand Career Engagement Commencement Educator Programs and Certification Overview For Families Graduate Students How to Apply See Yourself Here Undergraduate Students Welcome Longhorns Departments Expand Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Research Expand Overview Centers and Institutes Featured Research Find Faculty Research Support Alumni & Friends Expand Overview Advisory Council Alumni Stories Contact Us Update Your Information About Expand Overview Building Renovations Contact Us Facts and Rankings Map to Sánchez Building & Brazos Garage Dean's Office Units Office of the Dean Social Justice, Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Visit the College of Education Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Service to the State Home About : Office of the Dean Employment Opportunities Employment Opportunities The College of Education, ranked among the top public colleges of education in the country, promotes the shared values of equity, excellence, innovation, empowerment, community focus, and endeavors to bridge research and practice. We view inclusiveness and excellence as interconnected in the work of our faculty. The College of Education is particularly interested in and values candidates who have experience working with diverse and underserved populations and addressing the interactions among our diverse identities. Candidates should show a demonstrated commitment to improving access and conditions in educational and health settings for children, adults, families, schools, and communities. College-wide Faculty Positions Tenured Associate/Full Professor in Clinical/Education Data Science and Analytics Tenured Associate/Full Professor in Clinical/Education Data Science and Analytics The College of Education is seeking a faculty member in Data Science / Analytics to be appointed as an Associate / Full Professor with tenure. The College of Education seeks to serve as agents of change committed to transforming education and health research, practice, and policy to ensure the thriving of children, families, schools, and communities. We build upon individual, family, and community strengths in order to combat disparities in education and health and to promote social justice. We are committed to an intellectually diverse and inclusive working and learning environment and are seeking candidates whose research, teaching, and service has prepared them to contribute to our commitment to diversity, inclusivity, and excellence. Visit Interfolio for more information and application instructions Associate/Full Professor in Family and Community Influences Associate/Full Professor in Family and Community Influences We seek a talented scholar to join a faculty committed to deepening an understanding of the sociocultural dynamics of the linguistically and culturally diverse communities we serve. This position may reach across any combination of our five departments in furthering research, teaching, and service/outreach that recognizes the relationship between families, communities, and education. The successful candidate will join an active faculty that is intentionally focused on innovative educational and methodological approaches attentive to supporting growing and thriving communities and families. Visit Interfolio for more information and application instructions Educational Leadership and Policy Faculty Positions Associate/Full Professor of Practice (Non-Tenure-Track), Executive Ed.D. in Higher Education Leadership Associate/Full Professor of Practice (Non-Tenure-Track), Executive Ed.D. in Higher Education Leadership The Department of Educational Leadership and Policy is seeking a full-time non-tenure-track associate or full professor of practice for the Program in Higher Education Leadership (PHEL) to begin spring 2022. The successful candidate will co-lead the Executive Ed.D. program, a nationally ranked, accelerated, in-person doctoral program, focused on social justice and leadership, serving full-time working professionals seeking a terminal degree in higher education leadership (Ed.D.). The department of Educational Leadership and Policy is a vibrant, diverse, mutually supportive community of nationally recognized scholar-practitioners within a top-ranked department and college. We seek a candidate with experience with high-level leadership experience coupled with teaching and training higher education practitioners, administrators, and scholars. The hired candidate will teach at least 2 courses a term, advise Executive Ed.D. graduate students; co-supervise doctoral dissertations and treatises; serve as Executive Ed.D. Faculty Director, participate in program/course planning and development, and provide service to the department as needed. Visit Interfolio for more information and application instructions Kinesiology and Health Education Faculty Positions Assistant-Associate Professor in Physical Activity and Public Health The Department of Kinesiology and Health Education is currently seeking applications from outstanding academic research scientists in Physical Activity and Public Health at the level of assistant or associate professor, with an anticipated start date of August 2022. Candidates must hold a doctoral degree in kinesiology, public health, community health, exercise science, prevention science, or a closely related field. Appropriate research foci can include (but are not limited to): physical activity and health outcomes in human populations, individual determinants and interventions to increase physical activity, built environment and physical activity, and physical activity policy intervention/evaluation. Appointment as an Assistant Professor level is expected to have a demonstrated track record of publications reflecting a focused line of scholarly research and a record of external funding or the potential to obtain external funding. Post-doctoral training and/or independent research experience is strongly preferred. Appointment as an associate professor with tenure will require a significant publication record and a strong, ongoing record of extramural funding. Candidates will also be expected to participate in the department’s teaching mission with a strong commitment to mentoring with a focus on enhancing equity and inclusion in the field and in practice, with outstanding leadership, organizational, and communication skills being essential. Visit Interfolio for more information and application instructions Tenure-Track Assistant/Associate Professor in Movement and Cognitive Rehabilitation Tenure-Track Assistant/Associate Professor in Movement and Cognitive Rehabilitation We are currently seeking a faculty member in Movement and Cognitive Rehabilitation Science with a specialization in biomechanics at the assistant or associate professor level. The mission of the program is to advance core knowledge of biomechanical and neuromuscular control of human movement and to translate this knowledge into the improvement of clinical outcomes across diverse populations. Collaborations exist within the area and with faculty in medicine, mechanical and biomedical engineering, neuroscience, psychology, physiology, nutrition, and public health. The Department of Kinesiology and Health Education has a robust undergraduate and graduate program and is committed to an intellectually diverse and inclusive working and learning environment and are seeking candidates whose research, teaching, and service have prepared them to contribute to our commitment to diversity, inclusivity, and excellence. Through the College of Education’s Reimagine Education initiative, our signature impacts guide our research, teaching, and service. Visit Interfolio for more information and application instructions Equal Employment Opportunity Statement The College of Education shall abide by the requirements of 41 CFR §§ 60-1.4(a), 60-300.5(a) and 60-741.5(a). These regulations prohibit discrimination against qualified individuals based on their status as protected veterans or individuals with disabilities and prohibit discrimination against all individuals based on their race, color, religion, sex, or national origin. Moreover, these regulations require that covered prime contractors and subcontractors take affirmative action to employ and advance in employment individuals without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, protected veteran status, or disability. All faculty positions at UT Austin Check the University's job site if you are interested in working at UT Austin in another capacity. Office of the Dean Dean Charles Martinez, Jr. College Leadership Dean's Support Staff Our Mission Counseling and Support Organization Chart Reimagine Education Employment Opportunities College of Education Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Educator Certification Academics See Yourself Here How to Apply Student Affairs Mailing Address College of Education 1912 Speedway, Stop D5000 Austin, Texas 78712 View Map Undergraduate Student Affairs (512) 471-3223 Contact Us Helpful Links Counseling and Support Emergency Information UT Directory UT Direct Policies and Procedures Help Support Faculty Directory Manage Email Preferences Protect Texas Departments Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Administration Office of the Dean Development and Alumni Relations Business Services Career Engagement Facilities Services Office of Student Success and Recruitment Field Experiences Office of Educational Research Support Information Technology Office Office of Instructional Innovation Marketing and Communications Employment Opportunities © College of Education at the University of Texas at Austin 2021 Feedback | Site Policies | Web Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Policy | Adobe Reader