Skip to main content College of Education Menu Service to the State Protect Texas Give Now Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Search Search College of Education Search Search Students Expand Career Engagement Commencement Educator Programs and Certification Overview For Families Graduate Students How to Apply See Yourself Here Undergraduate Students Welcome Longhorns Departments Expand Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Research Expand Overview Centers and Institutes Featured Research Find Faculty Research Support Alumni & Friends Expand Overview Advisory Council Alumni Stories Contact Us Update Your Information About Expand Overview Building Renovations Contact Us Facts and Rankings Map to Sánchez Building & Brazos Garage Dean's Office Units Office of the Dean Social Justice, Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Visit the College of Education Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Service to the State Home Alumni & Friends : Support the College Get Involved Get Involved Participation Counts Did you know alumni participation is one of the factors used to determine the University’s and the college’s national ranking? We want the College of Education to have the highest level of alumni giving participation on campus. Annual Fund gifts typically range from $50 to $5,000 and are used by the college to support several important areas. Your participation is as important as the amount you give. Your gift is an indication of your confidence in the direction of the college. Teamwork Matters The majority of gifts to the College of Education Annual Fund are small gifts that support innovative programs, college priorities, student initiatives, and other opportunities that arise during the academic year. The cumulative impact of all annual fund gifts makes a difference and helps us to change the world. The College of Education will not thrive on the gift of one, but the support of many. Alumni and friends who make a gift to the Annual Fund can take pride in the accomplishments of the school with each award, each discovery, and each step on our journey. When you make a gift to the Annual Fund, you join the larger college team of supporters and can rightfully say, “We did that.” Raise Your Hand The engagement of alumni, friends, parents, and corporate partners makes the difference between a good college and a great college. Donations of time and resources enrich the lives of our students. Are you interested in hosting an alumni gathering in your community? Would you consider returning to campus to recruit college students or serve on a panel? Have you made a gift to the Annual Fund? Would you like to work with Texas Exes to help plan your class’ 50th Reunion? Raise Your Hand to learn more about engagement and volunteer opportunities by emailing CoEalumni@austin.utexas.edu. Join the Team As an alumnus or friend of the College of Education, you are part of a tremendous community that is more than 40,000 strong. Join the team and stay connected through our social media. Alumni, please update your contact information to ensure you are receiving e-newsletters and other communication. Join Us! Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Support the College Ways to Give How to Make Your Gift Why Give to the College of Education? Funding Priorities Get Involved Support the Sánchez Renovation Contacts Giving to the College Stacey F. Oliver, 512-471-8178 Endowments Jillian Gillie, (512) 232-5012 Helpful Links Texas Exes Alumni College Fitness Institute of Texas Request a Transcript Extended Campus HookedIn College of Education Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Educator Certification Academics See Yourself Here How to Apply Student Affairs Mailing Address College of Education 1912 Speedway, Stop D5000 Austin, Texas 78712 View Map Undergraduate Student Affairs (512) 471-3223 Contact Us Helpful Links Counseling and Support Emergency Information UT Directory UT Direct Policies and Procedures Help Support Faculty Directory Manage Email Preferences Protect Texas Departments Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Administration Office of the Dean Development and Alumni Relations Business Services Career Engagement Facilities Services Office of Student Success and Recruitment Field Experiences Office of Educational Research Support Information Technology Office Office of Instructional Innovation Marketing and Communications Employment Opportunities © College of Education at the University of Texas at Austin 2021 Feedback | Site Policies | Web Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Policy | Adobe Reader