Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Education Minor in Education Contact Us Twitter Education@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Minor Cameron-Glickenhaus Family Fund Prize Application Courses Careers Opportunities in Peer Mentoring Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Our courses address learning, development, and teaching in traditional content areas like science and reading. Our courses consider learning, development, and teaching in a wider social and cultural context. Our courses approach learning, development, and teaching from an evidence-based perspective by using interdisciplinary empirical research to inform educational practice. PreviousNext About the Minor The Education Minor at Dartmouth College investigates the complex world of education through an interdisciplinary, evidence-based lens. We invite students to explore learning, development, and educational research, practice, and policy through our courses. Meet our Faculty Donna Coch Professor of Education, Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences Education Steering Committee Member view profile David Kraemer Graduate Advisor, Psychological and Brain Sciences view profile Charles J. Wheelan Senior Lecturer and Policy Fellow Rockefeller Center view profile Michele Tine Associate Professor Sociology Department, Chair of the Education Steering Committee view profile view all Quick Links Education Minor Education Courses Recent News View All 2022 RECIPIENTS OF THE CAMERON-GLICKENHAUS FAMILY FUND PRIZE Congratulations to Laurel Semprebon '22 and Brianna Aubrey '22, the 2022 recipients of the Cameron-Glickenhaus Family Fund Prize! David Kraemer Quoted in Discover "There's no scientific evidence supporting the idea that people have different learning styles. At least, not in any sense that is actionable for improving education." "Isn't a primary goal of education to train students to improve their weak areas, and not just play to their strengths? So, even if there was evidence to support these theories, I'm not sure how they would be implemented by teachers." -David Kraemer Associate Professor Michele Tine receives Jerome Goldstein Award for Distinguished Teaching Associate Professor of Education Michele Tine is the recipient of the Jerome Goldstein Award for Distinguished Teaching. Each spring, the graduating class is asked by Dartmouth to elect the recipient of this award. Congratulations Professor Tine! 2021 RECIPIENT OF THE CAMERON-GLICKENHAUS FAMILY FUND PRIZE Congratulations to Kathleen Mulligan '21, the 2021 recipient of the Cameron-Glickenhaus Family Fund Prize. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Education Undergraduate Minor Cameron-Glickenhaus Family Fund Prize Application Courses Careers Opportunities in Peer Mentoring News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback