Skip to main content College of Education Menu Service to the State Protect Texas Give Now Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Search Search College of Education Search Search Students Expand Career Engagement Commencement Educator Programs and Certification Overview For Families Graduate Students How to Apply See Yourself Here Undergraduate Students Welcome Longhorns Departments Expand Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Research Expand Overview Centers and Institutes Featured Research Find Faculty Research Support Alumni & Friends Expand Overview Advisory Council Alumni Stories Contact Us Update Your Information About Expand Overview Building Renovations Contact Us Facts and Rankings Map to Sánchez Building & Brazos Garage Dean's Office Units Office of the Dean Social Justice, Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Visit the College of Education Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Service to the State Home How to Apply How to Apply We appreciate your interest in joining the College of Education! We think you may be surprised by the wide variety of undergraduate majors and graduate programs we offer that go beyond preparing the next generation of teachers. While we are proud of how deep our teacher-preparation roots go, we are also proud of our offerings and pursuits in health, fitness, and community leadership. Keep reading to learn more about how to join us. We look forward to seeing you on campus! Incoming Freshmen Internal Transfer Students External Transfer Students Graduate Students Incoming Freshman If you are a high school student interested in applying to one of our education- or health-related undergraduate majors, you must complete the UT Austin application process. You are encouraged to attend one of our prospective student information sessions. Dates for information sessions will be posted soon. Our advisors can help you choose the right major, minor, track, or specialization that will best fit your career goals and answer questions about placement exams and dual credit, courses, and any certification requirements. Request Additional Information Apply Now! Internal Transfer Students If you are already an undergraduate student at the University of Texas at Austin who is interested in transferring into the College of Education, you are required to attend an Internal Transfer Session where you will find out the steps to apply. In addition, you will need to fill out the Internal Transfer Application. The application will open for Spring entry from mid-September to December 1 and for Fall entry from mid-January to May 1. Dates for information sessions will be posted soon. Applied Learning and Development/Teacher Preparation Programs If you are interested in a major that prepares you to be a classroom teacher or work with children in non-traditional settings, you will need to attend one of the following information sessions before you can speak with an academic advisor. Additional Requirements Students interested in our University of Texas Urban Teachers program, which emphasizes educational and social justice in urban settings, should follow these additional steps for applying. The minimum GPA of 2.5 for the last 60 hours is required for entering the Professional Development Sequence, our teacher preparation program that consists of coursework, internships, and a semester of student teaching. Transfer forms will be processed after grades are verified at the end of each semester. Kinesiology and Health Education If you are interested in one of our Kinesiology and Health Education majors, you will need to attend one of the following information sessions before you can speak with an academic advisor. Exercise Science and Health Promotion and Behavioral Science majors are required to have an overall minimum GPA of 2.5. Once admitted, you are required to maintain a 2.5 GPA in your Kinesiology and Health Education courses to remain in the program. Additional GPA requirements will be discussed during the transfer sessions. Sport Management Requirement If you are interested in applying to Sport Management, we recommend that you transfer to Physical Culture and Sports so that you will have easier access to the four prerequisites required for the application process. You will apply to the major during the semester in which you are enrolled in the final prerequisite. Deadlines to apply to Sport Management are on May 1 and December 1 of each year. Once accepted, you will be in the major for a minimum of three semesters. Please note: having the minimum required 2.5 GPA needed to apply does not guarantee admission to the major as enrollment is limited. Learn more on the Office of Admissions website Request Additional Information External Transfer Students If you are transferring from another college or university, you should follow the transfer admission procedures. If you are transferring from another institution in Texas, you can find out how your credits will transfer using the automated transfer equivalency system. If you are transferring from an out-of-state or an international institution, we will review your credits upon admission to the university. You are encouraged to attend one of our prospective student information sessions. Dates for information sessions will be posted soon. Learn more about visiting campus. Request Additional Information Graduate Students If you already have a bachelor’s degree and are interested in applying to one of our graduate programs, you must apply to the graduate school at UT Austin. In addition to the general application, many of our programs have additional admission requirements, so be sure to check the How to Apply pages for each department: Curriculum and Instruction and STEM Education Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Requirements for International Students Official TOEFL/IELTS Scores Students applying from other countries should submit either their Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) or International English Language Testing System (IELTS) Scores. The recommended minimum scores provided by the Graduate School are: TOEFL: 79 on the Internet-based test (iBT) IELTS: An overall band of 6.5 on the Academic Examination English Language Evaluation All new international students with undergraduate degrees from non-English-speaking universities are required to undergo a brief evaluation for speaking and writing English (English Second Language evaluation). This helps us better serve the needs of our international students and the faculty who work with them. Texas Global, formerly known as the International Office, will conduct the English language evaluation during International Student Orientation. This evaluation is done at no cost to you. If you do not pass one of the two evaluations, you will be required to take an English Second Language course during your first semester at UT. If you are required to take two English Second Language courses, you must take one course in the first semester and the second course the next semester. Be sure to check our graduate program pages for more information. All Education Graduate Programs Request Additional Information Student Services SZB 2.110 Student Affairs (includes Academic Advising) (512) 471-3223 Field Experiences Supports students in the Future Teachers Professional Development Sequence (512) 471-1511 Email Field Experiences Certification Office 512-471-1511 Email the Certification Office Career Engagement (512) 471-1306 Email Education Career Engagement Student Success and Recruitment (512) 471-3223 Email Student Success and Recruitment College of Education Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Educator Certification Academics See Yourself Here How to Apply Student Affairs Mailing Address College of Education 1912 Speedway, Stop D5000 Austin, Texas 78712 View Map Undergraduate Student Affairs (512) 471-3223 Contact Us Helpful Links Counseling and Support Emergency Information UT Directory UT Direct Policies and Procedures Help Support Faculty Directory Manage Email Preferences Protect Texas Departments Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Administration Office of the Dean Development and Alumni Relations Business Services Career Engagement Facilities Services Office of Student Success and Recruitment Field Experiences Office of Educational Research Support Information Technology Office Office of Instructional Innovation Marketing and Communications Employment Opportunities © College of Education at the University of Texas at Austin 2021 Feedback | Site Policies | Web Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Policy | Adobe Reader