Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Education Minor in Education Contact Us Twitter Education@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Minor Cameron-Glickenhaus Family Fund Prize Application Courses Careers Opportunities in Peer Mentoring Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Charles J. Wheelan Academic Appointments Senior Lecturer and Policy Fellow Rockefeller Center In addition to my work at Dartmouth, I’ve spent time as a speechwriter, a correspondent for The Economist, and a Congressional candidate and in other policy-related positions that inform my academic work. My goal is to make important academic ideas understandable to the broadest possible audience and to use these powerful ideas to address real social challenges. Personal Website Contact Charles.J.Wheelan@Dartmouth.edu 64086 209A Rockefeller Hall HB 6106 Education B.A. Dartmouth College Master's Princeton University Ph.D. University of Chicago Areas of Expertise public policy /accessible economics /accessible statistics /strategic communication /political reform Selected Publications The Centrist Manifesto, W.W. Norton, 2013. Naked Statistics: Stripping the Dread from the Data, W.W. Norton, 2013. 10 ½ Things No Commencement Speaker Has Ever Said, W.W. Norton, 2012. Introduction to Public Policy, W.W. Norton, 2011. Naked Economics: Undressing the Dismal Science, W.W. Norton, 2002. + View more Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Education Undergraduate Minor Cameron-Glickenhaus Family Fund Prize Application Courses Careers Opportunities in Peer Mentoring News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback