Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Education Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home Academics Undergraduate Graduate People Faculty Staff Graduate Students News & Events News Upcoming Events Events Archive About History Mission & Goals Contact & Directions Stay Connected Brown Summer High School 2022 Course Descriptions Apply to BSHS Search Department of Education News Sub Navigation In This Section News Upcoming Events Events Archive May 16, 2022 News From Education Student Spotlight: Nari Kato, MAT'22 Nari Kato shares his experience as a graduate student in the MAT program. April 12, 2022 PBN Study: Providence school teacher retention rates declining, but doesn’t show ‘exodus’ Declining teacher retention rates within the Providence Public School District over the last three years since the state takeover and the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic are not as drastic as what various news reports suggested during that time, according to a new study released Tuesday by Brown University’s Annenberg Institute. April 18, 2022 News From Education Matthew Kraft awarded the 2022 AERA Outstanding Public Communication of Education Research Award The American Educational Research Association (AERA) has selected Professor Matthew Kraft as the recipient of the 2022 Outstanding Public Communication of Education Research Award. April 1, 2022 News From Education Student Spotlight: Alexander Yates, UEP'22 Alexander Yates shares his experience as a graduate student in the Urban Education Policy program. February 24, 2022 Brookings' Brown Center Chalkboard Blog Better teacher feedback can happen outside of the evaluation process Professor Matthew Kraft argues that formative observation and feedback cycles could be more successful at driving instructional improvement if implemented outside of the high-stakes teacher evaluation process. February 22, 2022 News From Education Student Spotlight: Mamadou Fofana, MAT'22 Meet Mamadou Fofana, MAT'22, a future social studies/history teacher who enjoys Rhode Island beaches, creating music, and drawing upon his undergraduate experience as an African American studies concentrator when at the front of the classroom. February 7, 2022 News From Education Professor Andrea Flores and Colleagues from Brown, UConn awarded NSF Grant Andrea Flores, Assistant Professor of Education, and her colleagues at Brown University and UConn have been awarded a National Science Foundation (NSF) grant to address the impact of COVID-19 on first-generation college students and their families in the U.S. February 1, 2022 The 74 As Schools Push for More Tutoring, New Research Points to Its Effectiveness — and the Challenge of Scaling it To Combat Learning Loss As a growing number of state and federal authorities pledge to make high-quality tutoring available to struggling students, a new study co-authored by Professor Matthew Kraft demonstrates positive, if modest, results from an experimental pilot that launched last spring. January 13, 2022 News From Education Raising Humble Learners: Asian Immigrant Families' Socialization and Children's School Experiences Professors Jin Li and Yoko Yamamoto co-wrote a chapter for a newly released book that examines the experiences of internationally migrant families as they navigate the local schools in their new cultural context. January 6, 2022 News From Education Four Faculty Members Appear on 2022 RHSU Edu-Scholar Public Influence Rankings Professors Susanna Loeb, Matthew Kraft, Lindsay Page, and John Papay have been recognized by Education Week as being among the nation's 200 most impactful university-based scholars in education policy in 2021. January 4, 2022 News From Education An Academic Theory Goes Unexpectedly Viral Brown scholars Jonathan Collins, Mahasan Chaney, and Lynne Joyrich on Critical Race Theory, the most divisive topic in American education. December 9, 2021 News From Education Student Spotlight: Ayana Bass, UEP A.M.'22 Meet Ayana Bass, a Rhode Island native who joined the UEP program so that she could learn critical skills to make a long-term impact in advancing teacher diversity and educational equity. December 1, 2021 News From Education The Effect of Teacher Evaluation on Achievement and Attainment Starting in 2009, the U.S. public education system undertook a massive effort to institute new high-stakes teacher evaluation systems. A new working paper examines the effects of these reforms on student achievement and attainment at a national scale by exploiting the staggered timing of implementation across states. November 30, 2021 News From Education Paraeducators: Growth, Diversity and a Dearth of Professional Supports A study co-authored by Professor Susanna Loeb combines an analysis of national administrative data to describe the paraeducator labor market with a systematic review of collective bargaining agreements and other job-defining documents in ten case-study districts. November 18, 2021 News From Education Student Spotlight: Lauren Zeffer, MAT'22 Lauren Zeffer MAT'22, a future biology teacher, shares what drew her to Brown University's program and what her experience has been like so far. November 5, 2021 News From Education Kenneth Wong Awarded The Louis Brownlow Book Award from the National Academy of Public Administration Since 1968, the National Academy of Public Administration has recognized outstanding contributions to the literature of public administration through the presentation of this prestigious award. November 1, 2021 News From Education Meet Isabella Arreola, 2021 Ruth J. Simmons Urban Education Policy Scholar The Board of Overseers of the Annenberg Institute for School Reform at Brown University established the permanent annual scholarship in 2012 for a UEP student who most epitomizes the former Brown University president’s commitment to educational equity and social justice. October 27, 2021 News From Education How Immigrant Students are Changing America: A conversation with Andrea Flores On the Tennessee Voices podcast, Professor Andrea Flores discusses education as the front lines of belonging and her book, "The Succeeders: How Immigrant Youth are Transforming What It Means to Belong in America," which was written based on a decade of research and interviews she conducted in Nashville. October 12, 2021 News From Education Professor Kenneth Wong elected as a Fellow of the National Academy of Public Administration Chartered by US Congress to provide non-partisan expert advice, the Academy is an independent, non-profit, and non-partisan organization established in 1967 to assist government leaders in building more effective, efficient, accountable, and transparent organizations. September 26, 2021 News From Education Department of Education Faculty Opening: Multilingual Learning Lecturer Brown University’s Department of Education seeks to hire a full-time lecturer with expertise in language acquisition, bilingual education, and/or teaching Multilingual Learners to join a faculty committed to addressing social equity issues within the context of urban schools. September 23, 2021 News From Education Native American and Indigenous Studies Initiative (NAISI) Graduate Fellowship Brown University’s Native American and Indigenous Studies Initiative (NAISI) collaborates with a number of departments across the campus to offer fellowships to students pursuing Master’s degrees. NAISI is dedicated to increasing the understanding and maintenance of the cultural traditions and political experiences of Native American and Indigenous Peoples. September 9, 2021 News From Education A Blueprint for Scaling Tutoring and Mentoring Across Public Schools In this thought experiment, Professor Matthew Kraft and Grace Falken, a research program associate at the Annenberg Institute at Brown University, explore how to make access to individualized instruction and academic mentoring more equitable by taking tutoring to scale as a permanent feature of the U.S. public education system. September 2, 2021 News From Education As schools return to in-person learning, demand for online tutoring remains high "The type of tutoring with evidence is intensive tutoring with a consistent tutor who comes with an understanding of the student's needs — based on data from direct assessments or from the school or teacher — and with curricular materials for addressing these needs," Professor Susanna Loeb tells NBC News. September 1, 2021 News From Education Racial Justice: The Effort To Bring Back An Elected Boston School Committee Professor Kenneth Wong says it’s time to revisit the political implications of how the 1991 move to appointed school committee members in Boston overlooked marginalized groups. August 31, 2021 News From Education National partnership to generate new knowledge on teacher learning for equitable student outcomes The Research Partnership for Professional Learning (RPPL) launched a learning agenda and call to action to transform professional learning (PL) research and practice. The research team is led by experts in teacher learning and improvement at the Annenberg Institute at Brown University, including Education Professors Susanna Loeb and John Papay. August 31, 2021 News From Education Teacher Preparation Programs and Graduates' Growth in Instructional Effectiveness A working paper co-authored by Professor John Papay presents findings from the first study to examine whether there are average differences between TPPs in terms of graduates’ average growth, rather than levels, in teaching effectiveness, and to consider which features predict this growth. August 31, 2021 News From Education Who Wants to Reopen Schools in a Pandemic? Due to the pandemic, school reopening has become one of the most important (and contentious) policy issues. Professor Jonathan Collins' recent working paper looks at public preferences reopening schools and public compliance with reopening orders during COVID-19. August 30, 2021 News From Education Student Spotlight: Sylvio Gario, MAT'22 and Urban Education Fellow In a piece by the Papitto Opportunity Connection Foundation, Gario says that it was his commitment to sharing his knowledge and experience with BIPOC youth that led him to enroll in the Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT) program and the Urban Education Fellowship at Brown University. August 23, 2021 News From Education Common Support Violations in Clustered Observational Studies of Educational Interventions In education settings, treatments are often non-randomly assigned to clusters, such as schools or classrooms, while outcomes are measured for students. This research design is called the clustered observational study (COS). In this working paper, Professor Lindsay Page and her co-authors examine the consequences of common support violations in the COS context. July 30, 2021 News From Education Sustaining a Sense of Success: The Protective Role of Teacher Working Conditions during the COVID-19 Pandemic In this paper, Professor Matthew Kraft and his co-authors examine the challenges teachers faced while working from home at the start of the pandemic, between March and June 2020, and explore the role that working conditions played in supporting their sense of success in this new technology-dependent setting. August 4, 2021 News From Education One Simple Way for Principals to Boost Students’ Unfinished Learning In an opinion piece for EducationWeek, Susanna Loeb of Brown University and Heather C. Hill of the Harvard Graduate School of Education argue that keeping teachers in their current grades and subject assignments will be key to student success following an unusually disruptive year. July 26, 2021 News From Education The Big Problem With Little Interruptions to Classroom Learning A paper co-authored by Professor Matthew Kraft finds that external classroom interruptions add up to 10 to 20 days of lost instructional time over an academic year, enough time to consider all Providence Public School District students truant or even chronically absent. July 26, 2021 News From Education "The Succeeders: How Immigrant Youth Are Transforming What It Means to Belong in America" Professor Andrea Flores' first book is a powerful and challenging look at what “success” and belonging mean in America through the eyes of Latino high schoolers. July 20, 2021 News From Education Lecturer in Education named 2021 Rhode Island ‘Outstanding Biology Teacher’ The National Association of Biology Teachers has presented David Upegui, adjunct lecturer in education at Brown University and Central Falls High School teacher, with the 2021 Outstanding Biology Teacher Award for Rhode Island. July 16, 2021 News From Education Should School Boards Be in Charge? In a new article published in the Peabody Journal of Education, Professor Jonathan Collins explores the effects of exposure to participatory and deliberative school board meetings. July 2, 2021 News From Education Connecting Classrooms to Congress Professor Jonathan Collins is part of a team that has been awarded a $2 million research grant from the Department of Education's Institute of Education Sciences. The grant is to support the development of a new curricular module that will help kids learn civics through having virtual dialogues with members of Congress. June 22, 2021 News From Education Emerging Victorious: Sonya Brooks '21 AM, Urban Education Policy In their article "Emerging Victorious," Brown Alumni Magazine features seven exemplary students who received their bachelor's or advanced degrees in 2021. Despite having a final year at Brown so challenging that it’s literally one for the history books, they’ve created, achieved, and helped others. Among those students is Sonya Brooks '21 AM, a graduate of Brown's Urban Education Policy Program. June 22, 2021 News From Education Emerging Victorious: Nari Kato '21, MAT'22 In their article "Emerging Victorious," Brown Alumni Magazine features seven exemplary students who received their bachelor's or advanced degrees in 2021. Despite having a final year at Brown so challenging that it’s literally one for the history books, they’ve created, achieved, and helped others. Among those students is Nari Kato '21, who earned his bachelor’s in education studies and is an MAT candidate this year. June 7, 2021 News from Brown Rainbow Chen: Equitable, ethical education through international experience To advance education equity and policy, the Class of 2021 graduate and newly named Fulbright scholar will spend a year as an English teaching assistant in the Netherlands. June 4, 2021 News From Education Being a Teacher: The Experience of the Last Year Professor Matthew Kraft presented as part of an event titled "Teaching and the Teacher Workforce Amid the Struggles of COVID-19 and for Racial Justice" hosted by the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. June 1, 2021 News From Education David Rangel Awarded a CSREA Faculty Fellowship Professor Rangel will participate in a fellows program offered by Brown's Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America (CSREA) this fall. May 14, 2021 News From Education Open Position: Campus Compact AmeriCorps VISTA Member, Brown University, RI Brown University's Department of Education has partnered with AmeriCorps to offer a year-long, full-time volunteer service position. The team member will build capacity for projects that mobilize higher education to make a difference in the lives of individuals impacted by poverty. March 10, 2021 News From Education SREE Announces Recipients of the 2021 Early Career Award Associate Professor Matthew Kraft was awarded the 2021 SREE Early Career Award, which recognizes early career scholars whose work has advanced rigorous research relevant to educational practice. March 4, 2021 News From Education Student Spotlight: Kyra Hu Learn about Generation Teach and Kyra Hu's experience during her time as a math teacher in Providence. February 26, 2021 News From Education A Conversation with Kayla Patrick: Ending Harsh Discipline Against Girls of Color Online and In-Person In New America, UEP student Jenny Muniz Sicairos interviewed Kayla Patrick regarding school discipline. February 26, 2021 News From Education Teaching High School Students about Autonomous Aerial Robots Senior Lecturer Diane Silva Pimentel and Associate Professor of Computer Science Stefanie Tellex were awarded a research seed grant. Their proposal was aimed to test the hypothesis that high school teachers can be prepared to teach students about autonomous aerial robots on their own. February 25, 2021 News From Education Acceleration vs. Remediation: Research-Driven Strategies to Address Learning Loss Associate Professor Matthew Kraft spoke as a panelist in a webinar held by the National Association of State Boards of Education. February 25, 2021 News From Education Here’s what a national tutoring system might look like In the District Administration, Associate Professor Matthew Kraft offered insight on the effectiveness of tutoring and what a national tutoring system could look like. February 16, 2021 News From Education Research on support for anti-racist curricula Assistant Professor Jonathan Collins presented his findings for support on anti-racist curricula to the Council of Chief State School Officers Social Studies Collaborative (a council of 20 specialists who oversee social studies curricula for their state education agencies) and was featured in Campus Reform. February 16, 2021 News From Education Brown community reacts to insurrection at Capitol Assistant Professor Jonathan Collins offered commentary in the BDH regarding the Capitol insurrection. February 9, 2021 News From Education Language-in-Education Policies. An Analytical Framework Applied to Kenya and Uganda Visiting Assistant Professor Pierre de Galbert wrote a chapter in “Language Issues in Comparative Education II”. February 9, 2021 News From Education Collaborative Action in a Rural Setting: Insights from Resilient Southern Illinois As part of an internship, UEP student Sara White released a case study showcasing the early efforts of Resilient Southern Illinois (Resilient SI). February 9, 2021 News From Education The Biden Administration: What to Expect Assistant Professor Jonathan Collins spoke as a panelist in a virtual panel held by the Taubman Center for American Politics and Policy. February 9, 2021 News From Education Bridges Collaborative Member Spotlight: Howard County Public Schools’ Approach to Redistricting for Integration UEP student Emma Miller published a piece on the Century Foundation focusing on redistricting plans for the Howard County Public School System in Maryland. February 8, 2021 News From Education Brown eligible for $6.9 million of funding from new coronavirus stimulus bill In the Brown Daily Herald, Professor Kenneth Wong commented on stimulus dollars for Brown. February 8, 2021 News From Education Staffing Schools Before Students Arrive: Filling Teacher Vacancies in Providence Associate Professor John Papay along with the Annenberg Institute’s Associate Professor of the Practice Nate Schwartz, Research Project Manager Kate Donohue, and Research Program Associate Burke O’Brien provided the first briefing about the teacher workforce in Providence. January 11, 2021 News From Education Chinese American and European American Preschoolers' Perceptions of Parental Involvement in Children's Schooling In a recently released book, Professors Yoko Yamamoto and Jin Li co-wrote a chapter on their research findings that suggest young children are aware of family engagement in their schooling and learning. December 16, 2020 News From Education Student Spotlight: Sarosha Hemani MAT'21 For Sarosha Hemani MAT'21, connecting the dots of her passions in social work, teaching, and science, led her to the Master of Arts in Teaching program and pursuing a career in teaching science. December 11, 2020 News From Education Obama, Trump, and education policy in US federalism Professor Kenneth Wong penned an article arguing that the governing landscape across states will continue to define the federal-state relationship as the next president prioritizes administrative action to pursue equity and quality goals in public education. December 10, 2020 News From Education A Blueprint for Scaling Tutoring Across Public Schools New research conducted by Associate Professor Matthew Kraft and Grace Falken (Annenberg Institute) explores the idea of a national tutoring program to help curb learning loss from the COVID-19 pandemic in the U.S. December 8, 2020 News From Education Infant health inequality has increased since 2010, study finds In a newly published study, Assistant Professor David Rangel and the Annenberg Institute's Emily Rauscher discover infant health inequality has been on the rise since 2010. December 8, 2020 News From Education Providence activists: Summer of protests leaves unfinished work for racial justice Assistant Professor of Education Jonathan Collins offered commentary on the local protests centered around a crash involving a Providence police cruiser that left a 24-year-old man on a scooter critically injured. December 1, 2020 News From Education A Test Case in Providence: Can Majority-White Teachers Unions Be Anti-Racist? In The 74, Emily Kalejs Qazilbash, Professor of the Practice of Education, offered commentary on the Providence Teachers Union's focus on racial justice and their hiring efforts. November 12, 2020 News From Education Will Concurrent Elections Reshape the Electorate? Assistant Professor Jonathan Collins co-authors new research about the effect of changing local elections, such as school board elections and mayoral races, to occur concurrently with the federal elections. November 11, 2020 News From Education To Combat Learning Loss, New Project Hopes to Test and Scale 'High Impact' Tutoring Susanna Loeb, Professor of Education and Director of the Annenberg Institute, offers insight into the recently launched National School Support Accelerator, an initiative and research project focused on 'high impact' tutoring to combat learning loss due to the COVID-19 pandemic. November 9, 2020 News From Education Undetermined election outcome leaves higher education policies uncertain Professor Kenneth Wong and Assistant Professor Jonathan Collins offer commentary on the uncertainty of higher education policies as the country awaits the presidential election results. November 9, 2020 News From Education What It's Really Like to Run for Miss USA During a Pandemic Hilary Levey Friedman, Visiting Assistant Professor of Education, explores the Miss USA 2020 pageant, being held in-person, and how contestants are preparing amidst the coronavirus pandemic. November 2, 2020 News From Education What to expect on Election Day, according to Brown's faculty experts Eight Brown University faculty members, including Assistant Professor of Education Jonathan Collins, shared their analysis on what the nation can expect on Election Day and beyond — at the polls, on the streets and potentially in the courts. October 27, 2020 News From Education How States Use Their Constitutional Authority over Education to Push Back Against Trump Assaults on Equity, Accountability Professor Kenneth Wong shares his thoughts and research in The 74 on how states continue to use their Constitutional authority of education to push against President Trump's assaults on equity. October 27, 2020 News From Education Social Class and Parenting in Mexican American Families Recent research co-conducted by Assistant Professor David Rangel finds substantial similarities across social class lines of Mexican American parents in childrearing practices and beliefs. October 27, 2020 News From Education Paternal Education and Infant Health: Variation by Race/Ethnicity Research co-authored by Assistant Professor David Rangel explores the relationship between maternal and paternal education, infant health, and the variations based on maternal racial and ethnic background. October 21, 2020 News From Education Experts Weigh In on Current Job Market Trends In Zippia, Professor Kenneth Wong joins a panelist of faculty to share his advice for young graduates entering the policy field. October 21, 2020 News From Education Q&A: Levey Friedman on why beauty pageants are more complicated than you think Visiting Assistant Professor of Education Hilary Levey Friedman discusses beauty pageants, feminism, and her new book "Here She Is" on The Public's Radio. October 19, 2020 News From Education Student Spotlight: Jordan Ecker MAT'21 Jordan Ecker MAT'21 shares her favorite part about the Master of Arts in Teaching program, and how the pandemic has made this cohort extremely prepared for online teaching. October 14, 2020 News From Education Poll Shows Support for Teaching History of U.S. Racism — With or Without Parental Consent In The 74, Assistant Professor Jonathan Collins shares findings of a survey he co-conducted on teaching the history of U.S. racism in schools. October 1, 2020 News From Education Using Tutors to Combat COVID Learning Loss: New Research Shows That Even Lightly Trained Volunteers Drive Academic Gains Associate Professor of Education Matt Kraft offered commentary on tutoring in schools to combat learning loss due to the pandemic. September 30, 2020 News From Education Student Spotlight: Myci Atkinson UEP'21 After hearing stories from alumni about their program experiences and close classmate relationships, the decision for Myci Atkinson UEP'21 to enroll in the Urban Education Policy program was a no-brainer. A few months in, she shares her excitement and dreams for the future. September 30, 2020 News From Education Does experience make the best teacher? Research co-authored by Associate Professors Matthew Kraft and John Papay indicates some teachers improve effectiveness the more years they teach. September 16, 2020 News From Education Many not confident ballot will be counted accurately if they vote by mail, poll shows Assistant Professor of Education Jonathan Collins discussed minority political behavior and the transition to mail-in ballots. September 9, 2020 News From Education Teacher Working Conditions During the COVID-19 Pandemic Drawing on a survey developed for Upbeat earlier this summer, Associate Professor Matthew Kraft co-authors a new working paper further exploring the results of teacher experiences during the COVID-19 pandemic. September 4, 2020 News From Education There's No Miss America Pageant This Year. The Contest's History Suggests It Could Return Stronger Than Ever — Or Not After the Miss America Organization's board voted to postpone the 2021 pageant due to the coronavirus, Visiting Assistant Professor Hilary Levey Friedman explores the history of pageants and what it could mean for Miss America's future. August 19, 2020 News From Education Americans overwhelmingly oppose school reopenings, data finds Assistant Professor Jonathan Collins co-authored this article about a study he led that found that the majority of Americans expressed strong opposition to school reopenings. August 17, 2020 News From Education Education Welcomes New Staff Member, MaryEllen Woycik MaryEllen Woycik joins the Department of Education as the Academic Programs Manager. August 17, 2020 News From Education Kamala Harris Has a Chance to Make School Desegregation a Key Issue In an op-ed in Education Week, Assistant Professor of Education Jonathan Collins shares his thoughts on the possibility of Senator Kamala Harris building a more equitable educational system should she become vice president. August 17, 2020 News From Education The Single Strip of Fabric That Went From 'Votes for Women' to 'Miss America' In the New York Times, Visiting Assistant Professor Hilary Levey Friedman explores the evolution of the sash. August 11, 2020 News From Education England is launching a national tutoring program. Could the U.S. follow suit? Associate Professor of Education Matthew Kraft offered commentary on investing in a national tutoring program. August 6, 2020 News From Education States with the Most & Least Equitable School Districts Assistant Professor of Education Jonathan Collins shares his comments about the fairness of school funding in this Q&A. August 4, 2020 News From Education The Reign of Beauty Pageants in America with Hilary Levey Friedman On the Pell Center's "Story in the Public Square," Visiting Assistant Professor Hilary Levey Friedman explores the history of beauty pageants, their ties to feminism, and her new book. August 3, 2020 News From Education Brown professor cherished his time with John Lewis Assistant Professor of Education Jonathan Collins penned this column about his time working as an intern for the late Rep. John Lewis. July 30, 2020 News From Education New Course, EDUC 1215 "Race Making and the US University" A new course taught by Nicole Truesdell will be offered to students in the Fall 2020 semester. July 30, 2020 News From Education Brown University fully funds $10M endowment to support Providence public schools The University will permanently endow the Fund for the Education of the Children of Providence, which will provide financial support for the city’s Pre-K-12 students through a range of educational initiatives. July 22, 2020 News From Education Parents turn to private "pods" to school children On Marketplace, Matthew Kraft addresses the growing phenomenon of parents hiring private educators to form "pods" for their children to split cost and burden of homeschooling. July 17, 2020 News From Education The Unlikely Feminist Journey of Miss America 1971 In Jezebel, Visiting Assistant Professor Hilary Levey Friedman writes about Miss America 1971, an unexpected feminist trailblazer. July 10, 2020 News From Education Grassroots Initiative Launched by UEP Alum Provides Laptops to NYC Students Amid the pandemic, Faith Carbon UEP'20 co-founded a grassroots initiative aimed at providing laptops to students for successful remote learning. July 8, 2020 News From Education Jonathan Collins Named Susan Clarke Young Scholar Award Recipient Jonathan Collins, Assistant Professor of Education, has been named a recipient of the Susan Clarke Young Scholar Award presented by the American Political Science Association. July 8, 2020 News From Education New Website By Visiting Assistant Professor Provides Local Resources In collaboration with the student teams enrolled in her "Family Engagement in Education" course, Yoko Yamamoto launched a new website aimed at providing resources and information to local Providence families and educators. July 7, 2020 News From Education Education Policy Trump Style: The Administrative Presidency and Deference to States in ESSA Implementation In a new article, Kenneth Wong evaluates President Trump's K-12 education policy and implementation of the Every Student Succeeds Act of 2015 (ESSA). June 29, 2020 News From Education Celebration, reflection, action: Employees mark Juneteenth as a paid day off for the first time at Brown Assistant Professor Jonathan Collins reflects on Juneteenth, a paid day off for the first time at Brown University. June 25, 2020 News From Education Teachers' Experiences Working from Home During the COVID-19 Pandemic Associate Professor Matthew Kraft co-developed a survey to help school districts better understand and respond to teachers' experience working remotely due to the coronavirus pandemic. June 24, 2020 News From Education The Big Problem with Little Interruptions to Classroom Learning A new working paper by Associate Professor Matthew Kraft reveals how external interruptions to classrooms affects instructional time and suggests multiple approaches to reduce these interruptions. June 24, 2020 News From Education Lifting All Boats? Accomplishments and Challenges from 20 Years of Education Reform in Massachusetts A new report spearheaded by John Papay, Associate Professor, explores the successes and failures of Massachusetts high school students in the last two decades, following the passage of the Massachusetts Education Reform Act. June 23, 2020 News From Education Education Welcomes New Lecturer in Education, Indira Gil Indira Gil, Lecturer in Education, joined the Department this month. June 22, 2020 News From Education Education Welcomes New Lecturer in Education, John Palella The Education Department welcomed John Palella, Lecturer in Education, this month. June 8, 2020 News From Education The Department's Letter on Racial Injustice We, the faculty and staff in the Department of Education at Brown University, cannot and will not stay silent in this moment. June 8, 2020 News From Education We Suffocate: When Will We Finally Breathe? An op-ed by Jonathan Collins, Assistant Professor of Education. June 2, 2020 News From Education Andrea Flores Awarded Henry Merritt Wriston Fellowship Andrea Flores, Assistant Professor of Education, was selected to receive the Henry Merritt Wriston Fellowship for 2020. June 2, 2020 News From Education David Rangel Receives Romer Advising Award Assistant Professor of Education David Rangel has been chosen to receive the Karen T. Romer Award for excellence in advising. May 29, 2020 News From Education Special Journal Issue Co-Edited by Former Visiting Assistant Professor Former Visiting Assistant Professor Mona Abo-Zena recently co-edited a special issue of the journal "Research in Human Development." Much of the work that appears in the journal began while visiting the Education Department. May 28, 2020 News From Education Riled Up About Running for Office: Examining the Impact of Emotions on Political Ambition New research by co-author and Assistant Professor of Education Jonathan Collins examines the relationship between political ambition and feelings surrounding the 2016 election season. May 27, 2020 News From Education Brown University Ranked 25 Best Schools and Universities for Education Majors in the U.S. Brown University ranks #25 in UniversityHQ's list of 25 best schools and universities for education majors in the country. May 27, 2020 News From Education Job Opportunity: Adjunct Lecturer in Special Education The Department of Education seeks to hire an adjunct lecturer in special education with a degree in and current Rhode Island certificate in special education. May 27, 2020 News From Education Job Opportunity: Adjunct Lecturer Specializing in Multilingual Language Learners The Department of Education seeks to hire an adjunct lecturer with strong knowledge of and expertise in the research and pedagogy on language acquisition for adolescent emerging bilingual students. May 27, 2020 News From Education Getting tutoring right to reduce COVID-19 learning loss Associate Professor Matthew Kraft co-authors this article recommending large-scale tutoring programs to help students catch up in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. May 19, 2020 News From Education Why School Climate Matters For Teachers And Students Associate Professor Matthew Kraft and Annenberg Institute Research Program Associate Grace Falken prove why school climate matters for teachers and students in a new policy brief. May 12, 2020 News From Education Developing Ambitious Mathematics Instruction Through Web-Based Coaching: A Randomized Field Trial In a newly published study, co-author Matthew Kraft evaluates a web-based coaching program designed to support teachers in implementing Common Core-aligned math instruction. May 11, 2020 News From Education Student Spotlight: Mayah Emerson UEP'20 For Mayah Emerson UEP'20, she always knew that the education field was her calling. Following completion of the Urban Education Policy program, she plans to challenge the systems that govern classrooms. May 11, 2020 News From Education Assessment Matters: The Rise and Fall of the Illinois Resource Equalizer Formula A new article by Department Chair Tracy Steffes explores the 1973 Illinois Resource Equalizer Formula that "was designed to reduce disparities in school finance by breaking the connection between local wealth and school revenue." May 11, 2020 News From Education 3 Ideas to Reduce Educational Disparities Post-Pandemic Associate Professor Matthew Kraft suggests providing students with extra tutoring would be a win-win for the economy and would help close the learning loss gap. May 6, 2020 News From Education How to Make the Coming Teaching Layoffs Hurt Schools and Students Less A new article from Professor of Education Susanna Loeb's Education Week series, "Weighing the Research: What Works, What Doesn't," explores how possible teacher layoffs could affect schools and students. April 30, 2020 News From Education Tracing the Arc of American Feminism Four questions with Visiting Assistant Professor Hilary Levey Friedman. April 28, 2020 News From Education Using Tutors to Close the Opportunity Gap Associate Professor Matthew Kraft discusses using tutors to help close the learning loss gap after the pandemic on The Late Bell with John Phillips podcast. April 27, 2020 News From Education Yoko Yamamoto Co-Leads new Diversity Science Initiative Visiting Assistant Professor in Education Yoko Yamamoto, co-leads a new initiative launched by the Society for the Study of Human Development. April 27, 2020 News From Education The Development and Sustainability of School-Based Parent Networks in Low-Income Latinx Communities: A Mixed-Methods Investigation A newly released study co-authored by Assistant Professor of Education David Rangel, examines school-based parent networks in low-income Latinx communities. April 24, 2020 News From Education Department Faculty Elected Members of The American Academy of Arts & Sciences Susanna Loeb and Carl Kaestle were recently elected new members of The American Academy of Arts and Sciences. April 22, 2020 News From Education Student Spotlight: Raekwon Grace UEP'20 Having always been passionate about education, Raekwon Grace UEP'20 explains what drew him to the UEP program and his plans following graduation. April 17, 2020 News From Education Students will go back to school eventually. Here are 5 concrete ideas for helping them catch up, readjust In Chalkbeat, Associate Professor of Education Matthew Kraft suggests an idea for helping students catch up in school when they reopen: tutoring. April 15, 2020 News From Education Half of All School Employees Aren't Teachers. This Recession Will Endanger Their Jobs Professor of Education Susanna Loeb comments on "classified" employees being more at risk of losing their jobs during times of economic hardship. April 14, 2020 News From Education The opioid crisis and community-level spillovers onto children's education A new report co-authored by Professor John Tyler explores the link between the opioid crisis and children's education outcomes in hard-hit areas. April 10, 2020 News From Education When Siblings Become Teachers: It's Not Just Parents Who Find Themselves Thrust Into the Demanding Role of At-Home Educators The work of Assistant Professor Andrea Flores, who is currently writing a book on education-related “sibcare”—activities encompassing everything from looking out for a younger sibling to full-time childcare, is highlighted. April 8, 2020 News From Education Student Spotlight: Nalini Khurana '21 Education Studies junior Nalini Khurana '21 dives into her time as a concentrator, sharing her favorite classes, community-building with BEAM, and what she's most passionate about. April 8, 2020 News From Education Using Beauty Pageants to Trace the Arc of Feminism Hilary Levey Friedman joined GoLocalProv to discuss her new book on beauty pageants in America. March 31, 2020 News From Education Providence talks: A citywide partnership to address early childhood language development In Studies in Educational Evaluation, Professors Kenneth Wong and Crystal Thomas evaluate Providence Talks, a partnership between the city of Providence and local non-profit service providers that helps develop language environments within homes for young children. March 30, 2020 News From Education Indiana is a pioneer of virtual charters. What do those schools tell us about at-home learning? Susanna Loeb, Professor of Education and director of the Annenberg Institute, comments on the benefits and drawbacks of virtual schools. March 24, 2020 News From Education How Effective Is Online Learning? What the Research Does and Doesn't Tell Us Susanna Loeb, Professor of Education, on the effectiveness of online learning for K-12 students. March 23, 2020 News From Education Student Spotlight: Alicia Salisbury MAT'20 After an undergraduate career of tutoring and teaching assistantships, Alicia Salisbury MAT'20 discovers her love for teaching. March 12, 2020 News From Education Improving Educational Outcomes Four questions with Crystal Thomas, Lecturer in Education. March 9, 2020 News From Education Hope and Change for Haiti celebrates International Women's Day Hilary Levey Friedman, Visiting Assistant Professor of Education, was honored at Hope and Change for Haiti's International Women's Day Celebration. March 9, 2020 News From Education 17 Bonners Named Newman Civic Fellows Concentrator Nari Kato '21 was named a 2020 Newman Civic Fellow by Campus Compact. March 5, 2020 News From Education Hilary Levey Friedman on Dan Yorke State of Mind Hilary Levey Friedman, Visiting Assistant Professor of Education, appeared on WPRI's Dan Yorke State of Mind to discuss feminism and politics. March 5, 2020 News From Education Are There Parenting Gaps? Research on Child-Rearing and Education in the U.S. Yoko Yamamoto, Visiting Assistant Professor in Education, contributed a chapter, "Are There Parenting Gaps? Research on Child-Rearing and Education in the U.S." to a recently published book in Japanese. March 4, 2020 News From Education Student Spotlight: Faith Carbon UEP'20 Faith Carbon UEP'20 shares her favorite part about the Urban Education Policy program and her dreams for the future. March 3, 2020 News From Education Basic Black: Super Tuesday Predictions Assistant Professor of Education Jonathan Collins joined WGBH's Basic Black to discuss Super Tuesday. March 3, 2020 News From Education New York Times national reporter talks United States education policy Associate Professor of Education Matthew Kraft moderated a conversation with New York Times national correspondent Dana Goldstein '06 at the Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs. February 27, 2020 News From Education David Rangel Wins Salomon Faculty Research Award David Rangel, Assistant Professor of Education, has won a Richard B. Salomon Faculty Research Award in the Humanities and Social Sciences. February 25, 2020 News From Education For the Love of Teaching Four questions with Diane Silva Pimentel, Director of Teacher Education February 24, 2020 News From Education Teacher PD Gets a Bad Rap. But Two Approaches Do Work A recent research review led by Associate Professor of Education Matthew Kraft is cited in Education Week. February 21, 2020 News From Education Personal Touch Beats Technology for Parent-School Communication, Survey Finds Matthew Kraft, Associate Professor of Education, offers comments on how to achieve meaningful school-parent communication through low-tech means. February 11, 2020 News From Education RI families still struggling with special education crisis Susanna Loeb, Director of the Annenberg Institute for School Reform and Professor of Education, provides commentary on problems related to nationwide shortages of certified special education teachers. February 7, 2020 News From Education The Critical Lack of Data on Alcohol and Marijuana Use by Adolescents on the Autism Spectrum Rocio A. Nunez Pepen, an Education Studies concentrator on the Human Development track, co-authored a recently released article on research conducted in Summer 2019. January 27, 2020 News From Education A New Series on the Practical Takeaways From Research Professor of Education Susanna Loeb recently launched "What Works, What Doesn't," an Education Week blog series that will delve into how educators can put research into practice. January 10, 2020 News From Education 2069 Assistant Professor of Education Jonathan Collins comments on Brown's 50 years of Open Curriculum and what the next 50 years hold. January 9, 2020 News From Education Faculty Named to 2020 RHSU Edu-Scholar Public Influence Rankings Three Education faculty members have been named to the 2020 Edu-Scholar Public Influence Rankings by Education Week's Rick Hess Straight Up blog. December 16, 2019 News From Education Student Spotlight: Nari Kato '21 Education Studies concentrator and DUG leader Nari Kato '21 describes his favorite part about the concentration and why he was drawn to study it. December 13, 2019 News From Education The Central Falls school system is suddenly bursting at the seams. But no one knows how to pay for it Professor of Education Policy Kenneth Wong comments on the Central Falls school system. December 12, 2019 News From Education Black women reign at beauty pageants Hilary Levey Friedman, Visiting Assistant Professor of Education, provided commentary on the evolving definition of what it means to be a pageant winner. December 10, 2019 News From Education Education Welcomes New Professor of Practice, Emily Kalejs Qazilbash The Education Department welcomed Emily Kalejs Qazilbash, Professor of Practice in Education, in November. December 5, 2019 News From Education Young children's beliefs about school learning in Japan and the United States Yoko Yamamoto's recent article, "Young children's beliefs about school learning in Japan and the United States: Cultural and socioeconomic comparisons," was published in Early Childhood Research Quarterly. November 26, 2019 News From Education Why Developmental Science? Jin Li, Professor of Education and Human Development, is spotlighted in the "Hidden Figures" in Developmental Science series for the Society for Research in Child Development. November 26, 2019 News From Education Job Opportunity: English Language Learning Lecturer The Department of Education seeks to hire a lecturer with expertise in language acquisition, bilingual education, and/or teaching English Language Learners. November 26, 2019 News From Education Student Spotlight: Rachel Berger MAT'20 Rachel Berger MAT'20 explains how she decided to become a teacher and her plans following graduation. November 26, 2019 News From Education Job Opportunity: Lecturer in Social Studies Education The Department of Education seeks an outstanding teacher educator with a commitment to advancing educational equity in urban schools to join our dynamic and growing department as a Lecturer in Social Studies Education beginning in summer 2020. November 4, 2019 News From Education Postdocoral Research Associate Receives ABWH Award for Article Lindsey Jones, Postdocoral Research Associate, receives 2019 ABWH award for article. October 8, 2019 News From Education R.I. SAT scores don't keep pace with grad rates In an article in The Providence Journal, Director of the Urban Education Policy program, Kenneth Wong, comments on wide gaps between graduation rates and SAT scores in Rhode Island high schools. "It's important for the districts and the commissioner to communicate why this is important, that it's clearly connected to college and career readiness." September 25, 2019 News From Education Wearable device counts words Detroit parents say to their young children The number of words a child is exposed to in the first four years of life can have a huge impact on brain development, language skills and school readiness. September 5, 2019 News From Education Brown Education Department Seeks Assistant or Associate Professor of Urban Education Policy The Annenberg Institute and the Department of Education are searching to jointly hire a tenure-line faculty position in Urban Education Policy at the Assistant or Associate rank. September 5, 2019 News From Education Jonathan Collins — Do Teachers Want Democracy? Deliberative Culture and Teachers' Evaluations of Schools In a new article published by the Urban Affairs Review, Assistant Professor of Education Jonathan Collins examines the way in which teachers form assessments of schools and districts that motivate their political behavior. The new theory proposed and tested in this article centers on deliberative democracy. March 1, 2019 Life at Brown Student Spotlight: Rainbow Chen, Class of 2021 At Brown, Rainbow Chen '21 is able to combine her love of learning with her commitment to social change and making a difference. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Academics Undergraduate Graduate People Faculty Staff Graduate Students News & Events News Upcoming Events Events Archive About History Mission & Goals Contact & Directions Stay Connected Brown Summer High School 2022 Course Descriptions Apply to BSHS Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search News Open details for News Bookmark this Page