Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Education Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home Academics Undergraduate Graduate People Faculty Staff Graduate Students News & Events News Upcoming Events Events Archive About History Mission & Goals Contact & Directions Stay Connected Brown Summer High School 2022 Course Descriptions Apply to BSHS Search Department of Education Graduate Learn more about Brown's Master of Arts in Urban Education Policy and Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT) programs. Breadcrumb Home Academics Sub Navigation In This Section Undergraduate Graduate Master of Arts in Teaching Urban Education Policy A.M. Graduate Learn more about Brown's Master of Arts in Urban Education Policy and Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT) programs. The application deadline for 2022 entry into our graduate programs was January 19, 2022. The application portal will reopen in early September 2022 for the next admissions cycle. Request More Information Master of Arts in Teaching Educators play a key role in confronting rising inequality in America’s cities. Our yearlong MAT program combines intensive coursework, immersive teaching experiences, and personalized coaching to prepare students to become culturally responsive, flexible, and impactful educators. Learn more about the MAT Our Alumni Being able to tackle a problem that was going to have a direct impact on students — that was a very meaningful [internship] experience. Zaneta Graves UEP ’09 Master’s in Urban Education Policy Now more than ever, urban schools need policy analysts and leaders who can improve their students’ opportunities and outcomes. Our yearlong UEP program in urban education policy prepares students to lead the fight for equal opportunity and inclusion in city schools. Learn more about the UEP Alumni Outcomes The Brown Community People at Brown are guided by shared values, an unyielding dedication to diversity, equity and inclusion, and a fundamental commitment to supporting one another. Life in Providence Education students work and study in the heart of Rhode Island’s vibrant capital city, known for its restaurants, innovative arts scene, youthful energy and unpretentious vibe. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Academics Undergraduate Graduate People Faculty Staff Graduate Students News & Events News Upcoming Events Events Archive About History Mission & Goals Contact & Directions Stay Connected Brown Summer High School 2022 Course Descriptions Apply to BSHS Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Graduate Open details for Graduate Bookmark this Page