Skip to Main Content Brown University School of Public Health Brown University Academic and Student Affairs Search Menu Site Navigation Home Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Postdoctoral Fellowships Online Programs Student Resources Academic Resources Funding and Teaching Opportunities Advising and Mentoring Resources Career Advising Student Life Faculty Resources Teaching Resources Advising and Mentoring Resources SPH Office of Faculty Affairs Who We Are Events Search Academic and Student Affairs Undergraduate Programs Breadcrumb Home Academic Programs Sub Navigation In This Section Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Postdoctoral Fellowships Online Programs Undergraduate Programs An academic concentration at Brown is an in-depth study centering on one or more disciplines, a problem or theme, or a broad question. The School of Public Health offers two undergraduate concentrations: Undergraduate Concentrations Public Health (A.B.) An interdisciplinary concentration through which students examine a variety of health issues, including population health and disease, health policy, cross-cultural and international aspects of health, the organizational and social structures through which health services are delivered and received, and the public health system. Visit Page Open details for Public Health (A.B.) Statistics (Sc.B.) A concentration designed to provide foundations that include basic statistical concepts and methodologies, and to expose students to the role of statistical thinking and analysis in interdisciplinary research and in the public sphere. Visit Page Open details for Statistics (Sc.B.) Dual Degree Programs for Brown Undergraduates Biostatistics (A.M.) for Brown Undergraduates Fifth-year master’s degree that can be completed in one year after receiving a bachelor’s degree from Brown. Also open to Brown PhD students in the Open Graduate Education Program (OGE). Visit Page Open details for Biostatistics (A.M.) for Brown Undergraduates Master of Public Health (MPH) for Brown Undergraduates The 5-year integrated Undergraduate/MPH (UG/MPH) degree is a rigorous program in professional public health education open to Brown undergraduates of any concentration. Visit Page Open details for Master of Public Health (MPH) for Brown Undergraduates Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Public Health Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Postdoctoral Fellowships Online Programs Student Resources Academic Resources Funding and Teaching Opportunities Advising and Mentoring Resources Career Advising Student Life Faculty Resources Teaching Resources Advising and Mentoring Resources SPH Office of Faculty Affairs Who We Are Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Undergraduate Programs Open details for Undergraduate Programs Bookmark this Page