Skip to main content College of Education Menu Service to the State Protect Texas Give Now Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Search Search College of Education Search Search Students Expand Career Engagement Commencement Educator Programs and Certification Overview For Families Graduate Students How to Apply See Yourself Here Undergraduate Students Welcome Longhorns Departments Expand Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Research Expand Overview Centers and Institutes Featured Research Find Faculty Research Support Alumni & Friends Expand Overview Advisory Council Alumni Stories Contact Us Update Your Information About Expand Overview Building Renovations Contact Us Facts and Rankings Map to Sánchez Building & Brazos Garage Dean's Office Units Office of the Dean Social Justice, Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Visit the College of Education Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Service to the State Home Academics Academics Our departments, Curriculum and Instruction, Educational Leadership and Policy, Educational Psychology, Kinesiology and Health Education, and Special Education, study education from unique and diverse viewpoints Our programs are centered on research-driven approaches to teaching and learning. Students at all levels are encouraged to participate in research projects alongside our expert faculty. Teaching and learning often occur outside the classroom, and our students gain skills in leadership, mentorship, advocacy, and research. Commitment to Diversity Like the university, the College of Education shares a deep commitment to diversity and inclusion. We strive to improve the quality and experience of modern education by encouraging the full participation and success of all students in school and life. Each department shares this commitment. Our students learn in and are prepared to create equitable environments that are inclusive of people of all races, ethnicities, languages, socio-economic and religious backgrounds, abilities, and sexual orientations. In addition, our graduates are prepared to recognize and respond to individual student needs and differences. Academics Undergraduate Students Our undergraduate majors and minors prepare students to become teachers, health professionals, therapists, coaches, professors, and researchers. Through intensive coursework and field experiences, students become certified in their field to begin their career. Many of our students choose to continue their education with a graduate program that expands their career choices. Explore our undergraduate programs Graduate Students The College of Education offers postbaccalaureate, master’s, and doctoral programs that allow students to explore in depth the practices that make great teachers and learning environments. Students work closely with faculty to research current social, economic, policy, and health issues that affect teaching and learning within the classroom and beyond. Explore our graduate programs Teacher Certification Getting teachers into the classroom is a major function of our college. Our teacher certification programs not only prepare students to take the required certification exams, but also prepare students as classroom and school leaders. We offer teacher certification programs for all levels of students – undergraduate, postbaccalaureate, and graduate. Each certification program involves coursework, scholastic requirements, and enrollment in a Professional Development Sequence (PDS). The PDS includes development courses, internships, and student teaching. Learn more about becoming a teacher Research Our faculty and students’ research has a real-world impact into the lives of learners, educators, and the community. We use quantitative and qualitative analysis to produce meaningful insights into the ways students learn, and the effect education can have on society. Our college is home to several centers and institutes that expand on educational research. Learn more about our research Academic Events Beyond our courses and research, our college strives to promote education through events, lectures, symposiums, and programs. Many of our events are monthly or annual lectures that feature speakers from our college, or professionals from around the globe. View our upcoming and latest events College of Education Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Educator Certification Academics See Yourself Here How to Apply Student Affairs Mailing Address College of Education 1912 Speedway, Stop D5000 Austin, Texas 78712 View Map Undergraduate Student Affairs (512) 471-3223 Contact Us Helpful Links Counseling and Support Emergency Information UT Directory UT Direct Policies and Procedures Help Support Faculty Directory Manage Email Preferences Protect Texas Departments Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Administration Office of the Dean Development and Alumni Relations Business Services Career Engagement Facilities Services Office of Student Success and Recruitment Field Experiences Office of Educational Research Support Information Technology Office Office of Instructional Innovation Marketing and Communications Employment Opportunities © College of Education at the University of Texas at Austin 2021 Feedback | Site Policies | Web Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Policy | Adobe Reader