Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University Medical Education Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Curriculum Initiatives People Records and Registration MD Curriculum Pre-Clerkship Clerkship / Post-Clerkship Academic Calendar Curriculum Committee Policies & Attestation News & Updates Assessment & Evaluation Scholarly Concentrations Integration Into Clinical Years Program Gallery of Scholarly Projects Application Process Student Enrichment Annual Community Events Community Engagement Research and Study Opportunities Student Interest Groups Search Medical Education Integration Into Clinical Years Ways to integrate your scholarly concentration work into some of the existing clerkships. Breadcrumb Home Scholarly Concentrations Program Sub Navigation In This Section Integration Into Clinical Years Program Gallery of Scholarly Projects Application Process Integration Into Clinical Years Ways to integrate your scholarly concentration work into some of the existing clerkships. Integrating Scholarly Concentration Work Into The Clerkship and Post-Clerkship Years The clerkship and post-clerkship years are a busy and exciting time. However, there is actually ample time in the clinical schedule to complete the work, and it is very possible to integrate your scholarly concentration work into some of the existing clerkships that you will be completing anyway! Below are some suggestions as to how to approach your schedule with your concentration in mind. As you plan, be sure to check your timeline with your concentration area Directors- faculty will need ample time to review your scholarly product prior to graduation! Independent Study An “SC Program Independent Study” elective (BIOL 7160) may be the perfect opportunity for you to continue or finish your concentration work. The elective can be 2-6 weeks in length. These weeks do not have to be contiguous (please include relevant dates on the proposal form). The amount of credit received for the independent study will depend on the number of weeks of work you propose. Retroactive credit cannot be given. The required "faculty sponsor" can be either your direct project mentor, or your concentration area Director- whichever you deem to be more appropriate in your case. Please be sure to pay close attention to the requirements of independent study projects. Unscheduled Weeks In addition to using some of your time off for essential things such as sleeping, reconnecting with family, and interviewing for residencies, it may also be possible to use some of your unscheduled time between blocks to reconnect with your scholarly concentration mentor, complete that manuscript, or finish putting together your portfolio of concentration work. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Curriculum Initiatives People Records and Registration MD Curriculum Pre-Clerkship Clerkship / Post-Clerkship Academic Calendar Curriculum Committee Policies & Attestation News & Updates Assessment & Evaluation Scholarly Concentrations Integration Into Clinical Years Program Gallery of Scholarly Projects Application Process Student Enrichment Annual Community Events Community Engagement Research and Study Opportunities Student Interest Groups Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Integration Into Clinical Years Open details for Integration Into Clinical Years Bookmark this Page