Academics Admissions Differential Tuition Byrne Student Success Center First Gen Network Learning Communities & Programs Student Organizations Current Students Advising Financial Aid Education Abroad myCEHD Degrees & Programs About College Leadership Welcome from the Dean Future Faculty Procedures & Guidelines Strategic Plan Strategic Goals About CEHD Departments & Units Facilities History, Mission & Vision Statistics Professional Development Opportunities Visit Us Research & Outreach Research Centers & Institutes Research by the Numbers Outreach Good Neighbor Partnerships Giving & Former Students Get Involved Dean’s Development Council Speaking at CEHD Former Students Outstanding Alumni Awards & Gala CEHD Store Contact Make An Impact Ways to Give Dean’s Roundtable Shaping the Future Scholarship Brick Program Giving News Give Now News News Archive Departments in the News Educational Administration & Human Resource Development Educational Psychology Health & Kinesiology Teaching, Learning & Culture Menu Texas A&M University College of Education & Human Development MENUMENU Students Future Students Admissions Master's Doctoral Differential Tuition Current Students Advising Financial Assistance & Scholarships Education Abroad myCEHD Byrne Student Success Center Learning Communities & Programs First Gen Network Student Organizations Transformational Learning Fellows Degrees & Programs Explore Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Certificate Programs Continuing Education Educator Preparation About Teacher Certification Resources Mentoring & Coaching Academy Contact About About CEHD Departments & Units Facilities Climate & Diversity History, Mission & Vision Statistics Professional Development Visit Us College Leadership Welcome from the Dean Future Faculty ACES Fellows Program Procedures & Guidelines Strategic Plan Strategic Goals Physical Location: 801 Harrington Tower College Station, TX 77843-4222 Phone: 979-845-5311 Fax: 979-845-6129 Mailing Address: 4222 TAMU College Station, TX 77843-4225 Research & Outreach Research Centers & Institutes Funded Research Projects Outreach Good Neighbor Partnerships Giving & Former Students Make an Impact Ways to Give Dean's Roundtable Shaping the Future Scholarship Brick Program Endowed Faculty Chairs Giving News Get Involved Dean’s Development Council Speaking at CEHD CEHD Store Former Students Outstanding Alumni Awards & Gala Contact Give Now News News Archive Departments in the News Educational Administration & Human Resource Development Educational Psychology Health and Kinesiology Teaching, Learning & Culture Contact the News Team Press Hub Event Calendar Subscribe to our Newsletter Coffee Table Conversations Follow Us @cehdtamu Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Contact For media inquiries, contact our Communications Specialist, Justin Elizalde. Throughout our history we have been charged with transforming and enriching lives through education and health. Created as a school for teachers, we are now a school for leaders. We offer 21 undergraduate programs and more than 30 graduate programs across multiple emphasis areas. Educators, sports professionals, business leaders, healthcare professionals. Whatever the industry, our graduates are game-changers. Our graduates transform lives. See why U.S. News & World Report ranked our programs No. 1 Bachelor’s degrees Master’s degrees Doctoral degrees Graduate Certificates Minors About our College View our Strategic Goals We Teach Texas For the 2020-2021 school year, the Texas Education Agency reported there were nearly 10,000 Aggies working in Texas schools across 668 districts and 184 counties. Thanks to our excellence in teacher preparation, these Aggies will stay in the classrooms long after their peers. Become a Teacher Learn about the TAMUS initiative COVID-19 Updates and Guidance Our top priority during this time is to ensure the safety of our students, faculty and staff. Review Texas A&M updates and guidance to learn more. TAMU Updates & Guidance We will continue to update information as it comes available. Best Online Master’s According to U.S. News & World Report (2022) 1st Education Programs for Veterans 5th Education Programs 7th Education Administration & Supervision 8th Educational/Instructional Media Design 10th Curriculum & Instruction Learn more about the graduate programs offered by the College of Education & Human Development. Departments in the College of Education & Human Development EAHR develops educational leaders and improves practice through teaching, research and service. Educational Administration and Human Resource Development EPSY is home to a variety of interrelated disciplines and degree options focused on human development and well-being in educational and community contexts. Educational Psychology HLKN is the largest academic department at Texas A&M University and generates over 98,000 credit hours and 203,000 (Modified) weighted student credit hours each year. Health & Kinesiology TLAC’s mission is to create experiences that advance teaching, research and service through the application of knowledge in the preparation and development of quality educators; placing high value on collaboration, diversity, critical thinking, and creativity. Teaching, Learning & Culture Staff and Faculty Kudos If you’ve had a great encounter with a College of Education and Human Development faculty or staff member, tell us about it! Nominate them here. Subscribe to our Newsletter Welcome from the Dean Tweet Share801 Share 801 Shares College of Education & Human Development We are charged with transforming and enriching lives through education and health. Created as a school for teachers, we are now a school for leaders. U.S. News & World Report Rankings 1st Online Masters for Veterans 5th Online Masters in Education top10% Graduate Education Schools U.S. News and World Report ranked CEHD as the #1 Best Online Master’s in Education for Veterans for 2022. The college also rose to #5 overall for Best Online Master’s in Education program, and ranked among the top-10 percent of graduate education schools for 2023. Learn more about the rankings, and which other CEHD programs were recognized. Education & Human Development Future Students Certificate Options Centers & Outreach Throughout our history we have been charged with transforming and enriching lives through education and health. Created as a school for teachers, we are now a school for leaders. We offer 21 undergraduate programs and more than 30 graduate programs across multiple emphasis areas. Educators, sports professionals, business leaders, healthcare professionals. Whatever the industry, our graduates are game-changers. Our graduates transform lives. About our College View our Strategic Goals Bachelor’s degrees Master’s degrees Doctoral degrees Graduate Certificates Minors We Teach Texas For the 2020-2021 school year, the Texas Education Agency reported there were nearly 10,000 Aggies working in Texas schools across 668 districts and 184 counties. Thanks to our excellence in teacher preparation, these Aggies will stay in the classrooms long after their peers. Become a Teacher Learn about the TAMUS initiative COVID-19 Updates and Guidance Our top priority during this time is to ensure the safety of our students, faculty and staff. Review Texas A&M updates and guidance to learn more. TAMU Updates & Guidance We will continue to update information as it comes available. Departments in the College of Education & Human Development EAHR develops educational leaders and improves practice through teaching, research and service. Educational Administration and Human Resource Development EPSY is home to a variety of interrelated disciplines and degree options focused on human development and well-being in educational and community contexts. Educational Psychology HLKN is the largest academic department at Texas A&M University and generates over 98,000 credit hours and 203,000 (Modified) weighted student credit hours each year. Health & Kinesiology TLAC’s mission is to create experiences that advance teaching, research and service through the application of knowledge in the preparation and development of quality educators; placing high value on collaboration, diversity, critical thinking, and creativity. Teaching, Learning & Culture Staff and Faculty Kudos If you’ve had a great encounter with a College of Education and Human Development faculty or staff member, tell us about it! Nominate them here. Subscribe to our Newsletter Welcome from the Dean Tweet Share801 Share 801 Shares Contact CEHD 801 Harrington Tower College Station, TX 77843 Call: (979) 845-5311 Resources Directory myCEHD Byrne Student Success Center Administration Giving & Former Students Departments Educational Administration & Human Resource Development Educational Psychology Health & Kinesiology Teaching, Learning & Culture Quick Links Degrees & Programs Online Degree Programs Departments & Units Admissions Certificate Programs Study Abroad CEHD Events ©2022 The College of Education and Human Development TAMU Accessibility CEHD Web Team Site Policies Sitemap Translate »