Class syllabi Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Contact us Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook More Sign Ons... Skip To Main Content School of Education Search the website Open Search Box College of Human Sciences Open Mobile Menu Search the website Open Search Box Educator Preparation Program Home> Current Students> Educator Preparation Program Educator Preparation Program Once you’ve been accepted to Iowa State University, our Educator Preparation Program (EPP) prepares you for recommendation to the Iowa Board of Educational Examiners (BOEE) for licensure. EPP offers licensure recommendations to teach and lead all age groups: Birth to 3rd grade Kindergarten to 6th grade 5th to 12th grade Kindergarten to 12th grade Principal Leadership Superintendent Leadership When you join us, you learn from acclaimed faculty members writing the textbooks being used in classrooms around the country. You’ll also benefit from the emphases placed on technology in the classroom. We lead the way in education with our Educator Preparation Program so our students do the same. Students who are a part of EPP begin by choosing the age group they want to teach. Choosing secondary education (middle school and high school) also means choosing a subject or content area of focus. We offer 13 areas of concentration in our secondary education program, so whatever you choose, the program is designed to fit around you to allow you to become the kind of educator you strive to be. Every program is led by faculty who prepare our teacher candidates to lead. Learn More About Our Program Options Early childhood education (Birth-3rd) Elementary education (K-6th) Secondary education (5th-12th) K-12th education (K-12th) M.A.T. in Science Education M.A.T. in Mathematics Education Transformative School Leadership Program (Principal Program) Ed.D. in Education with an emphasis in P-12 Systems-Level Leadership (Superintendent Preparation) Need More Information? School of Education 1620 Lagomarcino Hall 901 Stange Road Ames, Iowa 50011-1041 515-294-9531 schoolofed@iastate.edu Educator Preparation Program Admission Practicum and Clinical Experiences Student Teaching Student Teaching Handbooks Licensure Recommendation Resources Annual Reports Background Checks Conceptual Framework Cooperating Teachers Curriculum Requirements Educator Prep Admission Application EPCC Policies and Procedures Praxis Exams Standards Tk20 Tk20 Frequently Asked Questions University Supervisors Steps To Be A Teacher Cyclone Teacher Merchandise Student Spotlight: Taylor Sicard “I’m excited to see what works for each grade and how I can incorporate those ideas into my own classroom.” View Close Video Player Facebook Link Twitter Link LinkedIn Link Iowa State University Merit Pages Link iastate.edu Contact School of Education 1620 Lagomarcino Hall 901 Stange Road Ames, IA 50011-1041 515-294-9531 schoolofed@iastate.edu Teacher Education Services 133 MacKay Hall 2302 Osborn Drive Ames, IA 50011-1078 515-296-8837 edadvise@iastate.edu Quick Links iastate.edu Copyright © 1995-2022, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility