Skip to main content College of Education Menu Service to the State Protect Texas Give Now Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Search Search College of Education Search Search Students Expand Career Engagement Commencement Educator Programs and Certification Overview For Families Graduate Students How to Apply See Yourself Here Undergraduate Students Welcome Longhorns Departments Expand Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Research Expand Overview Centers and Institutes Featured Research Find Faculty Research Support Alumni & Friends Expand Overview Advisory Council Alumni Stories Contact Us Update Your Information About Expand Overview Building Renovations Contact Us Facts and Rankings Map to Sánchez Building & Brazos Garage Dean's Office Units Office of the Dean Social Justice, Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Visit the College of Education Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Service to the State Home Support the College Support the College Your Gift Makes a Difference Philanthropic gifts play a crucial role in the progress and continuing success of the College of Education. Accomplishing our vision to become the preeminent education program in the country depends on the continued and generous support of our alumni, friends and corporate stakeholders. Giving to the college, at any level, is a wonderful way to say thank you for outstanding education, transformative experiences and a great network of friends. Donor Stories Giving is Joyful Susie Baker Adams, B.S. ’67, and her husband, John, are longtime supporters of undergraduates in the College of Education and believe in the power of philanthropy. more A Leader in Transformation Continues to Change Lives Throughout his career, Beeman Phillips was a leader in transforming the field of school psychology. He continues that work today by supporting students and programs through the Beeman N. Phillips Endowment and the new Sarah H. and Beeman N. Phillips Graduate Fellowship. more Providing for the Next Generation of Teachers, Researchers and Leaders Our alumni and staff alike support future generations of students through the endowed scholarship funds they created... more Susana Alemán - BS Secondary Education, ‘75, MEd Math, Science and Foreign Language ‘78, JD ‘84 Susana Alemán, who holds bachelor’s and master’s degrees from the College of Education and a doctor of jurisprudence degree from UT Law, is a loyal and dedicated alumna. She regularly... more Cory & Priscilla Redding Gridiron glory is not all that motivates former Longhorn football standout Cory Redding. The Indianapolis Colt and his wife, college alumna Priscilla (B.S. '03), recently announced their donation of $100,000 to establish the Cory and Priscilla Redding Family Scholarship in the College of Education. The gift is the University’s... more Support the College Ways to Give How to Make Your Gift Why Give to the College of Education? Funding Priorities Get Involved Support the Sánchez Renovation Contacts Giving to the College Stacey F. Oliver, 512-471-8178 Endowments Jillian Gillie, (512) 232-5012 Helpful Links Texas Exes Alumni College Fitness Institute of Texas Request a Transcript Extended Campus HookedIn College of Education Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Educator Certification Academics See Yourself Here How to Apply Student Affairs Mailing Address College of Education 1912 Speedway, Stop D5000 Austin, Texas 78712 View Map Undergraduate Student Affairs (512) 471-3223 Contact Us Helpful Links Counseling and Support Emergency Information UT Directory UT Direct Policies and Procedures Help Support Faculty Directory Manage Email Preferences Protect Texas Departments Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Administration Office of the Dean Development and Alumni Relations Business Services Career Engagement Facilities Services Office of Student Success and Recruitment Field Experiences Office of Educational Research Support Information Technology Office Office of Instructional Innovation Marketing and Communications Employment Opportunities © College of Education at the University of Texas at Austin 2021 Feedback | Site Policies | Web Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Policy | Adobe Reader