Skip to main content College of Education Menu Service to the State Protect Texas Give Now Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Search Search College of Education Search Search Students Expand Career Engagement Commencement Educator Programs and Certification Overview For Families Graduate Students How to Apply See Yourself Here Undergraduate Students Welcome Longhorns Departments Expand Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Research Expand Overview Centers and Institutes Featured Research Find Faculty Research Support Alumni & Friends Expand Overview Advisory Council Alumni Stories Contact Us Update Your Information About Expand Overview Building Renovations Contact Us Facts and Rankings Map to Sánchez Building & Brazos Garage Dean's Office Units Office of the Dean Social Justice, Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Visit the College of Education Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Service to the State Home Departments : Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Leadership and Policy alt="Graduate students lead a class discussion." Educational Leadership and Policy #5 Ranked Program by U.S. News & World Report Leadership in Education The Department of Educational Leadership and Policy has a legacy of excellence in training scholars, practitioners, and educational leaders for PK-12 public schools, higher education, and the P-16 policy arena. We prepare a diverse cadre of change-makers who go on to serve as superintendents, school principals, professors, researchers, and student affairs professionals. Our award-winning faculty, nationally recognized graduate programs, and highly regarded research centers focus on educational leadership and policy through an equity and social justice lens. Our department consists of two program areas that offer master’s and doctoral degree concentrations in specific fields: the Program in Higher Education Leadership and the Public School Executive Leadership Program. Apply to Master's or Doctoral Program Research Our collective research work as a department spans both K-12 and higher education issues, and the impact of our research contributions is evident at the state and national levels. Explore our Research Faculty Listing Contact Us Graduate Programs Ph.D. in Higher Education Leadership Through research across departments within the university, students gain first-hand experience into effective applications, policies, and leadership skills used in academia by faculty and staff. Learn More Executive Ed.D. in Higher Education Leadership Students will learn competencies in social justice, equity, research, organization, and technology that contribute to aspects of a qualified educational leader through a flexible program focused on career development. Learn More M.Ed. in Higher Education Leadership An interdisciplinary approach to course work enables students to tailor the program of study to fit their interests while building sound theoretical foundations, self-reflection practices, and practical experiences. Learn more Cooperative Superintendency Program (Ed.D.) This program prepares students with the skills, knowledge, and real-world experiences to provide direction within a dynamic educational landscape as superintendents or executive leaders. Learn More Education Policy and Planning Program (M.Ed., Ph.D.) Through vigorous coursework and innovative research, students examine important topics and issues in public schools to better inform policies that benefit all students. Learn More Texas Principal Leadership Academy (M.Ed.) The Leadership Academy is a 12-month master’s program designed to prepare graduates to be leaders of socially just, equitable, and high-achieving public schools. Learn More About the Department Learn more about our faculty, staff, and students that promote health through education. About Us > Faculty Listing > Contact Us > Prospective Student Resources > Current Student Resources (on the ELP Wiki) > Faculty and Staff Resources > Features Huriya Jabbar Selected for the 2021 Early Career Award from AERA The award from the American Educational Research Association (AERA) recognizes a scholar in the early stages of their career who has conducted a distinguished program of cumulative education research. Read the story Angela Valenzuela Named to the National Academy of Education Induction into the Academy is one of the highest career honors that can be bestowed upon an education scholar. Read the story Edwin Sharpe Looks Back on More Than 40 Years at The University of Texas at Austin In the summer of 2021, Dr. Sharpe sat down for a series of conversations with doctoral student Daniel Becton following the announcement of his retirement. Read the story Upcoming Events June 6, 2022 The Teacher Tipping Point: Developing and Sustaining the Texas Educator Workforce See more events > Latest News David DeMatthews: After Uvalde, Texas Must Support Mental Health in Schools and Common-sense Gun Reforms Faculty Grant Awards and Achievements: May 2022 Cokley and Awad: Race and Gender Shouldn’t Loom So Large Over Supreme Court Nominee’s Senate Hearings Three College of Education PhD Students Selected for 2022 TACHE Graduate Fellowship Award See more news > Alumni Notes Alumnus Joins Arizona State University as Asso. Dean of Equity, Inclusion and Community Engagement Educational Leadership and Policy Alumna Named Austin Community College Hays Dean of Students Educational Leadership and Policy Alumna Receives 2019 CAHEP Barbara Townsend Lecture Award See more alumni notes > College of Education Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Educator Certification Academics See Yourself Here How to Apply Student Affairs Mailing Address College of Education 1912 Speedway, Stop D5000 Austin, Texas 78712 View Map Undergraduate Student Affairs (512) 471-3223 Contact Us Helpful Links Counseling and Support Emergency Information UT Directory UT Direct Policies and Procedures Help Support Faculty Directory Manage Email Preferences Protect Texas Departments Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Administration Office of the Dean Development and Alumni Relations Business Services Career Engagement Facilities Services Office of Student Success and Recruitment Field Experiences Office of Educational Research Support Information Technology Office Office of Instructional Innovation Marketing and Communications Employment Opportunities © College of Education at the University of Texas at Austin 2021 Feedback | Site Policies | Web Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Policy | Adobe Reader