Skip to Main Content Brown University School of Public Health Brown University Academic and Student Affairs Search Menu Site Navigation Home Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Postdoctoral Fellowships Online Programs Student Resources Academic Resources Funding and Teaching Opportunities Advising and Mentoring Resources Career Advising Student Life Faculty Resources Teaching Resources Advising and Mentoring Resources SPH Office of Faculty Affairs Who We Are Events Search Academic and Student Affairs Alumni Resources Breadcrumb Home Career Advising Sub Navigation In This Section Student Resources Alumni Resources Employer Resources Graduate Outcomes Career Webinars Alumni Resources Considering a career change or want to refresh your portfolio? We are pleased to offer a suite of career resources to our alumni to help you to navigate your next steps. Many of the resources available to current students are accessible by alumni; we encourage you to explore those resources below. If you have any questions during your journey, please email sph-careers@brown.edu. Alumni Career Tools & Resources Brown is behind you — and alongside you — all the way. Let Brown be the liaison between your resume and your dreams. Start with Brown Alumni & Friends' suite of tools and resources. They’re easy to use, free, and exclusively for alumni. Participate in a Webinar We are always seeking alumni panelists and topics for future career webinars; please email sph-careers@brown.edu to learn more. We also welcome referrals for other alumni guest speakers, as we typically host 3-4 panelists per webinar. Fellowships If you're a recent graduate, you may be eligible for many of the fellowships we promote to our current students. We encourage you to explore our research and fellowship resources. Additional Resources Resources at Brown The School of Public Health partners with CareerLAB and many other campus departments to offer comprehensive career support. Resources Beyond Brown In addition to Brown's career resources, we encourage you to maximize your portfolio using popular career sites and search engines. Resume, Cover Letter, and Interview Resources Creating and updating your application materials should be an ongoing, iterative process. LinkedIn Resources LinkedIn offers many resources to help you learn new skills, search for opportunities, and optimize your professional online presence. Career Webinars We strongly believe that the best career advice comes from Brown alumni and industry experts. In these thematic webinars, you'll learn firsthand about diverse public health career pathways. Questions? Sean Kelley MS, EMT-B Assistant Director, Career Advising sean_kelley@brown.edu Pronouns he/him/his Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Public Health Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Postdoctoral Fellowships Online Programs Student Resources Academic Resources Funding and Teaching Opportunities Advising and Mentoring Resources Career Advising Student Life Faculty Resources Teaching Resources Advising and Mentoring Resources SPH Office of Faculty Affairs Who We Are Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Alumni Resources Open details for Alumni Resources Bookmark this Page