Skip to Main Content Brown University School of Public Health Brown University Academic and Student Affairs Search Menu Site Navigation Home Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Postdoctoral Fellowships Online Programs Student Resources Academic Resources Funding and Teaching Opportunities Advising and Mentoring Resources Career Advising Student Life Faculty Resources Teaching Resources Advising and Mentoring Resources SPH Office of Faculty Affairs Who We Are Events Search Academic and Student Affairs Master’s Programs Breadcrumb Home Academic Programs Sub Navigation In This Section Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Postdoctoral Fellowships Online Programs Master’s Programs Master of Public Health (MPH) Programs MPH The Brown MPH has a singular purpose: to train leaders in public health who are armed with the skills to conduct research, bring about policy change, and positively affect the health of populations. The program includes an internship, a thesis, and the option of customizing your MPH with one of eight concentrations. Visit Page Open details for MPH MPH for Brown Undergraduates The 5-year integrated Undergraduate/MPH (UG/MPH) degree is a rigorous program in professional public health education open to Brown undergraduates of any concentration. Visit Page Open details for MPH for Brown Undergraduates Health Equity Scholars Program The Health Equity Scholars program provides MPH students with the opportunity to address health disparities through research and practice, while also gaining critical skills for leadership. Applicants must be working toward or possess a postsecondary degree from a Historically Black College or University (HBCU) or Hispanic-Serving Institution (HSI). Visit Page Open details for Health Equity Scholars Program Brown-Tougaloo Partnership in Public Health Education Students study at both Tougaloo College and Brown University, ultimately earning a bachelor’s degree from Tougaloo and a Master of Public Health (MPH) degree from Brown. Visit Page Open details for Brown-Tougaloo Partnership in Public Health Education MD/MPH Students interested in the MD/MPH program must apply separately to Alpert Medical School; all students are eligible to apply for the MPH during the first three years at the Alpert Medical School. Visit Page Open details for MD/MPH MPH/MPA The School of Public Health and the Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs offer a dual degree Master of Public Health (MPH) and Master of Public Affairs (MPA) program, emphasizing a learning-by-doing approach. Visit Page Open details for MPH/MPA Online MPH Become a future public health leader in our flexible, case-based online Master of Public Health program. Learn More Master of Science Programs Biostatistics (Sc.M.) The master's program provides advanced training in the theory and application of statistical methods in public health, clinical medicine, and the biological sciences. Visit Page Open details for Biostatistics (Sc.M.) Biostatistics (A.M.) for Brown Undergraduates Fifth-year master’s degree that can be completed in one year after receiving a bachelor’s degree from Brown. Also open to Brown PhD students in the Open Graduate Education Program (OGE). Visit Page Open details for Biostatistics (A.M.) for Brown Undergraduates NextGen Scholars Program in Biostatistics The NextGen Scholars Program provides financial and academic support to outstanding students and graduates of Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) to pursue a master’s degree in biostatistics at Brown University. Visit Page Open details for NextGen Scholars Program in Biostatistics Clinical and Translational Research (Sc.M. or Certificate) Master's program (9 courses) designed primarily for physicians, doctorally-trained basic scientists, and students in doctoral programs or medical school. Also available as a certificate (4 courses). Visit Page Open details for Clinical and Translational Research (Sc.M. or Certificate) Global Public Health (Sc.M.) An applied master's program integrating international fieldwork and a thesis. While no longer accepting applications, we encourage you to consider our Global Health MPH concentration. Visit Page Open details for Global Public Health (Sc.M.) Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Public Health Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Postdoctoral Fellowships Online Programs Student Resources Academic Resources Funding and Teaching Opportunities Advising and Mentoring Resources Career Advising Student Life Faculty Resources Teaching Resources Advising and Mentoring Resources SPH Office of Faculty Affairs Who We Are Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Master’s Programs Open details for Master’s Programs Bookmark this Page