Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | College of Education Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home Future Students Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Online Programs Certificate Programs Incoming Freshmen TEACHER EDUCATION PATHWAYS Parents Graduate Students Transfer Students International Students Admissions Student Experience Scholarships & Aid Current Students Office of Academic Services and Intern Support (OASIS) Career Services College of Education Student Organizations Student Leadership Council Technology Resources Statistical and Research Design Consultation Services Research Consultation Service FAQs for Graduate Students Graduation Scholarships & Aid Alumni & Friends Support the College Dean's Circle Distinguished Alumni Awards Events The Torch Magazine Research COE Office of Research Latest Faculty Research Initiatives Marvalene Hughes Research in Education Conference Research Centers, Teams, & Initiatives About Faculty & Staff Directory College News News & Media Contact Us Department of Educational Leadership & Policy Studies Department of Educational Psychology & Learning Systems Department of Sport Management School of Teacher Education Centers & Institutes Facilities Tallahassee COE Employment Project ElevatED Strategic Plan Innovation Faculty & Staff Resources Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU College of Education Home Future Students Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Online Programs Certificate Programs Incoming Freshmen TEACHER EDUCATION PATHWAYS Parents Graduate Students Transfer Students International Students Admissions Student Experience Scholarships & Aid Current Students Office of Academic Services and Intern Support (OASIS) Career Services College of Education Student Organizations Student Leadership Council Technology Resources Statistical and Research Design Consultation Services Research Consultation Service FAQs for Graduate Students Graduation Scholarships & Aid Alumni & Friends Support the College Dean's Circle Distinguished Alumni Awards Events The Torch Magazine Research COE Office of Research Latest Faculty Research Initiatives Marvalene Hughes Research in Education Conference Research Centers, Teams, & Initiatives About Faculty & Staff Directory College News News & Media Contact Us Department of Educational Leadership & Policy Studies Department of Educational Psychology & Learning Systems Department of Sport Management School of Teacher Education Centers & Institutes Facilities Tallahassee COE Employment Project ElevatED Strategic Plan Innovation Faculty & Staff Resources Home Current Students Technology Resources Technology Resources TECHNOLOGY RESOURCES Step inside the Mode L. Stone Building and you will see why students here are so well-prepared for the educational technologies of the future. It is filled with leading-edge technology and learning facilities designed to accommodate all the tools and resources used by tomorrow’s students. Originally constructed in 1977, the Mode L. Stone Building was expanded and renovated 30 years later to become one of the most unique and celebrated buildings on campus. In addition to being one of only three Florida State structures to gain LEED certification from the U.S. Green Building Council, the Stone Building has twice been recognized for excellence in architecture and construction. TECH SANDBOX This dynamic learning environment gives you hands-on access to various instructional technologies, as well as the practical knowledge of how they can be embedded in your future career in teaching, learning, assessment, and research. This facility houses technologies for all aspects of education, from Pre-K through graduate, and ensures our students meet rigorous accreditation requirements, state standards, and accomplished practices. As of now, we have Oculus Rift, HTC Vive, ClearTouch, 3D scanner and printer, Osmo, Sphero, and the commitment to adopt new technologies as they are developed. SPORT PSYCHOLOGY LAB As a student of the College of Education, you have access to the advanced technology in the Sport Psychology Lab – biofeedback, eye-tracking, perceptual and reaction time equipment. The lab is the site of many innovative studies in sport/exercise and a great resource for students studying Sports Psychology. ASSISTIVE TECHNOLOGY CENTER In the Visual Disabilities program, you learn to master technology while blindfolded so that you are then able to develop appropriate lessons for the visually impaired. The center is equipped with 14 vision-accessible computers as well as a Braille embosser and electronic Braille display, an adapted scanner, closed-circuit television, and several hand-held electronic viewers. LEARNING RESOURCE CENTER The LRC is where you go for technological support services, lab and classroom facilities, multimedia equipment, or just a quiet study area for you or a small group of friends. SCIENCE LAB School of Teacher Education students use this lab to practice their science-teaching skills in a fully equipped, high-tech facility. The space is designed to mimic a typical middle or high school science lab with state-of-the-art equipment like a 77-inch Smart Board with speakers, ceiling-mounted LCD projector, and microscopes. TULLY LAB You will find this fully-equipped computer lab (located in 2016 Tully Gymnasium) a great place to study, work on assignments, or conduct research. The lab houses 24 Windows computers, a laser printer, and an LCD projector. Tully computer lab is open: Monday – Thursday: 8:00am -10:00pm Friday: 8:00am – 6:00pm The Tully Lab can be reached at (850) 644-1513, and reservations can be made here. MORGAN STUDIO All types of technology come together in the Robert M. Morgan Instructional Systems Multi-Media Studio, which students use for Instructional Systems and Learning Technologies (ISLT) courseware, teaching and events, learning and application opportunities, and resources for digital production and distribution. FSU COE ACTIVE LEARNING SPACES Active learning can happen in any discipline, within any instructional technique, and in any class setting. Recently, many universities, architects, and designers have started paying special attention to the design of spaces that could facilitate active learning, promote innovative teaching, and provide an overall engaging learning environment. In partnership with Steelcase, we redesigned one of our classrooms here in the Stone building to become an active learning space. TEACHLIVE™ TeachLivE™ enables FSU College of Education students to “virtually” practice their teaching, classroom management, behavior management, and other skills in an environment resembling a classroom or other academic environment. The COE Virtual Lab The COE Virtual Lab allows any College of Education student 24/7 remote access to our campus computer lab software by any Windows, Mac, and supported mobile device from any location with Internet access. In addition to the software provided by FSU, the College of Education also includes LISREL, MPlus, HLM, and Adobe Captivate. Click here to learn how to use the FSU Virtual Lab. Future Students Incoming Freshmen Parents Graduate Students Transfer Students International Students About Department of Educational Leadership & Policy Studies Department of Educational Psychology & Learning Systems Department of Sport Management School of Teacher Education Centers & Institutes Faculty & Staff Tallahassee Facilities Employment Student Resources Academic Services (OASIS) Scholarships & Aid Learning Resource Center Career Services LiveText Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Research C.O.R.E. Latest Initiatives Research Centers Office of Research Degrees & Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Certificate Programs Online Programs Study Abroad Faculty & Staff Resources Office of Information and Instructional Technologies News & Media College News Services Alumni & Friends Events The TORCH Magazine Make a Donation Distinguished Alumni Stone Building · 1114 W. Call Street · Tallahassee, Florida · 32306-4450 850.644.6885 © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media