Skip to Main Content Brown University School of Public Health Brown University Academic and Student Affairs Search Menu Site Navigation Home Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Postdoctoral Fellowships Online Programs Student Resources Academic Resources Funding and Teaching Opportunities Advising and Mentoring Resources Career Advising Student Life Faculty Resources Teaching Resources Advising and Mentoring Resources SPH Office of Faculty Affairs Who We Are Events Search Academic and Student Affairs Our Spaces Breadcrumb Home Student Resources Academic Resources Sub Navigation In This Section Specialist Librarians Course Registration Computing Resources Student Awards Our Spaces Delta Omega Honorary Society in Public Health Public Health Research Day Our Spaces 121 South Main Street houses multiple classrooms, computer labs, conference rooms, and lounge spaces. Student Spaces There are various areas throughout the School designed for student use. Computer labs (Rooms 251 and 374): These rooms are available to students on a first-come-first-serve basis whenever they are not being used for a course. Each room contains both desktops with necessary software installed and docking stations for students to work on personal laptops Graduate Student Lounge: Open to all graduate students; located on the third floor Health Room (Room 360; behind classroom 375): Reserve via the Health Room Appointment Calendar Kitchenettes (outside of the second floor classrooms and adjacent to student mailboxes on the third floor): Students have access to vending machines, a sink, microwave, refrigerator/freezer, and coffee maker Reserving Space Our Office is responsible for reserving space for all courses, labs, discussion sections, and faculty & TA office hours that are held in the building. To schedule faculty or TA office hours, please email Barbara Dailey the following information: The class you are teaching or TAing for The days and times you wish to hold your office hours Whether you plan to meet with students one-on-one or in a group setting Mail Boxes and Services All graduate students at the School of Public Health are provided a mail slot with University Mail Services delivery. Mailboxes are located on the third floor of the SPH building and organized alphabetically by last name. View the Student Mail Services Policy. Locker Policy Lockers are available to all master’s students (and doctoral students with a demonstrated need on a case-by-case basis). Lockers are located on the second and third floors of the SPH building. View the Locker Policy and Request Form. Carrels All doctoral students at the School of Public Health are assigned to an individual work space (carrel) at the School. Carrel spaces are typically organized by program and are located on floors 2, 3, 4, 6 and 7. Rooms 242 and 603 are first-year doctoral student offices. Virtual Tour Explore the School of Public Health from anywhere with our interactive virtual tour. View Tour Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Public Health Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Postdoctoral Fellowships Online Programs Student Resources Academic Resources Funding and Teaching Opportunities Advising and Mentoring Resources Career Advising Student Life Faculty Resources Teaching Resources Advising and Mentoring Resources SPH Office of Faculty Affairs Who We Are Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Our Spaces Open details for Our Spaces Bookmark this Page