Skip to Main Content Brown University School of Public Health Brown University Academic and Student Affairs Search Menu Site Navigation Home Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Postdoctoral Fellowships Online Programs Student Resources Academic Resources Funding and Teaching Opportunities Advising and Mentoring Resources Career Advising Student Life Faculty Resources Teaching Resources Advising and Mentoring Resources SPH Office of Faculty Affairs Who We Are Events Search Academic and Student Affairs Funding and Teaching Opportunities Breadcrumb Home Student Resources Sub Navigation In This Section Academic Resources Funding and Teaching Opportunities Teaching Assistantships Student Travel Funding Nora Kahn Piore Award Advising and Mentoring Resources Career Advising Student Life Funding and Teaching Opportunities Learn about student funding and teaching opportunities from awards to conference travel to teaching assistantships. Funding Opportunities at SPH Teaching Assistantships The School of Public Health offers students at all levels opportunities to engage in teaching support. School of Public Health Conference Travel Support Doctoral students who present original work at academic conferences can request support from both the Graduate School and the School of Public Health. The School will provide up to $400 to cover related travel expenses not covered by the Graduate School. Students are eligible to receive a total of $400 during their doctoral training period. Nora Kahn Piore Award Established in recognition of the lifetime work of health policy expert, Nora Kahn Piore. MPH Thesis Award Each year, MPH students are eligible to apply for an MPH Thesis Grant Award within the School of Public Health. Students are awarded funds in the amount of $300 by a review committee in the School. Other degree programs may offer thesis or research funding. Please see your program website for details. Funding opportunities for masters, doctoral, and postdoctoral researchers The Offices of Research Development and of Corporate & Foundation Relations compile listings of funding opportunities for masters, doctoral, and postdoctoral researchers. NIH Diversity Grants The NIH Diversity Supplement Program & the Ruth L. Kirschstein National Research Service award individual predoctoral fellowship to promote diversity in health-related research Funding Opportunities at Brown Framework in Global Health Scholarship Provides funding to support global health scholarships for undergraduates, graduate students, medical students, and residents/fellows. Receive up to $3,500 to support global health research, service, and advocacy activities directly linked to Brown University faculty scholarly projects. Global Health Scholars work on global health issues at foreign/international low and middle-income country sites for a minimum 8 weeks. Fulbright-Fogarty Awards in Public Health Fulbright-Fogarty Awards, promote the expansion of research in public health and clinical research in resource-limited settings. Fulbright-Fogarty Awards carry the same benefits as the traditional Fulbright Study/Research grants to the host country. The program is designed for students currently enrolled in a graduate-level program and who are interested in global health. Graduate School Conference Travel Support Doctoral and Master’s students who present original work at academic conferences can request up to $650 in support from the Graduate School once per fiscal year (July 1 through June 30), as determined by the end date of travel. Reimbursement will not be granted for merely attending a conference. Given funding limitations, application does not guarantee support. Graduate Student Council Travel Support The GSC provides funding to reimburse conference and dissertation/field work related travel expenses. Individuals may receive one funding request per fiscal year in the amount of $250. Preference is given to applicants who have exhausted, been denied, or are ineligible for other means of funding. Applicants who have applied to other funding sources and have not yet received notification should also apply for GSC funds: Global Mobility Program: Graduate Research Fellowship The Graduate School offers fellowships for doctoral students to pursue research internationally through the Global Mobility Research Fellowship program. The program supports doctoral students who seek to conduct pre-dissertation or dissertation research abroad during one summer or academic year semester. The program funds current research projects of exceptional value that require international research activity. Doctoral Research Travel Grant This program provides supplemental funding for scholarly research travel that occurs July 1 - June 30. Venture Development Funds Venture support funds through the Nelson Center are designed with a loose “path” in mind, one consistent with their structured approach to venture creation. Internal Funding Opportunities Internal Funding Opportunities at Brown Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Public Health Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Postdoctoral Fellowships Online Programs Student Resources Academic Resources Funding and Teaching Opportunities Advising and Mentoring Resources Career Advising Student Life Faculty Resources Teaching Resources Advising and Mentoring Resources SPH Office of Faculty Affairs Who We Are Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Funding and Teaching Opportunities Open details for Funding and Teaching Opportunities Bookmark this Page