Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Education Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home Academics Undergraduate Graduate People Faculty Staff Graduate Students News & Events News Upcoming Events Events Archive About History Mission & Goals Contact & Directions Stay Connected Brown Summer High School 2022 Course Descriptions Apply to BSHS Search Department of Education Mission & Goals The Department of Education’s mission is to understand and improve education through research, teaching, and practice. Breadcrumb Home About Sub Navigation In This Section History Mission & Goals Contact & Directions Stay Connected Our Mission The Department of Education’s mission is to understand and improve education through research, teaching, and practice. We are committed to a liberal arts approach to undergraduate and graduate education that emphasizes critical inquiry and reflection, broad and diverse perspectives, dedication to the public good, the interconnection of theory and practice, and a multi-disciplinary education that equips students to be thoughtful leaders and agents of change. As scholars, teachers, and practitioners, we aim to advance knowledge and to improve education systems, support student learning, and promote equity and opportunity through education, and to increase the representation of historically under-represented groups in teaching, policy, and leadership. Our Goals Produce transformative research. We aim to understand and improve education through high-quality and influential scholarship that makes a positive impact on real-world practice. Prepare students to make a difference through education. We will prepare students to think broadly and deeply about education, to inquire rigorously, and to use their knowledge and skills effectively to make a difference in the world. We will equip students with the tools and commitment to be leaders and change agents attentive to the needs of students, families, and communities. Build community. We will foster a diverse, inclusive, and supportive community in a department united in its commitment to improving education quality and opportunity. Contribute to Rhode Island. We will support engagement with and improvement of the educational landscape in Rhode Island’s urban core, especially Providence. Our students, programs, and our graduates should contribute to strengthening public education in the local area. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Academics Undergraduate Graduate People Faculty Staff Graduate Students News & Events News Upcoming Events Events Archive About History Mission & Goals Contact & Directions Stay Connected Brown Summer High School 2022 Course Descriptions Apply to BSHS Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Mission & Goals Open details for Mission & Goals Bookmark this Page