Skip to main content College of Education Menu Service to the State Protect Texas Give Now Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Search Search College of Education Search Search Students Expand Career Engagement Commencement Educator Programs and Certification Overview For Families Graduate Students How to Apply See Yourself Here Undergraduate Students Welcome Longhorns Departments Expand Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Research Expand Overview Centers and Institutes Featured Research Find Faculty Research Support Alumni & Friends Expand Overview Advisory Council Alumni Stories Contact Us Update Your Information About Expand Overview Building Renovations Contact Us Facts and Rankings Map to Sánchez Building & Brazos Garage Dean's Office Units Office of the Dean Social Justice, Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Visit the College of Education Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Service to the State Home About : Dean's Office Units Office of Student Success and Recruitment Office of Student Success and Recruitment Director Antoinette Stanley Hart Ensuring Student Success The Office of Student Success and Recruitment is dedicated to making sure you have access to the resources and mentorship needed to achieve your academic goals. We believe you have the ability to face any challenges presented to you, and we offer guidance and support along the way through academic advising, peer mentorship, student success workshops, and academic achievement programs. Our Roadmap for Success and support programs will help you stay on track. We are proud of our record of helping students stay on track to graduate in four years. The Class of 2020 set a record for the College of Education's four-year graduation rate at 84%, the second-highest rate of any college or school on campus. Request Additional Information Recruiting We also work with high school and transfer students who may not otherwise consider attending the university. While campus visits are currently curtailed due to the coronavirus pandemic, our office traditionally has invited local high school students in TAFE (Texas Association of Future Educators), and Ready, Set, Teach classrooms to join us for a day of attending a mock class with world-class professors, talking with current students about courses and life as a Longhorn, and going on a campus tour. Last year we hosted "Bats to Bevo," an event specifically to recruit transfer students interested in pursuing teaching professions with the Department of Curriculum and Instruction and Austin Community College representatives. Participants had the opportunity to speak with UT faculty, admissions/financial aid representatives, academic advisors, and current UT Austin students. We are looking forward to resuming our high school visits as soon as we are able. Welcoming Students to Campus We work closely with the Advising Team on many of our activities. We work hard to make sure you feel welcome and to get you the information you need to make your final decision to attend UT Austin. These activities include: collaborating with the Office of Admissions on and off-campus visits such as Longhorn for a Day Road Trips, Longhorn Regional Meet-Ups, Texas Preview, LEAD Texas, #FirstGenLonghorns Preview Day, and Longhorn Pride: An LGBTQIA+ Visit Day; prospective student information sessions throughout the summer and academic year; phone campaigns. Once you commit to UT Austin, we welcome you during the college and university-wide orientation sessions where you will have the opportunity to meet advisors, faculty, and student leaders and learn about our programs and services. We also extend our welcome to current UT Austin students who are interested in learning more about the degrees and majors we offer, resources and services, leadership opportunities, and procedures to transfer into our college. If you are a UT student interested in transferring to the College of Education, you are required to attend an Internal Transfer Session before meeting with an Academic Advisor. Learn more on our How to Apply page. Check our events calendar Student Support Programs P.O.W.E.R. Program The P.O.W.E.R. (Promoting Opportunities With Educational Resources) program is here to help you to reach your full potential during your academic career. Unexpected challenges may arise during your time here, and it can be difficult to stay on track with your academic goals. Through regular meetings with academic advisors, we will make sure you align your goals, and take proactive measures to achieve all that you want in your academic career. We provide mentorship that makes sure you have access to everything you need on your path to success. PALs Program Nobody knows the challenges of college better than a student. By joining the PALs program, you can become a mentor who promotes leadership and success for other students. PAL mentors also have opportunities to assist with recruitment and retention efforts by conducting student success workshops to share what they have learned in their college careers. EDvantage Academic Achievement Program We want our students to have the confidence and resources they need to stay on track for graduation. Students who are removed from academic probation have the opportunity to participate in advising sessions, workshops, and resources available through the EDvantage Academic Achievement Program. To participate in the program, you will be required to: meet with an advisor, complete a post-probation assessment, meet with your professors to complete two progress reports, and attend two workshops during the semester. Staff Antoinette Stanley Hart, MA, Director Antoinette has been at the university for more than 30 years and serves as Director of Student Success and Recruitment and liaison to the University of Texas Urban Teachers Program. She also advises prospective and current students majoring in applied learning and development and kinesiology and health education. Kimberlee Ralph, Graduate Assistant for Student Success Kimberlee is a graduate student in the Education Policy and Planning program in the College of Education. Her background is in secondary literacy education and curriculum development. Student Services SZB 2.110 Student Affairs (includes Academic Advising) (512) 471-3223 Field Experiences Supports students in the Future Teachers Professional Development Sequence (512) 471-1511 Email Field Experiences Certification Office 512-471-1511 Email the Certification Office Career Engagement (512) 471-1306 Email Education Career Engagement Student Success and Recruitment (512) 471-3223 Email Student Success and Recruitment College of Education Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Educator Certification Academics See Yourself Here How to Apply Student Affairs Mailing Address College of Education 1912 Speedway, Stop D5000 Austin, Texas 78712 View Map Undergraduate Student Affairs (512) 471-3223 Contact Us Helpful Links Counseling and Support Emergency Information UT Directory UT Direct Policies and Procedures Help Support Faculty Directory Manage Email Preferences Protect Texas Departments Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Administration Office of the Dean Development and Alumni Relations Business Services Career Engagement Facilities Services Office of Student Success and Recruitment Field Experiences Office of Educational Research Support Information Technology Office Office of Instructional Innovation Marketing and Communications Employment Opportunities © College of Education at the University of Texas at Austin 2021 Feedback | Site Policies | Web Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Policy | Adobe Reader