Skip to main content College of Education Menu Service to the State Protect Texas Give Now Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Search Search College of Education Search Search Students Expand Career Engagement Commencement Educator Programs and Certification Overview For Families Graduate Students How to Apply See Yourself Here Undergraduate Students Welcome Longhorns Departments Expand Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Research Expand Overview Centers and Institutes Featured Research Find Faculty Research Support Alumni & Friends Expand Overview Advisory Council Alumni Stories Contact Us Update Your Information About Expand Overview Building Renovations Contact Us Facts and Rankings Map to Sánchez Building & Brazos Garage Dean's Office Units Office of the Dean Social Justice, Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Visit the College of Education Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Service to the State Home Research : Centers and Institutes Centers and Institutes In addition to our five departments of academic study, the College of Education is proud to be the home of the following research institutes, centers, and support offices. These programs have their own administrative offices, and are affiliated with the research conducted by our faculty and graduate students. Each center aims to increase the knowledge and practices of teaching and learning from multiple perspectives of education. Center for Applied Psychometric Research The Center for Applied Psychometric Research is dedicated to providing cutting-edge statistical and psychometric research and evaluation services to further educational improvements at the K-12 and higher education levels and to inform educators, researchers, policymakers, and other stakeholders in the education process. Learn more Center for Community College Student Engagement (CCCSE) CCCSE—a service and research initiative—assists institutions and policymakers in using information to promote improvements in student learning, persistence, and attainment by delivering “aha” moments about the student experience based on insights that matter. Since its founding in 2001, more than 70% of the nation’s community colleges have participated multiple times in a CCCSE survey. Learn more H.J. Lutcher Stark Center for Physical Culture and Sports The H.J. Lutcher Stark Center for Physical Culture and Sports serves as a resource and research center in the fields of physical culture and sports. The Center has two main divisions: The Stark Center Library and The Center’s museum and exhibit galleries, the Joe and Betty Weider Museum of Physical Culture. Learn more Institute for Public School Initiatives The Institute for Public School Initiatives focuses on improving student performance from preschool through high school via strategic partnerships with UT institutions, community colleges, school districts, and state agencies. Learn more Meadows Center for Preventing Educational Risk The Meadows Center for Preventing Educational Risk is dedicated to generating and disseminating empirically validated knowledge and practices to influence educators, researchers, policy-makers, families, and other stakeholders who are striving to reduce academic, behavioral, and social risk in all learners, particularly those with disabilities. Learn more National Deaf Center As deaf people leave high school and prepare for college or careers, the National Deaf Center (NDC) wants them to succeed. Our research shows that deaf people are not completing college degrees, getting jobs, or earning as much as hearing people. We’re here to change that. Learn more National Institute for Staff and Organizational Development (NISOD) NISOD provides budget-friendly, high-quality, and faculty-focused programs and resources for community and technical colleges that want to make the most of their professional development dollars. For over 40 years, NISOD has aligned a wide array of benefits with the needs of our members, which explains why the American Association of Community Colleges named NISOD, “The country’s leading provider of professional development for community college faculty, staff, and administrators.” Learn more Texas Center for Education Policy The Texas Center for Education Policy engages in extensive research, analysis, development, and implementation of state educational policy. The center is dedicated to defining major policy issues and assessing the effectiveness of various policy-development strategies and alternatives. Learn more Texas Center for Equity Promotion TexCEP supports and conducts high quality applied culturally-centered research, disseminates evidence-based information, and trains future professionals regarding the nature, origins, contexts, effects, and elimination of inequalities in education and health. TexCEP focuses on populations burdened with the greatest impact of educational and health disparities as a result of adverse social and economic conditions. Learn more The University of Texas Education Research Center (UTERC) UTERC is a jointly established research collaborative comprised of three University of Texas System campuses (Austin, San Antonio and Pan American) and Texas State University - San Marcos. The UTTCERP reports findings on critical education issues in Texas. Learn more about UTERC Vaughn Gross Center for Reading and Language Arts The Vaughn Gross Center for Reading and Language Arts provides information to educators statewide and nationally about research-based effective practices in the teaching of reading and language arts. The center aims to promote academic success for students in Texas and across the nation. Learn more COERA About COERA Proposal Process Awards Process SMARTER Consulting SMARTER Consulting Information College of Education Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Educator Certification Academics See Yourself Here How to Apply Student Affairs Mailing Address College of Education 1912 Speedway, Stop D5000 Austin, Texas 78712 View Map Undergraduate Student Affairs (512) 471-3223 Contact Us Helpful Links Counseling and Support Emergency Information UT Directory UT Direct Policies and Procedures Help Support Faculty Directory Manage Email Preferences Protect Texas Departments Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Administration Office of the Dean Development and Alumni Relations Business Services Career Engagement Facilities Services Office of Student Success and Recruitment Field Experiences Office of Educational Research Support Information Technology Office Office of Instructional Innovation Marketing and Communications Employment Opportunities © College of Education at the University of Texas at Austin 2021 Feedback | Site Policies | Web Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Policy | Adobe Reader