Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Education Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home Academics Undergraduate Graduate People Faculty Staff Graduate Students News & Events News Upcoming Events Events Archive About History Mission & Goals Contact & Directions Stay Connected Brown Summer High School 2022 Course Descriptions Apply to BSHS Search Department of Education Master of Arts in Teaching The intensive, yearlong Master of Arts in Teaching program trains students to become impactful secondary teachers who demonstrate excellence in both their academic discipline and the multifaceted field of education. Breadcrumb Home Academics Graduate Sub Navigation In This Section Master of Arts in Teaching Program Overview Our Alumni How to Apply Cost and Financial Aid Connect with Us Combined Baccalaureate/MAT Degree 5th-Year MAT Frequently Asked Questions Urban Education Policy A.M. Master of Arts in Teaching The intensive, yearlong Master of Arts in Teaching program trains students to become impactful secondary teachers who demonstrate excellence in both their academic discipline and the multifaceted field of education. Commitment. Collaboration. Transformative Classrooms. Educators play a key role in confronting rising inequality in cities across the United States. That’s why our Master of Arts in Teaching — designed by faculty in partnership with local educators to respond specifically to real-world challenges — equips future teachers with the tools they’ll need to fulfill the most pressing needs of urban secondary schools in Rhode Island and beyond. The yearlong MAT program at Brown is unique in blending the best of university and residency-based teacher education programs, combining intensive coursework, immersive teaching experiences, and personalized coaching to prepare teachers to become culturally responsive and impactful educators advancing the cause of justice. Investing in educational equity and opportunities We are committed to diversity and inclusion in teacher education — and the teaching profession — and don't want cost to be a barrier to entry. That's why Brown has significantly expanded its commitment to merit and need-based aid to MAT students. Students with demonstrated need are eligible for scholarships that cover full tuition, living stipends, health fees, and insurance. 93% secure teaching jobs within 3 months 25-35 cohort size 100% of financial need met Why we’re different A unique blend of University and residency-based teacher preparation Our MAT candidates benefit from both experienced Brown faculty and exceptional mentor-teachers. Students are immersed in a local urban school from fall to spring, taking classes both at Brown and at the school site. Integration of theory and practice At Brown, the relationship between coursework and fieldwork is a reciprocal one. Forging connections between the classroom and the meeting room allows students to continuously connect theory to practice in deep and meaningful ways. Culturally responsive pedagogy Our teaching emphasizes access, equity, and affordability. Students in all subjects learn to support English learners in the classroom through an asset-based lens. A small, collaborative cohort The MAT cohort is kept small to enable students to foster close, lifelong relationships with each other and with our distinguished faculty. An engaged local and national alumni community Brown alumni offer professional support and lasting professional connections. Addressing Inequality in the Classroom Brown’s MAT program taught Carol Amaya MAT ’19 the importance of drawing connections between historical events and current inequalities in the classroom. Read More https://www.youtube.com/embed/VgDrYy1aISY The Power of Mentors Kashmeel McKoena shares his Master of Arts in Teaching experience at Brown Program Overview Both inside and outside the classroom, Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT) students receive top-notch preparation for secondary-school teaching careers (grades 7-12) in urban schools. Our Alumni Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT) graduates emerge prepared to lead with impact, inside urban classrooms and beyond. Admissions Inquiry Form Rhode Island Department of Education Connect with an MAT Student Ambassador Rhode Island Department of Education EdPrep Index Important Dates The academic year begins in June and concludes the following May. The application deadline for 2022 entry into our graduate programs was January 19, 2022. The application portal will reopen in early September 2022 for the next admissions cycle. Request more information. How to Apply The Brown Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT) program seeks candidates who have demonstrated commitment to youth, an understanding of school contexts, strong content knowledge, a record of achievement and a belief that all students can learn and deserve inspiring, skillful classroom teachers who are prepared to disrupt educational inequality. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Academics Undergraduate Graduate People Faculty Staff Graduate Students News & Events News Upcoming Events Events Archive About History Mission & Goals Contact & Directions Stay Connected Brown Summer High School 2022 Course Descriptions Apply to BSHS Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Master of Arts in Teaching Open details for Master of Arts in Teaching Bookmark this Page