Skip to main content College of Education Menu Service to the State Protect Texas Give Now Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Search Search College of Education Search Search Students Expand Career Engagement Commencement Educator Programs and Certification Overview For Families Graduate Students How to Apply See Yourself Here Undergraduate Students Welcome Longhorns Departments Expand Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Research Expand Overview Centers and Institutes Featured Research Find Faculty Research Support Alumni & Friends Expand Overview Advisory Council Alumni Stories Contact Us Update Your Information About Expand Overview Building Renovations Contact Us Facts and Rankings Map to Sánchez Building & Brazos Garage Dean's Office Units Office of the Dean Social Justice, Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Visit the College of Education Faculty Directory News Events How to Give How to Apply Service to the State Home Students : Graduate Students Graduate Students alt="A group of students discuss incorporating social justice into their administrative practices" Graduate Students Preparing Future Leaders in Education and Health Professions As a graduate student in the College of Education, you will learn skills and theories that lead to positive change in education, policy, and public health. Our research-driven programs allow you to work alongside expert faculty, tackling issues that have a direct effect on the lives and education of children and communities. View Graduate Programs and Degrees Ranking Information #16 College of Education U.S. News & World Report #9 Curriculum and Instruction U.S. News & World Report #6 Educational Psychology U.S. News & World Report #9 Kinesiology and Health Education National Academy of Kinesiology #7 Special Education U.S. News & World Report #5 Educational Administration and Supervision U.S. News & World Report Why Our College Our college is highly ranked by U.S. News and World Report. Across our departments, we value teaching, community, high-impact research, and rigorous academics that make our college one of the best in the country. Mission Academic Programs and Contacts Faculty Profiles Social Justice and Equity The College of Education is committed to a culture of equity, inclusion, social justice, and diversity in which students, faculty, and staff engage in an environment that is welcoming and respectful of all people. We embrace these tenets as evidenced in our research, curricula, and service to the community as we prepare our graduates to succeed in a diverse world. Equity, Inclusion, Social Justice, & Diversity Faculty Researchers Relevant Courses Resources Education Research Our research spans topics of teaching, higher education, psychology, sport culture, and public health. Students and faculty explore issues that directly affect local communities and education policies throughout the country. Office of Educational Research Support Statistics Consulting Centers and Institutes Texas Education Review Community Mentors, peers, and student organizations provide you with guidance and support on and off campus. You will be able to find like-minded individuals and groups that will enrich your professional and personal growth as a graduate student. COE Graduate Student Council Graduate Student Profiles Graduation Exit Requirement Financial Support and Employment Fellowships and financial aid provide ways to make your graduate school experience more affordable. Student and academic employment opportunities allow you to reduce the burden of tuition while gaining valuable work experience. Learn more University Resources Being a part of such a large university has its perks. The University of Texas at Austin offers resources and support for your research, writing, academics, community, and personal health. The Graduate School University Libraries Texas Career Engagement Office of Research Support and Compliance Counseling and Mental Health Center The Writing Center Division of Diversity and Community Engagement Looking for More Information? Tell us a bit about yourself, and what programs you are interested in. We'll be in contact with specific program information, and answer any questions you may have about Texas Education. Request more information College of Education Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Educator Certification Academics See Yourself Here How to Apply Student Affairs Mailing Address College of Education 1912 Speedway, Stop D5000 Austin, Texas 78712 View Map Undergraduate Student Affairs (512) 471-3223 Contact Us Helpful Links Counseling and Support Emergency Information UT Directory UT Direct Policies and Procedures Help Support Faculty Directory Manage Email Preferences Protect Texas Departments Curriculum and Instruction Educational Leadership and Policy Educational Psychology Kinesiology and Health Education Special Education Administration Office of the Dean Development and Alumni Relations Business Services Career Engagement Facilities Services Office of Student Success and Recruitment Field Experiences Office of Educational Research Support Information Technology Office Office of Instructional Innovation Marketing and Communications Employment Opportunities © College of Education at the University of Texas at Austin 2021 Feedback | Site Policies | Web Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Policy | Adobe Reader