Skip to Main Content Brown University School of Public Health Brown University Academic and Student Affairs Search Menu Site Navigation Home Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Postdoctoral Fellowships Online Programs Student Resources Academic Resources Funding and Teaching Opportunities Advising and Mentoring Resources Career Advising Student Life Faculty Resources Teaching Resources Advising and Mentoring Resources SPH Office of Faculty Affairs Who We Are Events Search Academic and Student Affairs Academic Programs Sub Navigation In This Section Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Postdoctoral Fellowships Online Programs Academic Programs Our students bring their passion, discipline, intelligence, and compassion to bear on the most pressing public health challenges we face. We equip them with the skills they need to translate that passion into meaningful work that impacts population health. Undergraduate Programs Public Health (A.B.) An interdisciplinary concentration through which students examine a variety of health issues, including population health and disease, health policy, cross-cultural and international aspects of health, the organizational and social structures through which health services are delivered and received, and the public health system. Visit Page Open details for Public Health (A.B.) Statistics (Sc.B.) A concentration designed to provide foundations that include basic statistical concepts and methodologies, and to expose students to the role of statistical thinking and analysis in interdisciplinary research and in the public sphere. Visit Page Open details for Statistics (Sc.B.) Master of Public Health (MPH) Programs MPH The Brown MPH has a singular purpose: to train leaders in public health who are armed with the skills to conduct research, bring about policy change, and positively affect the health of populations. The program includes an internship, a thesis, and the option of customizing your MPH with one of eight concentrations. Visit Page Open details for MPH MPH for Brown Undergraduates The 5-year integrated Undergraduate/MPH (UG/MPH) degree is a rigorous program in professional public health education open to Brown undergraduates of any concentration. Visit Page Open details for MPH for Brown Undergraduates Health Equity Scholars Program The Health Equity Scholars program provides MPH students with the opportunity to address health disparities through research and practice, while also gaining critical skills for leadership. Applicants must be working toward or possess a postsecondary degree from a Historically Black College or University (HBCU) or Hispanic-Serving Institution (HSI). Visit Page Open details for Health Equity Scholars Program Brown-Tougaloo Partnership in Public Health Education Students study at both Tougaloo College and Brown University, ultimately earning a bachelor’s degree from Tougaloo and a Master of Public Health (MPH) degree from Brown. Visit Page Open details for Brown-Tougaloo Partnership in Public Health Education MD/MPH Students interested in the MD/MPH program must apply separately to Alpert Medical School; all students are eligible to apply for the MPH during the first three years at the Alpert Medical School. Visit Page Open details for MD/MPH MPH/MPA The School of Public Health and the Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs offer a dual degree Master of Public Health (MPH) and Master of Public Affairs (MPA) program, emphasizing a learning-by-doing approach. Visit Page Open details for MPH/MPA Online MPH Become a future public health leader in our flexible, case-based online Master of Public Health program. Learn More Master of Science Programs Biostatistics (Sc.M.) The master's program provides advanced training in the theory and application of statistical methods in public health, clinical medicine, and the biological sciences. Visit Page Open details for Biostatistics (Sc.M.) Biostatistics (A.M.) for Brown Undergraduates Fifth-year master’s degree that can be completed in one year after receiving a bachelor’s degree from Brown. Also open to Brown PhD students in the Open Graduate Education Program (OGE). Visit Page Open details for Biostatistics (A.M.) for Brown Undergraduates NextGen Scholars Program in Biostatistics The NextGen Scholars Program provides financial and academic support to outstanding students and graduates of Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) to pursue a Master’s degree in biostatistics at Brown University. Visit Page Open details for NextGen Scholars Program in Biostatistics Clinical and Translational Research (Sc.M. or Certificate) Master's program (9 courses) designed primarily for physicians, doctorally-trained basic scientists, and students in doctoral programs or medical school. Also available as a certificate (4 courses). Visit Page Open details for Clinical and Translational Research (Sc.M. or Certificate) Global Public Health (Sc.M.) An applied master's program integrating international fieldwork and a thesis. While no longer accepting applications, we encourage you to consider our Global Health MPH concentration. Visit Page Open details for Global Public Health (Sc.M.) Doctoral Programs Behavioral and Social Health Sciences (Ph.D.) The signatures of Behavioral and Social Sciences training at Brown University include health behavior interventions development and evaluation, and collaboration across disciplines and between researchers and communities. Visit Page Open details for Behavioral and Social Health Sciences (Ph.D.) Biostatistics (Ph.D.) The primary mission of the doctoral program in Biostatistics is to provide the training necessary to carry out independent research in theory, methodology and application of statistics to important problems in biomedical research, including research biology, public health and clinical medicine. Visit Page Open details for Biostatistics (Ph.D.) Epidemiology (Ph.D.) The Doctoral Program in Epidemiology’s mission is to prepare students to become leading, independent investigators with rigorous training in epidemiologic methods, able to excel in academia, industry, government or public health practice. Visit Page Open details for Epidemiology (Ph.D.) Health Services Research (Ph.D.) The Health Services Research Doctoral Program offers training in research methods to advance knowledge of issues central to the improvement of population health by focusing on organizational characteristics of health care delivery systems, providers, and economic forces that shape consumer and provider behavior, as well as the policy environment in which these relationships exist. Visit Page Open details for Health Services Research (Ph.D.) Postdoctoral Fellowships Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies Administered through the Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies (CAAS) – an internationally recognized home for leading addiction research - the fellowship emphasizes that intervention should be guided by sophisticated and fully developed theory that considers biological, social, and cultural influences and contexts. Visit Page Open details for Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies Center for Children's Environmental Health CCEH provides a collaborative environment that supports trainees at all levels as they develop, learn or apply innovative methods to important public health problems at the intersection of environment and human wellbeing. Visit Page Open details for Center for Children's Environmental Health Center for Evidence Synthesis in Health CESH strives to improve the health and wellbeing of individuals and populations by conducting research in and teaching the principles of, evidence synthesis. Our mission is to advance the state of our knowledge about what works in health care. Visit Page Open details for Center for Evidence Synthesis in Health Center for Gerontology and Healthcare Research The postdoctoral programs at the Center for Gerontology and Healthcare Research provide fellows with an exciting opportunity to participate in groundbreaking, interdisciplinary research in such areas as health promotion and prevention, long-term care, community-based systems of care, healthcare organizations, and methodological approaches to health services research. Visit Page Open details for Center for Gerontology and Healthcare Research Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Public Health Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Postdoctoral Fellowships Online Programs Student Resources Academic Resources Funding and Teaching Opportunities Advising and Mentoring Resources Career Advising Student Life Faculty Resources Teaching Resources Advising and Mentoring Resources SPH Office of Faculty Affairs Who We Are Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Academic Programs Open details for Academic Programs Bookmark this Page