Skip to Main Content Brown University School of Public Health Brown University Academic and Student Affairs Search Menu Site Navigation Home Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Postdoctoral Fellowships Online Programs Student Resources Academic Resources Funding and Teaching Opportunities Advising and Mentoring Resources Career Advising Student Life Faculty Resources Teaching Resources Advising and Mentoring Resources SPH Office of Faculty Affairs Who We Are Events Search Academic and Student Affairs Doctoral Programs Breadcrumb Home Academic Programs Sub Navigation In This Section Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Postdoctoral Fellowships Online Programs Doctoral Programs Student-centered doctoral training is offered in: Behavioral and Social Health Sciences (Ph.D.) The signatures of Behavioral and Social Sciences training at Brown University include health behavior interventions development and evaluation, and collaboration across disciplines and between researchers and communities. Visit Page Open details for Behavioral and Social Health Sciences (Ph.D.) Biostatistics (Ph.D.) The primary mission of the doctoral program in Biostatistics is to provide the training necessary to carry out independent research in theory, methodology and application of statistics to important problems in biomedical research, including research biology, public health and clinical medicine. Visit Page Open details for Biostatistics (Ph.D.) Epidemiology (Ph.D.) The Doctoral Program in Epidemiology’s mission is to prepare students to become leading, independent investigators with rigorous training in epidemiologic methods, able to excel in academia, industry, government or public health practice. Visit Page Open details for Epidemiology (Ph.D.) Health Services Research (Ph.D.) The Health Services Research Doctoral Program offers training in research methods to advance knowledge of issues central to the improvement of population health by focusing on organizational characteristics of health care delivery systems, providers, and economic forces that shape consumer and provider behavior, as well as the policy environment in which these relationships exist. Visit Page Open details for Health Services Research (Ph.D.) Open Graduate Education The Open Graduate Education Program allows select Brown doctoral students to pursue a master’s degree in a secondary field. All doctoral students are invited to propose their own combination of studies, free of any disciplinary barrier. Learn More Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Public Health Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Postdoctoral Fellowships Online Programs Student Resources Academic Resources Funding and Teaching Opportunities Advising and Mentoring Resources Career Advising Student Life Faculty Resources Teaching Resources Advising and Mentoring Resources SPH Office of Faculty Affairs Who We Are Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Doctoral Programs Open details for Doctoral Programs Bookmark this Page