Skip to main content Search by keyword Search COE Login MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington College of Education Directory Calendar Make a Gift Quick Links Admissions Degrees Apply Now Visit Us Office of Student Services Admitted Graduate Students Office of Student Diversity and Inclusion Funding & Financial Aid Application Deadlines Connect! Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Studies Leadership Teacher Preparation Professional Learning Faculty & Research Research Areas Research Centers & Initiatives Office of Research Support Faculty & Staff Directory Visiting Scholars Research That Matters Newsroom Features College Videos Podcasts In the News eNews Archives EduTalks Community Conversations About From the Dean Mission Statement Demographics Fact Sheet Faculty Spotlights Upcoming Events College Leadership Fast Facts College History Alumni & Friends Campaign Your Support Matters How to Give Make a Gift Alumni Services & Networking Advancement Office About the College COVID-19 Emergency Support My COE Coronavirus Response Resources for Current Students Resources for Faculty & Staff Office of Institutional Research (OIR) Technology Support UW College of Education Home Programs Graduate Studies Special Education Early Childhood Special Education (MEd/Cert) Early Childhood Special Education (MEd/Cert) Menu Home Special Education Special Education Doctoral Studies (PhD) Applied Behavior Analysis (MEd) Early Childhood Special Education (MEd/Cert) Courses & Program Requirements ECSE Graduates High Incidence Teacher Education (MEd/Cert) IA to Cert Seattle Public Schools Partnership (MEd/Cert) Low Incidence Teacher Education (MEd/Cert) Apply Now The Early Childhood Special Education Program (ECSE) is a two year program that offers field and course work for students interested in working with young children (birth – age eight) with special needs and their families. This program is designed to prepare teachers to be leaders in the field, school, and community. Graduates may apply for Washington teacher certification in Special Education and an endorsement in Early Childhood Education (P-3). Download the application checklist here. Graduates of this program work in a variety of early learning programs, early intervention programs, and public schools, with a diverse groups of students and families. Graduates will have: Expertise in evidence based practices for young children with and at risk for disabilities, and their families. Skills for supporting and collaborating with families, including those from culturally and linguistically diverse backgrounds. Effective strategies for providing instruction to young children with disabilities. Collaboration skills necessary for working on interdisciplinary teams. Field experiences are a key component of this program. Students work with a range of children and families in early intervention (birth to three), preschool, and elementary school placements in the Puget Sound area, under the mentorship of cooperating teachers. There are three degree options for students in the program: Initial Teaching Certification: Students who are seeking an initial teaching certificate in special education should apply for initial teaching certification. To meet Washington state's upcoming requirement for those holding a special education teaching certificate to get a second endorsement in a content area, our program is set-up to enable you to complete the General Education P-3 Certification at the same time as your initial special education certificate. This program will can be completed in 6 quarters. 2. Special Education Endorsement: Students who already hold a teaching certificate will complete the Master's for the special education endorsement program. This program can be completed within four quarters. 3. Master's Only: Students with a teaching certificate in Washington state and who already hold a special education endorsement may apply for the Master's only program. This program can be completed within 3 to 4 quarters. ECSE Related Links The Office of Special Education Teacher Certification Division of Early Childhood Professional Education Standards Board ECSE Program Requirements ECSE Graduates Admissions Information COE Featured Stories OSPI and University of Washington’s Haring Center Expand Inclusionary Practice Project to Include Preschools The Office of Superintendent of Public Instruction (OSPI) and the Haring Center for Inclusive Education at the University of Washington announced that they are expanding their Inclusionary Practice Project (IPP) to include preschools across the state. Thi Haring Center demonstration sites showcase inclusionary best practices As part of a statewide effort, the Haring Center has partnered with 16 Washington K-12 schools to highlight inclusive education best practices and assist more schools in adopting a culture of inclusion. Home Special Education Special Education Doctoral Studies (PhD) Applied Behavior Analysis (MEd) Early Childhood Special Education (MEd/Cert) Courses & Program Requirements ECSE Graduates High Incidence Teacher Education (MEd/Cert) IA to Cert Seattle Public Schools Partnership (MEd/Cert) Low Incidence Teacher Education (MEd/Cert) Program Faculty Maggie Beneke Research Interests Early Childhood, Equity Studies, Literacy, Qualitative Research Methods, Teacher Education & Research Angel Fettig Research Interests Developmental Disabilities, Early Childhood, Social-emotional Issues Kathleen Artman Meeker Research Interests Developmental Disabilities, Early Childhood, Social-emotional Issues, Teacher Education & Research Selma Powell Research Interests Teacher Education & Research Other College Faculty by Research Area Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn SoundCloud UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON COLLEGE OF EDUCATION • 2012 SKAGIT LANE, MILLER HALL • BOX 353600 • SEATTLE, WA 98195-3600 General Questions: edinfo@u.washington.edu • Website Questions: coe@u.washington.edu Copyright © 2022 University of Washington College of Education Privacy Terms Got a spare 10 minutes to help us improve our website?I'll do itNo thanks