Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Education Minor in Education Contact Us Twitter Education@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Minor Cameron-Glickenhaus Family Fund Prize Application Courses Careers Opportunities in Peer Mentoring Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Michele Tine Academic Appointments Associate Professor Sociology Department, Chair of the Education Steering Committee Many consider education to be a great equalizer in American society, providing children from impoverished areas the opportunity to succeed. Yet, the income achievement gap is the widest it has been in fifty years and it persists across grade levels. I conduct lab and school based research that focuses on (1) identifying cognitive processes that underlie the income achievement gap and (2) creating efficacious research-based interventions for low-income students. Much of my current work focuses on how these topics differ in rural versus urban poverty. As a teacher, my goal is to help undergraduates understand the science of how children learn and develop, apply the principles to problems typical in the field, and transfer and adapt the information to novel contexts. + View more View Curriculum Vitae Contact Michele.T.Tine@Dartmouth.edu 603-646-9043 308C Blunt Hall HB 6104 Education Ph.D. Boston College, Applied Developmental and Educational Psychology B.A., Gettysburg College, Psychology and Education Areas of Expertise Rural Poverty /Evidence Based Education /Sociology of Education /Cognitive Development /Curriculum Development Selected Publications Tine, M. (2019). Location matters: distinct cognitive and academic profiles of students from rural versus urban poverty. Journal of Advances in Education Research, 4(1), 1-12. Tine, M., Batchelder, C. and Lenhihan, S. (2018). Educational implications of spatial memory. In A.S. Artis (Ed.), Spatial Memory. New York, NY: InTech Open Science. Tine, M. (2017). Growing up in rural vs. urban poverty: contextual, academic, and cognitive differences. In G.I. Staicu (Ed.), Poverty and Deprivation. NY, NY: InTech Open Science. Tine, M. (2016). Can the science of learning close the achievement gap for students from low-income families, Alliance for Excellent Education, 10(12), 1-3. Tine, M., & McMurchy, M. (2016). Empirical differences between rural and urban poverty: considerations for school administrators. School Administrator, 73(3), 38-40. Tine, M. (2014). Working memory differences between children living in rural and urban poverty. Journal of Cognition and Development, 15(4), 599-613. Tine, M. (2014). Acute aerobic exercise: an intervention for the selective visual attention and reading comprehension for low-income adolescents. Frontiers in Psychology, 5(575), 1-10. Lucariello, J., Tine, M., and Ganley, C. (2014). A formative assessment of students' algebraic variable misconceptions. Journal of Mathematical Behavior, 33, 30-41. Tine, M. and Gotlieb, R. (2013). The effects of multiple stigmatized aspects of identity on working memory and math performance. Social Psychology of Educational Psychology, 16(3), 353-376. Tine, M., and Butler, A. (2012). The impact of an acute bout of aerobic exercise on selective attention: An exceptional boost in low-income children. Educational Psychology, 32(6), 681-696. Lucariello. J., Butler, A., and Tine, M. (2012). Meet the “Reading Rangers”: Curriculum for teaching comprehension strategies to urban third graders. Perspectives on Urban Education, 9(2), 1-12. Tine, M . and Lucariello J. (2012). Unique Theory of Mind differentiation in children with Autism and Asperger syndrome. Autism Research and Treatment, 2012, 1-11. Casey, B., Vasilyeva, M., Dearing, E., Ganley, C., and Tine, M. (2011). Spatial and numerical predictors of measurement performance: the moderating effects of community poverty and gender. Journal of Educational Psychology, 103, 296-311. Lucariello, J., and Tine, M . (2011). Algebraic misconceptions: A teacher-use test for diagnosing student misconceptions of the variable. In N.L. Stein and S.W. Raudenbush (Eds.) Developmental science goes to school (pp. 150-166). Mahwah, NJ: Erlbaum. + View more Courses EDUC 01 Introduction to Education: Learning, Development, and Teaching EDUC 27 The Impact of Poverty on Education EDUC 47 Social and Emotional Development EDUC 52 Topics in Education Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Education Undergraduate Minor Cameron-Glickenhaus Family Fund Prize Application Courses Careers Opportunities in Peer Mentoring News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback