Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Edwards Campus myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Academic Programs Select to follow link Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) Online Courses Current Students Select to follow link My KU Edwards Experience Faculty & Staff News Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Edwards Campus Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Academics Academic programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificate Online courses Continuing education Students Student services Campus tuition and fees Prospective student resources Affordability & scholarship information myKU Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay About About KU Edwards Campus Dean's Message Staff School of Professional Studies Career blog Contact us Apply Home Academic Programs Graduate environmental and water resource engineering programs at KU What is environmental and water resources engineering? Development decisions impact the environment, water quality and the lives of people in the region. Environmental engineers help balance economic and environmental needs for civil engineering projects, as well as overall sustainability. An environmental engineer working in water resource helps measure a project’s environmental impact on water resources, such as aquifers, rivers or lakes—as well as a project’s effect on local economy and public health. An environmental engineer working in water resource might apply their knowledge in the following ways: Working with civil engineers on a plan to site a new dam route Overseeing the planning of an irrigation network Measuring the possible environmental impact of a proposed project on a body of water and the surrounding community Helping organizations make environmentally sustainable decisions regarding proposed building projects What does an environmental engineer do with a water resource graduate degree? Environmental engineers use a water resource specialization in a variety of fields, including air quality, water quality, solid and hazardous waste, stormwater treatment and wetlands management. What graduate environmental and water resource programs are available at KU? KU’s school of engineering offers two online programs of study for environmental and water resource. The graduate certificate in environmental and water resource management allows working professional engineers the opportunity to specialize and enhance their skills in water resources, without the need for a full degree. The Master of Science in Environmental and Water Resource provides further education in up-to-date theory and practical techniques in civil and environmental engineering. Both programs are offered live online, with recorded sessions available. Helpful information Inquire now Financial guidance Tips & resources to make the most of financial aid at KU. Getting started tips The steps and actions for a successful start. Choosing advice Get help choosing the right KC university. Questions? William Kirkham Civil Engineering Academic Success Coach 913-897-8514 Send an email to the program advisor Apply now How are the programs structured? The graduate certificate in environmental and water resource consists of 12 hours of required courses. The Master of Science in Environmental and Water Resource features two options of study. Option A requires 30 credit hours, including a thesis of 6-10 hours, and a final oral examination, including a thesis defense. Option B requires 30 credit hours, including a 3-4 hour special problem investigation in the student’s specialization, as well as a final oral examination. Option B does not require a thesis. Graduate Certificate in Environmental and Water Resource program guide MS in Environmental and Water Resource program guide Why study Graduate environmental and water resource engineering programs at KU? Flexible Live online classes Recorded course sessions available Graduate certificate and Master of Civil Engineering program options Quality Experienced faculty Globally recognized education Curriculum covers up-to-date theory and industry best practices Useful Learn it today, use it tomorrow Courses designed for working professionals Focused on career development and advancing technical knowledge Graduate environmental and water resource program details × × × × × × Edwards Campus 12600 Quivira Road Overland Park, KS 66213 edwardsinfo@ku.edu 913-897-8400 Upcoming Events See all events Maps & Directions About the Edwards Campus Library services Conference & event spaces Course schedule Career Blog Student services Faculty resources Technical assistance KU at Leavenworth Employment Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.