Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Edwards Campus myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Academic Programs Select to follow link Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) Online Courses Current Students Select to follow link My KU Edwards Experience Faculty & Staff News Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Edwards Campus Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Academics Academic programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificate Online courses Continuing education Students Student services Campus tuition and fees Prospective student resources Affordability & scholarship information myKU Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay About About KU Edwards Campus Dean's Message Staff School of Professional Studies Career blog Contact us Apply Home Academic Programs Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) A Degree with Endless Potential The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics reports that employment of business and financial operations occupations is projected to grow 10 percent from 2016 to 2026, faster than the average for all occupations, adding about 773,800 new jobs. This median annual wage for business and financial occupations was $72,250 in May 2020, which was higher than the median annual wage for all occupations. A business professional’s duties might include: Leading a team and managing people Managing an organization’s social media accounts and customer relationships Conducting market research Conceptualizing, planning and executing a multi-platform marketing campaign What jobs can I get with a BBA degree? A Bachelor’s in Business Administration can help you take your career to the next level with classes from experienced, credentialed faculty that sharpen your skills in communication, leadership and data analysis, and provide a global perspective on the business world. Graduates who complete a business administration degree will have the framework for advancement in their careers. Is a BBA right for you? KU’s undergraduate program in business administration helps both full-time students and current business professionals advance their careers through exposure to a broad range of topics, including business law, economics, entrepreneurship, finance, management, marketing, operations & supply chain management and international business. A KU BBA degree is designed for students who want to mix business theory, practical knowledge, and professional skills in preparation for careers as business leaders. Students in the BBA program will sharpen their verbal and written communication skills, develop an aptitude for leading and managing people, practice data analysis, and realize a global perspective on business. Helpful information Inquire now Financial guidance Tips & resources to make the most of financial aid at KU. Getting started tips The steps and actions for a successful start. Choosing advice Get help choosing the right KC university. Questions? Angela Hughes Program Coordinator 913-897-8534 Send an email to the program advisor How is the program structured? The Bachelor of Business Administration degree is offered through the KU School of Business, which is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB), considered the gold standard of quality in business education. The curriculum is designed to accommodate the working student and adult learners and offers both afternoon and evening classes. Please contact Emily Plotkin, education program coordinator, to learn more about curriculum requirements for this degree program. The KU Edwards Campus also offers a business minor. Visit our minors page to learn more. Why a KU Bachelor of Business Administration degree? Flexible Designed with a full-time professional’s schedule in mind Once-weekly afternoon and evening courses MetroKC tuition rate available for Missouri students Quality Instruction from expert faculty Small class sizes ensure personal attention from instructors AACSB accreditation Useful Learn it today, use it tomorrow Interactive curriculum created for working professionals Collaborative educational atmosphere emphasizing leadership and teamwork skills BBA program details × × × × Edwards Campus 12600 Quivira Road Overland Park, KS 66213 edwardsinfo@ku.edu 913-897-8400 Upcoming Events See all events Maps & Directions About the Edwards Campus Library services Conference & event spaces Course schedule Career Blog Student services Faculty resources Technical assistance KU at Leavenworth Employment Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.