Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Edwards Campus myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Academic Programs Select to follow link Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) Online Courses Current Students Select to follow link My KU Edwards Experience Faculty & Staff News Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Edwards Campus Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Academics Academic programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificate Online courses Continuing education Students Student services Campus tuition and fees Prospective student resources Affordability & scholarship information myKU Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay About About KU Edwards Campus Dean's Message Staff School of Professional Studies Career blog Contact us Apply Home About Campus Map & Directions Edwards Campus Map Download the Edwards Campus Map (PDF) Map Key BEST Building Jayhawk Central Regnier Hall Regents Center 12604 Quivira 12520 Quivira 12610 Quivira 12600 Quivira Conference Center LaMar's Donuts & Coffee Administrative Offices Advising Sarpino's Pizzeria Auditorium Student Services Center Autism Resource Center Driving Directions Get directions to KU Edwards Campus via Google Maps or call 913-897-8400. Parking Parking is free for visitors. See the campus map above to view the parking lots noted in light grey. There is accessible parking available in the parking lot on the east side of the Regents Center, the west end of the south parking lot by Regnier Hall and on the north side of the BEST Building. Parking instructions: Regnier Hall 12610 Quivira Road Overland Park, KS 66213 Please have your guests park ‘Lot A’, off of 127th Street. There is a bronzed Jayhawk that sits at the main entrance of Regnier Hall. BEST Building 12604 Quivira Road Overland Park, KS 66213 Please have your guests park in ‘Lot B’, off of 125th Street. Regents Center 12600 Quivira Road Overland Park, KS 66213 Please have your guests park in ‘Lot C’, off of Quivira. Helpful information Book now Questions? Want a quote or want to schedule a tour? Information Overview Photos Testimonials Technology Map & Directions Contact Us Contact Events Team 913-897-8526 Send an email × Other Helpful Campus Information Building Maps Campus Directory Campus Hours K-10 Connector Other KU Locations Edwards Campus 12600 Quivira Road Overland Park, KS 66213 edwardsinfo@ku.edu 913-897-8400 Upcoming Events See all events Maps & Directions About the Edwards Campus Library services Conference & event spaces Course schedule Career Blog Student services Faculty resources Technical assistance KU at Leavenworth Employment Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.