Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Edwards Campus myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Academic Programs Select to follow link Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) Online Courses Current Students Select to follow link My KU Edwards Experience Faculty & Staff News Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Edwards Campus Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Academics Academic programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificate Online courses Continuing education Students Student services Campus tuition and fees Prospective student resources Affordability & scholarship information myKU Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay About About KU Edwards Campus Dean's Message Staff School of Professional Studies Career blog Contact us Apply Home Start Your Application To apply to a degree or certificate program at the KU Edwards Campus, simply follow the appropriate link. Undergraduate transfer students (except for Post-Baccalaureate in Health Sciences) Graduate degrees and certificates and post-baccalaureates (except Applied Statistics, Data Science and graduate-level public health) Graduate degree and certificates in Applied Statistics and Data Science Graduate degree (MPH) and graduate certificates public health Need a little more information before applying? No problem. Just complete the form below, and we’ll be in touch quickly. Professional and continuing education also available. Learn leadership, engineering, technology and many other topics through workshops, webinars, conferences, boot camps, online courses and more. See all the options at Lifelong and Professional Education. Financial guidance Tips & resources to make the most of financial aid at KU. Undergraduate Graduate Getting started tips The steps and actions for a successful start. Undergraduate Graduate Choosing Advice Get help choosing the right KC university. Choosing advice Online Programs Ask yourself these 6 questions as you explore online. Online advice × × × × × × Edwards Campus 12600 Quivira Road Overland Park, KS 66213 edwardsinfo@ku.edu 913-897-8400 Upcoming Events See all events Maps & Directions About the Edwards Campus Library services Conference & event spaces Course schedule Career Blog Student services Faculty resources Technical assistance KU at Leavenworth Employment Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.