Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Edwards Campus myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Academic Programs Select to follow link Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) Online Courses Current Students Select to follow link My KU Edwards Experience Faculty & Staff News Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Edwards Campus Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Academics Academic programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificate Online courses Continuing education Students Student services Campus tuition and fees Prospective student resources Affordability & scholarship information myKU Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay About About KU Edwards Campus Dean's Message Staff School of Professional Studies Career blog Contact us Apply Home Academic Programs Bachelor's degree in Literature, Language and Writing and certificates in Creative and Analytical Writing, and Critical Thinking and Writing The versatility to take you anywhere Communication skills, creativity and critical thinking are among the most in-demand skills for successful employees. KU’s literature, language and writing undergraduate programs develop life-long writing, communication and critical thinking skills that set you up for advanced degrees and professional achievement in a wide range of fields. Here are a few of the ways professionals with a background in literature, language and writing apply their knowledge in the working world: Technical writing, such as instructional manuals, project proposals or business correspondence Editing print or electronic materials to ensure accuracy, correct spelling and grammar Creating, assigning and collaborating on marketing materials and campaigns Providing clear, constructive critical feedback on projects and proposals Writing compelling speeches or public messaging Authoring of books, articles or other media and literature; journalism Library science What career possibilities does a literature, language and writing degree offer? A Literature, Language and Writing degree can lead to successful careers and further learning in a variety of fields, including business, education, marketing, publishing, social media management, non-profit fundraising, public administration and law. Is a literature, language and writing undergraduate program right for you? KU’s literature, language and writing undergraduate programs are designed with hands-on experience and career application in mind. Responsive to how English studies are evolving, KU’s programs emphasize community and global engagement. Students can complete a degree that opens doors to further learning and career options. Helpful information Inquire now Financial guidance Tips & resources to make the most of financial aid at KU. Getting started tips The steps and actions for a successful start. Choosing advice Get help choosing the right KC university. Questions? Alyson Germinder Academic Success Coach 913-897-8528 Send an email to the program advisor What literature, language and writing programs are available at KU? KU offers a Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of General Studies in Literature, Language and Writing, as well as undergraduate certificate programs in Creative and Analytical Writing and Critical Thinking and Writing. Students are able to complete one of the certificates while working toward earning the full degree. At KU, you have considerable flexibility to choose courses matching your interests and goals. View the options below and download a program guide for more information on each program’s curriculum, career paths, admission information, tuition and more. Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of General Studies in Literature, Language and Writing Creative and Analytical Writing certificate Critical Thinking and Writing certificate The KU Edwards Campus also offers an English minor. Visit our minors page to learn more. Why start a Literature, Language and Writing program at KU? Flexible Curriculum allows you to choose courses that match your interests and goals Afternoon, evening, online and hybrid courses Two undergraduate certificate options, which may be completed by taking courses that would also apply toward their bachelor's degree MetroKC tuition rate available for local Missouri students Quality Instruction from experienced, published faculty One-on-one connections with instructors Emphasis on student engagement Useful Learn it today, use it tomorrow Opportunities for undergraduate research, internships and study abroad Focus on problem solving and community engagement Literature, Language and Writing program details × × × × × × Edwards Campus 12600 Quivira Road Overland Park, KS 66213 edwardsinfo@ku.edu 913-897-8400 Upcoming Events See all events Maps & Directions About the Edwards Campus Library services Conference & event spaces Course schedule Career Blog Student services Faculty resources Technical assistance KU at Leavenworth Employment Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.