Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Edwards Campus myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Academic Programs Select to follow link Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) Online Courses Current Students Select to follow link My KU Edwards Experience Faculty & Staff News Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Edwards Campus Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Academics Academic programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificate Online courses Continuing education Students Student services Campus tuition and fees Prospective student resources Affordability & scholarship information myKU Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay About About KU Edwards Campus Dean's Message Staff School of Professional Studies Career blog Contact us Apply Home Current Students My KU Edwards Experience Welcome & Success Center My KU Edwards Experience: Groups & Events Groups & Leadership Opportunities on Campus As a student at KU Edwards, your leadership development is important to us. We believe in helping you grow as a leader in the areas of teamwork, innovation, and advocacy. With many unique clubs to choose from, there is sure to be an option to fit your personal and professional goals. Student Advisory Council - Do you want to have a voice on campus? Interested in planning events for fellow students? Join us! Email kuecsac@ku.edu for more info. View upcoming meetings and connect with us on social media HERE. Veterans Network - Veterans, this is the group for you! Meet other veterans at KUEC and participate in/help plan veteran-centered events! Email kuecveterans@ku.edu for more info. Social Work Club - Calling all social work students! Come work on volunteer projects and plan events with other students in your program. Get plugged in today! Email amea@ku.edu for more info. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Cabinet - Join KUEC faculty and staff to discuss and work on various projects on campus related to diversity and inclusion. Email vrodriguezmendez@ku.edu for more info. Adoption Group - Join other adopted students, faculty and staff to discuss topics surrounding identity and adoption. Email lbrownin@ku.edu for more info. You can also join our channel in Microsoft Teams. LGBTQ+ Group - Join us in trying to get this club off the ground! We would love to have you as a part of KUEC's first LGBTQ+ club on campus. Email arpope@ku.edu for more info. You can also join our channel in Microsoft Teams. International Student Group - Interested in meeting other international students at KUEC? Join us to network and plan events for international students at KUEC. Email kuecservices@ku.edu for more info. Pre-Med Club - Are you a pre-med student and looking to connect with others on a similar path through professional development opportunities? Email griffin.schenk@ku.edu for more info. KU Edwards Honors Program - Are you an undergraduate student looking to get more out of your educational experience and find a community of intellectually-driven peers? Designed for transfer students who may or may not have engaged with an honors program before, the KU Edwards Honors Program will challenge you academically, set you up for professional success, and recognize the great work you've already accomplished. Check out our home page and decide whether it is right for you! Interested in starting your own group? Contact Ashley Kalatusha at ashleykalatusha@ku.edu. The KU Edwards Advantage: The edge students need to boost employability, engage in civic responsibility, and strengthen skills through action. The Advantages are the foundation of your KU Edwards experience and inform the events offered below. Attend all six Advantage events throughout the academic year for maximum benefit. Download The KU Edwards Advantage flyer (PDF) Spring 2022 Events & Advantage Opportunities Follow KU Edwards Student Services on Instagram and Facebook to stay in the know! FEBRUARY BLACK HISTORY MONTH The history of Black people is American history. Please join us in celebrating Black History Month- and not just by attending cultural events. We encourage you to engage in ways that require introspection, critical thinking, and that broaden your perspective of your place within the structures that exist in our society. Embrace discomfort in this process! This is the path to growth. Here are a few ways to engage: Experience Black History Month in Kansas City Visit BlackHistoryMonth.Gov (Library of Congress site) Attend The Ethics of Antiracism with Eddie Glaude event at KU Listen to NPR's "Ted Radio Hour: Black History Month Playlist" Explore the Gallup Center on Black Voices to better understand trends and insights on the experiences of Black Americans. Career & Internship Expo (virtual) Date/Time: Feb 9th from 3-6pm (CST) Description: This is a great opportunity to connect with employers about possible internship or full-time career opportunities. Employers are eager and waiting to talk to students at all levels about future opportunities and provide valuable advice when you are ready to enter the workforce. It doesn't matter what your major is or even if you have no idea what sort of internship or job you'd be interested in. Whether you’re looking for a summer internship, full time job, or just want to become more familiar with some of the best companies the Midwest has to offer, this event is a great chance to meet employers and develop your networking skills. See a list of attending organizations. Location: Online via Career Fair Plus (REGISTER HERE) Hosted By: University Career Center Advantage: Professional Skills Meet Your Mentor (in-person) Date/Time: Feb 9th from 5-7pm Description: Come learn all about the KU Mentoring+ platform and start making connections now! KU Mentoring+ is the university's home for mentoring, networking, opportunity, and community. Location: Hawk's Nest, first floor Regents Center, Edwards Campus Hosted By: KU Alumni Association Advantage: Campus & Community Engagement Pre-Med Club Meeting (hybrid)- FREE PIZZA Date/Time: Feb 10th from 5:30-6:50pm (CST) Description: Are you planning to apply to medical school? Join like-minded peers from various majors to develop professionally, support each other, and get access to resources. Location: Regents Center 220 (second floor), Edwards Campus and Zoom Meeting ID: 940 0313 3670 Passcode: yEjJ95 Hosted By: KU Edwards Pre-Med Club (email griffin.schenk@ku.edu for more info) SciFlix Series: The Social Dilemma (in-person) Date/Time: Feb 11th at 6:30pm Description: SciFlix is a community outreach effort designed around taking the science, the theories, and the ethics in popular fiction and discussing it openly and honestly. Following the film, our moderator will introduce a panel of experts who will provide their reactions to the film and their insights in a Q&A session with event attendees. Our mission is to entertain the public with movies and refreshments and then fan the sparks of creative and critical thinking into life. Location: Regnier Auditorium in Regnier Hall, Edwards Campus (REGISTER HERE) Hosted By: KU Edwards Community Engagement Advantage: Information Literacy Popcorn & Planning (in-person) Date/Time: Feb 15-16th from 4-7pm Description: This is a great way to build community while getting organized for the semester. With midterms a month away, this gives students a chance to begin planning how to study so that they rock those midterm exams and papers! During this event, students will be able to build connections with fellow Edwards students pursuing different degrees. And if you're hungry, enjoy some popcorn! Location: Hawk's Nest Hosted By: KU Edwards Student Services Advantage: Health & Well-Being One Day One KU Date/Time: Feb 17th Description: Calling all Jayhawks! Save the date — One Day. One KU., the university's 24-hour giving campaign, is turning 5 on Thursday, February 17! The collective power of One Day. One KU. is transformative. Since its inception in 2018, nearly $7 million has been raised through 13,184 gifts to support programs and initiatives across all five University of Kansas campuses. High-five to Jayhawk Nation for this incredible generosity and the difference you’ve made for the people and programs at the one university we love. Hosted By: KU Endowment All We Can Save - The Power of Food Sovereignty (virtual) Date/Time: February 17th from 12-1pm (CST) Description: Climate change is often discussed in scientific terms, but the work of responding to the urgency of climate change requires many voices. The realms of social, creative, activist, spiritual, food production, and many others, play critical roles in the larger conversation. As well, we know that climate change disproportionately affects certain populations. We present this series to showcase the works of leaders included in All We Can Save: Truth, Courage, and Solutions for the Climate Crisis. Read more HERE. Location: Zoom (REGISTER HERE) Hosted By: Multiple Departments Advantage: Cultural Perspective Link & Learn Series: Cultural Agility: Everyday Strategies for Building Productive Working Relationships with Global Colleagues (virtual) Date/Time: Feb 17th from 11am-12pm (CST) Description: Increased globalization and the growth of multicultural teams has made cultural competence an essential skill for long-term career success. Cultural competence is the ability to understand the values and practices of other cultures and apply that knowledge appropriately in business and personal settings. In this session we will examine five areas where cultural differences frequently impact relationship-building and problem-solving in multicultural teams. Read more HERE. Location: Zoom (REGISTER HERE) Hosted By: KU Edwards Communication Studies Graduate Certificate in Professional Workplace Communication Advantage: Cultural Perspective Student Advisory Council Meeting (hybrid) Date/Time: Feb 23rd from 2-3pm Description: Are you interested in getting involved on campus and growing leadership skills? Join us to provide input as the voice of the student body, connect students' needs and interests to campus initiatives, and promote and enhance programs and services to strengthen the student experience at the Edwards Campus. Location: Regents Center 220, Edwards Campus and Zoom Meeting ID: 932 8094 4299 Passcode: 12600 Hosted By: KU Edwards Student Advisory Council (email kuecsac@ku.edu for more info) Advantage: Campus & Community Engagement Career Steps For Success Series: Internships 101 (virtual) Date/Time: Feb 23rd from 6-7pm (CST) Description: Ever wonder why internships are so important? Or where to even begin searching for one? When to apply and how to prepare? Join us to discuss the answers to these questions. Location: Zoom- https://kansas.zoom.us/j/94411209127 Meeting ID: 944 1120 9127 Passcode: 12600 Hosted By: KU Edwards Student Services & Career Development Advantage: Professional Skills Pre-Med Club Meeting (in-person) Date/Time: Feb 24th from 5:45-6:50pm Description: Are you planning to apply to medical school? Join like-minded peers from various majors to develop professionally, support each other, and get access to resources. Location: Regents Center 220 (second floor), Edwards Campus Hosted By: KU Edwards Pre-Med Club (email griffin.schenk@ku.edu for more info) The Ethics of Antiracism with Eddie Glaude (in-person) Date/Time: Feb 25th from 4:30-5:30pm Description: What does it mean to commit oneself to deconstructing the idea of whiteness and the way in which it determines the distribution of advantage and disadvantage? How does one do that when the language of racism comes to us as naturally as language itself? For Dr. Eddie Glaude Jr., anti-racism isn’t about making a list of action items and then checking off some boxes. It is a highly ethical position — the reflection of a committed, moral choice to reject the idea that some people should be valued more than others. Calling on audiences to engage in an ongoing critique of racism’s manifestations, he challenges all of us to work together to create the conditions for people to think more carefully and systematically about the issues that we confront. Location: Kansas Union Ballroom, Lawrence Campus Hosted By: Office of Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, & Belonging Advantage: Self-Knowledge MARCH Project Send Love: Letter Writing Party (in-person) Date/Time: March 1st from 12-5pm Description: Come send love with us at a letter writing party to connect community members to individuals in long term care facilities. Coffee, tea, and snacks will be provided! Location: Hawk's Nest, first floor Regents Center, Edwards Campus Hosted By: Project Send Love (email olivialafountain@ku.edu for more info) Advantage: Campus & Community Engagement National Reading Month (hybrid- two separate events) Date/Time: March 2nd (Zoom) from 4-5pm (CST) and March 31st (RC 220 or Zoom) from 4-5pm (CST) Description: In celebration of National Reading Month, KU Edwards Student Services will be facilitating a group read-along of the KU Common Book, Braiding Sweetgrass. Students will be able to grab a free book while on campus the week of February 27th through March 5th. On March 2nd, we will be hosting online reading sprints to help students get a headstart on the book. On March 31st, students can convene in-person or via Zoom to discuss the book. Location: March 2nd- https://kansas.zoom.us/j/91556745265 (passcode 12600) and March 31st- https://kansas.zoom.us/j/92740058304 (passcode 12600) or RC 220, second floor Regents Center building, Edwards Campus Hosted By: KU Edwards Student Services Advantage: Information Literacy Mellow Out Your Midterms (in-person) Date/Time: March 8-10th from 4-7pm Description: Students will have the opportunity to relax and put their well-being first during a stressful academic time. We will be making bath bombs for self care, as well as have access to self calming activities. During this time students will have the ability to build connections with fellow students and staff. Location: Hawk's Nest Hosted By: KU Edwards Student Services Advantage: Health & Well-Being Pre-Med Club Meeting (in-person) Date/Time: March 10th from 5:45-6:50pm Description: Are you planning to apply to medical school? Join like-minded peers from various majors to develop professionally, support each other, and get access to resources. Location: Regents Center 220 (second floor), Edwards Campus Hosted By: KU Edwards Pre-Med Club (email griffin.schenk@ku.edu for more info) SciFlix Series: The Aeronauts (in-person) Date/Time: March 11th at 6:30pm Description: SciFlix is a community outreach effort designed around taking the science, the theories, and the ethics in popular fiction and discussing it openly and honestly. Following the film, our moderator will introduce a panel of experts who will provide their reactions to the film and their insights in a Q&A session with event attendees. Our mission is to entertain the public with movies and refreshments and then fan the sparks of creative and critical thinking into life. Location: Regnier Auditorium in Regnier Hall, Edwards Campus (REGISTER HERE) Hosted By: KU Edwards Community Engagement Advantage: Information Literacy Link & Learn Series: Stepping Up: Developing a Community & Industry Engagement Model that Supports Your Company's Mission and Your Career Goals (virtual) Date/Time: March 17th from 11am-12pm (CST) Description: This session will help you develop a personalized, authentic model of external community engagement to meaningfully engage with the industry and community stakeholders your organization serves. These activities can help generate new opportunities for your employer, while also helping you diversify your own professional network and career opportunities. You will leave the session with a clearer understanding of external community engagement, giving you heightened visibility, bolstering your professional impact and helping to position you for new leadership opportunities. Read more HERE. Location: Zoom (REGISTER HERE) Hosted By: KU Edwards Communication Studies Graduate Certificate in Professional Workplace Communication Advantage: Professional Skills Career Steps For Success Series: Networking Starts Now (virtual) Date/Time: March 22nd from 6-7pm (CST) Description: Networking is so much more than going to career fairs! We’ll discuss easy ways to network on campus, online, and on the job. Location: Zoom- https://kansas.zoom.us/j/98022647697 Meeting ID: 980 2264 7697 Passcode: 12600 Hosted By: KU Edwards Student Services & Career Development Advantage: Professional Skills Big 12 Virtual Career Fair (virtual) Date/Time: March 23rd from 10am-5pm (CST) Description: Students and Alumni from the Big 12 Universities (includes KU) efficiently meet employers nationwide in a live, online recruitment event. Location: CareerEco Virtual Events platform (REGISTER HERE) Hosted By: University Career Center Advantage: Professional Skills Student Advisory Council Meeting (hybrid) Date/Time: March 23rd from 2-3pm (CST) Description: Are you interested in getting involved on campus and growing leadership skills? Join us to provide input as the voice of the student body, connect students' needs and interests to campus initiatives, and promote and enhance programs and services to strengthen the student experience at the Edwards Campus. Location: Regents Center 220, Edwards Campus and Zoom Meeting ID: 932 8094 4299 Passcode: 12600 Hosted By: KU Edwards Student Advisory Council (email kuecsac@ku.edu for more info) Advantage: Campus & Community Engagement Pre-Med Club Meeting (in-person) Date/Time: March 24th from 5:45-6:50pm Description: Are you planning to apply to medical school? Join like-minded peers from various majors to develop professionally, support each other, and get access to resources. Location: Regents Center 220 (second floor), Edwards Campus Hosted By: KU Edwards Pre-Med Club (email griffin.schenk@ku.edu for more info) English Transfer Community Event: Pitch, Present, & Publish (in-person) Date/Time: March 28th from 3:30-5pm Description: Have you ever wondered what it takes to get published online or in print? Do you have a dream to one day see your writing on Buzzfeed or The Guardian? How confident are you in navigating a call for papers at a conference? Join JCCC and KU Edwards students to learn tips and tricks from English faculty and doctoral students on how to present, pitch, and publish your work. See you there! RSVP HERE Location: BEST Conference Center 110-B, Edwards Campus Hosted By: English Transfer Community (English Departments at KU and JCCC) KU Edwards Grad Fair (in-person) Date/Time: March 30th from 2-7pm Description: Are you graduating this spring? Are you looking for regalia and other items to commemorate your accomplishment? If so, please consider dropping by the KU Edwards Grad Fair! Location: Hawk's Nest, Regents Center, Edwards Campus Hosted By: KU Bookstore APRIL Tunnel of Oppression (virtual) Date/Time: Apr 4th-8th Description: This virtual event is an opportunity for us to examine some of the most complex and important issues facing society today around justice, equity, and inclusion. Join us to learn and reflect on the topics covered while creating a plan for how you can be the leaders forging a better world for all. If you have questions about this event or if you will need accommodations, please contact Veronica Rodriguez-Mendez at vrodriguezmendez@ku.edu. Location: Ask your professor to register a class or group of 5+ people! Hosted By: KU Edwards Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Cabinet Advantage: Cultural Perspective Pre-Med Club Meeting (in-person) Date/Time: Apr 7th from 5:45-6:50pm Description: Are you planning to apply to medical school? Join like-minded peers from various majors to develop professionally, support each other, and get access to resources. Location: Regents Center 220 (second floor), Edwards Campus Hosted By: KU Edwards Pre-Med Club (email griffin.schenk@ku.edu for more info) Office of Multicultural Affairs Liberation Conversation Series: Amber Phillips & Abundance (virtual) Date/Time: Apr 7th from 6:30-8pm (CST) Description: Join us for an evening with Amber Phillips (she/her) for screening and talk back featuring her short film, Abundance, about the limitations and radical possibilities of identity. Amber Phillips is a storyteller and filmmaker. She creates world-building narratives using warm visuals and vulnerable performances through her lens of being a fat Black queer femme auntie from the Midwest. Abundance was recently a 2021 BlackStar Film Festival selection and won the audience award for Best Short Narrative. Amber's written and visual work imagines a world where Black womanhood is an abundance of the overwhelming experience of safety, pleasure, and joy. She is devoted to using radical Black imagination to create stories, art, culture, and community. Location: Zoom- REGISTER HERE Hosted By: Office of Multicultural Affairs Advantage: Cultural Perspective SciFlix Series: Revenge of the Electric Car (in-person) Date/Time: Apr 8th at 6:30pm Description: SciFlix is a community outreach effort designed around taking the science, the theories, and the ethics in popular fiction and discussing it openly and honestly. Following the film, our moderator will introduce a panel of experts who will provide their reactions to the film and their insights in a Q&A session with event attendees. Our mission is to entertain the public with movies and refreshments and then fan the sparks of creative and critical thinking into life. Location: Regnier Auditorium in Regnier Hall, Edwards Campus (REGISTER HERE) Hosted By: KU Edwards Community Engagement Advantage: Information Literacy Career Steps For Success Series: Stand Out In Your Search (virtual) Date/Time: Apr 12th from 6-7pm (CST) Description: We will discuss resume and cover letter basics, how to leverage your strengths, and utilizing KU resources. Location: Zoom- https://kansas.zoom.us/j/98926791871 Meeting ID: 989 2679 1871 Passcode: 12600 Hosted By: KU Edwards Student Services & Career Development Advantage: Professional Skills Be the Match (in-person) Date/Time: April 12th-13th 4-7 pm Description: KUEC Pre-Med Club has partnered up with Be the Match. Be the Match takes mouth swabs from consenting students to find potential matches for individuals on the bone marrow registry. Location: Hawk's Nest located in the Regents Center of the Edwards Campus Hosted By: KU Edwards Pre-Med Club (email griffin.schenk@ku.edu for more info) Earth Day Week & Campus Cleanup Date/Time: Apr 18th-22nd Description: Grab your shovels, gloves, and spades for Mother Earth! Join us Friday, April 22, from 9 a.m. until noon as we celebrate Earth Day and dress up Edwards Campus for the Spring. We'll be mulching, weeding, planting, and creating our very own butterfly garden! When we finish, we'll celebrate Mother Earth's bounty with grilled burgers and hotdogs of both meat and meatless varieties. You do have to register to attend. Sign up at: https://www.signupgenius.com/go/10c0e4fa5aa28a7ffc07-edwards Location: KU Edwards Lawn Hosted By: KU Edwards Student Services Advantage: Campus & Community Engagement Office of Multicultural Affairs Liberation Conversation Series: Alok Vaid-Menon & Beyond the Gender Binary (virtual) Date/Time: Apr 19th from 6:30-8pm (CST) Description: Alok Vaid-Menon (they/them) is a Queer writer, artist, and performer whose work explores themes of trauma, belonging, and the human condition. They are the author of several works, including Femme in Public, Your Wound/My Garden, Beyond the Gender Binary, and create of #DeGenderFashion: a movement to de-gender fashion and beauty industries. Join us for an evening of readings and conversation as we explore what it means for us to truly live in our joy and liberation. Location: Zoom- REGISTER HERE Hosted By: Office of Multicultural Affairs Advantage: Cultural Perspective Link & Learn Series: Reconnecting: Strategies for Building More Supportive Relationships at Work (virtual) Date/Time: Apr 21st from 11am-12pm (CST) Description: Developing mutually-supportive relationships at work is more important than ever. Research shows that leading with compassion and forgiveness builds trust. In this session, we’ll explore practical strategies that can be used to communicate your trust, appreciation for others’ perspectives and constraints can help build more engaged, productive teams. Read more HERE. Location: Zoom (REGISTER HERE) Hosted By: KU Edwards Communication Studies Graduate Certificate in Professional Workplace Communication Advantage: Self-Knowledge Pre-Med Club Meeting (in-person) Date/Time: Apr 21st from 5:45-6:50pm Description: Are you planning to apply to medical school? Join like-minded peers from various majors to develop professionally, support each other, and get access to resources. Location: Regents Center 220 (second floor), Edwards Campus Hosted By: KU Edwards Pre-Med Club (email griffin.schenk@ku.edu for more info) Office of Multicultural Affairs Spotlight Series: Grads of Color (virtual) Date/Time: Apr 26th from 12-1pm (CST) Description: Presenting Margarita Alely Nunez Arroyo, a graduate student studying American Studies. Margarita will be presenting on the cultural significance of ghosts and hauntings in production. A ghost cannot be contained through borders. A specter does not keep silent, it moves through space and reveals secrets. A ghost/specter is a being that can haunt. Join us to learn more! Location: Zoom- REGISTER HERE Hosted By: Office of Multicultural Affairs Advantage: Cultural Perspective Career Steps For Success Series: Interview Prep (virtual) Date/Time: Apr 26th from 6-7pm (CST) Description: One of the most common mistakes people make in an interview is NOT being fully prepared! Don't worry, we're breaking it down in the final Career Steps for Success workshop. Location: Zoom- https://kansas.zoom.us/j/97985894799 Meeting ID: 979 8589 4799 Passcode: 12600 Hosted By: KU Edwards Student Services & Career Development Advantage: Professional Skills Canned Food Drive Competition By Major (in-person) Date/Time: Apr 25th - 29th Description: Join KU Edwards as we help our local community with a competitive food drive by major. Donating is easy! There will be tables set up in each of the buildings. All you have to do is write your major on your cans! Location: Tables located in BEST, Regnier Hall, and Regents Center Hosted By: KU Edwards Student Services Advantage: Campus & Community Engagement Student Advisory Council Meeting (hybrid) Date/Time: Apr 27th from 2-3pm (CST) Description: Are you interested in getting involved on campus and growing leadership skills? Join us to provide input as the voice of the student body, connect students' needs and interests to campus initiatives, and promote and enhance programs and services to strengthen the student experience at the Edwards Campus. Location: Regents Center 220, Edwards Campus and Zoom Meeting ID: 932 8094 4299 Passcode: 12600 Hosted By: KU Edwards Student Advisory Council (email kuecsac@ku.edu for more info) Advantage: Campus & Community Engagement MAY Pre-Med Club Meeting (in-person) Date/Time: May 5th from 5:45-6:50pm Description: Are you planning to apply to medical school? Join like-minded peers from various majors to develop professionally, support each other, and get access to resources. Location: Regents Center 220 (second floor), Edwards Campus Hosted By: KU Edwards Pre-Med Club (email griffin.schenk@ku.edu for more info) Pause with Paws (in-person) Date/Time: May 10th and 12th from 5:00 - 7:00 pm Description: Finals have you stressed? Take a timeout and join us for a finals pause where you can create bath bombs and enjoy some time with therapy dogs! Location: Best Lobby Hosted By: KU Edwards Student Services KU Edwards Grad Gathering (in-person) Date/Time: May 11th from 4-6:30pm Description: Are you an Edwards Campus student that is graduating this spring? If so, please join us for Grad Gathering to celebrate your accomplishments! This is a come-and-go event with food, refreshments, and an opportunity to take photos with your favorite people. Location: Hawk's Nest, Regents Center building, Edwards Campus (RSVP HERE) Hosted By: KU Edwards Student Services School of Professional Studies Graduation (hybrid) Date/Time: May 14th starting at 1pm Description: Are you a student that is graduating from a program within the School of Professional Studies? If so, please join us to celebrate your accomplishments! Regalia encouraged. REGISTER HERE. Questions? Contact kuecservices@ku.edu or (913) 897-8539. Location: BEST Conference Center, Edwards Campus and Zoom Meeting ID: 987 2618 9721 Passcode: 12600 Hosted By: KU Edwards Student Services and the School of Professional Studies KU Commencement (in-person) Date/Time: May 15th starting at 10:30am Description: Visit Commencement.KU.edu for all details Location: KU Lawrence Campus Link & Learn Series: Disability & Dignity: Communication that Cultivates Accessible and Inclusive Workplace for All (virtual) Date/Time: May 19th from 11am-12pm (CST) Description: This session will provide strategies to highlight the ways organizations can support employees with disabilities by discussing various types of disability, interpersonal and organizational implications of supportive workplaces, and actionable communication strategies employees and leaders can take to promote inclusion. When workplaces are accessible, employees bring their best selves to work, and employers get the best contributions from their employees. Read more HERE. Location: Zoom (REGISTER HERE) Hosted By: KU Edwards Communication Studies Graduate Certificate in Professional Workplace Communication Advantage: Cultural Perspective If you have questions or concerns about any event or need to request disability accommodations, please contact kuecservices@ku.edu or (913) 897-8539. Edwards Campus 12600 Quivira Road Overland Park, KS 66213 edwardsinfo@ku.edu 913-897-8400 Upcoming Events See all events Maps & Directions About the Edwards Campus Library services Conference & event spaces Course schedule Career Blog Student services Faculty resources Technical assistance KU at Leavenworth Employment Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.