Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Edwards Campus myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Academic Programs Select to follow link Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) Online Courses Current Students Select to follow link My KU Edwards Experience Faculty & Staff News Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Edwards Campus Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Academics Academic programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificate Online courses Continuing education Students Student services Campus tuition and fees Prospective student resources Affordability & scholarship information myKU Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay About About KU Edwards Campus Dean's Message Staff School of Professional Studies Career blog Contact us Apply Home Academic Programs Graduate Programs in Construction Management Earn a Graduate certificate or Master’s in Construction Management Online According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, career opportunities for construction managers are projected to grow 10% by 2028. Growth in this profession requires knowledge of management procedures, risk and liability management, efficient selection of equipment and on-the-job practices, in addition to direct experience. A construction manager may use their skills in capacities such as: Managing personnel on a construction site Consulting with clients or construction firms on sustainable building practices Overseeing a building’s facilities or maintenance team Providing administrative management of a construction project How do you become a construction manager? Employers increasingly prefer construction managers to have on-the-job construction experience in addition to specialized training in a construction management-related field. Professionals with an advanced degree in construction management work in a variety of related careers in construction, facilities and engineering. What online construction management programs are offered through KU? KU offers two forms of graduate-level programs in construction management. The online Master of Construction Management degree is designed for working construction industry professionals. The program allows students to learn up-to-date practical techniques they can immediately use on the job. The graduate certificate in construction management is designed for working construction industry professionals who want to earn a credential without a full degree program, as well as current graduate students seeking to specialize their knowledge. Courses for both programs are delivered live online and available as full-lecture recordings to allow students flexibility in determining their study times. Construction Management Master's Degree Construction Management Graduate Certificate Helpful information Inquire now Financial guidance Tips & resources to make the most of financial aid at KU. Getting started tips The steps and actions for a successful start. Choosing advice Get help choosing the right KC university. Questions? William Kirkham Civil Engineering Academic Success Coach 913-897-8514 Send an email to the program advisor Apply Now How is the program structured? The graduate certificate in construction management consists of 12 hours of core courses. The Master of Construction Management consists of 18 hours of core courses and 12 hours of elective courses. Please refer to the program guide for the program of your choice for full curriculum information. Software Used in the Program - On-Screen Takeoff - Bluebeam Revu - Building Information Modeling (BIM, e.g. Autodesk Revit) - Microsoft Project - Procore Project Management Software - Student access to other software also available Why a KU graduate program? Flexible Live online courses Class recordings available for flexible scheduling Designed with working professionals in mind Quality Credentialed, experienced faculty Globally recognized academics Outstanding history of departmental research Useful Learn it today, use it tomorrow Skills to advance your career Courses cover up-to-date industry best practices Graduate Programs in Construction Management program details × × × × × × Edwards Campus 12600 Quivira Road Overland Park, KS 66213 edwardsinfo@ku.edu 913-897-8400 Upcoming Events See all events Maps & Directions About the Edwards Campus Library services Conference & event spaces Course schedule Career Blog Student services Faculty resources Technical assistance KU at Leavenworth Employment Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.