Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Edwards Campus myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Academic Programs Select to follow link Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) Online Courses Current Students Select to follow link My KU Edwards Experience Faculty & Staff News Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Edwards Campus Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Academics Academic programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificate Online courses Continuing education Students Student services Campus tuition and fees Prospective student resources Affordability & scholarship information myKU Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay About About KU Edwards Campus Dean's Message Staff School of Professional Studies Career blog Contact us Apply Home Academic Programs MPA and graduate certificates in public administration in Kansas City Become a future leader for public service with masters in public administration The KU Master of Public Administration (MPA) degree prepares students for careers in public service, including at all levels of government, non-profit organizations, and public service-oriented private organizations. Our MPA program employs a unique combination of theoretically grounded course work and practical application. It is recognized with multiple top rankings by U.S. News and World Report, including a long-standing #1 ranking in local government management. A public administration professional’s duties might include: Studying political systems and operations Planning regional and urban community growth Making policy at the local government level Analyzing or changing performance at a non-profit organization What career possibilities does a public administration degree offer? Public administration professionals use their skills in a variety of settings, including local government, political science, non-profit leadership, medical and health services management and human resources. Is an MPA or a public administration graduate certificate right for you? KU’s public administration graduate programs are for individuals who seek leadership positions in public sector organizations. These programs develop students' abilities to design and implement policies, projects and programs while attending to day-to-day administrative issues, enabling their organizations to provide vital services to communities and address pressing societal problems. What public administration graduate programs in Kansas City are available from KU? KU offers an MPA and five certificate options for public administration graduate programs. See the choices below and download the program guides for more information. Each guide provides the program’s curriculum, career paths, admissions information, tuition and more. Masters of Public Administration program information City and County Management certificate program information Public and Nonprofit certificate program information Public Policy certificate program information Law & Society certificate program information Helpful information Inquire now Financial guidance Tips & resources to make the most of financial aid at KU. Getting started tips The steps and actions for a successful start. Choosing advice Get help choosing the right KC university. Questions? Cari Ann Kreienhop Public Affairs Program Manager & Advisor 785-864-3665 Send an email to the program advisor Explore the curriculum Why start a KU graduate certificate or KU masters in public administration program? Flexible Applicable to a variety of careers Evening classes to fit your busy schedule MetroKC tuition rate available for Missouri students Quality All full professors are members of the National Academy of Public Administration Ranked in public affairs, local government management (no. 1), public finance and budgeting, and public management and leadership among public universities by U.S. News and World Report NASPAA accredited Useful Hands-on curriculum with real-world application Emphasizes characteristics to help you succeed in the field Training and practical experience in leadership, current issues and project management Public Administration Graduate Program details × × × × × × × × × × × Edwards Campus 12600 Quivira Road Overland Park, KS 66213 edwardsinfo@ku.edu 913-897-8400 Upcoming Events See all events Maps & Directions About the Edwards Campus Library services Conference & event spaces Course schedule Career Blog Student services Faculty resources Technical assistance KU at Leavenworth Employment Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.