Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Edwards Campus myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Academic Programs Select to follow link Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) Online Courses Current Students Select to follow link My KU Edwards Experience Faculty & Staff News Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Edwards Campus Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Academics Academic programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificate Online courses Continuing education Students Student services Campus tuition and fees Prospective student resources Affordability & scholarship information myKU Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay About About KU Edwards Campus Dean's Message Staff School of Professional Studies Career blog Contact us Apply Home Academic Programs PSM & Certificate in Environmental Geology - A Nearly All Online Geology Degree Join a growing job field with an online geology degree Growing scientific and technological innovations, and the search for ways to understand the environmental impact of that growth, means an increasing need for geoscience professionals. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, demand for environmental geologists is expected to grow 15-21 percent by 2022, adding more than 17,000 jobs by 2022. An environmental geologist’s duties might include: Evaluating and managing groundwater, surface water, and Earth's resources. Conducting and overseeing assessment and remediation of contaminated soil and water. Delineating groundwater movement and the origin and fate of soil and subsurface contaminants. Performing site investigations using geochemical, geotechnical, and geophysical field and laboratory methods. Preparing and presenting reports on findings for government officials, businesses or the public. What jobs can I get with an environmental geology degree? Environmental geologists apply their knowledge in a variety of industries. Potential employers include corporate engineering, environmental, and geophysical consulting firms. Federal, state, and local government entities, such as geological surveys or environmental agencies, also hire environmental geologists. Is a master's in environmental geology degree right for me? KU’s professional science graduate programs are designed for students interested in a wide range of environmental issues. The Environmental Geology program combines in-depth coursework in environmental science and geology with project management and communications training. The unique curriculum provides professionals with the skills needed to collect and clearly communicate reliable data, in addition to successfully leading projects and managing teams. You may complete the majority of your coursework online, with only three on-site, one-credit-hour, day or weekend workshops covering field and laboratory methods. Learn more about the hands-on workshops. Helpful information Inquire now Financial guidance Tips & resources to make the most of financial aid at KU. Getting started tips The steps and actions for a successful start. Choosing advice Get help choosing the right KC university. Questions? Penny Thies Academic Success Coach 913-897-8539 Send an email to the program advisor What environmental geology graduate programs are available at KU? KU offers two options for professional science graduate programs in environmental geology. All classes can be completed in hybrid mode or entirely online, except for the field workshops. See the choices below and download the program guides for more information. Each guide provides the program’s curriculum, career paths, admissions information, tuition and more. Professional Science Master’s Degree Graduate Certificate in Environmental Geology Learn more about the Environmental Geology program director, Marcia Schulmeister. Why a KU graduate geology degree? Flexible Classes offered online, with three in-person field workshops GRE not required for 3.0 and above undergrad GPAs Graduate certificate option Quality Credentialed, experienced faculty Globally recognized academics KU is one of 34 public university members of the prestigious Association of American Universities Useful Courses designed for science and technology professionals Learn it today, use it tomorrow Versatile skillset designed for use in your scientific field Environmental Geology program detailsMeet the program director Environmental Graduate Program Faculty × × × × × × Edwards Campus 12600 Quivira Road Overland Park, KS 66213 edwardsinfo@ku.edu 913-897-8400 Upcoming Events See all events Maps & Directions About the Edwards Campus Library services Conference & event spaces Course schedule Career Blog Student services Faculty resources Technical assistance KU at Leavenworth Employment Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.