Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Edwards Campus myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Academic Programs Select to follow link Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) Online Courses Current Students Select to follow link My KU Edwards Experience Faculty & Staff News Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Edwards Campus Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Academics Academic programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificate Online courses Continuing education Students Student services Campus tuition and fees Prospective student resources Affordability & scholarship information myKU Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay About About KU Edwards Campus Dean's Message Staff School of Professional Studies Career blog Contact us Apply Home Academic Programs On-campus and Online Professional Science Master’s in Environmental Assessment & Certificates in Environmental Assessment and Environmental Justice Join a growing job field in environmental assessment The world’s growing population, and our growing understanding of problems caused by environmental degradation, means there is a growing need for environmental science professionals. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, demand for environmental scientists and specialists is expected to grow 11 percent by 2026, faster than the average for all professions. An environmental scientist or specialist’s duties might include: Assessing potential impacts to the environment by impending development projects Providing information and guidance to government officials, businesses or the public about possible environmental hazards or health risks Working with governments at the local, state or national level on environmental public policy What jobs can I get with a Professional Science Master's (PSM) in environmental assessment? Environmental scientists apply their knowledge to a variety of industries that work with infrastructure and policy, including environmental impact assessment firms, engineering firms, state or local government agencies or construction firms. Adding an environmental justice focus opens additional opportunities within government agencies and in the community service and non-profit sector. Is environmental assessment graduate education right for me? KU's environmental assessment graduate programs are designed for students interested in a wide range of environmental issues. Courses are offered online and at the KU Edwards Campus in Overland Park. The environmental assessment graduate programs combine physical and natural science with project management and communications training to develop science professionals with the skills to accurately collect and clearly communicate data, as well as successfully lead teams. What environmental assessment graduate programs are available at KU? KU offers three options for environmental assessment programs. The Environmental Assessment Professional Science Masters and graduate certificate can be completed fully online, or in-person at the KU Edwards Campus in Overland Park. The Environmental Justice graduate certificate is a hybrid program which can be completed at the Edwards Campus or the KU Lawrence Campus. See the choices below and download the program guides for more information. Each guide provides the program’s curriculum, career paths, admissions information, tuition and more. Professional Science Master’s Degree in Environmental Assessment Graduate Certificate in Environmental Assessment Graduate Certificate in Environmental Justice Helpful information Inquire now Financial guidance Tips & resources to make the most of financial aid at KU. Getting started tips The steps and actions for a successful start. Choosing advice Get help choosing the right KC university. Questions? Penny Thies Academic Success Coach 913-897-8539 Send an email to the program advisor Accelerated Master’s Degree (4+1) Save time and money by earning both a bachelor’s and master’s degree at KU in only five years. The KU environmental studies accelerated master’s degree program is designed for qualified students currently enrolled in the Bachelor of Science in Environmental Studies, Bachelor of Arts in Environmental Studies or Bachelor of General Studies in Environmental Studies degree tracks. The program allows a student to complete the Professional Science Masters (PSM) in Environmental Assessment graduate degree in a single year, or five years total for both degrees. Talk to your academic advisor for more information about this program option. Why choose KU for environmental assessment? Flexible Online, on-site and hybrid course formats GRE not required for 3.0 and above undergrad GPAs Accelerated 4+1 master’s option Quality Credentialed, experienced faculty Globally recognized academics KU is one of 34 members of AAU Useful Courses designed for science and technology professionals Learn it today, use it tomorrow Versatile skillset designed for use in your scientific field Environmental Assessment program details × × × × × × × Edwards Campus 12600 Quivira Road Overland Park, KS 66213 edwardsinfo@ku.edu 913-897-8400 Upcoming Events See all events Maps & Directions About the Edwards Campus Library services Conference & event spaces Course schedule Career Blog Student services Faculty resources Technical assistance KU at Leavenworth Employment Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.