Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Edwards Campus myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Academic Programs Select to follow link Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) Online Courses Current Students Select to follow link My KU Edwards Experience Faculty & Staff News Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Edwards Campus Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Academics Academic programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificate Online courses Continuing education Students Student services Campus tuition and fees Prospective student resources Affordability & scholarship information myKU Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay About About KU Edwards Campus Dean's Message Staff School of Professional Studies Career blog Contact us Apply Home About About KU Edwards Campus About KU Edwards Campus Other Pages about Edwards Campus Edwards Mission Campus Hours Edwards Family Campus Stats Johnson County Education Research Triangle Sustainability Efforts at the KU Edwards Campus Dean's Message The University of Kansas holds a tradition of excellence over a century old. In the 1970s, it shared that tradition with Greater Kansas City by providing courses to working professionals. In 1993 the university opened another location, the KU Edwards Campus, to provide permanent growth and education in the Kansas City community. In the past two decades, it has contributed more than $400 million to the Johnson County economy. In 2008, the Edwards Campus became proud partners in the Johnson County Education Research Triangle. We pride ourselves on putting the needs of students first. We have a wide variety of undergraduate, graduate and certificate programs, and we provide late afternoon and evening classes to help our students balance the responsibilities of work and family. Courses at KU Edwards Campus earn the same credit as those taught on the main campus in Lawrence, Kan. Because the University of Kansas enjoys a national and international reputation, our students can be sure their hard work will pay off no matter where their career takes them. KU Edwards Campus is also home to KU Lifelong & Professional Education, a leading provider of professional education programming, workforce training and lifelong enrichment serving Kansas City and beyond. Starting in fall 2016, the campus broadened its reach by offering courses for selected programs in Leavenworth, Kansas. Edwards Campus 12600 Quivira Road Overland Park, KS 66213 edwardsinfo@ku.edu 913-897-8400 Upcoming Events See all events Maps & Directions About the Edwards Campus Library services Conference & event spaces Course schedule Career Blog Student services Faculty resources Technical assistance KU at Leavenworth Employment Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.