Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Edwards Campus myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Academic Programs Select to follow link Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) Online Courses Current Students Select to follow link My KU Edwards Experience Faculty & Staff News Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Edwards Campus Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Academics Academic programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificate Online courses Continuing education Students Student services Campus tuition and fees Prospective student resources Affordability & scholarship information myKU Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay About About KU Edwards Campus Dean's Message Staff School of Professional Studies Career blog Contact us Apply Home Academic Programs Master’s in accounting & undergraduate accounting certificate Earn your master’s degree in accounting or undergraduate accounting certificate Earning your University of Kansas accounting master’s degree or undergraduate accounting certificate can greatly benefit your career. The education and credentialing can show employers you are the right candidate to hire or promote. The KU School of Business Master of Accounting (MAcc) also helps you prepare for CPA certification. The undergraduate accounting certificate is an excellent choice for those less familiar with the discipline and who need to increase their knowledge and skills. The KU accounting undergraduate certificate is also a pathway to the MAcc program for those without prior accounting education. Accounting careers are growing in their availability and can be very rewarding. The US Bureau of Labor Statistics forecasts jobs in accounting to grow by 10% by 2026, faster than the average job growth rate, and reports the average annual salary for accountants is $70,500. One reason for the high demand is accountants work in almost all industries, locations and sizes of companies, from positions at large accounting firms to accountant jobs at small companies. Wondering how to become an accountant or advance in your accounting career? A KU accounting education is a great place to start. The MAcc program at KU also helps prepare professionals to become Certified Public Accountants, or CPAs. If you want to become a CPA in Kansas, Missouri or most other states, the MAcc program can help you prepare for the exams and meet the educational requirements. What jobs can I get with an accounting degree? Nearly every organization from large corporations to small businesses to nonprofits needs accountants either on their payroll or as external providers. That means your choice of employers, industry and work locations is almost limitless. Depending on the size of the employer, it may have one or two accounting generalists up to hundreds of specialized accounting and financial professionals. Accounting and accounting career paths open the door to jobs with public accounting firms, corporations, and governmental entities. Roles include external auditor; internal auditor; tax specialist who plans, analyzes, manages and/or prepares documentation for taxes; consultant, with area expertise in financial analysis, financial reporting, treasury, valuation, strategy, mergers and acquisitions, and/or forensic accounting; and leadership roles such as controller, vice president of finance or accounting, chief accounting officer, chief financial officer (CFO) and more. Helpful information Inquire now Financial guidance Tips & resources to make the most of financial aid at KU. Getting started tips The steps and actions for a successful start. Choosing advice Get help choosing the right KC university. Questions? Jody Johnson Academic Success Associate Director 913-897-8609 Send an email to the program advisor What KU accounting programs in Kansas City are available? Individuals looking to earn a bachelor’s degree including accounting curriculum should explore the Bachelor of Business of Administration (BBA) at the KU Edwards Campus. The courses within the Undergraduate Certificate in Accounting can count toward the bachelor’s degree, which means you can simultaneously earn both a business degree and accounting certificate. Most courses in these programs are offered in-person at the KU Edwards Campus in Overland Park. The KU Master of Accounting degree program is accredited by the AACSB. Additionally, the KU School of Business, which offers the MAcc, Undergraduate Certificate in Accounting and Bachelor of Business of Administration, is accredited by the ACCSB. These programs are respected worldwide for the quality of their education, the success of their graduates and their accreditation. Learn more about the accounting master’s degree and undergraduate accounting certificate: Master of Accounting Undergraduate Certificate in Accounting Why choose KU for your accounting education? Flexible Courses offered in-person on our Kansas City campus Evening class times convenient for working adults Choose electives and course sequences that fit your professional interests and schedule Quality The only AACSB-accredited accounting program in the Kansas City region Degrees and certificate granted by the internationally recognized University of Kansas School of Business Top-tier faculty teaching current and essential accounting curriculum Useful MAcc meets the education requirements for the CPA in most states Learn it today; use it tomorrow Powerful blend of accounting theory and applied practice Accounting program details × × × × × Edwards Campus 12600 Quivira Road Overland Park, KS 66213 edwardsinfo@ku.edu 913-897-8400 Upcoming Events See all events Maps & Directions About the Edwards Campus Library services Conference & event spaces Course schedule Career Blog Student services Faculty resources Technical assistance KU at Leavenworth Employment Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.