Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Edwards Campus myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Academic Programs Select to follow link Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) Online Courses Current Students Select to follow link My KU Edwards Experience Faculty & Staff News Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Edwards Campus Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Academics Academic programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificate Online courses Continuing education Students Student services Campus tuition and fees Prospective student resources Affordability & scholarship information myKU Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay About About KU Edwards Campus Dean's Message Staff School of Professional Studies Career blog Contact us Apply Home Academic Programs Online nutrition certificate and minor undergraduate programs The Bureau of Labor Statistics projects a 15 percent increase in demand for dietitians and nutritionists by 2026. Professionals with a background in nutrition apply their knowledge in a variety of fields. A nutrition professional’s duties might include: Providing nutrition or health education in a school or community setting Creating a nutrition or diet plan for professional or student athletes Helping a large company develop a wellness plan for employees Conducting food safety audits What career possibilities does a certificate in nutrition offer? Many careers related to public health, food manufacturing, wellness and more draw on a background in nutrition. KU’s online minor and undergraduate certificate programs allow students to apply a specified background to their studies in several academic disciplines. Is a KU online certificate in nutrition right for you? With a curriculum focused on the role of nutrition in a wide range of areas, KU’s undergraduate certificate provides a useful area of focus for your degree or professional background, helping you become more marketable in a growing career field. Pursue an undergraduate certificate to earn a valuable credential and help start or refocus your work in a nutrition-related field. Alternately, a certificate in nutrition can supplement your undergraduate studies to prepare you for a successful career in health, nutrition, wellness, fitness and beyond. The courses and credential from the nutrition program may make you more successful in continuing your education in graduate school. Helpful information Inquire now Financial guidance Tips & resources to make the most of financial aid at KU. Getting started tips The steps and actions for a successful start. Choosing advice Get help choosing the right KC university. Questions? Estevan Ortiz Academic Success Coach 913-897-8524 Send an email to the program advisor What nutrition programs are available at the KU Edwards Campus? KU offers a minor and an undergraduate certificate program in nutrition. Both programs are offered entirely online. View the options below and download a program guide for more information on each program’s curriculum, admission information, tuition and more. Why study nutrition at KU? Flexible Online, asynchronous courses Earn the certificate by completing just four courses Online office hours with instructors Quality Globally respected academics Credentialed, experienced faculty KU is one of 34 public university members of AAU Useful In-demand professional skillset Applies to a variety of degrees and careers Learn it today, use it tomorrow Nutrition Program Details × × × × Edwards Campus 12600 Quivira Road Overland Park, KS 66213 edwardsinfo@ku.edu 913-897-8400 Upcoming Events See all events Maps & Directions About the Edwards Campus Library services Conference & event spaces Course schedule Career Blog Student services Faculty resources Technical assistance KU at Leavenworth Employment Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.