Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Edwards Campus myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Academic Programs Select to follow link Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) Online Courses Current Students Select to follow link My KU Edwards Experience Faculty & Staff News Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Edwards Campus Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Academics Academic programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificate Online courses Continuing education Students Student services Campus tuition and fees Prospective student resources Affordability & scholarship information myKU Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay About About KU Edwards Campus Dean's Message Staff School of Professional Studies Career blog Contact us Apply Home Academic Programs KU Online Project Management Master's Degree & Certificate and On-campus Programs in Kansas City What is project management? Project management involves leading cross-functional teams to deliver successful projects. A project manager’s responsibilities include: Creating clear and attainable project objectives Developing project requirements Planning project tasks to meet the objectives Managing complex, interdependent project activities to meet the cost, time, quality and client satisfaction objectives Managing change on the project Leading the project team and managing project stakeholders What industries need project managers? Project management is a broadly applicable skill set, increasingly desired in a wide variety of industries such as business, engineering, health care, information technology, military, science, construction, marketing and event planning. Is project management graduate education right for you? KU’s online project management graduate programs and on-campus programs in Kansas City help existing project managers, or those who desire to become a project manager or program manager, learn how to successfully lead any project, from a simple, short-duration project to a multi-year highly complex project. KU also offers an online bachelor's degree in project management. Visit this page to learn more. Helpful information Inquire now Financial guidance Tips & resources to make the most of financial aid at KU. Getting started tips The steps and actions for a successful start. Choosing advice Get help choosing the right KC university. Questions? Jennifer Keleher-Price Project Management Academic Success Coach 913-897-8635 Send an email to the program advisor What on-campus and online project management masters and certificate programs are available at KU? You can pursue project management graduate education through several paths with KU. See the choices below, and download the program guides for more information. Each guide shows you the program’s curriculum, career paths, admissions information, tuition and more. Online Master of Science in Project Management In-person Master of Science in Project Management In-person Master of Engineering in Project Management Graduate Certificate in Project Management Why a KU project management degree or certificate? Flexible Choose course formats that work for you Fully online asynchronous In-person Overland Park In-person courses are also recorded and available via live-stream Prestigious Globally recognized KU degree Credentialed, experienced faculty Each instructor has >20 years industry experience KU is one of 34 public university members of the prestigious Association of American Universities Useful Learn it today, use it tomorrow Discuss your real-world projects in class Courses follow the PMI PMBOK™ Project Management program details Project Management program faculty × × × × × × × × × Edwards Campus 12600 Quivira Road Overland Park, KS 66213 edwardsinfo@ku.edu 913-897-8400 Upcoming Events See all events Maps & Directions About the Edwards Campus Library services Conference & event spaces Course schedule Career Blog Student services Faculty resources Technical assistance KU at Leavenworth Employment Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.