Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Edwards Campus myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Academic Programs Select to follow link Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) Online Courses Current Students Select to follow link My KU Edwards Experience Faculty & Staff News Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Edwards Campus Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Academics Academic programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificate Online courses Continuing education Students Student services Campus tuition and fees Prospective student resources Affordability & scholarship information myKU Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay About About KU Edwards Campus Dean's Message Staff School of Professional Studies Career blog Contact us Apply Home Student Services New Student Orientation Welcome & Success Center New Student Orientation and Onboarding Experience Welcome to the KU Edwards Campus! Whether you are completing an undergraduate degree or beginning a master’s program, the orientation and onboarding programs provide an opportunity for you to complete critical new student steps prior to your first day of classes. Students are expected to attend to ensure they are prepared and have a successful start at KU. Your academic success coach will add you to the RSVP list. Check your email frequently for the next steps. Orientation is focused on your individual success. Through the RSVP process, you will be asked to complete a confidence inventory that ensures your orientation experience is aligned to meet your learning needs. If you have not received your invitation via email, contact your academic success coach today. NOTE: KU Edwards Students do NOT need to attend Transfer Orientation in Lawrence unless otherwise directed. See your advisor for questions. Fall 2022 Orientation Sessions Fall Transfer (Undergraduate) Orientation- Wednesday, August 17th, from 5-7:30pm in-person or live on Zoom. Register HERE. Fall Graduate Orientation- Thursday, August 18th, from 5-7:30pm live on Zoom. Register HERE. Still have questions or need support? Contact us at kuecservices@ku.edu or 913-897-8539. Edwards Campus 12600 Quivira Road Overland Park, KS 66213 edwardsinfo@ku.edu 913-897-8400 Upcoming Events See all events Maps & Directions About the Edwards Campus Library services Conference & event spaces Course schedule Career Blog Student services Faculty resources Technical assistance KU at Leavenworth Employment Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.