Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Edwards Campus myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Academic Programs Select to follow link Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) Online Courses Current Students Select to follow link My KU Edwards Experience Faculty & Staff News Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Edwards Campus Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Academics Academic programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificate Online courses Continuing education Students Student services Campus tuition and fees Prospective student resources Affordability & scholarship information myKU Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay About About KU Edwards Campus Dean's Message Staff School of Professional Studies Career blog Contact us Apply Home Online Bachelor of Health Sciences Degree Earn a degree that helps you enter health care, an in-demand field The Bureau of Labor Statistics projects healthcare-related careers to grow 14 percent by 2028. Some individual career pathways within health care and health sciences are projected to double or even triple this rate. The field of health sciences covers a variety of in-demand professions, including public health, health care, nutrition and more. Someone with a bachelor’s degree in health sciences might apply their knowledge in the following ways: Continuing to graduate school in a variety of specialized areas in health care or medicine Entering healthcare administration or continuing to graduate school in healthcare administration Researching and implementing public health initiatives Advising local or state governments regarding elements of health care or public health policies This program can also put you on a pre-health or pre-med path. What can you do with an undergraduate health science degree? Professionals with a health science degree can work across a variety of related in-demand careers that meet their interests and professional goals. This might include working on public policy related to population health, healthcare administration or pursuing graduate education in a specialized area of health care or medicine. *A pathway to medicine or dentistry requires additional in-person coursework at KU, another four-year institution or a community college. Is an online undergraduate health science degree right for you? KU’s online Bachelor of Health Sciences is a degree completion program that provides students hoping to enter health science professions the opportunity to strengthen their background in content related to their anticipated healthcare profession. The program also lets students explore elective courses that help them concentrate their knowledge in areas including nutrition, public and population health, and health management and policy. Students should be sure to discuss their long-term plans with their academic success coach for help selecting the best courses for their desired educational pathway and career. Helpful information Inquire now Financial guidance Tips & resources to make the most of financial aid at KU. Getting started tips The steps and actions for a successful start. Choosing advice Get help choosing the right KC university. Questions? Estevan Ortiz Academic Success Coach 913-897-8524 Send an email to the program advisor How is the program structured? KU’s online Bachelor of Health Sciences consists of 120 credit hours. Why a KU Health Sciences degree? Flexible Fully online courses Gain an interdisciplinary skillset Electives allow students to tailor their degree to their interests and goals Quality Credentialed, experienced faculty Globally respected academics KU is one of 65 public institutions in the American Association of Universities Useful Learn it today, use it tomorrow Courses address technical skills and career development Courses apply to a variety of in-demand health careers Health Sciences program details page × × × × × Edwards Campus 12600 Quivira Road Overland Park, KS 66213 edwardsinfo@ku.edu 913-897-8400 Upcoming Events See all events Maps & Directions About the Edwards Campus Library services Conference & event spaces Course schedule Career Blog Student services Faculty resources Technical assistance KU at Leavenworth Employment Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.