Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Edwards Campus myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Academic Programs Select to follow link Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) Online Courses Current Students Select to follow link My KU Edwards Experience Faculty & Staff News Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Edwards Campus Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Academics Academic programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificate Online courses Continuing education Students Student services Campus tuition and fees Prospective student resources Affordability & scholarship information myKU Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay About About KU Edwards Campus Dean's Message Staff School of Professional Studies Career blog Contact us Apply Home Academic Programs Online Applied Statistics, Analytics & Data Science Graduate Programs What is Applied Statistics? Applied statistics, analytics and data science involves interpreting data to determine needs, trends and probabilities across many industries. Any field that involves analyzing data-based findings or results needs trained data analysts, scientists and statisticians to interpret and report information. A data analyst, scientist or statistician’s responsibilities may include: Interpreting performance data for new products or technologies Analyzing demographic data for a political or marketing campaign Contributing to health care research Reporting results from scientific lab or field work What industries need data analysts? Data analytics, statistics professionals and data scientists work in a wide variety of industries, including healthcare, public policy, environmental science, business and public relations. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, jobs in statistics-related fields, including data analytics, are projected to grow 33 percent by 2026, compared to an overall projected occupational growth of 7.4 percent. Is online applied statistics, analytics & data science graduate education right for you? KU’s applied statistics, analytics and data science graduate programs are designed for students who want to enter or advance in the in-demand field of data and statistics. These programs help students effectively communicate principles of statistics and analytics, and assist with design and implementation of data management systems. The programs are open to students who display strong math skills, but may not have statistics-based academic backgrounds. Admission to the the KU applied statistics & analytics graduate programs requires completion of calculus I and II and a minimum undergraduate GPA of 3.0 as well as other admission requirements. KU offers courses to help you meet the calculus requirement if needed. Those course credit hours and grades do not count toward degree completion. Helpful information Inquire now Financial guidance Tips & resources to make the most of financial aid at KU. Getting started tips The steps and actions for a successful start. Choosing advice Get help choosing the right KC university. Questions? Shana Palla Ed.D. Assistant Director of Graduate Education, Department of Biostatistics & Data Science 913-897-8674 Send an email to the program advisor Sarah Dahlstrom, MA Academic Program Specialist (913) 897-8537 Send an email What online applied statistics, analytics and data science graduate programs are available at KU? KU offers a degree option and certificate options for applied statistics, analytics and data science graduate programs. Students in the Master of Science can choose an emphasis in Statistics, Analytics or Data Science. See the choices below and download the program guides for more information. Each guide provides the program’s curriculum, career paths, admissions information, tuition and more. 100% Online Applied Statistics, Analytics and Data Science Master’s Degree with chosen emphasis (PDF): Statistics Analytics Data Science 100% Online Graduate Certificate in Applied Statistics (PDF) 100% Online Graduate Certificate in Applied Data Science (PDF) Why start the KU online statistics, analytics and data science program? Flexible Asynchronous course format Pre-recorded podcast video content Graduate certificate options Virtually interact with students and instructors Complete your degree at your own pace 100% online Quality Credentialed, experienced faculty Globally recognized academics KU is one of 34 public university members of AAU Useful Skillsets that apply to a variety of fields Learn it today, use it tomorrow Courses designed for those in career transition as well as current analysts Applied statistics, analytics & data science graduate program detailsApplied Statistics, Analytics & Data Science Faculty × Program Guides 100% Online Applied Statistics, Analytics and Data Science Master’s Degree with chosen emphasis (PDF): 100% Online Graduate Certificate in Applied Statistics (PDF) 100% Online Graduate Certificate in Applied Data Science (PDF) × × × × Edwards Campus 12600 Quivira Road Overland Park, KS 66213 edwardsinfo@ku.edu 913-897-8400 Upcoming Events See all events Maps & Directions About the Edwards Campus Library services Conference & event spaces Course schedule Career Blog Student services Faculty resources Technical assistance KU at Leavenworth Employment Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.