Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Edwards Campus myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Academic Programs Select to follow link Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) Online Courses Current Students Select to follow link My KU Edwards Experience Faculty & Staff News Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Edwards Campus Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Academics Academic programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificate Online courses Continuing education Students Student services Campus tuition and fees Prospective student resources Affordability & scholarship information myKU Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay About About KU Edwards Campus Dean's Message Staff School of Professional Studies Career blog Contact us Apply Home School of Professional Studies University of Kansas School of Professional Studies About The University of Kansas School of Professional Studies facilitates social mobility and equity by providing high-quality academic programs, research activities and engaged learning initiatives to meet local workforce, economic and student needs. This academic unit is dedicated to serving the needs of transfer and nontraditional students, a growing sector of post-secondary enrollment for higher education both nationally and in the Kansas City metro area. The school provides these working professionals and transfer students with critical, in-demand programs to meet the talent needs of employers in the Greater Kansas City area and beyond. The school offers a variety of disciplines, course formats, class schedules, student services, aid and more to meet the needs of diverse students who may work full-time, have considerable commitments outside of the classroom, have prior college-level education or otherwise need a different approach to earning academic credentials. The undergraduate and graduate programs in the School of Professional Studies include: Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of General Studies, Bachelor of Science, Bachelor of Applied Science, Master of Engineering, Master of Science, as well as undergraduate and graduates certificates. These are interdisciplinary degree completion programs aimed at preparing students for high demand workforce needs. See all available School of Professional Studies academic programs. Based at the KU Edwards Campus in Overland Park, which has predominately served nontraditional students since 1993, the school is uniquely positioned to offer pertinent programming and expert instruction aided by close ties to area employers and industry experts. Here’s a snapshot of KU Edwards Campus students. 51% undergraduate students, 49% graduate students 52% female, 38% male, 10% did not identify 64% work part-time, 36% work full-time Average student age is 27 years old 31% identified as an ethnic minority 25% were first-generation college students KU Edwards Campus Mission The mission of the University of Kansas Edwards Campus is to bring high-quality education programs to serve diverse workforce, economic, and student needs. We provide academic programs, research activities, and engaged learning initiatives that address the educational needs of our students and the greater community. KU Edwards Campus Values Our work is guided by our shared commitment to the Jayhawk Values of unity, innovation, inclusion and engagement as we serve our students and other constituents. School of Professional Studies Vision Our vision is to increase social mobility and equity through academic experiences and professional skill building. “The KU School of Professional Studies is an important advancement for the evolving workforce needs of the Kansas City region and is in direct alignment with the Edwards Campus’ mission to serve these diverse needs as well as that of the local economy and community. This school allows us to directly serve adult learners and transfer students with timely, relevant programs allowing them to advance their career while equipping employers with highly skilled talent. We continue to build this school with our commitment to inclusion, professionalism, collaboration and innovation.” ~ Stuart Day, Dean of the KU Edwards Campus and School of Professional Studies “I chose KUEC based on recommendations from a former boss and a former colleague. They had each been through the program and liked it. When evaluating programs, I was considering other options […] Having the program geared towards working professionals was a big draw. KU had a good reputation amongst the professional community as well.” ~ Ryan Elam, 2019 KUEC Master of Science in Engineering Management graduate “I heard about the biotechnology program at the KU Edwards Campus as a student at Johnson County Community College. After completing my associate degree and taking some classes on the Lawrence campus, I decided to meet with a KUEC advisor and the biotechnology program director. I immediately enrolled to start the following fall. This was the best decision I’ve ever made. My time in the program prepared me for the real world of research. I felt supported during my entire student experience, and I look forward to staying involved and giving back to the school throughout my career.” ~ Aldyn Wildey, 2019 KUEC bachelor’s in biotechnology graduate Helpful information School home Academic programs Student support People Faculty & Lecturers About Admission Resources Dean's Message Edwards Campus 12600 Quivira Road Overland Park, KS 66213 edwardsinfo@ku.edu 913-897-8400 Upcoming Events See all events Maps & Directions About the Edwards Campus Library services Conference & event spaces Course schedule Career Blog Student services Faculty resources Technical assistance KU at Leavenworth Employment Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.