Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Edwards Campus myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Academic Programs Select to follow link Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) Online Courses Current Students Select to follow link My KU Edwards Experience Faculty & Staff News Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Edwards Campus Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Academics Academic programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificate Online courses Continuing education Students Student services Campus tuition and fees Prospective student resources Affordability & scholarship information myKU Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay About About KU Edwards Campus Dean's Message Staff School of Professional Studies Career blog Contact us Apply Home Academic Programs Online undergraduate programs in public and population health Connecting public and population health management with the community KU’s undergraduate programs in public and population health provide a broad exposure to the key concepts of public and population health, as well as an understanding of the connections between public health and the community. KU’s programs focus on understanding the network of behavioral and social factors of health and how they’re intertwined with the community. Students gain knowledge in understanding core concepts in epidemiology and biostatistics, disease prevention, population health and health disparities. What industries need public and population health professionals? The healthcare field is vast and requires a variety of career roles. According to the Labor of Bureau Statics, healthcare careers are projected to grow 14 percent from 2018 to 2028, much faster than the average for all occupations, adding about 1.9 million new jobs. KU’s undergraduate programs in public and population health can help prepare students to enter a number of healthcare-related fields. What undergraduate public and population health programs are available through the KU Edwards Campus? KU offers an undergraduate certificate in public and population health, as well as a minor. The undergraduate certificate program is designed for students who want to enter, or advance in, the healthcare field and are interested in improving the health of communities. The certificate is available to current KU students, as well as available to non-KU, non-degree seeking students. The minor in public and population health provides an area of focus for students in areas of study related to public health, public service and education. Students pursuing degrees in social work, exercise science, public administration or other similar areas may find that this minor supplements their studies. Helpful information Inquire now Financial guidance Tips & resources to make the most of financial aid at KU. Getting started tips The steps and actions for a successful start. Choosing advice Get help choosing the right KC university. Questions? Estevan Ortiz Academic Success Coach 913-897-8524 Send an email to the program advisor How is the online KU program structured? The undergraduate certificate in public and population health can be completed in only 12 credit hours. The minor in public and population health requires 18 credit hours. For both programs, the curriculum focuses on core concepts such as epidemiology and biostatistics, major health conditions, disease prevention strategies, population health and health disparities. Why choose the KU online certificate in public and population health? Flexible 100% Online Finish certificate as stand-alone credential Asynchronous course format Quality Credentialed, experienced faculty Globally recognized academics In collaboration with the KU Medical Center Useful Learn it today, use it tomorrow Teaches specific skills to advance your career Courses designed for public and population health careers Online Public and Population Health Undergraduate Certificate program details × × × × Edwards Campus 12600 Quivira Road Overland Park, KS 66213 edwardsinfo@ku.edu 913-897-8400 Upcoming Events See all events Maps & Directions About the Edwards Campus Library services Conference & event spaces Course schedule Career Blog Student services Faculty resources Technical assistance KU at Leavenworth Employment Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.