Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Edwards Campus myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Academic Programs Select to follow link Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) Online Courses Current Students Select to follow link My KU Edwards Experience Faculty & Staff News Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Edwards Campus Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Academics Academic programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificate Online courses Continuing education Students Student services Campus tuition and fees Prospective student resources Affordability & scholarship information myKU Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay About About KU Edwards Campus Dean's Message Staff School of Professional Studies Career blog Contact us Apply Home About Conference Center and Event Space Event Space in Kansas City Whether you are looking to host a conference, staff training or board meeting, the University of Kansas Edwards Campus is the ideal partner. Our conference center, meeting rooms, classrooms and other educational event spaces can accommodate groups ranging from four to 350. Get event space information Tour Edwards Campus Our meeting spaces include tiered and flat classrooms, auditorium, banquet space and numerous conference rooms. View campus space photos See the campus space video Kansas City Meeting Rooms at KU Edwards Campus Our meeting spaces include tiered and flat classrooms, auditorium, banquet space, and numerous conference rooms. Here are examples of each room type. Each space is located in our quiet and comfortable learning environment with state-of-the-art equipment and wireless technology. Facilities include Regents Center, Regnier Hall and the BEST Building, all of which are available for rent at affordable prices. Located in Overland Park, Kan., the Edwards Campus is easily accessible from area hotels, downtown Kansas City and the Kansas City International Airport. We welcome community groups and businesses that need space for training, professional development and education related events. To make a reservation for our meeting spaces, please contact our events team, at 913-897-8526 or kuecevents@ku.edu. KU Edwards Campus strives to ensure a safe campus. See the Edwards Campus Safety page for more information. Event Space Mission The University of Kansas Edwards Campus is committed to providing greater Kansas City area businesses, associations, organizations and the KU community with high-quality, state-of-the-art, affordable event facilities for educational purposes. Helpful information Book now Questions? Want a quote or want to schedule a tour? Information Overview Photos Testimonials Technology Map & Directions Contact Us Contact Events Team 913-897-8526 Send an email × Event Space Photos See the rooms × Edwards Campus 12600 Quivira Road Overland Park, KS 66213 edwardsinfo@ku.edu 913-897-8400 Upcoming Events See all events Maps & Directions About the Edwards Campus Library services Conference & event spaces Course schedule Career Blog Student services Faculty resources Technical assistance KU at Leavenworth Employment Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.