Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Edwards Campus myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Academic Programs Select to follow link Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) Online Courses Current Students Select to follow link My KU Edwards Experience Faculty & Staff News Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Edwards Campus Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Academics Academic programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificate Online courses Continuing education Students Student services Campus tuition and fees Prospective student resources Affordability & scholarship information myKU Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay About About KU Edwards Campus Dean's Message Staff School of Professional Studies Career blog Contact us Apply Home Blog Header Career Blog KUEC News & Events Degrees How to Become a... Professional Development Tips & Techniques Edwards Career Blog Creative director at local advertising agency earns Master of Science in Integrated Marketing Communications, gains valuable insight into their career KU student employee earns Bachelor of Psychology, hopes to continue her career in higher education Environmental studies bachelor’s degree graduate jumps into PSM in Environmental Assessment, preparing for a career in research Latest Posts Environmental studies graduate looks forward to career making positive change Rising up at KUEC: In this Q&A series, outstanding 2022 KU graduates share how the KU Edwards Campus has helped them start, advance, or change their career. Meet Cloey Adrian. Park Hill district leader earns Doctor of Education in Educational Leadership and Policy Studies, credits program for helping secure promotion Rising up at KUEC: In this Q&A series, outstanding 2022 KU graduates share how the KU Edwards Campus has helped them start, advance, or change their career. Meet Marcus Fryatt. KFRTI expands reach in Western Kansas with annual fire school partnership, new remote hire The Kansas Fire & Rescue Training Institute and Sherman County Rural Fire Department partner to offer annual fire school as a new Western Regional Training Coordinator joins KFRTI full-time Learning to Learn Better: Strategies for improving the behavior of learning In the current high-paced, complex professional landscape, improving your learning will help you stay on top of the emerging trends and ideas necessary to stay relevant.In the current high-paced, complex professional landscape, improving your learning will help you stay on top of the emerging trends and ideas necessary to stay relevant. KU announces online project management undergraduate programs for fall 2022 As more industries find themselves in need of project management professionals, KU offers flexible, online undergraduate courses for those looking to complete their bachelor’s degree. Phyllis Greenquist pursues online KU’s Bachelor of Health Sciences to make an impact on lung transplant industry Pursuing KU’s JCERT-supported online Bachelor of Health Sciences degree more than 35 years after high school graduation, Kansas City native, Phyllis Greenquist exemplifies resilience. Change a Life in 24 Hours with One Day. One KU. The annual One Day. One KU. campaign gives donors at all levels the opportunity to make a life-changing difference. Environmental scientist earns Professional Science Master’s in Environmental Assessment online to specialize career Rising up at KUEC: In this Q&A series, outstanding KU graduates share how the KU Edwards Campus has helped them start, advance, or change their career. Meet Breanna Case. KFRTI training prepares rural fire department for quick rescue KFRTI's simulated grain bin and grain-engulfment rescue training helped prepare the Netawaka Rural Fire District for a swift rescue. Mary E. Davidson leaves lasting legacy after a life dedicated to education, giving back Mary E. Davidson, the former vice chancellor for academic affairs of the KU Regents Center (now the KU Edwards Campus), passed away on Dec. 6, 2021. How an online program may be your answer to finally fitting in your degree Online programs offer flexibility for busy adults wanting to earn their degree New online homeland security graduate programs equip students with specialized industry knowledge New online graduate programs in homeland security allow military, government and other professionals to gain a strong foundation in law and policy related to homeland security, national security and advanced knowledge of specific homeland security fields. CareerUP event highlights tips and tricks for virtual networking, interviewing Dozens of area employers join KU Edwards Campus students at virtual CareerUP event to network and connect for future internships and employment opportunities. New online maintenance, warehouse layout training builds on decades of industry partnerships With the pandemic’s shift to online training, the University of Kansas delivers engineering and technology management and logistics professional development around the world. KU Edwards Campus piloting new tool projecting value of a degree While the value and quality of a KU degree is well known, the KU Edwards Campus is piloting a new tool to help students know more specifically how this value translates into career success. Student enrollment at the KU Edwards Campus reaches 12-year high for fall 2021 KUEC’s student enrollment is the highest in more than 12 years, and student credit hours remain steady at the second highest in more than 12 years. University of Kansas Medical Center launches online concentration in Master of Public Health The KU Medical Center and Edwards Campus partnered to launch an online master’s concentration and graduate certificates in public health, fulfilling a growing need Kansas Fire & Rescue Training Institute partners with Kansas Rowing for customized water safety course Kansas Fire & Rescue Training Institute technical rescue instructors trained coaches from Kansas Rowing, Kansas Crew and the University of Kansas diving team, as well as local lifeguards, on lifesaving rescue techniques for the Kansas River. Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … »Next Last pageLast » Edwards Campus 12600 Quivira Road Overland Park, KS 66213 edwardsinfo@ku.edu 913-897-8400 Upcoming Events See all events Maps & Directions About the Edwards Campus Library services Conference & event spaces Course schedule Career Blog Student services Faculty resources Technical assistance KU at Leavenworth Employment Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.