Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Edwards Campus myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Academic Programs Select to follow link Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) Online Courses Current Students Select to follow link My KU Edwards Experience Faculty & Staff News Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Edwards Campus Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Academics Academic programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificate Online courses Continuing education Students Student services Campus tuition and fees Prospective student resources Affordability & scholarship information myKU Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay About About KU Edwards Campus Dean's Message Staff School of Professional Studies Career blog Contact us Apply Home Academic Programs Information Technology Graduate Programs: Master’s in Information Technology and Related Certificates Advance your career with a Master's degree, Cybersecurity certificate or Software Engineering and Management certificate in Kansas City Keeping pace with a rapidly changing world According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, employment of computer and information technology professionals is projected to grow 12 percent by 2028, much faster than the average for all other careers. Demand for professionals in these fields is driven by the growth of cloud computing, the collection and storage of big data, and the ever-increasing need for information security. As the workforce grows, so does the demand for information technology leaders. A professional with an IT master’s degree might: Lead IT teams and strategies for all sizes of organizations Research and design new approaches to computing technology Design and build data communication networks Write and test code for applications and software programs Provide support to users and organizations Create and implement security measures to protect computer networks and systems What IT careers can benefit from the KU IT graduate programs in Kansas City? Information technology covers a variety of professional disciplines, including software development, systems administration and analysis, network support, web development, cybersecurity and computer and information research science. Careers may also include or lead to chief information officer jobs, vice president of technology jobs, chief technology officer jobs, chief information security officer jobs, technology product management jobs, technology product development jobs, and more. Is an MSIT degree or graduate certificate right for you? The Master of Science in Information Technology (MSIT) program offered through the KU School of Professional Studies provides the ultimate qualification for IT and computing professionals. KU’s IT master’s degree and certificate programs deepen graduates’ understanding of IT and computing technologies to advance their careers. Students pursuing an MSIT degree or graduate certificate at KU learn to: Develop technical knowledge and managerial skills in IT Support versatile thinking and confident leadership in IT Understand the big picture and make strategic IT decisions that address technical and business demands Admission to the program requires two or more years of practical experience in IT. Without an undergraduate degree in a computer-related field, four years of relevant professional work experience in IT is required. View the program guides below for further details on admission requirements. What KU information technology graduate programs are available in Kansas City? KU offers an MSIT degree in Kansas City and two IT certificates in Kansas City: a cybersecurity certificate and a software engineering and management certificate. Students in the MSIT degree program can choose an emphasis in cybersecurity, software engineering or IT project management. The two graduate certificates offered at the KU Edwards Campus allow full-time professionals to focus their skillset and use their specialized knowledge to grow and advance in specific fields. See the choices below and download the program guides for more information. Each guide provides the program’s curriculum, career paths, admissions information, tuition and more. Master of Science in Information Technology Graduate Certificate in Cybersecurity Graduate Certificate in Software Engineering and Management Helpful information Inquire now Financial guidance Tips & resources to make the most of financial aid at KU. Getting started tips The steps and actions for a successful start. Choosing advice Get help choosing the right KC university. Questions? Parveen Mozaffar Engineering Management Advisor – MSEM/Certificate, Information Technology Advisor – MSIT/Certificates 913-897-8560 Send an email to the program advisor How are the KU information technology graduate programs structured? The master’s in information technology requires students to choose a focus area for their studies. Students are required to take core courses and electives from the focus area of their choice. At least one semester of EECS 802 Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Colloquium and Seminar on Professional Issues is also required. The cybersecurity certificate requires the completion of three core courses, and one of two electives. The graduate certificate in software engineering and management requires the completion of four courses from a specified list. The MSIT degree requires 10 coures (five core and five elective), plus one credit hour of colloquium which requires students attend seminars on IT topics (technical, professional, leadership or career planning) for a total of 31 credit hours. This can be completed in two years, depending on the number of courses students take each semester. The Graduate Certificate in Cybersecurity and Graduate Certificate in Software Engineering and Management each require four courses for a total of 12 credit hours. These courses and credits can be applied toward the full MSIT, and many students earn one or even both certificates while earning their MSIT. Why start an Information Technology Graduate Program at KU? Flexible Evening classes to fit your busy schedule Online and distance learning options Quality Experienced, credentialed faculty Globally recognized academics KU is one of 34 public university members of AAU Useful Specialize your skillset Learn it today, use it tomorrow Courses designed for experienced professionals seeking to further their careers Information Technology Graduate Program Details × × × × × × × Edwards Campus 12600 Quivira Road Overland Park, KS 66213 edwardsinfo@ku.edu 913-897-8400 Upcoming Events See all events Maps & Directions About the Edwards Campus Library services Conference & event spaces Course schedule Career Blog Student services Faculty resources Technical assistance KU at Leavenworth Employment Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.