Jump to main content Facebook Google+ Twitter YouTube User menu Events Contact Facebook Ecology & Evolutionary Biology Department of Search form Search Main menu About Us Diversity & Inclusion Committee on Climate for All EEB Scholars Program Orientation to EEB Research Compliance Partners Field Stations Stony Ford Research Station Mpala Research Center Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute People Faculty Scholars & Lecturers Postdocs Graduate Students Research & Administrative Staff Research Graduate Welcome letter Graduate Highlights Admission & Financial Support EEB Scholars Program Program Details & FAQs Hear From Past Scholars Plan of Study Courses Testimonials Undergraduate Undergraduate Highlights Plan of Study Path to Graduation Courses Senior Thesis Funding Semester in the Field Program News Welcome to the Department COVID-19 INFORMATION & RESOURCES Ecology and Evolutionary Biology (EEB) at Princeton University is unique in its broad and interdisciplinary perspective, with a culture that embraces intellectual curiosity and spans a range of fields. Our faculty members and students join together to unravel the mysteries of how animals, plants and microbes function, how they interact, and how they evolve in a changing world. How do organisms respond to the physical environment to form populations, communities, and complex ecosystems? How are they affected by human activities and conversely how do human society depend on our ecosystems? And, how can we manage our biological heritage to achieve a sustainable future? As a department, we take a multi-dimensional approach to the study of ecology and evolutionary biology. We examine phenomena across organizational scales, from cells to individuals, to populations and ecosystems. We are also interested in how these scales evolve and vary spatially (regional to global) and temporally (across days, seasons and generations). Our interdisciplinary research incorporates genomics, neuroscience, molecular biology, engineering, geosciences, economics and public policy, to name a few. EEB is an intrinsically integrative department. Our faculty is passionate about research questions which fall into five areas: Ecology & the Environment, Evolution & Genomics, Behavior & Sensory Biology, Conservation & Biodiversity, and Infectious Disease. Student research is advised by faculty in any of these areas and often connect with faculty members between two or more areas. This broad flexibility affords the opportunity to explore novel questions that transcend traditional disciplinary boundaries. READ MORE Spotlight McBride lab researches how mosquito brains encode human odor so they can seek us out Mosquitos. Bane of backyard picnics -- and deadly in Zika- and dengue-prone regions. Most of the world’s mosquitos are opportunistic, willing to... Read more > View All News | More RSS feeds Ecology & the Environment Species Interactions Biodiversity Ecosystems Evolution & Genomics Adaptation Complex Traits Speciation Behavior & Sensory Biology Social Behavior Sensory Ecology Neurobiology Conservation & Biodiversity Biodiversity Loss Land-use Change Restoration Infectious Disease Parasites Immunity Epidemics Upcoming Events View All Events No upcoming events found. Graduate Program Undergraduate Program Our Faculty Secondary menu Forms Publications Policies Princeton, New Jersey 08544 USA - Operator: (609) 258-3000 Photo/Video Credits © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University