Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS College of Liberal Arts & Sciences Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Diversity About Select to follow link About EEB Department News Contact Us Seminars Research Select to follow link Research Facilities Graduate Admissions Select to follow link How to Apply Admission Requirements EEB FAQ Academics Select to follow link EEB Academics Graduate Programs Select to follow link Program Information Student Testimonials Graduate Student Organization (GSO) Student Handbook Select to follow link Table of Contents Welcome Academic Calendar Graduate Regulations & Procedures Graduate Degree Requirements Checklist for M.A. Option I (Thesis) Checklist for M.A. Option II (Non-Thesis) Checklist for Ph.D. Department Resources and Services University Resources and Services Community Resources and Services Student Life Administration and Staff Examples of Important Forms People Resources Select to follow link EEB Resources Committees Policies Resources Alumni & Friends Select to follow link Alumni & Friends - Keeping in Touch Survey Recent EEB Graduates myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo College of Liberal Arts & Sciences Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Welcome to Ecology & Evolutionary Biology Recent News Tue, 04/26/22 Join us for the EEOB Pizza Social! Are you thinking about declaring the EEOB major or are you curious about EEOB? Join us for pizza and meet EEOB majors and professors Friday, May 6, 2022! The undergraduate committee is planning a Stop Day event for our EEOB major from 12 p.m. to 2:00 p.m., Friday, May 6, 2022. The event will… Tue, 04/26/22 Honoring Women in Science In honor of Women’s History Month, the Biodiversity Institute & KU Natural History Museum celebrated women in science on Saturday, March 26. Local scientists set up booths for the day, including Maggie Wagner, ecology and evolutionary biology assistant professor, and Ph.D. student Ceyda Kural… Mon, 05/02/22 KU's 'I Am Striving Series': Featuring Paulyn Cartwright Paulyn Cartwright, professor of ecology & evolutionary biology, shares what inspires her research and work, along with her goals for that research. Watch a video and read a story about how Cartwright uses her study subject, jellyfish and their relatives, to help understand the evolutionary biology of other animals. "My primary goal as an educator and as a researcher is to broaden participation in science," Cartwright said. See all news More about us, the training we offer and what we study About Learn a bit about us, the latest Department news, view a list of upcoming seminars and get details on how to contact us. More about KU EEB Academics Explore the academic programs we offer to undergraduate and graduate students. More about Academics Research Learn about the diverse range of research topics being investigated by KU EEB. More about Research Diversity We are committed to a diverse and inclusive environment. KU EEB Diversity Statement More about our people, how to join us and other resources People A directory of all the KU EEB people. More about people Admissions Everything you need to know about our graduate program, and how to apply. More about graduate programs Resources Information on internal policies, committees and other resources. More Resources Alumni & Friends Check out our survey for program alums, which helps us keep in touch with our former members. Alumni & Friends Survey Follow Us on Social Media FacebookTwitter Haworth Hall 1200 Sunnyside Avenue Lawrence, KS 66045 eeb@ku.edu 785-864-5887 facebook twitter EEB Home About KU EEB KU EEB Research KU EEB Graduate Program Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.