Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology Home Academics People News & Events Resources Outreach Diversity Join Us! Welcome The Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at Yale University is home to broad, interdisciplinary and highly collaborative research with particular expertise in population, community, ecosystem, and macroecology; in evolutionary genetics, developmental evolution, behavioral evolution, and evolutionary medicine; and in phylogenetics, systematics, and biodiversity. We are committed to producing world-class scientists, educators and professionals through undergraduate and graduate education. News Yale EEB Ranked Fourth April 6, 2022 US News and World Report has ranked the Yale Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Department Doctoral program #4 in the nation. The rankings are based on expert opinion... Reptiles and viruses: New E&EB faculty lead research February 2, 2022 Brandon Ogbunu GRD ’10 and Martha Muñoz, two of the Ecology and Evolutionary Biology department’s newest faculty members are featured in an article in the Yale Daily News. ... Martha Muñoz receives the George A. Bartholomew Award from the Society for Integrative & Comparative Biology December 9, 2021 In November, Martha Muñoz, assistant professor of ecology and evolutionary biology at Yale, received the George A. Bartholomew Award from the Society for Integrative &... More news... About Us The Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology was created in 1997 and currently comprises 14 primary and 8 affiliated faculty members, approximately 40 graduate students, 18 postdoctoral fellows, lecturers and research scientists, and 100 undergraduates with an EEB concentration. Our offices and laboratories are spread across the historic Osborn Memorial Labs (OML), the Environmental Science Center (ESC) and Building 31 on Yale’s West Campus. The mission of the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at Yale University is to achieve the highest possible quality of research, undergraduate, and graduate education in the fields of ecology, evolution, and organismal biology. We discover, create, synthesize, and disseminate knowledge about the earth’s biodiversity, its ecological interactions, and its evolutionary history. We pursue integrative, interdisciplinary, and global research on phenomena that range from molecules to ecosystems. We prepare Yale College undergraduate majors for careers in biology and medicine and educate other Yale College students in ecology, evolution, and biodiversity. We seek to attract the most capable, promising, and diverse graduate students and postdoctoral appointees from the nation and the world and to prepare them for positions of leadership in research, education, and society. Upcoming Events There are currently no upcoming events scheduled. For a list of previous events please check our archives. Contact Us Mail: Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology Yale University P. O. Box 208106 New Haven, CT 06520-8106 Location: Osborn Memorial Labs 165 Prospect Street Phone: (203) 432-6138 Email: eebbusiness@yale.edu Fax: (203) 432-5176 For matters requiring DUS and DGS attention, please send an e-mail to kelly.pyers@yale.edu Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Mail: P.O. Box 208106 New Haven, CT 06520-8106 | (203) 432-3837 Location: OML, 165 Prospect St. Facebook Twitter Flickr iTunes YouTube