Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search UC Riverside Academic Personnel Office Fostering Academic Success Search About Mission, Goals & Values People What We Do About UCR Academics General Information Why UCR? Diversity Diversity at UC Office of Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion Statement of Contributions to Diversity Nondiscrimination and Affirmative Action UCR Ranks and Facts Scholars of Distinction Strategic Initiatives Employment Opportunities Higher Education Recruitment Consortium (HERC) Campus Security Report Resources for Academic Employees Recruitment and Appointment Advancement and Promotion Compensation Benefits and Privileges Leaves of Absence Conflict of Commitment Research Ethics Resources for Faculty Administrators General Information Recruitment and Appointment Advancement and Promotion Benefits and Privileges Conflict of Commitment Compensation Leave of Absence Academic Senate Resources Bargaining Units and Contracts Information and Resources Employee Relations Events and Workshops Organization Charts Fellowships and Awards Events and Workshops New Faculty Orientation Faculty Development New Department Chair Orientation Department Chair Forum Other Resources and Training Opportunities Non-Senate Academics Grad Student Workers (ASE) Labor Relations Bargaining Contracts HR Employee and Labor Relations Lecturers (Unit 18) Librarians (Unit 17) Non-Senate Information Other Non-Senate Academics Postdocs Compensation Academic Salary and Salary Rates APM Section IV - Salary Administration Faculty Administrator Compensation Local Compensation Policy & Guidelines Negotiated Salary Trial Program (NSTP) Inter-Location One Time Pay and Multi Location Appointment Additional Resources Policies Recruitment and Appointment Advancement and Promotion Compensation Benefits and Privileges Leaves of Absence Conflict of Commitment Policies Under Review Research Ethics Non Senate Policies Employee Relations Policies Standards of Conduct Non-Senate Academics Academic Researchers (ARU) (RA) Grad Student Worker (ASE) Labor Relations Bargaining Contracts HR Employee and Labor Relations Home Non-Senate General Information Lecturers (Unit 18) Librarians (Unit 17) Postdocs Other Non-Senate Academics Employee Relations Toolbox Checklists & Forms Systems Our Partners Our Partners UC And Campus Organization Archive Quick Links Breadcrumb eFilePlus eFilePlus Academic Personnel System UCR’s Academic Personnel eFilePlus System (formerly eFile) is a secure, online academic review management system that supports the personnel actions for appointment and advancement. The system provides a standard, paperless process for academic reviews. Some of the features and benefits include: A stable, secure, and easily accessible online application A database where faculty and/or AP staff in the departments can quickly modify and add records as the faculty member's file is updated "Snapshots" for academic actions (Merits, Promotions, Career Reviews, Appraisals, etc.) can be generated using the existing records in the faculty member's database An academic review file “snapshot” can be routed using a shared governance workflow technology, from snapshot creation to reviews to a final decision. To log in to the eFilePlus System, click on this link: https://efileplus.ucr.edu. Recommended operating systems: Microsoft Windows 8.1+ or Apple Mac OS X 10+; eFilePlus' responsive design is compatible with up-to-date mobile devices. Supported browsers: Automatic updates are always recommended to ensure a secure and modern browsing experience, as certain technologies may lead to a degraded or otherwise suboptimal browsing experience. Each of the latest browsers are supported along with backwards compatibility for one full version still supported by the vendor: Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, Apple Safari, Microsoft Edge. UCR login credentials and eFilePlus role are required to access the system. For more information, click on this link: eFilePlus: Managing and Assigning Roles. For support, please contact your college/school subject matter expert (click here) or email efilesupport@ucr.edu. News & Notes Privacy & Confidentiality Support Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 Academic Personnel Office 2148 Hinderaker Hall Riverside, CA 92521 tel: (951) 827-2933 email: academicpersonnel@ucr.edu Do you have Suggestions/General Questions? Email us at academicpersonnel@ucr.edu. The information on this website is accurate and reliable at time of posting but may change without notice. Please contact our office for the most up-to-date information. UC Riverside complies with the Jeanne Clery Act, and provides safety information and publishes crime statistics for the most recent three-year period. View the full report here. Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel