Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Ermal Garinger Academic Resource Center myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About People Projects Resources Contact Us Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Ermal Garinger Academic Resource Center Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search EGARC The Ermal Garinger Academic Resource Center (EGARC) is an academic unit within the College of Liberal Arts & Sciences that seeks to promote the study of humanities through the use of technology and instructional media. Our Mission In addition to housing an audio/video collection of over 13,000 items in 60 languages, the Center contains two active learning classrooms, a computer lab, a media-enhanced conference room, a soundproofed recording studio and a learning commons designed to facilitate collaborative work. We have a wide variety of portable equipment available for checkout, and provide instructors with a materials development area that includes the latest in hardware and software. EGARC is the home of the Open Language Resource Center, one of sixteen centers funded by the U.S. Department of Education to increase the nation’s capacity to teach and learn foreign languages. It is also the home of the KU Language Training Center, one of nine centers funded by the U.S. Department of Defense to provide instruction in strategic languages and regional studies to military personnel. It also supports humanities grants and research projects that leverage technology for instructional purposes, particularly those projects that focus on the creation of Open Educational Resources. Operation Between Spring and Summer Terms EGARC staff will be working remotely from Monday, May 16 through Friday, June 3rd. Requests for assistance should be directed to egarc@ku.edu or (785) 864-4759. EGARC Catalog Search EGARC Links EGARC Catalog Reservation Schedule KU Resources Adobe Creative Cloud KU Libraries - Streaming Video Classroom Technologies Media Production Studio Microsoft Office New2KU Zoom Video Conferencing 4070 Wescoe Hall 1445 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 10, 11, 27, 29, 30, 36, 38, 41, 42, 43 egarc@ku.edu 785-864-4759 About People Projects Resources Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.