Jump to navigation Secondary menu About EHS Contact Us Announcements Safety Data Sheets Reporting and Managing Safety Issues Training Office of Environmental Health and Safety Site search Enter your keywords Main menu Laboratory & Research Laboratory Safety Emergencies and Incidents Emergency Information Posters Field Research Green Labs Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment Hazardous Materials Shipping Laboratory Access and Training Recommendations Laboratory Design Laboratory Equipment and Engineering Controls Laboratory Inspections and Surveys Laboratory Safety Manual Laboratory Security Laboratory Supervisors Laser Safety PPE for the Lab Pregnancy in the Lab Research Waste Management SHIELD - Safety, Health, Inspection and Equipment Logistics Database Training for Laboratory Personnel Animal Research Health and Safety Administration of Biological and Chemical Hazards to Animals Animal Worker Training Controlled Substances Laboratory Animal Allergies Zoonotic Disease Information Biological Safety Emergencies, Exposures and Spills Autoclave Use Biohazard Waste Disposal Biological Safety Cabinets Biological Toxins Biosafety Manual Biosafety Training Disinfection Institutional Biosafety Committee Recombinant and Synthetic Nucleic Acid Molecules Shipping and Receiving Biological Material Working with Human Source Material Research With Viral Vectors Chemical Safety Chemical Hygiene Plans Chemical Inventory Management Chemical Waste Chemical-Specific Protocols Compressed Gas Cylinders Corrosive Materials Cryogenic Liquids Flammable Materials Particularly Hazardous Substances Reactive Materials Storage Radiation Safety Radioactive Materials X-Ray Machines & Other Radiation-Producing Equipment Radiation Monitoring Badges Non-Ionizing Radiation Government & University Requirements Anecdotes Workplace & Construction Workplace Safety Art Safety Computer Workstations Confined Spaces Electrical Safety Hand & Portable Power Tools Job Hazard Analysis Ladder Safety Lockout/Tagout Machine Guarding Machine Shop Safety Outdoor Worker Safety Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Strain & Sprain Prevention Temporary & Seasonal Employees Occupational Health Asbestos Bloodborne Pathogens Chemical Safety - Hazard Communication Heat & Cold Stress Indoor Air Quality Lead & Lead Paint Mold & Microbial Growth Concerns Noise & Hearing Conservation PPE and Exposure Control Pesticides Respirator Use Construction Safety Construction Injury Reporting Crane Safety Cutting & Welding Excavations and Trenching Fall Protection Hoisting & Rigging Ladder Safety Outdoor Worker Safety Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) for Construction Scaffolding Vehicle Safety Aerial Work Platforms Articulated & Skid Steer Loaders Fleet Safety Forklifts Environmental Programs Air & Soil Pollution Asbestos Management Drinking Water Quality Indoor Air Quality Comfort Factors Mold or Other Biological Contaminants Odors or Other Suspected Pollutants Mold & Microbial Growth Concerns PCBs Radon Residential Lead Paint Sustainability Underground Storage Tanks Waste Management Laboratory Waste Management Computer/Electronics Management Construction Waste Management Lighting/Lamp Management Batteries/Battery Pack Management Recycling Opportunities Empty Chemical Container Management Health & Safety for the Campus Community Bats & Animals Indoor Air Quality Injury and Illness Prevention Program Mail Handling & Suspicious Packages Mold & Microbial Growth Concerns Playgrounds Radon Residential Lead Paint Smoking on Campus Smoking Cessation Resources Smoking Policy FAQs Art & Theater Safety Art Safety Theater Safety Drinking Water Quality Lead in Drinking Water Food Safety and Protection Guidelines for Safe Food Handling Temporary Food Service Permit Reporting Food Borne Illness Large & Special Events Outdoor Worker Safety Weather Safety Unmanned Aircraft Systems COVID-19 Information and Resources Phased Resumption of On-Campus Research Emergencies & Incidents Emergency Information Posters Fire Emergencies Floods & Flooded Areas Natural Disaster Response and Cleanup Spills & Environmental Releases Suspicious Packages or Mail University Emergency Preparedness Emergency Action Plans Emergency Coordinator Program Medical Emergencies & Managing Injuries Hazardous Chemical Exposures Exposures to Infectious Agents Animal Bites & Scratches Automatic External Defibrillators (AED) Injury & Incident Reporting You are here Home › Visitor Policy Visitor Policy Responsible Executive: Executive Vice President Responsible Office: Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) Contacts: Please direct questions concerning this policy to EHS at ehs@princeton.edu(link sends e-mail). Effective Date: August 24, 2020. Update effective May 16, 2022. In the interest of public health and to reduce the possible transmission of communicable diseases, particularly COVID-19, the University institutes this policy on visitors, among other policies, procedures, and guidance. This policy will remain in effect until the risk of COVID-19 has been mitigated to a degree that the Environmental Safety and Risk Management Committee determines it is no longer needed, based on guidance from public health experts. I. Policy Statement All visitors must be invited or sponsored and comply with the requirements of this policy prior to entering campus buildings. Visitors must be up-to-date with COVID-19 vaccination; however, depending on the category of the visit detailed in Section IV of this policy, individuals who are not up-to-date with vaccination may be permitted for short-term visits of no more than five days with no overnight stays on campus if they meet the requirements of section IV.b below (including showing proof of a negative COVID-19 test OR wearing a face covering at all times inside campus buildings). The categories of visitors described in section IV.a below must be up-to-date with COVID-19 vaccination with no exceptions. Regardless of vaccination status, all visitors must comply with the requirements of face coverings in effect at the time of their visit to campus. II. Who Is Affected by This Policy This policy applies to all students, faculty, staff, and visitors. III. Definitions Up-to-Date with COVID-19 Vaccination means that at least two weeks have passed since receiving the second dose of a two-dose vaccine or the single dose of a one-dose vaccine, and subsequent boosters consistent with the definition described in the COVID-19 Vaccine Policy. Attestation of vaccination means an individual certifying that they received the primary and, if eligible, booster dose(s) of the COVID-19 vaccine by completing a form, registration, or other means of affirmation or by showing proof of vaccination with a physical or virtual representation of their vaccination card or record. Proof of Vaccination may include an official CDC COVID-19 vaccination card, a vaccine certificate from an official source (e.g., public health agency, government agency, or authorized vaccine provider), a mobile phone app, or a digital or physical photo of a vaccination card or record. Visitors means any individual who does not have an appointment as University student, faculty, or staff, including those who are NOT a(n) Enrolled degree-seeking undergraduate and graduate student Current employee of the University, including: Faculty and staff who currently have access to campus buildings. Casual employees. Visiting researchers and visiting faculty with formal appointments. Long-term temporary staff agency personnel. University affiliates who regularly spend time on campus interacting with faculty, staff, and students are covered by the University Vaccination Policy.[1] Secondary occupants residing with graduate or undergraduate students in University dormitory housing, as approved by Housing and Real Estate Services, are not considered visitors to their residences and residential complex, but are considered visitors to other University buildings. IV. Policy Unless meeting the conditions described in this section, visitors are prohibited from entering all campus buildings, including the Libraries, Dillon Gym, Richardson Auditorium, and Chapel. Visitors are permitted outdoors, on campus grounds. Academic, administrative and residential buildings are locked and accessible to appropriate faculty, staff and students by key or card access. Visitors must cancel their planned visit if they test positive for COVID-19 within ten (10) days of the planned start of their visit, if they are experiencing symptoms consistent with COVID-19[2], or if they were identified as a close contact of an individual who tested positive within the last ten (10) days and have not had a negative COVID-19 test since the exposure. Visitors must notify the sponsoring host if they test positive for COVID-19 within five days after their visit. Vaccination and attestation requirements vary as described below. IV.a Visitors requiring up-to-date vaccination The following categories of visitors must be up-to-date with COVID-19 vaccination without exception and must attest to vaccination in the manner described in the Supplemental Guidance for Visitors and must be prepared to show proof of vaccination as described in Section III. All of these visitors must be sponsored by a member of the University community (faculty, staff, graduate student, or undergraduate student) or a University department or unit. Visitors staying overnight in University dormitories. This does not include graduate student apartment complexes, such as Lakeside or Lawrence Apartments. Those participating in summer residential programs, such as sports camps, summer research, etc. Those participating in multi-day programs sponsored by the University, such as Princeton University Preparatory Program (PUPP), summer day camps, Princeton Writing Program, Teachers as Scholars, Teacher Prep, regular tutoring, etc. This does not include conferences and events. TigerCard holders (e.g., faculty spouses, graduate student dependents, etc.) with access to the libraries or Dillon Gym facilities. Visiting Student Research Collaborators. Individuals participating in University-sponsored programs where removal of a mask indoors is necessary. Long-term visits of more than five days, consecutively or non-consecutively. IV.b. Visitors requiring attestation of vaccination OR a negative test OR agree to wear mask The categories of visitors listed below must Attest to being up-to-date with COVID-19 vaccination, be prepared to show proof of vaccination as described in Section III, and follow the policy for masks in effect at the time of their visit OR Attest to having a negative test for COVID-19 via PCR within 72 hours before the start of the scheduled visit or via rapid antigen test within 8 hours before the start of the scheduled visit and be prepared to show proof of the negative test if they do not attest to vaccination OR Agree to wear a mask at all times when indoors if they do not attest to vaccination. These individuals cannot remove their masks inside of University buildings, not even to eat or drink. Attestation or agreement to wear a mask must be completed in the manner described in the Supplemental Guidance for Visitors. Individuals invited or approved by faculty, staff, or students or by a department or unit for short-term visits (5 days or fewer, consecutively or non-consecutively, no overnight stay on campus) and who will not have independent access to buildings. Attendees at University-sponsored meetings, conferences, and events. Individuals invited to participate in sponsored human subjects research. Individuals participating in or attending events in University buildings where the sponsor is a third-party entity that has permission to use the facilities. IV.c. Pre-approved visitors who do not require attestation The following visitors do not require sponsors or approval and are not required to attest to their vaccination status. If they are not up-to-date with COVID-19 vaccination, they must wear a mask indoors around other people. Contractors and vendors retained to provide essential services on campus, including repair, technical assistance, renovation, construction, maintenance, moving, food delivery, waste removal, etc. and who comply with the Requirements for Vendors and Contractors. Guests in non-dormitory University residences. Visitors who are not up-to-date with COVID-19 vaccination must wear a mask in common spaces, such as lobbies, common rooms, hallways, etc. Regulatory inspectors, including federal, state, and local agency inspectors on campus for planned or unplanned visits. V. Violations Students, faculty and staff are responsible for communicating the requirements of this policy to the visitors they sponsor, and for ensuring that those visitors comply with the policy’s requirements. Students found to be in violation of this policy may be subject to discipline in accordance with Rights, Rules, Responsibilities(link is external). Faculty and staff found to be violation of this policy may be subject to disciplinary actions in accordance with appropriate University policy. Campus visitors found to be in violation of this policy may be subject to University sanctions, including being banned from campus. VII. Related Policies Communicable Disease Policy Face Covering Guidance EHS Guidance for Vendors and Contractors Guidance on Events and Gatherings Rights, Rules, Responsibilities (link is external) University Public Safety Policies (link is external) VII. Update Log Endorsed by Environmental Safety and Risk Management Committee: August 24, 2020 Updated August 30, 2020 Updated by ESRM: December 4, 2020 Updated by ESRM: June 17, 2021 Updated by ESRM: July 1, 2021 Updated by ESRM: August 9, 2021 Updated by ESRM: May 9, 2022 For more information, see Frequently Asked Questions about the Visitor Policy. >Return to Policies< >Return to COVID-19 Information and Resources< [1] This includes University chaplains, UStore (36 University Place), Credit Union (7 New South), Athletics coaches, Hamilton Physical Therapy, Quest Lab, ROTC staff (on campus), Restaurant Associates, shuttle drivers, docents, ACC (Lakeside), McCarter Theater, HHMI, Center for Jewish Life, etc. [2] Symptoms of COVID-19 include fever, chills, cough, new loss of taste or smell, sore throat, shortness of breath or difficulty breathing, congestion, runny nose, fatigue, muscle or body aches, nausea or vomiting, diarrhea, or headache that are not related to a non-COVID diagnosis. Visitor Policy Resources Supplemental Guidance on Visitors Visitor Policy FAQs Sponsored Visitor Request Form Event Attendance Sheet Paper Attestation Follow us Useful University Pages Emergency Management Public Safety Research Integrity & Assurance Risk Management University Health Services EHS Library Disclaimer Fact Sheets Manuals & Guides Policy Library Spotlight on Safety Contact us Environmental Health and Safety 262 Alexander Street Princeton, NJ 08540 ehs@princeton.edu 609-258-5294 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University