Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Yale Environmental Health & Safety About EHS History Mission Statement Organizational Chart Policies & Procedures Committees Biosafety Committee Committee Charter Meeting Schedule Submission Deadline Biosafety Committee Roster Resources BSL-3 Subcommittee Roster Human Gene Transfer Subcommittee Roster Joint Health and Safety Committee Laboratory Safety Committee Radiation Safety Committee Traffic Safety Committee University Safety Committee Safety Bulletins Safety Posters & Labels Safety Videos Safety Moments Lessons Learned EHS Staff Awards Staff Directory Job Opportunities Contact Us Biological Meet the Biological Safety Team Biological Safety Cabinets Human Gene Transfer Human Materials/Infection Control/Patient Care Human Pathogens PI Registrations/Information Recombinant DNA BSL-3 Research/Select Agents Arthropod and Tick Biosafety Medical Surveillance Requirements Biomedical Waste International Biosafety Month Chemical Meet the Chemical Safety Team Chemical Hygiene Plan Chemical Specific Safety Programs Hazard Communication Safety Data Sheets (SDS) Restricted or Particularly Hazardous Substances Respiratory Protection Silica Chemical Waste Radiation Meet the Radiation Safety Team Authorizations/ Registrations Dosimetry PET Center Purchasing Surveys X-Rays Laser Safety Radioactive Waste Physical Fall Protection Electrical Safety Shop & Tool Safety Confined Space Crane Safety Office Ergonomics Material Handling Ergonomics Lockout/Tagout Noise and Hearing Conservation Powered Industrial Trucks Facilities Safety Manual Labs New Principal Investigators Minors and Visiting Undergrads Decommissioning Waste Pickup/Supply Request PPE Information for Laboratory Principal Investigators Clinical Areas Dining Halls Facilities Shops Yale Animal Resource Center Training Biological Chemical Radiation Laboratory Regulated Waste Physical Safety Environmental Affairs Research Materials Shipping Lasers Building/Construction/Renovation Facilities/Custodial Forms Biological Chemical Radiation Laboratory Regulated Waste Physical Safety Environmental Affairs Research Materials Shipping Lasers Building/ Construction/ Renovation More Regulated Waste Laser Safety Building/ Construction/ Renovation Environmental Affairs Research Materials Shipping Controlled Substances Leased Property Safety Automated External Defibrillators (AED) Pedestrian/Bicycle Safety Art Safety Theater Safety Hospitality Safety Unmanned Air Systems (Drones) Facilities Safety Manual Emergency Procedures Home > Mask Requirements and Guidance Mask Requirements and Guidance Updated: April 20, 2022 The following information pertains to Yale University Mask Requirements and Guidance. Please see Yale University’s Health Guidelines for more university requirements and information. When Masks are Required Masking on campus will be optional except in the following settings, where Yale-approved masking (see below) is required: In classrooms and other instructional spaces: instructional spaces include teaching laboratories and studios, but do not include research laboratories; On campus transit vehicles such as shuttle buses; In healthcare-related facilities: including Yale Health, Yale Medicine, and Yale’s COVID-19 testing sites; In some settings, such as indoor performances and athletic competitions, where university hosts or sponsors explicitly require attendees to mask. The following individuals are also required to wear Yale-approved (see below) masks: Those who are not fully vaccinated, including those who have university-approved exemptions from vaccination, are required to wear masks indoors while on campus except when alone in a segregated space, such as when working in a private office or seated in a partitioned cubicle. Those who have tested positive for COVID-19 or are experiencing COVID-19-related symptoms and have permission to temporarily leave isolation, such as for a medical appointment, are required to wear masks indoors and outdoors when on leave from isolation. Close contacts of individuals who have tested positive for COVID-19 are required to wear masks indoors and outdoors whenever in the presence of others. Those who are fully vaccinated, but have not yet received a booster are strongly encouraged to wear masks indoors while on campus except when alone in a segregated space, such as when working in a private office or seated in a partitioned cubicle. Additionally: Individuals released from isolation may be asked to mask at all times for several days. Travelers returning from conferences and international travel may be asked to mask both indoors and outdoors while waiting for results of their upon-return tests. See Yale’s Travel Policy for specific requirements. Visitors who are not yet fully vaccinated and boosted or whose vaccination status is unknown must mask when on campus Everyone is encouraged to carry masks with them, so they are prepared to use them in spaces where required or where they might find it desirable, such as in high density gatherings. High-quality masks such as those noted below, not only help protect the wearer from transmitting infection, but also from becoming infected. While only required in the certain circumstances described above, anyone who would be more comfortable wearing a mask is welcome to do so. This public health measure may provide additional reassurance to individuals who feel they may be at greater risk, and also protects against other respiratory illnesses. Approved Masks on Campus To be effective masks must: provide adequate filtration; fit snugly over the wearer’s chin, on the sides of the face, and over the nose and mouth; be free of valves and similar openings; and be changed or replaced when they become wet or soiled. Wash hands or use hand sanitizer before putting on and removing the mask. Remove masks by the ear loops. Most cloth masks have inferior filtration compared to masks approved and provided by Yale (see below), which offer good source control and infection prevention from respiratory viruses. Therefore, cloth masks may not be worn on campus, except as over-masks when double-masking. Approved masks include: masks provided by the university (see below). masks obtained from a reliable vendor that provide filtration equivalent to the ASTM1 or ASTM2 masks provided by the university (“ASTM” should be clearly indicated on the mask packaging). Contact ehs@yale.edu if you have any questions about masks adequacy. Types of Masks Provided by Yale University The quality of masks provided by the university through your residential college, school, or business office, has been evaluated by Environmental Health and Safety. ASTM masks offer very good filtration, provide good infection control, and are easy to wear for extended periods of time (i.e., for an entire day). These are the same masks that healthcare workers have used for routine protection since the pandemic’s start. KN95 masks and N95 respirators offer very good filtration, fit tightly to your face, and provide enhanced infection control. However, they are more difficult to wear for extended periods of time. If you have trouble breathing while wearing a higher-level mask, an ASTM mask is a good option. See N95 Respirator Guidance for more information. How to Acquire Yale-Approved Masks ASTM masks are available for free through the YPPS site by clicking the “PPE Supply Replenishment” link. (VPN is required.) KN95 masks and N95 respirators may be purchased through the COVID Stockroom in SciQuest. Coordinate departmental orders with your Lead Administrator. See posted instructions for additional information Options for Faculty, Instructors, and Lecturers Faculty, instructors, and lecturers (including graduate student instructors) have several options for in-person teaching in an indoor classroom: Wearing a mask and maintaining 6-foot distancing is strongly recommended for faculty, instructors and lecturers, even if fully vaccinated and boosted. While speech can transmit the virus, masks help with source control and distance further reduces the exposure risk. A mask also protects the wearer. While not our preference, fully vaccinated and boosted instructors (including graduate student instructors of record) are allowed to choose to remove their masks. If so, we recommend that unmasked instructors maintain a 12-foot distance from all others in the classroom. We also recommend that unmasked instructors not lecture for more than two hours or sing. Guest lecturers (non-Yale affiliates) must mask at all times. Students are not permitted to remove their Yale-approved masks in the classroom. Using a microphone is recommended to avoid extended periods of unusually loud speech. (Contact EHS for special procedures for unmasked singing.) Masks with clear panels and face shields are available and maybe helpful to individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing, individuals for language or vocal instruction, or for other instruction or activities where it is important for others to view the lower face. Masks can be ordered via the YPPS site and clicking the “PPE Supply Replenishment” link. VPN required. Face shields can be ordered through the COVID Stockroom in SciQuest and may be used only by fully vaccinated instructors with 12-foot distancing for up to two hours. Contact EHS for special procedures if proximity or extended use of a face shield is needed. Shrouded face shields are also available for purchase and provide better source control than a typical face shield. While plexiglass is present in some classrooms, it does not materially prevent the accumulation or dispersal of aerosols in a room and is not an effective substitute for masking. Laboratories For individuals who are required or who choose to wear a mask while working in Yale non-clinical laboratories, ASTM masks are provided by the university. KN95s also offer good filtration and can be used in non-clinical laboratories as a face covering (mask), except when using pyrophoric materials. Flame resistant masks are also available for those whose work involves pyrophoric materials. ASTM and KN95 masks are available through the YPPS site by clicking the “PPE Supply Replenishment” link. (VPN is required.) Masks worn in the laboratory must be discarded whenever leaving the laboratory and at the end of the day, or if damaged or contaminated. When removing your mask, only touch the loops that go around your ear. Yale’s Selection and Use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Laboratories Procedure requires every person in a laboratory to wear eye protection. Gloves and a lab coat are required when handling hazardous materials. Clinical Areas Yale Medicine and Yale Health have documented clinical SOPs for specific masking requirements. If you also work in a clinical area, please ensure that you follow all appropriate SOPs. If you have any questions, speak with your immediate supervisor. Contact EHS if you have any questions about masks. Frequently Asked Questions What type of mask should I wear while on campus? Yale is now distributing ASTM masks, which have very good filtration and are very helpful in reducing your risk of infection. These are the same masks that healthcare workers have used for routine protection since the pandemic’s start. At this time, a cloth mask may not be worn, except as an over-mask when double-masking. Most cloth masks have inferior filtration compared to the 3-ply or ASTM masks supplied by Yale. How can I get an ASTM mask? ASTM masks are available through the YPPS site by clicking the “PPE Supply Replenishment” link. (VPN is required.) Coordinate departmental orders with your Lead Administrator. How can I tell the difference between an ASTM and a surgical mask? ASTM masks have ear loops and look identical to the 3-ply masks. Boxes of ASTM masks are marked either ASTM Level 1 or ASTM Level 2. When do I need to replace my mask? ASTM, KN95 masks, and N95 respirators for voluntary use are disposable, but can be used generally for up to one week or until they become damaged, soiled, or wet. Masks worn in the laboratory should be disposed of when leaving the lab and at the end of the day, or if damaged or contaminated. How do I wear my mask properly? When wearing masks, follow these practices: Wash hands or use hand sanitizer before putting on and removing the mask. Your mouth and nose should be fully covered. Tie or secure the face covering to prevent slipping. Remove and replace mask if dirty, damaged or contaminated, If you have difficulty breathing when wearing a mask, it should be removed and replaced with a different mask. How do I safely remove my mask? Handle by the ties or ear loops only. Remove from your face and fold the outside corners together. Be careful not to touch your eyes, nose, and mouth when removing. Clean your hands after removing and store in a clean paper bag. Face masks can be generally worn for up to one week and disposed of when soiled or damaged. I am vaccinated, but my immune system may be weakened (e.g., due to illnesses or medication). What do you recommend? If you have a condition or are taking medications that weaken your immune system, you may not have the full protection of vaccination and boosters. Even if vaccinated and boosted, you should continue to wear a mask and take all precautions recommended by your healthcare provider. If I am wearing a mask and others are not, and we are in a room together, does this protect me from infection? Yale is distributing ASTM Level 1 and Level 2 masks, which offer very good filtration and are very helpful in reducing your chance of infection with respiratory viruses. An individual may also choose to request a KN95 or an N95 respirator for voluntary use, which offer a tight fit and enhanced protection for the wearer from infection when worn consistently, even if others are not masking. The fit is important. ASTM masks are available through the YPPS site by clicking the “PPE Supply Replenishment” link. (VPN is required.) Coordinate departmental orders with your Lead Administrator. Requests for KN95 and N95 respirators should be made through the COVID Stockroom in SciQuest (instructions). Can I get an N95 mask? See N95 Respirator Guidance for more information. What about KN95 masks? “KN95” is a Chinese designation for masks with good filtration. These typically have ear loops, which may prevent a good (e.g. tight to the face) fit for many people. When they do fit tightly, they filter well, but are difficult to breathe through for any length of time. Individuals should not use a KN95 if breathing is difficult while wearing the mask. While Yale is now distributing ASTM masks and currently allowing for expanded approvals for the voluntary use of N95 Respirators under certain conditions, KN95 masks are also available for you to purchase through SciQuest by using a departmental Chart of Account (COA). The quality of masks provided by the university, through your residential college, school, or business office, has been evaluated by Environmental Health and Safety. However, many masks ordered through commercial venues vary in quality, even when they are labeled with familiar terms such as “KN95.” Recent media posts include guidelines that may help you avoid counterfeit masks and select masks that provide better protection. A KN95 mask is not a substitute for an N95 respirator and cannot be worn for medical use if N95s are required. Do not double mask if you are wearing a KN95. If you have questions, please submit them to ehs@yale.edu. What about KF94 and other masks? KF94 is a Korean designation for masks with good filtration. They are similar to KN95 and meet similar standards. FFP2 is a European standard certifying filtration of >94% particulates. These are also considered to be similar to KN95, KF94, and other masks. The quality of masks provided by the university, through your residential college, school, or business office, has been evaluated by Environmental Health and Safety. However, many masks ordered through commercial venues vary in quality, even when they are labeled with familiar terms such as “KN95.” Recent media posts include guidelines that may help you avoid counterfeit masks and select masks that provide better protection. What should I do if the disposable 3-ply mask provided is too large for my face? The University has obtained samples of smaller face masks that can be requested through the YPPS ordering site. The guidance also describes several strategies for improving the fit and function of your mask including tucking ear loops, as demonstrated in this video. If concerns remain after trying the smaller face mask, contact ehs@yale.edu for additional options. What options exist for the deaf and hard of hearing? Yale offers two types of protection for the deaf and hard of hearing: clear face masks and face shields. Clear face masks are available through the YPPS site by clicking the “PPE Supply Replenishment” link. (VPN is required.) Face shields are available via the COVID Stockroom in SciQuest. Can I buy my own mask? You are not required to use the masks provided by Yale, but your mask should be equivalent to an ASTM Level 1 or Level 2 mask and “ASTM” should be clearly indicated on the mask packaging. Bandanas, scarfs, and gaiters are not allowed as a mask substitute at Yale. At this time, a cloth mask may not be worn, except as an over-mask when double-masking. Contact Us In Person: 135 College Street, Suite 100 New Haven, CT 06510 Directions via Google Maps By Phone: Main Line: 203-785-3550 Waste Line: 203-432-6545 Emergency Line: 203-785-3555 Fax: 203-785-7588 Staff Directory Find Your Safety Advisor By E-mail: Ask EHS Form Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved