Skip to main content Search: Submit search Search filters Search This site Search Cornell Mario Einaudi Center for International Studies Main Menu Toggle Search Form Contact Support Us Home Discover About Us News People Director Faculty Leadership Einaudi Faculty Associates Staff Signature Events Bartels World Affairs Lecture Lund Critical Debate Support Us Contact Research Global Research Priorities Inequalities, Identities, and Justice Migrations Democratic Threats and Resilience Research Themes Focus: Ukraine Our Funded Research Regional and Thematic Programs Publications Engage Funding Opportunities For Faculty For Students Global Public Voices Apply for Global Public Voices Global Public Voices in the Media Current Fellows Fulbright at Cornell Fulbright U.S. Student Program Fulbright-Hays Faculty Program Fulbright-Hays Doctoral Program Cornell's 2021-22 Fulbrighters Cornell's 2020-21 Fulbright-Hays Laidlaw Scholars at Cornell Apply to Laidlaw 2021 Cohort of Laidlaw Scholars 2022 Cohort of Laidlaw Scholars Conferences Global Hubs Salon Series Future Directions in Migration and Racial Justice A Conversation on the Plantationocene Events Student Info Sessions Weekly Events Digest Cornell International Education Network Learn Minors and Academics International Relations Minor Migration Studies Minor Global Summer Internships Outreach for Educators Afterschool Language and Culture Program Professional Development Teaching Materials Publications Programs & Initiatives Comparative Muslim Societies Program East Asia Program Institute for African Development Institute for European Studies Latin American and Caribbean Studies Reppy Institute for Peace and Conflict Studies South Asia Program Southeast Asia Program Initiatives CO+POS CRADLE Discover About Us News People Director Faculty Leadership Einaudi Faculty Associates Staff Signature Events Bartels World Affairs Lecture Lund Critical Debate Support Us Contact Research Global Research Priorities Inequalities, Identities, and Justice Migrations Democratic Threats and Resilience Research Themes CRADLE CO+POS Disasters Cybersecurity Qualities of Life Focus: Ukraine Our Funded Research Regional and Thematic Programs Publications Engage Funding Opportunities For Faculty New: Fulbright-Hays for Faculty Seed Grants For Students Global PhD Research Grants Current Scholars Global Summer Internships Foreign Language and Area Studies Fellowships Travel Grants Dissertation Proposal Development Program Info Sessions Global Public Voices Apply for Global Public Voices Global Public Voices in the Media Current Fellows Fulbright at Cornell Fulbright U.S. Student Program Fulbright-Hays Faculty Program Fulbright-Hays Doctoral Program Cornell's 2021-22 Fulbrighters Cornell's 2020-21 Fulbright-Hays Laidlaw Scholars at Cornell Apply to Laidlaw 2021 Cohort of Laidlaw Scholars 2022 Cohort of Laidlaw Scholars Conferences Global Hubs Salon Series Future Directions in Migration and Racial Justice A Conversation on the Plantationocene Events Student Info Sessions Weekly Events Digest Cornell International Education Network Learn Minors and Academics International Relations Minor Migration Studies Minor Global Summer Internships Outreach for Educators Afterschool Language and Culture Program Professional Development Community College Internationalization Fellows Global Education Faculty Fellows Teaching Materials Publications Programs & Initiatives Comparative Muslim Societies Program East Asia Program Institute for African Development Institute for European Studies Latin American and Caribbean Studies Reppy Institute for Peace and Conflict Studies South Asia Program Southeast Asia Program Initiatives CO+POS People News CRADLE Breadcrumb Home Learn Migration Studies Minor Do you want to understand how human migration shapes our world on the move? In the Einaudi Center’s migration studies minor, you explore the factors that influence migrants’ decisions to migrate and drive their departure, arrival, and integration into new societies. The minor is open to all Cornell undergraduates and includes courses from across the university. About the Minor The migration studies minor is a university-wide, interdisciplinary undergraduate minor focused on the historical and contemporary contexts and factors that drive international migration and shape migrant experiences around the globe. The minor dovetails with Migrations: A Global Grand Challenge, part of Global Cornell. You’ll have the opportunity to investigate the complex global issue of migration from multiple perspectives and disciplinary lenses and participate in migration-themed events and opportunities at the Einaudi Center and across campus. Migration Studies Minor: Vanessa Olguín '22 Course Requirements You must complete five courses (15 credits minimum) and attend at least five migration-related campus events. An introductory course introduces you to international migration and provides an interdisciplinary foundation for understanding migration flows and migrant experiences. Your other courses will be electives of your choosing from across the university. All courses for the minor must be taken for a letter grade and completed with a letter grade of C or higher. See the Registrar's full description of requirements and courses that qualify for the minor. Required Introductory Course ILRLR 2810/LSP 2810/SOC 2810—Migrations: Histories, Controversies, and Perspectives Four Elective Courses Three courses must be taken at the advanced (3000–4000) level. Courses must be taken in at least two different departments. At least one course must include substantial focus on migration outside the United States. Migration-Related Events You must attend at least five migration-themed events on campus to complete the minor. Please report your attendance during the semester in which the event takes place. You must complete all email fields to receive attendance credit. Office Hours To meet with the migration studies minor administrative coordinator, please stop by 156 Uris Hall during the following hours: Monday, 9:00-11:00 a.m. Thursday, 12:00-3:00 p.m. How to Apply Please submit a declaration of intent form (below) to enroll in the migration studies minor. You may complete the form as early as your sophomore year, but you must declare your intent to participate by the end of your sixth semester in order to qualify. There is no GPA requirement for admission to the minor, but you must be in good academic standing. Contact the administrative coordinator if you have further questions. Faculty director Debra Castillo is an additional resource for migration studies minors. Declaration of Intent Name NetID Student ID Number Current Class Year - None -FreshmanSophomoreJuniorSenior Planned Graduation Date Month and Year Major College Introductory Course - None -YesNo Have you completed the Migration Studies Minor introductory course: "Migration: Histories, Controversies, and Perspectives"? CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. CAPTCHA 8 + 5 = Solve this simple math problem and enter the result. E.g. for 1+3, enter 4. Global Cornell Cornell China Center Global Hubs Global Operations Office of Global Learning Education Abroad International Services Migrations: A Global Grand Challenge Campus Partners Atkinson Center for Sustainability Center for Teaching Innovation Einhorn Center for Community Engagement International Alumni Language Resource Center Library from Off-Campus Student Experience Initiative Travel Registry Mario Einaudi Center for International Studies Part of Global Cornell 170 Uris Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-7601 Contact Us Follow us on: If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.