Skip to main content Search: Submit search Search filters Search This site Search Cornell Mario Einaudi Center for International Studies Main Menu Toggle Search Form Contact Support Us Home Discover About Us News People Director Faculty Leadership Einaudi Faculty Associates Staff Signature Events Bartels World Affairs Lecture Lund Critical Debate Support Us Contact Research Global Research Priorities Inequalities, Identities, and Justice Migrations Democratic Threats and Resilience Research Themes Focus: Ukraine Our Funded Research Regional and Thematic Programs Publications Engage Funding Opportunities For Faculty For Students Global Public Voices Apply for Global Public Voices Global Public Voices in the Media Current Fellows Fulbright at Cornell Fulbright U.S. Student Program Fulbright-Hays Faculty Program Fulbright-Hays Doctoral Program Cornell's 2021-22 Fulbrighters Cornell's 2020-21 Fulbright-Hays Laidlaw Scholars at Cornell Apply to Laidlaw 2021 Cohort of Laidlaw Scholars 2022 Cohort of Laidlaw Scholars Conferences Global Hubs Salon Series Future Directions in Migration and Racial Justice A Conversation on the Plantationocene Events Student Info Sessions Weekly Events Digest Cornell International Education Network Learn Minors and Academics International Relations Minor Migration Studies Minor Global Summer Internships Outreach for Educators Afterschool Language and Culture Program Professional Development Teaching Materials Publications Programs & Initiatives Comparative Muslim Societies Program East Asia Program Institute for African Development Institute for European Studies Latin American and Caribbean Studies Reppy Institute for Peace and Conflict Studies South Asia Program Southeast Asia Program Initiatives CO+POS CRADLE Discover About Us News People Director Faculty Leadership Einaudi Faculty Associates Staff Signature Events Bartels World Affairs Lecture Lund Critical Debate Support Us Contact Research Global Research Priorities Inequalities, Identities, and Justice Migrations Democratic Threats and Resilience Research Themes CRADLE CO+POS Disasters Cybersecurity Qualities of Life Focus: Ukraine Our Funded Research Regional and Thematic Programs Publications Engage Funding Opportunities For Faculty New: Fulbright-Hays for Faculty Seed Grants For Students Global PhD Research Grants Current Scholars Global Summer Internships Foreign Language and Area Studies Fellowships Travel Grants Dissertation Proposal Development Program Info Sessions Global Public Voices Apply for Global Public Voices Global Public Voices in the Media Current Fellows Fulbright at Cornell Fulbright U.S. Student Program Fulbright-Hays Faculty Program Fulbright-Hays Doctoral Program Cornell's 2021-22 Fulbrighters Cornell's 2020-21 Fulbright-Hays Laidlaw Scholars at Cornell Apply to Laidlaw 2021 Cohort of Laidlaw Scholars 2022 Cohort of Laidlaw Scholars Conferences Global Hubs Salon Series Future Directions in Migration and Racial Justice A Conversation on the Plantationocene Events Student Info Sessions Weekly Events Digest Cornell International Education Network Learn Minors and Academics International Relations Minor Legacy Requirements Migration Studies Minor Global Summer Internships Outreach for Educators Afterschool Language and Culture Program Professional Development Community College Internationalization Fellows Global Education Faculty Fellows Teaching Materials Publications Programs & Initiatives Comparative Muslim Societies Program East Asia Program Institute for African Development Institute for European Studies Latin American and Caribbean Studies Reppy Institute for Peace and Conflict Studies South Asia Program Southeast Asia Program Initiatives CO+POS People News CRADLE Breadcrumb Home Learn International Relations Minor In the Einaudi Center’s international relations minor (IRM), you study the politics, economics, history, languages, and cultures of the world and gain a fresh perspective on your major field of study. The minor is open to all Cornell undergraduates and includes courses from across the university. About the Minor IRM is an interdisciplinary undergraduate minor—not a major or a department—open to students enrolled in any of Cornell’s undergraduate colleges. In addition to your regular degree courses, you have the flexibility to take a range of courses across colleges and departments. Your opportunities as an international relations minor extend beyond the Ithaca campus. If you study abroad for a semester or year, you can complete some of the minor’s requirements, including the language requirement. IRM graduates have gone on to higher education in disciplines such as political science and anthropology, as well as to successful careers in international law, economics, agriculture, trade, finance, journalism, public policy, and government service. Cornell Chronicle: International Relations Minor Sets Graduates on Global Paths For Current IR Minors The minor has revised requirements in academic year 2021–22! If you enrolled in the Einaudi Center’s international relations minor before July 1, 2021, you may switch to the minor's new requirements—or you are welcome to follow the "legacy" plan, particularly if you're a graduating senior. For students enrolled before July 2021: View IR minor legacy requirements. Contact faculty director Christopher Way if you have any questions about how to complete the requirements of your international relations minor. Course Requirements New in Fall 2021 Your courses will reach across the university, concentrated in four groups. Courses within these groups are designated as core or elective. You must complete six courses selected from the four groups, including one core course in each group. You may select among two tracks in the minor (see below). All courses for the minor must be taken for a letter grade. See the Registrar's full description of requirements and core and elective courses. Core Courses Group 1: International Economics and Development AEM 2300—International Trade and Finance (cross-listed) AEM 4300—International Trade Policy ECON 2300—International Trade and Finance (cross-listed) ECON 3545—International Finance and Macroeconomics (cross-listed) ECON 4510—International Trade Theory and Policy Please note that the International Economics and Development core courses require ECON 1110—Introductory Microeconomics as a prerequisite, with ECON 1120—Introductory Macroeconomics recommended prior to taking these courses. Group 2: World Politics and Foreign Policy GOVT 1817—Making Sense of World Politics Group 3: International Policy AEM 2000—Contemporary Controversies in the Global Economy DSOC 3311—Environmental Governance (cross-listed) DSOC 3150—Climate Change and Global Development: Living in the Anthropocene DSOC 4300—Human Migration: Theories, Patterns, and Trends Group 4: Regional Specialization Core courses by region (choose one). Africa HIST 1590—History and Popular Culture in Africa GOVT 3353—African Politics Asia ASIAN 2208, 2211, 2212, 2218 or any 2200-level Asian studies course focusing on South Asia Europe GOVT 2553—Inside Europe HIST 1511—The Making of Modern Europe, from 1500 to the Present North Africa and the Near East HIST 2674—History of the Modern Middle East GOVT 3313—Middle East Politics Latin America HIST 1960—Modern Latin America GOVT 3293—Comparative Politics of Latin America Minor Tracks Choose your focus: 1) base track, or 2) regional specialization. Select your courses to support one of the tracks. Base Track One core course from each group Two additional electives from any of the groups No language requirement Regional Specialization One core course from each group Two additional electives, one of which must be from the regional specialization group Must complete language requirement Regional Track: Language Requirement Students on the regional track must complete additional language study beyond the College of Arts and Sciences degree requirement of "proficiency." For most languages, proficiency is attained by completing a course at the 2000 level, covering basic grammar and structure of the language. The language requirement can be fulfilled in two ways: Demonstrated facility in one foreign language (proficiency plus one course that uses the language to explore some aspect of a foreign culture, such as literature or film) Demonstrated proficiency in two foreign languages One or both of your languages should be commonly used in your area of regional specialization. All language courses must be taken for a letter grade. Study Abroad All international relations minors are strongly encouraged to study abroad. Your international experience will bring a practical dimension to your expertise in international issues. To learn more about programs available for study abroad, consult Education Abroad, part of the Office of Global Learning. Office Hours To meet with the IRM administrative coordinator, please stop by 156 Uris Hall during the following hours: Monday, 9:00-11:00 a.m. Thursday, 12:00-3:00 p.m. How to Apply Please submit the form (below) to enroll in the international relations minor. Contact the administrative coordinator if you have further questions or to schedule an appointment. Faculty director Christopher Way is an additional resource for international relations minors. Enrollment Form Name NetID Student ID Number Current Class Year - None -FreshmanSophomoreJuniorSenior Planned Graduation Date Month and Year Major College Foreign Language of Interest Do you have a foreign language that you are interested in? Region Are you interested in a particular region of the world? If yes, which one? Possible Career Path What kind of career path in the international realm interests you? CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. CAPTCHA 9 + 7 = Solve this simple math problem and enter the result. E.g. for 1+3, enter 4. Global Cornell Cornell China Center Global Hubs Global Operations Office of Global Learning Education Abroad International Services Migrations: A Global Grand Challenge Campus Partners Atkinson Center for Sustainability Center for Teaching Innovation Einhorn Center for Community Engagement International Alumni Language Resource Center Library from Off-Campus Student Experience Initiative Travel Registry Mario Einaudi Center for International Studies Part of Global Cornell 170 Uris Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-7601 Contact Us Follow us on: If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.