Skip to main content Search: Submit search Search filters Search This site Search Cornell Mario Einaudi Center for International Studies Main Menu Toggle Search Form Contact Support Us Home Discover About Us News People Director Faculty Leadership Einaudi Faculty Associates Staff Signature Events Bartels World Affairs Lecture Lund Critical Debate Support Us Contact Research Global Research Priorities Inequalities, Identities, and Justice Migrations Democratic Threats and Resilience Research Themes Focus: Ukraine Our Funded Research Regional and Thematic Programs Publications Engage Funding Opportunities For Faculty For Students Global Public Voices Apply for Global Public Voices Global Public Voices in the Media Current Fellows Fulbright at Cornell Fulbright U.S. Student Program Fulbright-Hays Faculty Program Fulbright-Hays Doctoral Program Cornell's 2021-22 Fulbrighters Cornell's 2020-21 Fulbright-Hays Laidlaw Scholars at Cornell Apply to Laidlaw 2021 Cohort of Laidlaw Scholars 2022 Cohort of Laidlaw Scholars Conferences Global Hubs Salon Series Future Directions in Migration and Racial Justice A Conversation on the Plantationocene Events Student Info Sessions Weekly Events Digest Cornell International Education Network Learn Minors and Academics International Relations Minor Migration Studies Minor Global Summer Internships Outreach for Educators Afterschool Language and Culture Program Professional Development Teaching Materials Publications Programs & Initiatives Comparative Muslim Societies Program East Asia Program Institute for African Development Institute for European Studies Latin American and Caribbean Studies Reppy Institute for Peace and Conflict Studies South Asia Program Southeast Asia Program Initiatives CO+POS CRADLE Discover About Us News People Director Faculty Leadership Einaudi Faculty Associates Staff Signature Events Bartels World Affairs Lecture Lund Critical Debate Support Us Contact Research Global Research Priorities Inequalities, Identities, and Justice Migrations Democratic Threats and Resilience Research Themes CRADLE CO+POS Disasters Cybersecurity Qualities of Life Focus: Ukraine Our Funded Research Regional and Thematic Programs Publications Engage Funding Opportunities For Faculty New: Fulbright-Hays for Faculty Seed Grants For Students Global PhD Research Grants Current Scholars Global Summer Internships Foreign Language and Area Studies Fellowships Travel Grants Dissertation Proposal Development Program Info Sessions Global Public Voices Apply for Global Public Voices Global Public Voices in the Media Current Fellows Fulbright at Cornell Fulbright U.S. Student Program Fulbright-Hays Faculty Program Fulbright-Hays Doctoral Program Cornell's 2021-22 Fulbrighters Cornell's 2020-21 Fulbright-Hays Laidlaw Scholars at Cornell Apply to Laidlaw 2021 Cohort of Laidlaw Scholars 2022 Cohort of Laidlaw Scholars Conferences Global Hubs Salon Series Future Directions in Migration and Racial Justice A Conversation on the Plantationocene Events Student Info Sessions Weekly Events Digest Cornell International Education Network Learn Minors and Academics International Relations Minor Migration Studies Minor Global Summer Internships Outreach for Educators Afterschool Language and Culture Program Professional Development Community College Internationalization Fellows Global Education Faculty Fellows Teaching Materials Publications Programs & Initiatives Comparative Muslim Societies Program East Asia Program Institute for African Development Institute for European Studies Latin American and Caribbean Studies Reppy Institute for Peace and Conflict Studies South Asia Program Southeast Asia Program Initiatives CO+POS People News CRADLE Breadcrumb Home Discover About Us The Mario Einaudi Center for International Studies is Cornell’s hub for campus engagement and global thinking and action. The Einaudi Center has helped students and scholars cross borders of language, culture, nationality, and academic discipline for 60 years. Today Cornell is one of the most international universities in the world. Mission The center organizes, stimulates, and supports research, teaching, and outreach programs and activities to enhance graduate and undergraduate education and to prepare Cornellians to contribute in the international sphere. Our Programs Eight regional and thematic programs are the heart of the Einaudi Center. Our programs promote new ways of understanding people and places, as we work together across Cornell and around the world to tackle transnational challenges like migration, food security, and social justice. Comparative Muslim Societies Program East Asia Program Institute for African Development Institute for European Studies Latin American and Caribbean Studies Reppy Institute for Peace and Conflict Studies South Asia Program Southeast Asia Program For Students: Welcome to Einaudi Our History 1960s 1961: Professor Mario Einaudi establishes the Cornell Center for International Studies. 1962: The center receives a $3.25 million grant from the Ford Foundation. The center expands its reach, folding in Cornell’s existing area studies programs on South Asia, East Asia, and Southeast Asia and a new program on Latin America. 1970s 1970: With a rise in interdisciplinary and comparative research, the center creates what is now the Reppy Institute for Peace and Conflict Studies. 1973: The Institute for European Studies is launched as a home for both Western and Eastern European studies. 1980s 1980s: The center’s five area studies programs are named Title VI National Resource Centers, with funding from the U.S Department of Education. 1983: The center creates Cornell Abroad, now part of the Office of Global Learning. 1984: The annual Henry E. and Nancy Bartels World Affairs Lecture is established. 1987: The Institute for African Development is founded as one of the center’s regional and thematic programs. 1990s 1991: In honor of its founding director, the center becomes the Mario Einaudi Center for International Studies. 1996: The Einaudi Center assumes responsibility for the Fulbright program at Cornell and launches the international relations minor. 2000s 2001: The Comparative Muslim Societies Program joins Einaudi’s regional and thematic programs. The Einaudi Center offers expanded funding opportunities, including seed grants for faculty. 2010s 2013: Director Fredrik Logevall establishes Global Cornell. 2019: The center launches the migration studies minor, part of Global Cornell’s Migrations initiative. 2019: Director Rachel Beatty Riedl joins the Einaudi Center. 2020s 2020: The Einaudi Center launches a Global Public Voices initiative to support faculty thought leaders. 2021: The Latin American and Caribbean Studies Program (LACS) celebrates its commitment to the Caribbean with a new program name. About Mario Einaudi (1904–1994) Mario Einaudi (left) at the ceremony renaming the center in 1991. Political theorist Mario Einaudi was born into one of the most influential intellectual families in Italy. After completing his dissertation at the University of Turin, he taught in Berlin and London. He moved to the United States in 1933 as a protest against fascist rule in Italy. He taught at Harvard and then at Fordham University, where he was active in the struggle against fascism during World War II. Einaudi joined Cornell’s Department of Government in 1945, becoming the Goldwin Smith Professor and chair of the department. He envisioned international studies going beyond courses in area studies and foreign languages to include work on economic, social, and development challenges around the world. In 1961, he became founding director of the Center for International Studies at Cornell. In 1964, he founded the Fondazione Luigi Einaudi in Turin to honor his father, second president of the Republic of Italy (1948–1955). After his retirement in 1972, Einaudi remained active at the Center for International Studies, advising students and inspiring the founding of the Institute for European Studies. In 1991, to honor his long dedication to Cornell, the center he founded was renamed in his honor. Join us! Find out how you can support the Einaudi Center. The Einaudi Center is part of Global Cornell. Global Cornell Cornell China Center Global Hubs Global Operations Office of Global Learning Education Abroad International Services Migrations: A Global Grand Challenge Campus Partners Atkinson Center for Sustainability Center for Teaching Innovation Einhorn Center for Community Engagement International Alumni Language Resource Center Library from Off-Campus Student Experience Initiative Travel Registry Mario Einaudi Center for International Studies Part of Global Cornell 170 Uris Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-7601 Contact Us Follow us on: If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.