Skip to Main Content ejobs.umd.edu Toggle navigation Home Search Jobs Log In /Create Account Help Faculty Staff Graduate Assistants/Students Employees Login Here to Access Internal Jobs About The University of Maryland Benefits Students Colleges Contact Us The University works hard to make its websites accessible to any and all users. If you need assistance completing the application process, please contact us at one of the below options. Email: jobs@umd.edu Phone: 301.405.7575 Maryland Relay: Dial 711 This contact information cannot be used to inquire about application status. EEO/AA Statement The University of Maryland, College Park is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer; all qualified applicants, including veterans and people with disabilities, will receive consideration for employment. UMD is actively engaged in recruiting, hiring, and promoting underrepresented communities. Please read the entire University of Maryland Equal Employment Opportunity and Affirmative Action Statement of Policy. Title IX Non-Discrimination Notice The University of Maryland (UMD) does not discriminate on the basis of sex, gender identity or expression, sexual orientation, race, color religion, national origin, ethnicity, physical or mental disability, protected veteran status, age, genetic information or any other characteristic protected by law in its programs and activities. Specifically, Title IX prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex in UMD programs and activities, including with respect to admission and employment. Background Checks Offers of employment are contingent on completion of a background check. Information reported by the background check will not automatically disqualify you from employment. Resources Job Definitions UMD is a SmokeFree Campus Employment Laws Web Accessibility UMD Safety & Security / Clery Act Annual Safety and Security Report Annual Fire Safety Report 1100 Chesapeake Bldg University of Maryland College Park, MD 20742 uhr.umd.edu / jobs@umd.edu / 301-405-7575 © 2018 University Human Resources, University of Maryland To ensure the security of your data, you will be logged out due to inactivity in 3 minutes at . Any data not saved will be lost. Click 'OK' to keep your session active.