Coronavirus [COVID-19] For more info please visit TTUHSC El Paso Coronavirus site. Toggle navigationMobile Menu Expand Mobile Search Button About TTUHSC El Paso is located in the second largest binational metropolitan area on the U.S.-Mexico border. It provides the opportunities and environment for direct intellectual and interpersonal exchanges among nursing, medical, and graduate research students on one campus. Office of the President University History Mission Strategic Plan Values-Based Culture Fact Book Academic Programs Leadership Faculty Senate Council on Diversity and Inclusion Research Careers Professional Societies Search SECC Donor Pledge Consumer Information Public Art Collection The City of El Paso TTUHSC El Paso Impact Education TTUHSC El Paso provides a variety of educational opportunities for current and future physicians. School of Medicine School of Nursing Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences School of Dental Medicine Graduate Medical Education Continuing Medical Education K-16 Outreach Programs Libraries Distance Education and Academic Partnerships Desert Mountain AHEC Departments Academic Department of Medical Education GME Residency/Fellowship Programs Molecular and Translational Medicine Office of Medical Education Clinical Anesthesiology Breast Care Center Emergency Medicine Family and Community Medicine Family Medicine-Transmountain Internal Medicine Internal Medicine - Transmountain Neurology Obstetrics and Gynecology Obstetrics and Gynecology - Transmountain Orthopaedic Surgery and Rehabilitation Pathology Pediatrics Pediatrics - Transmountain Psychiatry Psychiatry - Transmountain Radiology Surgery Surgery - Transmountain Support Academic Affairs Business Affairs Clinical Informatics-Digital Health Compliance Contracting Credentialing and Enrollment Department Diversity, Inclusion, and Global Health Faculty Affairs Faculty Development Office of Finance and Administration General Services Human Resources Information Technology Institutional Advancement Institutional Research and Effectiveness Library MPIP - Business Office/Central Registration Operating Policies and Procedures Occupational Health Outreach and Community Engagement Parking and Transportation Quality Improvement Registrar's Office Safety Services Student Affairs - PLFSOM Student Affairs - GGHSON Student Affairs - Francis Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences Student Affairs - WLHSDM Student Business Services Student Financial Aid Student Services and Student Engagement TECHS Texas Tech Police Department Values Based Culture Volunteer Services Research Providing enhanced biomedical opportunities in a collaborative environment to improve our nation's well-being. Office of Research Sponsored Programs Research Committees Research Compliance Research Services Texas Tech Physicians of El Paso Texas Tech Physicians of El Paso is part of the Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center Paul L. Foster School of Medicine. Our dedicated team of health care professionals and staff strive to provide patients with high-quality, safe health care services. Find a Provider Find a Location Find a Specialty News & Events Stay up-to-date with TTUHSC El Paso news and events. Whether it’s a community event, employee training, or major research achievement, if it’s happening at TTUHSC El Paso, you’ll find it here. Alumni & Friends Magazine Tech Talk: University News and Events TT HealthWatch TTUHSC El Paso Media Kit Prospective Students & Residents Current Students & Residents Alumni Libraries Directory Employee Links Careers Search Search Hunt School of Nursing Celebrates 10 Years Borderplex Community Gives Its Heart to Future Trusted Heroes, Raising $1.876 Million in Scholarships for Hunt School of Nursing Students Historic $10 Million Gift to Transform the Future of Biomedical Sciences Completes Endowment of All Four TTUHSC El Paso Schools TTUHSC El Paso graduate school named after local philanthropist L. Frederick “Rick” Francis. TTUHSC El Paso President Dr. Richard Lange Named El Pasoan of the Year Dr. Lange was chosen among several outstanding community leaders working to improve the lives of Borderland residents through a variety of industries. TTUHSC El Paso Part of NIH Trials to Find Effective COVID-19 Treatments One study will test an over-the-counter drug on El Paso patients. Dr. Richard Black Named Texas Dentist of the Year Hunt School of Dental Medicine dean honored for community service and leadership. Paul L. Foster School of Medicine Among the goals of the Paul L. Foster School of Medicine is the provision of a medical education that is consistent with modern scientific principles, supportive of strong... Learn More Gayle Greve Hunt School of Nursing The Gayle Greve Hunt School of Nursing was established to counteract a long-term shortage of nurses who provide care to this medically-underserved area. The Gayle Greve Hunt... Learn More L. Frederick Francis Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences The L. Frederick Francis Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences provides a wealth of opportunity for students to develop their interests and prepare a base of knowledge and experience to pursue a... Learn More Woody L. Hunt School of Dental Medicine The Woody L. Hunt School of Dental Medicine is committed to providing an innovative educational experience to pursue successful careers in dentistry and deliver oral health care in West Texas and the borderlands. Learn More Discover TTUHSC El Paso Since 1973, our campus has been dedicated to improving the lives of people in our community by focusing on the unique health care needs of socially and culturally diverse border populations through excellence in integrated education, research and patient care. Texas Tech University System Texas Tech University Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center Angelo State University Midwestern State University Accessibility Emergency Preparedness Equal Opportunity Open Records Requests Site Policies, Manuals and State Reporting Student Mental Health Services Title IX Compliance DMCA Compliance Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Résumés SAO Fraud Reporting State of Texas website State Website Search (T.R.A.I.L.) Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal TTUHSC Energy Conservation Report Maps & Directions Jobs at TTUHSC El Paso Contact TTUHSC EL Paso Operating Policies and Procedures Website Update Request © Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center | All Rights Reserved Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center El Paso | 5001 El Paso Drive | El Paso, TX 79905 915-215-8000 Top ↑ Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center El Paso is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges to award baccalaureate, masters, and doctoral degrees. Contact the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, Georgia 30033-4097 or call 404-679-4500 for questions about the accreditation of Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center El Paso. ©