Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS School of Education and Human Sciences Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Studies myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Admission Academics Select to follow link Master's Select to follow link Educational administration (Online M.S.E.) » Education & social policy (M.S.E.) Higher education administration (M.S.E.) Endorsements Select to follow link Building-level licensure » Doctorate Select to follow link Ph.D. Ed.D. Select to follow link Educational Administration (Ed.D.) Higher Education Administration (Ed.D.) Graduate certificate » Online » Faculty & staff Mission & vision Select to follow link News Research Student life Events & resources Select to follow link Forms & documents Contact us Info for Prospective Students Current Students Current Faculty Alumni Donors myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo School of Education and Human Sciences Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Studies Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Studies at the University of Kansas Preparing educators as leaders since 1909 data #9 School of Education & Human Sciences #15 Online Graduate Program Explore programs Explore programs Apply for Admission Apply for Admission Review Our Research Our Research our latest news Five KU staff, faculty members take on additional diversity, equity responsibilities LAWRENCE – Five individuals at the University of Kansas are taking on enhanced roles in diversity, equity, inclusion and belonging, either as a promotion or an expansion of their current responsibilities: KU announces featured speakers for the 2021 Virtual Summer Conference LAWRENCE — The School of Education & Human Sciences at the University of Kansas has announced the featured speakers for each session of the 2021 Strategies for Educational Improvement Summer Conference, a virtual multisession professional development series. KU chancellor announces promotion and tenure for 169 faculty and researchers for fall 2021 LAWRENCE – Chancellor Douglas A. Girod has approved the promotion and award of tenure, where indicated, for 80 individuals at the University of Kansas Lawrence and Edwards campuses and 89 individuals at the KU Medical Center campuses. Back to the Future: Time to Redesign virtual summer conference hosted as multisession series for educators LAWRENCE — The School of Education & Human Sciences at the University of Kansas will host the 14th annual Strategies for Educational Improvement Summer Conference for the region’s PK-12 educators as a virtual multisession series. View all news Upcoming Events See all events Give to the Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Studies Give Give Follow us on social media FacebookInstagramTwitterYouTubeLinkedIn Joseph R. Pearson Hall, Rm. 421 1122 West Campus Rd. Lawrence, KS 66045-3101 Bus Routes: Route 42 elps@ku.edu 785-864-4458 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin School of Education & Human Sciences Online Programs Tuition & Costs Accreditation Licensure Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.