Skip to main content Enrollment Management and Services Menu Close About Administrative Leadership Our Team Employment For Employers Contact Information Units Initiatives Diversity and Inclusion Employee Well-Being Data and Assessment Dashboards Reports News Give Now About About Administrative Leadership Our Team Employment For Employers Contact Information Units Units Initiatives Initiatives Diversity and Inclusion Employee Well-Being Data and Assessment Data and Assessment Dashboards Reports News News Give Now Stop Video Welcome to NC State Explore our community and discover campus from wherever you are. Take the Virtual Tour #1 Best Public College for Your Money in North Carolina Money Learn more Top 1% of Universities Worldwide Center for World University Rankings Learn more #15 Best Public School for Internships Nationally Princeton Review Learn more Discover We’re a leading public university where bold thinkers thrive and ideas become solutions. See Yourself at NC State Apply Schedule a Visit Our Promise of Access Empowering more North Carolinians – of every family background and economic situation – to earn a college degree has always been at the heart of our land-grant mission to solve problems and fuel prosperity. Support the Extraordinary Play Video The copper wolves at Wolf Plaza near Talley student union. Photo by Marc Hall Academic Calendar All Calendars Jun 03 Friday Drop/ Revision Deadline: Summer I 5-Week Session Jun 08 Wednesday Last Day of Classes: Maymester 3-Week Session Jun 10 Friday Grades Due by 5 p.m. Visit We’re the largest four-year institution in North Carolina and one of the leading public universities in the United States. Schedule a Visit Talley Student Union. NEWS Read more Goodnight Alumni Spotlight: Jesseeca Nguyen ’15 Staples of the Goodnight Scholars Program, like the annual LEGO Brick Build, were once just thoughtful ideas and goals that were eventually executed by Goodnight Scholars like alumna Jesseeca Nguyen ’15. Jesseeca remembers being involved with many “firsts” in the […] Ready for New Challenges Nearly 6,500 students took a leap forward into the next chapter of their lives at NC State’s spring commencement on May 7. Many of these new graduates excelled in their chosen major, but also crossed disciplinary boundaries in their learning and research. Goodnight Scholars Program Announces Class of 2026 The Goodnight Scholars Program at NC State revealed the 50 recipients from 32 North Carolina counties selected for its new cohort of scholars. Recipients participated in a thorough selection process over the spring semester, which included an application and interview […] Protecting the Pack NC State strives to provide our community a safe and healthy environment to thrive academically. COVID-19 UPDATES Throughout the month of May, the Goodnight ... Open Throughout the month of May, The Goodnight ... Open While one group of students explored the snowy ... Open Goodnight Scholars took on Vancouver, Canada for ... Open Transfer Class of 2025, welcome to the Goodnight ... Open Throughout the month of May, The Goodnight ... Open Throughout the month of May, The Goodnight ... Open The Goodnight Scholars Program would like to say ... Open Throughout the month of May, The Goodnight ... Open The Distinguished Goodnight Award is presented at ... Open Throughout the month of May, The Goodnight ... Open The Goodnight Scholars Program’s Class of 2022 ... Open Behind every post, spotlight, video, tweet, reel, ... Open Good people know “Goodnight” People! ... Open Join us in giving showing love to all of our STEM ... Open Class of 2022 and Transfer Class of 2022…it’s ... Open Class of 2022 and Transfer Class of 2022…it’s ... Open Class of 2022 and Transfer Class of 2022…it’s ... Open Class of 2022 and Transfer Class of 2022…it’s ... Open Since joining the Goodnight Scholars Program in ... Open This error message is only visible to WordPress admins Error: Connected account for the user applyncstate does not have permission to use this feed type. Enrollment Management and Services Home 2831 Thurman Drive Harris Hall, Room 1008 Campus Box 7528 Raleigh, NC 27695 Campus Map Academic Calendar Accessibility Contact Copyright Emergency Information Free Speech Jobs Libraries MyPack Portal Policies Privacy Social Media Strategic Plan Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.