Skip to Main Content Brown University IE Executive MBA IE Brown Executive MBA Search Menu Site Navigation Home Curriculum Capstone & Immersion Experience Program Schedule Admissions People Faculty & Leadership Alumni Ambassadors Advisory Committee Search IE Brown Executive MBA Program Schedule and Format Program Schedule and Format Designed for busy, ambitious professionals our program blends interactive online learning with in-person sessions. Regardless of where you live, IE Brown Executive MBA's rigorous curriculum, world-class faculty and dynamic community allows you to build the network and skills vital for advancing your business without interrupting your career. Program Schedule The program has 5 face-to-face periods for a total of approximately 7.5 weeks in residence over 15 months. The face-to-face periods take place at the campuses of IE in Madrid, Spain, Brown University in Providence, USA and on location in Cape Town, South Africa. The module in South Africa is an ‘immersion experience’, specifically designed for students to experience the ‘beyond business’ focus of the program in a real setting. The week in Cape Town provides context for applied learning— applying knowledge acquired in previous classroom and online sessions. This rich field experience, in which new opportunities are proposed, explored and understood in context, is intensified and amplified by the dynamic clashes of culture, politics and human need in the selected site. Interactive, online learning takes place between the face-to-face periods, ensuring continuous learning and interaction between classmates for the duration of the program. Class of 2023 Program Schedule Feb. 27 - March 11, 2022 In-Residence: Madrid June 13-24, 2022 In-Residence: Providence October 17-27, 2022 In-Residence: Madrid January 13-20, 2023 In-Residence: Cape Town May 17-28, 2023 In-Residence: Providence May 28, 2023 Commencement Program Format Our approach isn’t just online and it isn’t just on campus – it’s blended. We align and combine the best of technology, methodology and our world-class faculty, so you can experience multi-layered learning in a multi-faceted environment. Request Information: In the United States Request Information: Outside of the United States Download the Brochure Upcoming Info Sessions Vaccine Requirements Brown requires that students, faculty and staff receive the COVID-19 vaccine and booster, and stay informed about the vaccines by learning about their safety, effectiveness and availability. Medical and religious exemptions to the vaccination requirement will be granted and reasonable accommodations provided under applicable law. Students who are not vaccinated and do not qualify for a medical or religious exemption will be required to study remotely without permission to access campus. Further information can be found at Healthy Brown. Brown University School of Professional Studies Providence, RI professional@brown.edu 401-863-7901 IE Business School Madrid, Spain iebrown@ie.edu +34 915689600 Quick Navigation Events Brown Privacy Policy IE Privacy Policy Footer Navigation Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University IE Executive MBA For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Curriculum Capstone & Immersion Experience Program Schedule Admissions People Faculty & Leadership Alumni Ambassadors Advisory Committee This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Program Schedule and Format Open details for Program Schedule and Format Bookmark this Page