Skip to Main Content Brown University IE Executive MBA IE Brown Executive MBA Search Menu Site Navigation Home Curriculum Capstone & Immersion Experience Program Schedule Admissions People Faculty & Leadership Alumni Ambassadors Advisory Committee Search IE Brown Executive MBA Admissions and Financial Aid Admissions and Financial Aid We seek dynamic, motivated and creative candidates and consider how each applicant will contribute to — and benefit from — the program's diverse and collaborative culture. The committee takes a holistic look at each application and factors in your unique talents, accomplishments, energy, curiosity, perspective and identity. We strongly encourage you to apply and look forward to getting to know you. Request Information: In the United States Request Information: Outside of the United States Start Your Application Download the Brochure Admissions Process The IE Brown EMBA application is administered through IE. Completed applications will be reviewed by both Brown University and IE. Applicant Profile Application Requirements Deadlines Interview & Decision Applicant Profile Successful Candidates Will be Able to Demonstrate: Professional achievements Leadership potential Academic excellence Basic Admissions Criteria 10 years of work experience and a minimum of 3 years of professional experience in a management position. Undergraduate degree GRE/GMAT not required Application Requirements The IE Brown EMBA application is administered through IE. Completed applications will be reviewed by both Brown University and IE. A completed online application includes: Official university transcripts Upload of passport or ID card photo Upload of passport-sized photo Curriculum Vitae (one page) Three essays (please refer to the online application for topics) Upload of diplomas or certificates accrediting courses, seminars or programs undertaken by the candidate. Letter from current employer Two letters of recommendation written by professors, entrepreneurs, freelance professionals or persons holding a management position Application fee Deadlines Application Review Application Due Decision Communicated Priority I May 23, 2022 June 13, 2022 Priority II September 19, 2022 October 10, 2022 Priority III November 28, 2022 December 19, 2022 Interview & Decision Personal Interview Once the application form has been assessed, candidates may be called to interview – which may be done, on campus, at an admissions event, or by video conference should you be unable to meet us in person. The interview examines the data provided in the application in greater detail and determines whether the candidate’s profile will stand him or her in good stead for the content and demands of the program. Applicants may be requested to engage in more than one interview with members of the admissions committee and/or IE Brown EMBA alumni. Admissions Committee Decision Following the interview, each application will be subject to a final review by the Admissions Committee comprised of members from both institutions, evaluating all aspects of each candidate’s application as a whole. Candidates will be notified of the Committee’s decision after this final review. Admission is valid for two consecutive intakes and is granted to candidates whom IE Business School considers to be the right profile to successfully participate in the IE Brown Executive MBA program. This does not automatically guarantee a place within any given intake, however, and a place reservation is necessary to secure a place within a specific intake. Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition Financial Aid Corporate Sponsorship Payment Plans Tuition $141,500 USD Tuition and fees for the IE Brown Executive MBA Class of 2024 (beginning study March 2023) are $141,500 USD, which includes all study materials, tuition costs and a contribution to the IE Foundation to support joint research projects between IE and Brown faculty members. Course fees do not include accommodation and travel costs for the residential periods. Candidates also pay a non-refundable application fee of 150 € to cover administrative costs. Admission is valid for two program intakes. To reserve a place in a particular intake, students are required to make a deposit of $13,500 US. Financial Aid IE Brown students have various financial aid options available to them to assist with the cost of pursuing their MBA. Financing options for admitted students include loans, IE Foundation scholarships and in some cases fellowship opportunities. Detailed information on each of these options can be found on the Financial Aid website, or contact us directly at iebrown@ie.edu. IE Foundation Scholarships and Fellowships The IE Foundation aims to bring management training to those people who have excelled in the personal and professional aspects of their lives but who do not have the full financial resources necessary to access a top master degree program. These scholarships are awarded by assessing candidates on merit, diversity, and financial need. Loans For U.S. candidates, loans are available from the Smart Option Student Loan offering of Sallie Mae International. The school identifier for these loan applications is IE. For Spanish fiscal residents living and working in Spain loans are available from two Spanish financial institutions to accommodate IE Brown EMBA student program funding needs. For further information about Loan opportunities please see the Financial Aid website, or contact us directly at iebrown@ie.edu. Corporate Sponsorship The IE Brown Executive MBA is designed to be fully compatible with the schedules and pressures of senior executives and presents a unique opportunity for top organizations to provide support for their high-potential employees, expanding their skills, broadening their perspectives and enabling companies to flourish. Both the methods of delivery as well as the carefully designed curriculum allow participants to embed the skills being learned directly into their day-to-day operations, transforming their organizations from the outset of the program. Support from within the organization is key to the success of every participant, and represents an important investment in their human capital, awarding and engaging top performers. Sponsorship of high-potential employees can come in the form of time allotted for the mandatory face-to-face modules to partial or full funding of tuition and fees. In cases where full or partial funding for the program is provided by the employer, participants will be required to submit a completed Corporate Financing Form signed by the sponsor. For more information please contact iebrown@ie.edu. Payment Plans Our payment plans offer the following benefits: The ability to pay your tuition fees in up to 5 installments during the first year of the program. They can be used in conjunction with your financial aid award, should you receive a scholarship. They are interest-free and there are no pre-approval requirements or credit checks. Please keep in mind that plans outside of the default payment structure will include an administrative service fee of $450. Applicant Profile Entrepreneurially Minded Employ innovative thinking to turn challenges into opportunities Keen to explore how the latest breakthroughs in science and engineering can lay the foundation for breakout entrepreneurial ventures Globally Aware and Inquisitive Aspire to understand how the history, culture, and politics of countries and regions shape the marketplace in a global business environment Enjoy questioning conventional wisdom and critically examining concepts such as rationality, value and globalization Morally Grounded Possess a strong ethical compass and an understanding that real economic value creation should be socially and environmentally sustainable Mindful that human beings are at the very center of management Authentic and Flexible Able to cope with ambiguity – the attributes needed to manage and lead in times of change Cognizant of their own values and principles and not afraid to lead 39 Average Age 20 + Nationalities 16 Avg. Years of Work Experience 36 % Women Vaccine Requirements Brown requires that students, faculty and staff receive the COVID-19 vaccine and booster, and stay informed about the vaccines by learning about their safety, effectiveness and availability. Medical and religious exemptions to the vaccination requirement will be granted and reasonable accommodations provided under applicable law. Students who are not vaccinated and do not qualify for a medical or religious exemption will be required to study remotely without permission to access campus. Further information can be found at Healthy Brown. Brown University School of Professional Studies Providence, RI professional@brown.edu 401-863-7901 IE Business School Madrid, Spain iebrown@ie.edu +34 915689600 Quick Navigation Events Brown Privacy Policy IE Privacy Policy Footer Navigation Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University IE Executive MBA For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Curriculum Capstone & Immersion Experience Program Schedule Admissions People Faculty & Leadership Alumni Ambassadors Advisory Committee This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Admissions and Financial Aid Open details for Admissions and Financial Aid Bookmark this Page