Skip to Main Content Brown University IE Executive MBA IE Brown Executive MBA Search Menu Site Navigation Home Curriculum Capstone & Immersion Experience Program Schedule Admissions People Faculty & Leadership Alumni Ambassadors Advisory Committee Search IE Brown Executive MBA IE Brown Executive MBA An executive MBA blending innovative management curriculum with the humanities and social sciences. IE Brown Executive MBA An executive MBA blending innovative management curriculum with the humanities and social sciences. Two powerful institutions, one unique experience that goes beyond the boundaries of traditional business education. The IE Brown Executive MBA provides a platform for reflective leaders to be more global in their outlook, more innovative in their thinking and more informed in their decision-making. Our dynamic 15-month curriculum, taught by world-class faculty, is curated to break down industry silos, build cross-function collaborations and bring a diversity of perspectives into your learning experience. Designed for executives who seek to inspire those around them and disrupt the future of business, our program develops strategic leaders equipped with a broad vision and ability to innovate in a complex and evolving business climate. Structured for professionals, our program blends interactive online learning with in-person sessions so you can earn an EMBA and build the network and skills vital for advancing your business in real-time — without interrupting your career. Request Information: In the United States Request Information: Outside of the United States Download the Brochure Upcoming Info Sessions Program Snapshot Format: Blended Online Sessions & 5 Residential Weeks Length: 15 months starting in March Profile: 10+ Years of Work Experience Schools: IE Business School & Brown University Explore the IE Brown Executive MBA Play 1 of 6 Brown University and IE Business School have forged a unique alliance. 2 of 6 Brown University, founded in 1764, is located in Providence, Rhode Island. Play 3 of 6 Get to know the story of EMBA student Faisal Hidayatullah. 4 of 6 IE Business School, founded in 1973, is located in Madrid, Spain. Play 5 of 6 Get to know the story of EMBA student Cherise O´Kennedy. Play 6 of 6 Get to know the story of EMBA student James Lee. Two Global Institutions Student-Centered Learning Ranking & Accreditation Two Global Institutions Brown University, founded in 1764 and located in Providence, Rhode Island. Brown is a leading research university home to world-renowned faculty, and also an innovative educational institution where the curiosity, creativity and intellectual joy of students drives academic excellence. Brown graduates hold leadership positions across the globe in industry, politics and society. IE Business School, located in Madrid, Spain, is consistently ranked as one of the best business schools in the world. Since its founding in 1973 as an independent, post-graduate institution, it has earned a reputation as an innovative, entrepreneurial school that has transformed management education with practice-oriented programs, the incorporation of the humanities into business training, and the use of learning methodologies combining online and face-to-face interactions. Student-Centered Learning Anchored in the values and strengths of both institutions, the IE Brown Executive MBA integrates innovative management skills with the human sciences and practical business studies. The 15-month curriculum is designed to develop well-rounded managers and entrepreneurs who do not shy away from difficult questions and can therefore be change agents in their organizations, industries and communities. This programmatic integration develops key skill sets allowing participants to think beyond the need for an immediate solution and focus on strategic success. Graduates, as reflective leaders, will be able to draw on critical thinking skills, ethical business practices and apply an entrepreneurial mindset with the agility and versatility demanded by today’s business environment. Ranking & Accreditation Our Executive MBA is ranked #3 in the world by The Economist and our curriculum is triple-certified by AACSB, AMBA and EQUIS. Graduates will receive one diploma awarded by both institutions and will enjoy full alumni status from both Brown University and IE Business School. Learn More Curriculum Capstone & Immersion Experience Program Schedule & Format Admissions & Financial Aid People Vaccine Requirements Brown requires that students, faculty and staff receive the COVID-19 vaccine and booster, and stay informed about the vaccines by learning about their safety, effectiveness and availability. Medical and religious exemptions to the vaccination requirement will be granted and reasonable accommodations provided under applicable law. Students who are not vaccinated and do not qualify for a medical or religious exemption will be required to study remotely without permission to access campus. Further information can be found at Healthy Brown. Brown University School of Professional Studies Providence, RI professional@brown.edu 401-863-7901 IE Business School Madrid, Spain iebrown@ie.edu +34 915689600 Quick Navigation Events Brown Privacy Policy IE Privacy Policy Footer Navigation Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University IE Executive MBA For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Curriculum Capstone & Immersion Experience Program Schedule Admissions People Faculty & Leadership Alumni Ambassadors Advisory Committee This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search IE Brown Executive MBA Open details for IE Brown Executive MBA Bookmark this Page