Skip to main content Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine appointments are available to our patients. Sign up for Connect today to schedule your vaccination. Continue your routine care with us by scheduling an in-person appointment or Video Visit. Enter the terms you wish to search for. Select Search Option This Site All WCM Sites Directory Menu Weill Cornell Medicine Care Discover Teach I am interested in... Wayfinder menu Patient Care Our Faculty Research Initiatives Contact Us Emergency Medicine Explore this Website I am interested in... Wayfinder menu Patient Care Our Faculty Research Initiatives Contact Us Home About UsToggle About Us menu options Leadership Faculty Ways to Give Contact Us Divisions & ProgramsToggle Divisions & Programs menu options Geriatric Emergency Medicine Division Medical Toxicology Division Pediatric Emergency Medicine Division Emergency Orthopedic Sports Medicine Program Faculty Wellness Program Global Emergency Medicine Simulation Program Virtual Care DiversityToggle Diversity menu options DiversifiED Summer Apprenticeship Program (DSAP) 2022 Vulnerable Elder Protection Team (VEPT)Toggle Vulnerable Elder Protection Team (VEPT) menu options About VEPT Elder Abuse: The Problem Community Collaboration Our Funding Our WorkToggle Our Work menu options Direct Services VEPT Research and Publications VEPT Education and Outreach Patient Stories VEPT Resources VEPT News Contact VEPT EducationToggle Education menu options Medical Student EducationToggle Medical Student Education menu options First Responders Course Healthcare Leadership and Management Scholars Medical Student Elective in Emergency Medicine Sub-Internship in Emergency Medicine Telehealth Elective for Medical Students ResidencyToggle Residency menu options Physician Residency Physician Assistant Residency Nurse Practitioner Residency FellowshipToggle Fellowship menu options Pediatric Emergency Medicine Fellowship Geriatric Emergency Medicine Fellowship Global Health Research Fellowship Emergency Medicine Simulation Fellowship Healthcare Leadership and Management Fellowship Continuing Medical EducationToggle Continuing Medical Education menu options Physician Assistant and Nurse Practitioner Conference Protected Airway Course BASE Camp Wilderness Medicine Virtual Healthcare in the Mainstream Symposium ResearchToggle Research menu options Featured Research Initiatives and Studies Research Associate Program Research Support Research Faculty Research Personnel News & Events Weill Cornell Medicine Care Discover Teach Home About Us Divisions & Programs Education Research News & Events We strive to deliver the best in care to the NYC and WCM community. Divisions & Programs Education Research About the Department of Emergency Medicine Dr. Rahul Sharma Professor and Chairman The Department of Emergency Medicine comprises highly-trained and skilled clinical specialists whose mission is to deliver the highest quality patient care, exceptional education and rigorous research. Read more about the Department of Emergency Medicine. Multidisciplinary Experts Our multi-disciplinary team of experts are national leaders in the areas of critical care, telemedicine innovation, physician wellbeing and patient-centered care. Leadership Directory | Faculty Directory Excellent Medical Education Our distinguished faculty lead several residency and fellowship programs, as well as medical student electives, with a focus on providing exceptional education to all trainees in a dynamic educational environment. View Education Programs Research & Collaboration The department seeks to become a national leader with broad impact in Emergency Medicine research through the development of novel, innovative, and collaborative research projects in a multitude of research domains. Research Initiatives Associate Research Program WCM Center for Virtual Care The Center for Virtual Care seeks to improve the delivery of virtual care services across the health system through telemedicine training programs for practitioners at all levels and in call clinical specialties. Virtual Care DiversifiED The goal of DiversifiED, the Department of Emergency Medicine's Diversity Committee, is to foster and enhance awareness of diversity, inclusiveness, and belonging for all clinical and non-clinical providers through education, collaboration, and outreach. Learn more about diversity and inclusion in Emergency Medicine. Wellness Our award-winning physician wellness program enables faculty and staff to thrive personally and professionally by focusing on creating a collaborate work environment and an emphasis on well-being, outreach, and community service. Faculty Wellness Program Latest News & Upcoming Events View All News & Events Rahul Sharma, MD, MBA, FACEP Elected Faculty Representative to the WCM Board of Fellows June 1, 2022 Dr. Rahul Sharma, Professor and Chair of the Department of Emergency Medicine, has been elected to serve as the next Full-time Faculty Representative to the Weill Cornell Medicine (WCM) Board of... Read More Lynn Jiang, MD Accepted to the WCM Quality Improvement Academy Advanced QI Training & Faculty Development Program May 13, 2022 Dr. Lynn Jiang was recently accepted to the Weill Cornell Medicine (WCM) Quality Improvement Academy (QIA) advanced QI training and faculty development program. Dr. Jiang will use her strong... Read More Sep 18 12:00pm to 3:00pm 2021 Make Your Match Oct 22 8:00am to 3:00pm Virtual Healthcare in the Mainstream Symposium & Research Forum Tweets by WCMEmergency Ways To Give Advances in patient care, education, and research, would not be possible without the support of private philanthropy. Gifts and endowments support innovations in patient care, new and existing research efforts, and educational programs. Make a donation to our department Our Location Emergency Medicine Contact Us Twitter 525 East 68th Street Room M130 New York, NY 10065 Phone: (212) 746-0780 Fax: 212-746-4883 About Us Leadership Faculty Ways to Give Contact Us Divisions & Programs Geriatric Emergency Medicine Division Medical Toxicology Division Pediatric Emergency Medicine Division Emergency Orthopedic Sports Medicine Program Faculty Wellness Program Global Emergency Medicine Simulation Program Virtual Care Diversity Vulnerable Elder Protection Team (VEPT) Education Medical Student Education Residency Fellowship Continuing Medical Education Research Featured Research Initiatives and Studies Research Associate Program Research Support Research Faculty Research Personnel News & Events Care. Discover. Teach. With a legacy of putting patients first, Weill Cornell Medicine is committed to providing exemplary and individualized clinical care, making groundbreaking biomedical discoveries, and educating generations of exceptional doctors and scientists. Weill Cornell Medicine NewYork - Presbyterian © Weill Cornell Medicine. Privacy & Legal Careers Giving Directory Web Accessibility Assistance