Search: Go Search Filters: This Site Cornell Main Navigation Search Cornell Skip to main content Skip to secondary menu Skip to primary sidebar Skip to secondary sidebar Emergency Management Home Emergency Notifications About CornellALERT Sign Up For CornellALERT Community Notifications Plans Emergency Action Guide Overview Prevention and Mitigation Preparedness Response – Emergency Operations Plan Continuity and Recovery Resources Ithaca Campus Other Locations Weather Preparedness Topics Bus Services FAQ IMT ILT Primary Sidebar Alert Messages View all current emergency and non-emergency messages. Sign up for CornellALERT Cornell community members must enroll to receive CornellALERT phone notifications and should verify their info on a regular basis. You are here: Home / Shelter-In-Place Shelter-In-Place During certain emergencies it can be safer and more secure to stay indoors and shelter-in-place instead of evacuating. Shelter-in-place is generally appropriate when conditions, such as a release of a hazardous material, severe thunderstorms, or a tornado, or an active threat to life, require you to see immediate protection indoors while at home, work, school, or other location. Pay attention to CornellALERT and monitor emergency.cornell.edu. Share information with other people in your location. The appropriate shelter area will vary depending on the hazard. Overall, select a room or area away from windows and glass, and exterior walls and doors. If outside, quickly find shelter in the nearest building. If a Shelter-in-Place is given for hazardous material contamination, select an interior room above the ground floor with the fewest windows or vents. Avoid overcrowding by selecting several rooms. If necessary, so that everyone is able to sit. Large storage closets, utility rooms, pantries, break rooms, and copy and conference rooms without exterior windows may work well as shelter areas. Close all windows, exterior doors, and other openings to the outside. Cover vents if possible to prevent air from entering the room. For severe weather, select an interior room below or at ground level. Avoid overcrowding by selecting several rooms, if necessary, so that everyone is able to sit. Stay away from lobbies, atriums, and other large glassed-in areas. Move to an interior space and place as many walls between you and the outside. Window-less interior stairwells may work well. For an active threat to life, review the ACTIVE THREAT TO LIFE section for appropriate responses. Secondary Sidebar Emergency Action Guide Active Threat to Life Animal Incidents Bomb Threat Building Evacuation Crime Earthquakes Elevator Emergencies Facility & Utility Problems Fire, Smoke & Explosion Hazardous Materials Medical or Mental Health Emergency Run – Hide – Fight Severe Weather Shelter-In-Place Suspicious Mail or Packages Workplace Violence Cornell AgriTech Emergency Information Preparedness Information Weather Preparedness Academic Preparedness Preparedness Checklist Emergency Supply Kit Preparedness Training Continuity of Operations Download Rave Guardian About this Site Cornell University © 2022 Web Accessibility Help Intranet Login