Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search University of Notre Dame Emergency Information Home Contact Search Menu Home › ND Alert › SMS Opt-In SMS Opt-In Subscribing to NDAlert Emergency Messaging Notification The University of Notre Dame provides an alert notification system for Notre Dame faculty, staff, students, and other campus community members. This mass notification, known as “NDAlert,” provides timely announcements regarding severe weather, campus emergencies, or other safety situations on the Notre Dame campus via mobile text messaging, email, and other electronic communication channels. Visitors, contractors, and affiliates can also receive emergency alerts by way of text message once they subscribe to the campus mass notification database. To enroll for one week, text: NDALERTMYVISIT to CAMPUS (226787) Enrollment will expire 7 days from the date of enrollment To enroll for up to 365 days, text: NDALERTME365 to CAMPUS (226787) Enrollment will automatically expire on July 31st of each year As soon as the selected time period expires, users are sent a reminder with instructions on how to re-enroll. If subscribers fail to re-enroll, their information is removed from Notre Dame’s emergency notification system. This simple process enhances the safety of anyone visiting, working or participating in an event on campus. You will receive confirmation for your subscription as well as information on leaving the list or stopping all messages. Message and data rates may apply. All Notre Dame full-time, part-time and temp employees and students are already registered to receive ND Alerts provided their emergency contact information is current in InsideND. Download Opt-in instructions NDAlert Third Party User Terms and Conditions The University of Notre Dame (“the University”) provides an alert notification system through Rave Mobile Safety (“Rave”) to Notre Dame faculty, staff, students, and other campus community members. This alert notification system, known as “NDAlert,” provides timely announcements regarding severe weather, campus emergencies, or other safety situations on the Notre Dame campus via mobile text messaging, email, and other electronic communication channels. You (“User”) have requested access to the NDAlert system voluntarily, as you are not a member of the faculty, staff, or student community at the University but still may be involved in activities associated with the campus. NDAlert is provided by the University to Users at no cost or subscription fee. Users should check with their mobile phone service provider as standard text messaging fees and data rates may apply. The University is not responsible for any costs incurred by Users who subscribe to this service. NDAlert is provided by the University as a convenience to Users and participation in this service is not required. Individuals may opt in or out of this service at any time. The University takes User privacy very seriously and will only use NDAlert for announcements that are deemed essential for immediate notification to the campus community or for associated system testing. DISCLAIMER: The University makes no representation or warranty regarding the use of NDAlert. In no event will the University have any liability to Users for any damages that might occur from use of NDAlert. Users agree to fully and forever release and hold harmless the University and its Board of Trustees, officers, employees and agents, individually and collectively, from any and all losses, expenses, damages, demands or claims based upon any such injury or damage (real or alleged) arising out of use of, operation, or any failures associated with NDAlert. This release and hold harmless shall survive any termination or expiration of User’s agreement of the Terms and Conditions hereunder, User’s agreement of the Terms and Conditions set forth by Rave and any of its successors, and/or the University’s agreement with Rave and any of its successors. Emergency Contacts ND Alert FAQ Text Messaging FAQ VOIP FAQ SMS Opt-In Resources Business Continuity External Resources Division of Campus Safety and University Operations Risk Management and Safety ND Police Department ND Fire Department Campus Safety and University Operations emergency.ND.edu Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA Phone 574-631-5000 © 2022 University of Notre Dame Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn