Skip to main content Emergency Information Menu Close WolfAlert Messaging System How to Respond in an Emergency Fire Bomb Threat Suspicious Packages or Mail Active Shooter Medical Emergencies Hazardous Material Spill or Release Severe Weather Shelter-in-Place Crime in Progress Suspicious Person/Behavior Procedure for Urgent Facility Repair Evacuations Resources For Parents and Guardians Mission Continuity Laboratory Shutdown Crisis Communication Plan Emergency Operations Plan WolfAlert Messaging System WolfAlert Messaging System How to Respond in an Emergency How to Respond in an Emergency Fire Bomb Threat Suspicious Packages or Mail Active Shooter Medical Emergencies Hazardous Material Spill or Release Severe Weather Shelter-in-Place Crime in Progress Suspicious Person/Behavior Procedure for Urgent Facility Repair Evacuations Resources Resources For Parents and Guardians Mission Continuity Laboratory Shutdown Crisis Communication Plan Emergency Operations Plan How to Respond in an Emergency Fire Bomb Threat Suspicious Packages or Mail Active Shooter Medical Emergencies Hazardous Material Spill or Release Severe Weather Shelter-in-Place Crime in Progress Suspicious Person/Behavior Procedure for Urgent Facility Repair Evacuations How to Respond in an Emergency Menu Fire Bomb Threat Suspicious Packages or Mail Active Shooter Medical Emergencies Hazardous Material Spill or Release Severe Weather Shelter-in-Place Crime in Progress Suspicious Person/Behavior Procedure for Urgent Facility Repair Evacuations Shelter-in-Place Shelter-in-Place means selecting a small, interior room if possible, with no or few windows, and taking refuge there. It does not mean sealing off your entire building. If you are told to shelter-in-place, follow the instructions provided. Why You Might Need to Shelter-in-Place: Chemical, biological, or radiological contaminants may be released accidentally or intentionally into the environment. Should this occur, information will be provided by University authorities through Wolf Alerts. The important thing is for you to follow instructions of University authorities and know what to do if they advise you to shelter-in-place. HOW TO SHELTER-IN-PLACE Stop classes or work, or close business operations. If there are others in the building, provide for their safety by asking them to stay—not leave. When authorities provide directions to shelter-in-place, they want everyone to take those steps now, where they are, and not drive or walk outdoors. After the initial emergency campus communication information has been conveyed (first half hour), students, staff and visitors may wish to contact relatives to let them know the situation. Close and lock all windows, exterior doors, and any other openings to the outside. Shut down ventilation fans and air conditioners. If you are told there is danger of explosion, close the window shades, blinds, or curtains. Select interior room(s) above the ground floor, with the fewest windows or vents. The room(s) should have adequate space for everyone to be able to sit in. Avoid overcrowding by selecting several rooms if necessary. Bring everyone into the room(s). Shut and, if possible, lock the door(s). Keep listening to the radio, television or check the Homepage until you are told all is safe or you are told to evacuate. University and local officials may call for evacuation in specific areas at greatest risk in your community Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Campus Map Academic Calendar Accessibility Contact Copyright Directory Emergency Information Free Speech Jobs MyPack Portal Policies Privacy Statement Resources Strategic Plan University Libraries Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.