Search: Go Search Filters: This Site Cornell Main Navigation Search Cornell Skip to main content Skip to secondary menu Skip to primary sidebar Skip to secondary sidebar Emergency Management Home Emergency Notifications About CornellALERT Sign Up For CornellALERT Community Notifications Plans Emergency Action Guide Overview Prevention and Mitigation Preparedness Response – Emergency Operations Plan Continuity and Recovery Resources Ithaca Campus Other Locations Weather Preparedness Topics Bus Services FAQ IMT ILT Primary Sidebar Alert Messages View all current emergency and non-emergency messages. Sign up for CornellALERT Cornell community members must enroll to receive CornellALERT phone notifications and should verify their info on a regular basis. You are here: Home / Earthquakes Earthquakes Earthquakes are rare in the Ithaca area but knowing what to do could save your life. Drop, Cover and Hold On Minimize your movements to a few steps to get to a nearby safe place and remain there until the shaking has stopped and you are confident that moving is safe. If Indoors DROP to the ground; take COVER by getting under a sturdy table or other piece of furniture; and HOLD ON until the shaking stops. If there isn’t a table or desk near you, cover your face and head with your arms and crouch in an inside corner of the building. Stay away from glass, windows, outside doors and walls, and anything that could fall, such as lighting fixtures or furniture. Stay in bed if you are there when the earthquake strikes. Hold on and protect your head with a pillow, unless you are under a heavy light fixture that could fall. In that case, move to the nearest safe place. Do not use a doorway except if you know it is a strongly supported, load-bearing doorway and it is close to you. Many inside doorways are lightly constructed and do not offer protection. Stay inside until the shaking stops and it is safe to go outside. Do not exit a building during the shaking. Research has shown that most injuries occur when people inside buildings attempt to move to a different location inside the building or try to leave. DO NOT use the elevators. Be aware that the electricity may go out or the sprinkler systems or fire alarms may turn on. If Outdoors Stay there. Move away from buildings, streetlights, and utility wires. Once in the open, stay there until the shaking stops. The greatest danger exists directly outside buildings, at exits and alongside exterior walls. Ground movement during an earthquake is seldom the direct cause of death or injury. Most earthquake-related casualties result from collapsing walls, flying glass, and falling objects. If in a Moving Vehicle Stop as quickly as safety permits and stay in the vehicle. Avoid stopping near or under buildings, trees, overpasses, and utility wires. Proceed cautiously once the earthquake has stopped. Avoid roads, bridges, or ramps that might have been damaged by the earthquake. If Trapped Under Debris Do not light a match, lighter, flare or other open flame. Do not move about or kick up dust. Cover your mouth with a handkerchief or clothing. Tap on a pipe or wall so rescuers can locate you. Use a whistle if one is available. Shout only as a last resort. Shouting can cause you to inhale dangerous amounts of dust. Secondary Sidebar Emergency Action Guide Active Threat to Life Animal Incidents Bomb Threat Building Evacuation Crime Earthquakes Elevator Emergencies Facility & Utility Problems Fire, Smoke & Explosion Hazardous Materials Medical or Mental Health Emergency Run – Hide – Fight Severe Weather Shelter-In-Place Suspicious Mail or Packages Workplace Violence Cornell AgriTech Emergency Information Preparedness Information Weather Preparedness Academic Preparedness Preparedness Checklist Emergency Supply Kit Preparedness Training Continuity of Operations Download Rave Guardian About this Site Cornell University © 2022 Web Accessibility Help Intranet Login