Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Emergency Management Be Prepared Develop a Plan Stay Informed Contact Us Home > Stay Informed > Yale ALERT Yale ALERT Review and update your information every fall! Yale ALERT can reach students, faculty, staff and members of the New Haven community, with time-sensitive information during unforeseen events or emergencies using voice, email, and/or text messaging. The University will use emergency contact numbers that have been registered with Yale. The Yale ALERT system and all methods of emergency communications are tested community-wide three times per year. Save the Yale ALERT number (203-432-5830) as a contact and pay immediate attention to all notifications. Undergraduate Students The number used will be the emergency contact telephone number entered during the class registration process via the Student Information System (SIS). Students may update this information by logging onto the SIS and follow the instructions* below. Graduate and Professional School Students The number used will be the emergency contact telephone number entered into the student profile via the SIS. Students may update this information by logging onto the SIS and following the instructions below. Instructions Access the Emergency Contacts website by entering your NetID and password. Click on “Personal Data”. Under Emergency Contacts, click on “New Contact.” On the Update Emergency Contacts screen, go to the Relationship field and select “Self.” Enter your name in the First Name and Last Name fields. Go to the Phone Type field and select “Cell.” Enter the Area Code and Phone Number fields without dashes or spaces. Press the “Submit Changes” button at the bottom of the screen to save your information. Parents Parents are encouraged to provide their emergency contact information. To sign up, students must add their parents’ contact information through the SIS. Faculty and Staff Yale ALERT contact information is drawn from Workday. To enter / update your contact information for the Yale ALERT Emergency Notification system, please log into Workday by following these steps: Visit the It’s Your Yale website At upper right, click Login, and log in with your NetID and password. At the top of the screen, click Workday On the Workday home page, click the Personal Information worklet. Under Change, click Contact Information. Next to My Contact Information, click the Edit button. To change your primary phone, click the Edit icon on the right. Make your changes, and click Done. (To add an additional phone, click the Add button under Additional Phone. Complete the information, and click Done.) Log out of Workday when you have completed your actions. It will be 24 hours before the changes are made in the Yale Alert system. Here is a direct link to the “Update Your Contact Information” video, in the “Getting Started” section, that demonstrates how to update your own contact information Also, The HELP link, found under your name at the upper right, takes you to the Workday Training Materials. If you have any questions, or need assistance email oem@yale.edu Extended community Local businesses, contractors, visitors, neighbors, spouses, and other members of the New Haven community may sign up to receive emergency alerts and other important University information by creating an account in our emergency mass notification system. This system enables us to provide you with the same critical information provided to our employees and students, quickly in a variety of situations, such as severe weather, unexpected road closures, building evacuations, police activity, and other campus emergencies. You can choose how you want to receive emergency messages such as your home, mobile or business phones, email address, and/or text messages. Simply Sign Up for Yale ALERT to create an account. You can also update and cancel your account at any time by logging into your account and making changes. Please Note: If you are a current employee or student of Yale University you are automatically registered to receive Yale ALERT messages. You do not need to sign up through this portal. Resources Extended Community Registration Emergency Contacts (for students) Employee Service Center Student Information System Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Facebook Twitter YouTube