Search: Go Search Filters: This Site Cornell Main Navigation Search Cornell Skip to main content Skip to secondary menu Skip to primary sidebar Skip to secondary sidebar Emergency Management Home Emergency Notifications About CornellALERT Sign Up For CornellALERT Community Notifications Plans Emergency Action Guide Overview Prevention and Mitigation Preparedness Response – Emergency Operations Plan Continuity and Recovery Resources Ithaca Campus Other Locations Weather Preparedness Topics Bus Services FAQ IMT ILT Primary Sidebar Alert Messages View all current emergency and non-emergency messages. Sign up for CornellALERT Cornell community members must enroll to receive CornellALERT phone notifications and should verify their info on a regular basis. You are here: Home / Bomb Threat Bomb Threat On the Ithaca campus immediately notify Cornell Police by calling 911, using a Blue Light Phone, or dialing 607 255-1111 from a cell phone. At other locations contact the local police department by calling 911. Report the time, location and content of the threat, as well as your location and phone number. Stay on the line with the 911 dispatcher until the 911 dispatcher terminates the phone call. Take no other action unless directed by the police. Do not create a panic situation. Take a quick visual look around your area for any suspicious object(s). Do not touch or move the object. If you are told to evacuate the area, take your notes about the call with you. If the threat was delivered or left in your area, try to recall a description of the deliverer or any suspicious person(s) in the area. If you receive a bomb threat by telephone, try to remain calm and obtain as much information as possible from the caller. Record the time of call, sex of caller, phone number (if caller ID present). What did the caller say? Ask: When is it going to explode? Where is the bomb? What does it look like? What kind of bomb is it? What will cause it to explode? Did you place the bomb? Why? What is your name and address? Write down information about the caller: Man or a woman? Approximate age? Unusual speech traits? Tone of voice and attitude? Foreign or regional accent? Diction? Background noise? Download the Department of Homeland Security Bomb Threat Checklist and keep it near your desk phone. Secondary Sidebar Emergency Action Guide Active Threat to Life Animal Incidents Bomb Threat Building Evacuation Crime Earthquakes Elevator Emergencies Facility & Utility Problems Fire, Smoke & Explosion Hazardous Materials Medical or Mental Health Emergency Run – Hide – Fight Severe Weather Shelter-In-Place Suspicious Mail or Packages Workplace Violence Cornell AgriTech Emergency Information Preparedness Information Weather Preparedness Academic Preparedness Preparedness Checklist Emergency Supply Kit Preparedness Training Continuity of Operations Download Rave Guardian About this Site Cornell University © 2022 Web Accessibility Help Intranet Login