Search: Go Search Filters: This Site Cornell Main Navigation Search Cornell Skip to main content Skip to secondary menu Skip to primary sidebar Skip to secondary sidebar Emergency Management Home Emergency Notifications About CornellALERT Sign Up For CornellALERT Community Notifications Plans Emergency Action Guide Overview Prevention and Mitigation Preparedness Response – Emergency Operations Plan Continuity and Recovery Resources Ithaca Campus Other Locations Weather Preparedness Topics Bus Services FAQ IMT ILT Primary Sidebar Alert Messages View all current emergency and non-emergency messages. Sign up for CornellALERT Cornell community members must enroll to receive CornellALERT phone notifications and should verify their info on a regular basis. COVID-19 Information Cornell is operating at COVID-19 alert level green, indicating case prevalence at or below predicted levels. We ask all members of our community to take voluntary actions to help curb the spread, including wearing a mask in all social settings, staying at home if you feel unwell and accessing symptomatic testing. Masks are required at all indoor Commencement ceremonies; in classrooms, laboratories and similar teaching settings; health care and COVID-19 testing facilities; and busses or Cornell-owned vehicles being utilized for multi-occupancy travel. Supplemental and opt-in surveillance testing is also available. Visit the university’s COVID-19 website for additional information. Welcome to Cornell’s Emergency Management web site. This website provides the Cornell community with important information before, during, and after campus emergencies. We encourage you to bookmark this site and explore it to better prepare before an emergency occurs. Emergency Messages CornellALERT is the university’s emergency notification system and is used for situations involving an immediate threat to the health and safety of the community. Active CornellALERT messages appear in the right sidebar of this website (at the top of the page on mobile and small screen devices). You can receive alerts on your cellular phone if you have provided your contact information or installed the Rave Guardian app and activated it for the Cornell Ithaca Campus. Messages are also sent to the @cornell.edu e-mail addresses of current students, employees, and affiliates. If you receive a CornellALERT message you should promptly follow the directions given in the message and monitor this emergency web site for additional information. What to do in an Emergency CALL 911 for any situation that requires IMMEDIATE police, fire, or medical response to preserve life or property. From cellular phones call Cornell Police at 607-255-1111 or use a Blue Light or indoor emergency phone. The Emergency Action Guide provides information about what you should do in the case of various emergencies. The Emergency Action Guide appears in the left sidebar of this website and moves to the bottom of the page on mobile and small screen devices. Take a few minutes to read through the guides so you know what actions to take during an emergency. Preparing for Emergencies It is everyone’s responsibility to be ready for emergencies before they occur. Use the following pages to help you prepare. Preparedness Checklist Build An Emergency Supply Kit Prepare for Ithaca Weather Learn New Emergency Skills Got 2 minutes? Watch this video to learn how to do Hands Only CPR! Secondary Sidebar Emergency Action Guide Active Threat to Life Animal Incidents Bomb Threat Building Evacuation Crime Earthquakes Elevator Emergencies Facility & Utility Problems Fire, Smoke & Explosion Hazardous Materials Medical or Mental Health Emergency Run – Hide – Fight Severe Weather Shelter-In-Place Suspicious Mail or Packages Workplace Violence Cornell AgriTech Emergency Information Preparedness Information Weather Preparedness Academic Preparedness Preparedness Checklist Emergency Supply Kit Preparedness Training Continuity of Operations Download Rave Guardian About this Site Cornell University © 2022 Web Accessibility Help Intranet Login