Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Emergency Management Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home About Us What We Do Who We Are Contact Us / Where We Are Opportunities to Help Services FSU ALERT Emergency Notification & Warning System Be SeminoleSAFE Planning Training SeminoleSAFE Mobile App Resources Current Weather Hazards Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan (CEMP) Continuity of Operations (COOP) Current Status at FSU Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Emergency Management Toggle navigation Home About Us What We Do Who We Are Contact Us / Where We Are Opportunities to Help Services FSU ALERT Emergency Notification & Warning System Be SeminoleSAFE Planning Training SeminoleSAFE Mobile App Resources Current Weather Hazards Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan (CEMP) Continuity of Operations (COOP) Current Status at FSU Home Safety Connection Safety Connection Everbridge App The Everbridge app provides you access to Safety Connection and enables you to receive PUSH notifications on your smartphone when messages are distributed without requiring a mobile phone number. Safety Connection Safety Connection is a free and optional personal safety service that is available to anyone with a valid FSU ID. Students must be currently enrolled to be able to register for the service. How it works Safety Connection provides an instant way for students, faculty, and staff to call for help, leading to an improved response time and de-escalation of a situation. One of the platform's features includes multiple situational panic buttons , enabling you to quickly contact FSU Police. Registering for Safety Connection Access the App Store (iOS devices) , Google Play (Android devices) or the SeminoleSAFE app to download the Everbridge app. Once installed: Click "Find an Organization or Subscription" Search for "FSU" or "Florida State University" Log in using your FSU credentials Upon downloading the Everbridge app, it is recommended to allow access to your Location, Microphone, and Camera in order to use to available features of Safety Connection. Safety Connection Features The following features are available in Safety Connection and can be accessed by tapping at the bottom right of the Everbridge app: Check In: Sends your location to FSU Police. Safe Corridor: Automatically Triggers an SOS Guardian if your safe code is not entered in a given period of time. SOS Guardian: Sends your contact information, geo-coded location, and live 2-minute video from your front-facing camera to FSU Police. Emergency Call: Automatically calls 9-1-1. FSU Police (Non-Emergency): Automatically calls FSUPD's non-emergency number. *NOTE* - Location, Audio, and Video are tracked only when permission is expressively given on the Everbridge App, ensuring the end-user has control and full privacy to easily opt-in and opt-out of these added services. Check-In The Check-In feature enables you to quickly share your location point to FSU Police. Voluntarily Check-In when you are meeting someone new, going somewhere unfamiliar or in an uncomfortable situation and want someone to know your location as a safeguard. * Your location point at the time of checking-in will be the only location that will be shared, unless you opt for Auto-Check in. * To check in, follow the steps listed below: Tap . Tap . Setting up Auto Check-in Auto Check-In automatically updates your location whenever your device has moved approximately 500 meters. To enable Auto-Check In, follow the steps listed below: Tap on the upper-left corner. Tap Safety Settings. Toggle Auto Check-In on. Safe Corridor Safe Corridor tracks recent locations, leaving a trail to the last site visited. If someone fails to check-in, an SOS Guardian will instantly be triggered, automatically notifying FSU Police. Set it up when you are heading somewhere unfamiliar, meeting with someone you don’t know, or any other time you would like someone to check in with you. * Locations are tracked only when permission is expressively given on the Everbridge App, ensuring the end-user has control and full privacy to easily opt-in and opt-out of these added services. * To use Safe Corridor, follow the steps listed below: Tap . Tap . Enter a four-digit code and tap Next. Confirm your four-digit code and tap Next. Set the check in internal and tap Start. Enter your four-digit code when prompted, or tap SOS to send your location. Enter your duress code instead of your four-digit code to silently trigger an SOS. For steps on how to configure your duress code, please click here: Configuring Safety Connection Settings in the Everbridge Mobile App. Tap Exit and enter your four-digit code to end the Safe Corridor. SOS Guardian The SOS Guardian automatically notifies FSU Police, providing the name and geo-coded location of the faculty, staff or student while transmitting live audio and streaming video from your front-facing camera of the surrounding area for 2 minutes. Activate the SOS Guardian when you need immediate assistance from FSU Police but you are unable to directly call them. The SOS Guardian notifies FSU Police discretely and automatically once the button is activated. * Location, Audio, and Video are tracked only when permission is expressively given on the Everbridge App, ensuring the end-user has control and full privacy to easily opt-in and opt-out of these added services. * To send an SOS, follow the steps listed below: Tap . Tap . Wait 10 seconds to send an SOS, or tap SOS Now! to immediately send an SOS. Emergency Call By clicking the "Emergency Call" button it automatically calls 9-1-1 Use this feature to quickly call Emergency Services without dialing 9-1-1 To place an Emergency Call, follow the steps listed below: Tap . Tap . Setting up your Country Location Your country location will ensure that any emergency call you may place will be properly routed. Remember to update your country location on the Everbridge App when you are traveling. For steps on how to setup your country location, please click here: Configuring Safety Connection Settings in the Everbridge Mobile App FSU Police (Non-Emergency) By clicking the "FSU Police (Non-Emergency)" button it automatically calls FSUPD's non-emergency number (850-644-1234) Use this feature to quickly call FSUPD's Non-Emergency number To place a call to FSU Police (Non-Emergency), follow the steps listed below: Tap . Tap . Frequently Asked Questions Have questions? View our Frequently Asked Questions section to learn more about the Everbridge app, Safety Connection and more. You may also contact FSU Emergency Management Technical Support at 850-644-7055 and we will be happy to answer any questions you may have. title-inside title-centered 2 FSU Emergency Management Office Locations 296 Champions Way Suite C1500 Tallahassee FL, 32306 Office Phone: (850) 644-9111 24-Hour Phone: (850) 644-1234 Fax: (850) 576-1551 E-Mail: contact@emergency.fsu.edu Related FSU Entities Police Department Environmental Health & Safety University Health Services EM & HS Academic Program Community Partners City of Tallahassee Leon County FL Division of Emergency Management National Weather Service - Tallahassee Outside Agencies U.S. Dept. of Homeland Security Federal Emergency Management Agency National Weather Service ® Florida State University University Policies and Procedures | Regulations | Veoci A Division of FSU Finance and Administration © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media