Search: Go Search Filters: This Site Cornell Main Navigation Search Cornell Skip to main content Skip to secondary menu Skip to primary sidebar Skip to secondary sidebar Emergency Management Home Emergency Notifications About CornellALERT Sign Up For CornellALERT Community Notifications Plans Emergency Action Guide Overview Prevention and Mitigation Preparedness Response – Emergency Operations Plan Continuity and Recovery Resources Ithaca Campus Other Locations Weather Preparedness Topics Bus Services FAQ IMT ILT Primary Sidebar Alert Messages View all current emergency and non-emergency messages. Sign up for CornellALERT Cornell community members must enroll to receive CornellALERT phone notifications and should verify their info on a regular basis. You are here: Home / Building Evacuation Building Evacuation Evacuation is required: any time the fire alarm sounds, an evacuation announcement is made, or a university official orders you to evacuate. In the event of an evacuation: Alert those around you who might not have heard. Turn off equipment and secure hazardous operations if possible. Take your keys, jackets, and any personal items with you, you may not have access to them for hours or longer. Close doors and windows. Leave room lights on. Remain calm and walk to closest exit. Do NOT use elevators. If you are unable to leave the building due to a physical disability: Go to the nearest area where there are no hazards. Use a telephone to call 911 (on the Ithaca campus you can also call Cornell Police at 607 255-1111). Be sure to give them the room number so they can send help to you. If possible, signal out the window to on-site emergency responders. One person may remain with you if they wish to assist you. Do not re-enter until given an “all clear” signal by emergency personnel. Disability Planning for Emergency Evacuations Do you have a condition (temporary or permanent) that might prevent you from leaving a building during an emergency? Visit the Emergency Evacuation Planning web page for information about developing an evacuation plan. Secondary Sidebar Emergency Action Guide Active Threat to Life Animal Incidents Bomb Threat Building Evacuation Crime Earthquakes Elevator Emergencies Facility & Utility Problems Fire, Smoke & Explosion Hazardous Materials Medical or Mental Health Emergency Run – Hide – Fight Severe Weather Shelter-In-Place Suspicious Mail or Packages Workplace Violence Cornell AgriTech Emergency Information Preparedness Information Weather Preparedness Academic Preparedness Preparedness Checklist Emergency Supply Kit Preparedness Training Continuity of Operations Download Rave Guardian About this Site Cornell University © 2022 Web Accessibility Help Intranet Login