Jump to content Editor Login Search form Search Main menu block Home About This Site Preparedness Resources Emergency Preparedness Emergency Preparedness means being ready. It takes an effort by all of us to create and sustain an effective emergency preparedness system. You are your own best first responder. Please use this site as a resource to better understand emergency preparedness at the university, and how you can become part of and contribute to the preparedness community. Last Updated: Dec. 18, 5:12 p.m. Campus Emergency Plans We provide brief summaries for the university's emergency plans and download links to each. You may review these plans to familiarize yourself with how the university plans for emergency and improve your understanding of emergency planning. Last Updated: Mar. 16, 2:18 p.m. Communication Tools Emergencies may range from inclement weather to building evacuations to campus closures. The university has a variety of tools to communicate with the public in the event of these and other possible emergencies. Depending on the type of emergency, we may use some or all of the tools listed to communicate with faculty, staff and students. Last Updated: Mar. 11, 11:52 a.m. Be Prepared to Save a Life Sudden Cardiac Arrest! Are You Prepared To Help Save A Life? These tools and classes are designed to help you be prepared for an emergency requiring the use of an AED and/or CPR. Last Updated: Aug. 13, 9:40 a.m. Safety Protocols The documents below contain valuable tips on how to behave in the event that you encounter an armed subject or disruptive individual and on how to respond to other emergencies. English: Safety Protocols Español: Medidas de Seguridad Active Shooter guide Emergency Terms Flyer Remember 5 and Stay Alive poster Know what to do if you encounter workplace violence or an active shooter with this video. Last Updated: May. 31, 3:18 p.m. Trouble viewing linked documents? Download Adobe Reader. © 2022 The University of Texas at Austin Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy