Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Emergency Management Be Prepared Develop a Plan Stay Informed Contact Us Home > Stay Informed Stay Informed Stay informed to mentally and logistically increase your ability to handle an emergency and reduce the fear, anxiety, and losses that disasters often bring. We encourage you to: save the Yale ALERT number (203-432-5830), pay attention to all notifications, and download the Bulldog Mobile (LiveSafe) app. Closings, Delays and Cancelations Learn about the key tools, resources and methods of outreach available both on and off campus during an emergency situation: Provides closing, delay and cancelation information as well as links to transportation information for commuting during inclement weather. Crisis Communication Tools Educate yourself about disaster preparedness for hazards that may impact your area and train for basic disaster response skills. Yale ALERT System The Yale ALERT system notifies students, faculty, staff AND members of the New Haven and extended Yale communities during emergencies via voice, email, and text messaging. Fire Alarms and Public Address Systems Forty-eight of the university’s largest buildings are equipped with the ability to make voice announcements over the fire alarm system. For isolated emergencies involving these buildings, targeted announcements will be made over this system. Additionally, 102 speakers for exterior broadcasting during an emergency have been installed over the Blue Phones throughout the university. Each speaker is capable of broadcasting a message covering a three block radius. Yale Websites During an emergency, critical updates and resources will be posted to the front pages of the university’s main website, the Emergency Management website, and YaleNews. Social Media Follow Yale to stay informed! The university posts regular updates on its Facebook and Twitter channels during emergency situations. Blue Phones Approximately 500 exterior phones are strategically located throughout the campus and are readily identified at night by blue lights located above or near them. The phones are equipped with red emergency buttons for direct connection to the University Police for police, fire, or medical emergencies and a keypad for dialing any campus number. New Haven Emergency Alerts The City of New Haven has an emergency notification system to help get important emergency information to residents and businesses as quickly as possible when it is needed. Examples of notifications include: weather-related alerts, evacuation instructions, and instructions related to city services such as street sweeping or snow-plowing. Emergency Management Institute, Federal Emergency Management Agency The Emergency Management Institute (EMI) supports the Department of Homeland Security and the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA’s) goals by improving the competencies of the U.S. officials in Emergency Management at all levels of government to prepare for, protect against, respond to, recover from, and mitigate the potential effects of all types of disasters and emergencies on the American people. Red Cross The American Red Cross offers disaster relief, supports America’s military families, facilitates blood donations, and provides domestic and international health and safety services. Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Facebook Twitter YouTube