Skip to main content Emergency Information Menu Close WolfAlert Messaging System How to Respond in an Emergency Fire Bomb Threat Suspicious Packages or Mail Active Shooter Medical Emergencies Hazardous Material Spill or Release Severe Weather Shelter-in-Place Crime in Progress Suspicious Person/Behavior Procedure for Urgent Facility Repair Evacuations Resources For Parents and Guardians Mission Continuity Laboratory Shutdown Crisis Communication Plan Emergency Operations Plan WolfAlert Messaging System WolfAlert Messaging System How to Respond in an Emergency How to Respond in an Emergency Fire Bomb Threat Suspicious Packages or Mail Active Shooter Medical Emergencies Hazardous Material Spill or Release Severe Weather Shelter-in-Place Crime in Progress Suspicious Person/Behavior Procedure for Urgent Facility Repair Evacuations Resources Resources For Parents and Guardians Mission Continuity Laboratory Shutdown Crisis Communication Plan Emergency Operations Plan WolfAlert Timely and important messages for the campus community are known as WolfAlerts. WolfAlerts are reserved for emergencies that present a broad, immediate and ongoing threat to campus. Important Information To report an emergency at NC State University always dial 911. Emergency Status Information: 919-513-8888 Campus Police (Non-Emergency): 919-515-3000 Monthly WolfAlert tests are scheduled for 12:15 p.m. on the first Monday of every month. Methods of Emergency Notification and Communication Campus Sirens An emergency warranting use of the audible alert system will be initiated by a pulsed tone lasting for 30 seconds followed by a short message with this sequence repeated three times. When the audible alert tone sounds, NC State personnel are being advised to do the following: SOS Seek shelter immediately Obtain information from the University home page on any additional action to be taken Stay tuned for further information until an “all clear” signal is obtained from campus officials. Any campus emergency initiated by the alert system will be closed with an “all clear” signal from the system. This signal will be a “Westminster Chimes” tone followed by a short “all clear” message, with this sequence repeated three times. University Homepage The university uses its homepage for alerts. When an alert is active, a banner will appear near the top of the page. Depending upon the level of alert, a simple advisory message or a full WolfAlert may be communicated in the banner. When additional information about an event is available, it will be communicated on a “More Information” page that is linked to from the banner. Text Messaging Active students, faculty and staff are eligible to receive WolfAlert text messages. These messages allow for direct notifications to campus though there may be delays before they are received by individual devices. Confirm your emergency contact information to receive these messages. Alertus Desktop Notification The University has the ability to post emergency alerts to individual computers via Alertus software. Downloads are available for University owned and privately owned computers. OnCampus App OnCampus App is available for download via Apple Appstore or Android Google Play and open for faculty, staff, students and the general public for use. To receive emergency information, turn on “Enable WolfAlerts”. Broadcast Email Broadcast emails are delivered to all official University email accounts containing yourUnityID@ncsu.edu. If a different email address is listed as your preferred address, follow the forwarding instructions provided by OIT to ensure all emails are delivered to the intended address. Adverse Conditions Hotline The University uses 919-513-8888 for a wide range of announcements, including adverse weather and emergency situations. Billboard Screens Messages can be delivered to electronic billboards located in common areas across campus. There are 345 billboards on campus. Social Media “Like” the NC State Wolf Alert page to receive Facebook alerts. Follow Wolf Alert (@wolfalert) on Twitter to stay up to date. Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Campus Map Academic Calendar Accessibility Contact Copyright Directory Emergency Information Free Speech Jobs MyPack Portal Policies Privacy Statement Resources Strategic Plan University Libraries Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.