Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search University of Notre Dame Emergency Information Home Contact Search Menu Home › Emergency Planning Emergency Planning While emergencies can occur without warning and at multiple levels, the University must be prepared should an incident occur. The University of Notre Dame is committed to the safety of its students, staff, faculty, and visitors. Rapid, effective, and organized response efforts and communication during an emergency are of paramount importance. Campus Emergency Preparedness and Response Plan The University of Notre Dame Campus Emergency Preparedness and Response Plan (the Plan) outlines policies and procedures for managing major emergencies that may threaten the health and safety of the campus community or significantly disrupt its programs and activities. The plan provides a structure for coordinating preparedness, response, and recovery efforts of Notre Dame personnel and resources. The plan applies to a broad range of major emergencies, including physical (e.g., fires, explosions, extended power outages, mass casualty events, hazardous materials releases) and non-physical (e.g., security breaches, financial malfeasance) emergencies. It is the official emergency response plan for the University and supersedes all previous plans. Emergency Management Task Force The Emergency Management Task Force serves under the purview of the President and is responsible for the development and maintenance of the University's Campus Emergency Preparedness and Response Plan. It is the intent of the President and task force to ensure that the plan provides a framework for responding to an emergency in a safe, effective, and timely manner. Download “Campus Emergency Preparedness & Response” (265 KB) Please contact Tracy Skibins at (574) 631-8338 with questions regarding the task force or the University’s emergency preparedness and response efforts. Emergency Contacts ND Alert FAQ Text Messaging FAQ VOIP FAQ SMS Opt-In Resources Business Continuity External Resources Division of Campus Safety and University Operations Risk Management and Safety ND Police Department ND Fire Department Campus Safety and University Operations emergency.ND.edu Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA Phone 574-631-5000 © 2022 University of Notre Dame Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn