Search: Go Search Filters: This Site Cornell Main Navigation Search Cornell Skip to main content Skip to secondary menu Skip to primary sidebar Skip to secondary sidebar Emergency Management Home Emergency Notifications About CornellALERT Sign Up For CornellALERT Community Notifications Plans Emergency Action Guide Overview Prevention and Mitigation Preparedness Response – Emergency Operations Plan Continuity and Recovery Resources Ithaca Campus Other Locations Weather Preparedness Topics Bus Services FAQ IMT ILT Primary Sidebar Alert Messages View all current emergency and non-emergency messages. Sign up for CornellALERT Cornell community members must enroll to receive CornellALERT phone notifications and should verify their info on a regular basis. You are here: Home / Medical or Mental Health Emergency Medical or Mental Health Emergency A medical emergency may exist for many reasons including trauma, alcohol or other drug overdose, serious mental health issues, or medical conditions like diabetes or cardiac arrest. Call 911 Do not move the person unless they are in immediate danger Provide first aid if you are trained to do so Reassure the person that help is on the way Students (or anyone concerned about a student): Consultation regarding medical and mental health concerns is available by phone at all times. Call Cornell Health at 607 255-5155. Faculty, staff, post-doctoral fellows and associates, retirees, spouses/partners of employees: Consultation with a counselor is available by phone at all times. Call the Faculty and Staff Assistance Program (FSAP) at 607 255-2673. If you are immediately concerned that someone may harm themselves or others, on the Ithaca campus call the Cornell Police at 607 255-1111. At other locations call 911. HEART ATTACK – Know the signs and symptoms of a heart attack Chest Discomfort: Most heart attacks involve discomfort in the center of the chest that lasts more than a few minutes, or that goes away and comes back. It can feel like uncomfortable pressure, squeezing, fullness or pain. Discomfort in other areas of the upper body. Symptoms can include pain or discomfort in one or both arms, the back, neck, jaw or stomach. Shortness of breath with or without chest discomfort. Other signs may include: breaking out in a cold sweat, nausea or lightheadedness. If you or someone with you might be having a heart attack CALL 911 Stay calm Send someone to get the nearest Automatic External Defibrillator (AED) Secondary Sidebar Emergency Action Guide Active Threat to Life Animal Incidents Bomb Threat Building Evacuation Crime Earthquakes Elevator Emergencies Facility & Utility Problems Fire, Smoke & Explosion Hazardous Materials Medical or Mental Health Emergency Run – Hide – Fight Severe Weather Shelter-In-Place Suspicious Mail or Packages Workplace Violence Cornell AgriTech Emergency Information Preparedness Information Weather Preparedness Academic Preparedness Preparedness Checklist Emergency Supply Kit Preparedness Training Continuity of Operations Download Rave Guardian About this Site Cornell University © 2022 Web Accessibility Help Intranet Login