Search: Go Search Filters: This Site Cornell Main Navigation Search Cornell Skip to main content Skip to secondary menu Skip to primary sidebar Skip to secondary sidebar Emergency Management Home Emergency Notifications About CornellALERT Sign Up For CornellALERT Community Notifications Plans Emergency Action Guide Overview Prevention and Mitigation Preparedness Response – Emergency Operations Plan Continuity and Recovery Resources Ithaca Campus Other Locations Weather Preparedness Topics Bus Services FAQ IMT ILT Primary Sidebar Alert Messages View all current emergency and non-emergency messages. Sign up for CornellALERT Cornell community members must enroll to receive CornellALERT phone notifications and should verify their info on a regular basis. You are here: Home / How To Receive CornellALERT Messages How To Receive CornellALERT Messages CornellALERT messages are emergency notifications sent to the Cornell community any time there is an imminent threat to the safety of the community, or for changes in university operations (e.g., closures, delayed start). Cornell community members receive CornellALERT emergency messages on the mobile phone number listed in their Cornell personal contact information. We encourage all members of the Cornell community to enter a mobile phone number in their personal record so they receive these important alert messages. Please refer to the following web pages on how to enter your mobile phone number. Students should enter their contact information on the Emergency Notification Personal Contact Preferences web page. Employees should enter their contact information on the Emergency Notification Personal Contact Preferences web page. Affiliates should enter their contact information on the Emergency Notification Personal Contact Preferences web page. Cornell community members can also receive CornellALERT messages by installing the Rave Guardian app on your phone and activating it for the Cornell Ithaca Campus. Visitors to Cornell’s Ithaca campus can sign up to receive CornellALERT text notifications by texting “CornellVisitor” to 226787. You can stop receiving messages at any time by texting “STOP” to 226787. On August 1st of each year there will be a system generated “STOP” at which point you will need to re-enroll if you wish to continue receiving CornellALERT messages. Cornell University does not charge for this service, however, message and data rates may apply. Please refer to your mobile phone’s service plan for more information. Text messages are sent on an as-needed basis. This service is provided per the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Text STOP to 226787 to cancel. By entering your cell phone number in one of the above locations, you indicate you want to receive emergency text alerts and/or voice phone messages and accept responsibility for any data charges or fees that may occur. If you choose to not provide your cell phone number, or you do not have a cell phone, you understand you will not receive emergency text alerts from Cornell University. You will continue to receive alert email messages in your @cornell.edu mailbox. If you need further assistance with this process please contact Cornell University Police Andrew Churchman at adc245@cornell.edu or 607-255-8566 or Mark Conrad at msc42@cornell.edu or 607-255-4676. Secondary Sidebar Emergency Action Guide Active Threat to Life Animal Incidents Bomb Threat Building Evacuation Crime Earthquakes Elevator Emergencies Facility & Utility Problems Fire, Smoke & Explosion Hazardous Materials Medical or Mental Health Emergency Run – Hide – Fight Severe Weather Shelter-In-Place Suspicious Mail or Packages Workplace Violence Cornell AgriTech Emergency Information Preparedness Information Weather Preparedness Academic Preparedness Preparedness Checklist Emergency Supply Kit Preparedness Training Continuity of Operations Download Rave Guardian About this Site Cornell University © 2022 Web Accessibility Help Intranet Login