Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search University of Notre Dame Emergency Information Home Contact Search Menu Home › ND Alert › Text Messaging Frequently Asked Questions Text Messaging Frequently Asked Questions Updated: September, 2019 Will my cell phone automatically receive text messages? How do I opt-in to receive text messages from my school? How do I opt-out of the text messaging portion of the service? What if I opted-out but later decide I would like to opt-in again? If I change cell phone providers do I need to opt-in again? I opted-in to receive text messages from Connect-ED but have not received anything. How do I make sure I am subscribed? What if someone receives the text message in error and replies to it? From what address will the text message appear to come? Can I have more than one phone number receive text messages? Will my cell phone automatically receive text messages? Yes, unless you opted out of this feature What if I opted-out but later decide I would like to opt-in again? How do I receive text messages from Notre Dame? Please submit an OIT HelpDesk Case to the ND Alert Incident Routing group. How do I opt-out of the text messaging portion of the service? Please submit an OIT HelpDesk Case to the ND Alert Incident Routing group. What if I opted-out but later decide I would like to opt-in again? Please submit an OIT HelpDesk Case to the ND Alert Incident Routing group. If I change cell phone providers do I need to register again? No. Once your phone number has been signed up, it stays registered within the system provided your cell phone number does not change. I opted-in to receive text messages from ND Alert but have not received anything. How do I make sure I am subscribed? Contact the appropriate office (students please contact the Registrar's Office; faculty and staff please contact the Office of Human Resources) to ensure that your emergency contact cell phone number is correct in the Notre Dame administrative systems. If it is incorrect, follow the instructions for updating your contact information. What if someone receives the text message in error and replies to it? Every text message is sent with directions for Opting-Out. If a reply comes in with an unrecognized request, an automated text message will be sent directing them to our HELP pages. From what address will the text message appear to come? Text messages are sent from the following ND Alert short codes: 226787, 67283, 78015, 81437, 77295 or 22911. Can I have more than one phone number receive text messages? At this point, you may identify just one SMS phone number for text message delivery. Emergency Contacts ND Alert FAQ Text Messaging FAQ VOIP FAQ SMS Opt-In Resources Business Continuity External Resources Division of Campus Safety and University Operations Risk Management and Safety ND Police Department ND Fire Department Campus Safety and University Operations emergency.ND.edu Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA Phone 574-631-5000 © 2022 University of Notre Dame Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn