Search: Go Search Filters: This Site Cornell Main Navigation Search Cornell Skip to main content Skip to secondary menu Skip to primary sidebar Skip to secondary sidebar Emergency Management Home Emergency Notifications About CornellALERT Sign Up For CornellALERT Community Notifications Plans Emergency Action Guide Overview Prevention and Mitigation Preparedness Response – Emergency Operations Plan Continuity and Recovery Resources Ithaca Campus Other Locations Weather Preparedness Topics Bus Services FAQ IMT ILT Primary Sidebar Alert Messages View all current emergency and non-emergency messages. Sign up for CornellALERT Cornell community members must enroll to receive CornellALERT phone notifications and should verify their info on a regular basis. You are here: Home / Preparedness Checklist Preparedness Checklist Here is a checklist of simple steps to take before an emergency happens. Make sure you can receive CornellALERT emergency notification system messages Provide or update your cell phone information to receive text or voice alerts. Instructions are provided at this web page. Install the Rave Guardian app on your cell phone and activate it for the Cornell Ithaca Campus. Program the Cornell Police phone number 607-255-1111 into your cellular phone. Call that number from your cell phone or dial 911 from a campus phone to contact Cornell Police during an emergency. Call 911 for all off campus emergencies. Review the Emergency Action Guide so you know what actions to take in an emergency. Know the buildings where you learn, live, work, and visit. Be sure you know at least two ways to exit in case an exit path is blocked. Provide information on who you want notified in the event of an emergency that involves you. Review and update your emergency contact information in Student Essentials or Workday. Create an ICE (In Case of Emergency) contact in your cell phone or on your phone’s lock screen. Carry your In Case of Emergency contact information in your wallet. Bookmark these web sites and add these phone numbers to your cell phone. Cornell Police 607-255-1111 Environmental Health and Safety 607-255-8200 Cornell Health 607-255-5155 CUINFO campus alerts Finished with all that? Continue to the next section to learn about building an emergency supply kit. Secondary Sidebar Emergency Action Guide Active Threat to Life Animal Incidents Bomb Threat Building Evacuation Crime Earthquakes Elevator Emergencies Facility & Utility Problems Fire, Smoke & Explosion Hazardous Materials Medical or Mental Health Emergency Run – Hide – Fight Severe Weather Shelter-In-Place Suspicious Mail or Packages Workplace Violence Cornell AgriTech Emergency Information Preparedness Information Weather Preparedness Academic Preparedness Preparedness Checklist Emergency Supply Kit Preparedness Training Continuity of Operations Download Rave Guardian About this Site Cornell University © 2022 Web Accessibility Help Intranet Login