Search: Go Search Filters: This Site Cornell Main Navigation Search Cornell Skip to main content Skip to secondary menu Skip to primary sidebar Skip to secondary sidebar Emergency Management Home Emergency Notifications About CornellALERT Sign Up For CornellALERT Community Notifications Plans Emergency Action Guide Overview Prevention and Mitigation Preparedness Response – Emergency Operations Plan Continuity and Recovery Resources Ithaca Campus Other Locations Weather Preparedness Topics Bus Services FAQ IMT ILT Primary Sidebar Alert Messages View all current emergency and non-emergency messages. Sign up for CornellALERT Cornell community members must enroll to receive CornellALERT phone notifications and should verify their info on a regular basis. You are here: Home / Emergency Notifications Emergency Notifications CornellALERT CornellALERT is Cornell’s emergency notification system which sends voice and/or text messages to your registered phone(s) in the event of an imminent threat to the campus community. You must enroll your phone to receive the voice and text alert messages. You can also receive alert messages on your phone by installing the Rave Guardian app and activating it for the Cornell Ithaca Campus. How to Sign Up or Manage Your CornellALERT Phone Numbers CornellALERT messages are also sent to the Cornell e-mail addresses of all current students, faculty, staff, and affiliates. You cannot opt out of receiving these e-mail messages. CornellALERT messages may be sent for natural incidents such as a tornado or other dangerous weather, unnatural events such as an explosive device or active shooter, or if the university changes operating status due to an emergency or weather event. Crime Alerts Crime Alerts are timely warning messages provided by Cornell Police when they learn of reportable crimes on or near campus that may pose a serious or continuing threat to the Cornell community. Their purpose is to provide information on how you can protect yourself against a specific threatening circumstance, which may be ongoing, or a recent occurrence that remains unsolved and continues to pose a threat. Crime Alerts are sent to the Cornell e-mail addresses of all current students, faculty, staff, and affiliates. You cannot opt out of receiving these e-mail messages. Current emergency and crime alert messages are posted at the CUinfo Alerts website. You can also view current IT, transportation, and facility related alert messages. If you believe you are receiving CornellALERT messages incorrectly because you have never been or are no longer affiliated with Cornell University or you need further assistance with this process please contact Cornell University Police Andrew Churchman at adc245@cornell.edu or 607-255-8566 or Mark Conrad at msc42@cornell.edu or 607-255-4676. Secondary Sidebar Emergency Action Guide Active Threat to Life Animal Incidents Bomb Threat Building Evacuation Crime Earthquakes Elevator Emergencies Facility & Utility Problems Fire, Smoke & Explosion Hazardous Materials Medical or Mental Health Emergency Run – Hide – Fight Severe Weather Shelter-In-Place Suspicious Mail or Packages Workplace Violence Cornell AgriTech Emergency Information Preparedness Information Weather Preparedness Academic Preparedness Preparedness Checklist Emergency Supply Kit Preparedness Training Continuity of Operations Download Rave Guardian About this Site Cornell University © 2022 Web Accessibility Help Intranet Login