Search: Go Search Filters: This Site Cornell Main Navigation Search Cornell Skip to main content Skip to secondary menu Skip to primary sidebar Skip to secondary sidebar Emergency Management Home Emergency Notifications About CornellALERT Sign Up For CornellALERT Community Notifications Plans Emergency Action Guide Overview Prevention and Mitigation Preparedness Response – Emergency Operations Plan Continuity and Recovery Resources Ithaca Campus Other Locations Weather Preparedness Topics Bus Services FAQ IMT ILT Primary Sidebar Alert Messages View all current emergency and non-emergency messages. Sign up for CornellALERT Cornell community members must enroll to receive CornellALERT phone notifications and should verify their info on a regular basis. You are here: Home / Crime Crime On the Ithaca campus Call 911 to report a crime in progress or criminal behavior to Cornell Police. At other locations call 911 to contact the local police department. Do not approach or attempt to apprehend the person(s) involved. Take only actions necessary for self-defense. If you are safe, stay where you are until the police arrive. Otherwise, try to move to a safe location. Report as much information as possible including: Type of crime. Description of persons involved, including height, weight, sex, clothing and any weapons. Location of crime. Direction of travel. Vehicle description, including color, year, make, model and license. To report non-emergency criminal activities, including crimes that are no longer in progress, missing property, minor auto accidents without injuries, disabled vehicles, etc. Crime and tips can be also be reported to Cornell Police using the Rave Guardian app. Download the free Guardian app at the Apple store or Google Play. Explore the app features at Rave Guardian. On the Ithaca campus call Cornell Police at 607 255-1111 In New York City call 311 At Cornell AgriTech call the local police: Geneva Police Department at 315-789-1111 Ontario County Sheriff at 585-394-4560 If necessary, refer to the ACTIVE THREAT TO LIFE section of this document. See something? Say something! Report suspicious activity to Cornell Police 607 255-1111 or Call 911. Secondary Sidebar Emergency Action Guide Active Threat to Life Animal Incidents Bomb Threat Building Evacuation Crime Earthquakes Elevator Emergencies Facility & Utility Problems Fire, Smoke & Explosion Hazardous Materials Medical or Mental Health Emergency Run – Hide – Fight Severe Weather Shelter-In-Place Suspicious Mail or Packages Workplace Violence Cornell AgriTech Emergency Information Preparedness Information Weather Preparedness Academic Preparedness Preparedness Checklist Emergency Supply Kit Preparedness Training Continuity of Operations Download Rave Guardian About this Site Cornell University © 2022 Web Accessibility Help Intranet Login