Search: Go Search Filters: This Site Cornell Main Navigation Search Cornell Skip to main content Skip to secondary menu Skip to primary sidebar Skip to secondary sidebar Emergency Management Home Emergency Notifications About CornellALERT Sign Up For CornellALERT Community Notifications Plans Emergency Action Guide Overview Prevention and Mitigation Preparedness Response – Emergency Operations Plan Continuity and Recovery Resources Ithaca Campus Other Locations Weather Preparedness Topics Bus Services FAQ IMT ILT Primary Sidebar Alert Messages View all current emergency and non-emergency messages. Sign up for CornellALERT Cornell community members must enroll to receive CornellALERT phone notifications and should verify their info on a regular basis. You are here: Home / Frequently Asked Questions Frequently Asked Questions How do I report an emergency? What should I do if I observe suspicious or possibly criminal behavior or observe a safety or security risk? How will I know when I need to evacuate from my building? What should I do if I am unable to evacuate from the building due to a physical disability? Does Cornell have an emergency warning notification system? I am concerned about acts of violence on campus. Where can I find more information on how to respond? Q: How do I report an emergency? A: To report an emergency call 911 from any telephone. On-campus telephones will connect you with the Cornell Police 911 Center. Cellular telephones and off-campus telephones will connect you with the Tompkins County 911 Center. You may also contact Cornell Police by calling 607 255-1111. To report an emergency by using one of the outdoor Blue Light Telephones or indoor Emergency Telephones, open the door and push the button or lift the receiver and you will be connected the Cornell Police 911 Center. Q: What should I do if I observe suspicious or possibly criminal behavior or observe a safety or security risk? A: Contact Cornell Police by calling 911 (emergencies) or 607 255-1111 (non-emergencies). Q: How will I know when I need to evacuate from my building? A: Evacuation is required: Any time the fire alarm sounds An evacuation announcement is made, or A university official orders you to evacuate Q: What should I do if I am unable to evacuate from the building due to a physical disability? A: Be proactive and develop a plan before an emergency happens. Visit the Emergency Evacuation Planning web page for more information. If you are unable to leave the building due to a physical disability: Go to the nearest area where there are no hazards. Use a telephone to call 911 or Cornell Police at 607 255-1111 Be sure to give them the room number so they can send help to you. If possible, signal out the window to on-site emergency responders. One person may remain with you if they wish to assist you. Q: Does Cornell have an emergency warning notification system? A: Yes, Cornell’s emergency warning notification system consists of a variety of communications tools and information channels to quickly provide accurate information. Specific tools and channels used will depend on the type and severity of the emergency and include: CornellALERT Text/Voice Messaging System – if you receive an emergency warning text or voice message, you should promptly follow the directions given in the message. Cornell University faculty, staff and students should sign up to receive emergency notification text messages. Visit this web page for instructions. Outdoor Warning Sirens – if the sirens are sounded you should promptly follow the instructions given after the initial tone and move to a safe place. E-mail sent to all current faculty, staff, and student cornell.edu addresses Building Fire Alarm Systems (evacuate the building if the fire alarm sounds) Current Alert Messages Q: I am concerned about acts of violence on campus. Where can I find information on how to respond? A: Check out the Emergency Action Guide to learn about how to respond to active threat or workplace violence incidents, as well as other incidents you might encounter on campus. Additionally, email the Crime Prevention Unit to take advantage of Cornell University Police’s public education campaigns (e.g., Active Shooter Awareness, Personal Security). You can also speak with the Crime Prevention Officers about concerns regarding your personal safety and security in your building . Secondary Sidebar Emergency Action Guide Active Threat to Life Animal Incidents Bomb Threat Building Evacuation Crime Earthquakes Elevator Emergencies Facility & Utility Problems Fire, Smoke & Explosion Hazardous Materials Medical or Mental Health Emergency Run – Hide – Fight Severe Weather Shelter-In-Place Suspicious Mail or Packages Workplace Violence Cornell AgriTech Emergency Information Preparedness Information Weather Preparedness Academic Preparedness Preparedness Checklist Emergency Supply Kit Preparedness Training Continuity of Operations Download Rave Guardian About this Site Cornell University © 2022 Web Accessibility Help Intranet Login