Search: Go Search Filters: This Site Cornell Main Navigation Search Cornell Skip to main content Skip to secondary menu Skip to primary sidebar Skip to secondary sidebar Emergency Management Home Emergency Notifications About CornellALERT Sign Up For CornellALERT Community Notifications Plans Emergency Action Guide Overview Prevention and Mitigation Preparedness Response – Emergency Operations Plan Continuity and Recovery Resources Ithaca Campus Other Locations Weather Preparedness Topics Bus Services FAQ IMT ILT Primary Sidebar Alert Messages View all current emergency and non-emergency messages. Sign up for CornellALERT Cornell community members must enroll to receive CornellALERT phone notifications and should verify their info on a regular basis. You are here: Home / Hazardous Materials Hazardous Materials For spills or incidents that require training, procedures, or personal protective equipment beyond the abilities of the personnel present, take the following actions: Alert others in the immediate area and evacuate the room. If building evacuation is needed then manually activate the building fire alarm. Close doors as you leave the room. For hazardous materials emergencies call 911 (on the Cornell Ithaca campus call Cornell Police at 607-255-1111) from a safe location and provide the following information: Your name, telephone number, and location Location of the spill Name and quantity of material spilled (if known) Any injuries, medical issues, or personal contamination Use eyewash or safety showers as needed to wash spilled chemicals off your body. Flush the affected areas with copious amounts of water for at least 15 minutes. If you are contaminated do not spread the material or contaminate others. Tell responders you have the material on you. For incidental hazardous materials situations that do NOT present an immediate threat to life or health and do not involve personal contamination: On the Cornell Ithaca campus call Cornell Police at 607-255-1111 At Cornell AgriTech call Cornell Police at 607-255-1111 and ask to be connected to the on duty Cornell EHS Emergency Services personnel. Secondary Sidebar Emergency Action Guide Active Threat to Life Animal Incidents Bomb Threat Building Evacuation Crime Earthquakes Elevator Emergencies Facility & Utility Problems Fire, Smoke & Explosion Hazardous Materials Medical or Mental Health Emergency Run – Hide – Fight Severe Weather Shelter-In-Place Suspicious Mail or Packages Workplace Violence Cornell AgriTech Emergency Information Preparedness Information Weather Preparedness Academic Preparedness Preparedness Checklist Emergency Supply Kit Preparedness Training Continuity of Operations Download Rave Guardian About this Site Cornell University © 2022 Web Accessibility Help Intranet Login