Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search University of Notre Dame Emergency Information Home Contact Search Menu Home › ND Alert › Frequently Asked Questions FAQ Updated: September 30, 2019 What is Notre Dame’s campus-wide emergency notification system? What is an emergency? How do I submit my contact information for the campus-wide emergency notification system? Who will get notified with the campus-wide emergency notification system? Another member of my household is also a member of the Notre Dame community, but we only received one phone call to our home. Why? The phone directory lists a common phone number for multiple people in our office. Will we receive multiple phone calls at that number? I did not receive a phone call, email or text message, even though others did, and I submitted my information. What should I do? How do I change my contact information in the campus-wide emergency notification system? Who is authorized to send messages out using the campus-wide emergency notification system? Should I submit my contact information even if I am located at an off-campus location? If I change my mind and don't want to receive emergency alerts, can I cancel? How often will I receive alerts? Will I receive information other than emergency alerts from the campus-wide emergency notification system? What steps are taken to ensure the information I submit is secure? Will my contact information be sold to telemarketers? What number will be reflected on my caller ID when an alert is issued? What e-mail address will be reflected when an alert is issued? Should I do anything to ensure that emergency emails are not filtered? What should I do if I receive an emergency call or e-mail from the campus-wide emergency notification system? What other emergency notification systems are used at Notre Dame? What else should I know about emergency preparedness? What is Notre Dame’s campus-wide emergency notification system? The ND Alert system improves the University’s ability to effectively communicate with campus using land-line phones, cellular phones, voicemail, e-mail, text messaging as well as voice messages sent to indoor and outdoor speakers and the Voice Over IP desk telephones on campus. The ND Alert system can push out thousands of messages within minutes to help ensure the safety of everyone at Notre Dame during an emergency. What is an emergency? An emergency is a situation which poses an immediate risk to the health and safety of the campus community or significantly disrupts its programs and activities. How do I submit my contact information for the campus-wide emergency notification system? Students, faculty, and staff can submit their contact information for the campus-wide emergency notification system in the following ways: Students: At the beginning of each semester, you have the opportunity to update your contact information during ND Roll Call. In addition, throughout the semester you may contact the Registrar’s Office to provide updates. Faculty & Staff: In insideND, there are two tasks that are available to update emergency information: “Emergency Contact Information (Update)” or “View and Update Emergency Contact(s)”. You can find either task by searching “Emergency Contact” in on the insideND page. To add your emergency contact information, Cick on “New Contact” to take you to the update screen In the Relationship pull-down box select: SELF - Emergency Contact. Type in your first name, last name, and phone number (preferably cellular) in the appropriate boxes Click “Submit Changes” You can also supply a non-Notre Dame email address through insideND by choosing the “View and Update E-mail Address(es)” task. Choose “Non-Notre Dame e-mail address - Emergency Broadcasts” in the drop-down box Click “Submit” Enter the email address in the appropriate box Click “Submit”. Who will get notified with the campus-wide emergency notification system? Only students, faculty, and staff will receive alerts. Another member of my household is also a member of the Notre Dame community, but we only received one phone call to our home. Why? The system recognizes repeated phone numbers and ensures that it calls each unique phone number only once. Will a phone call be made to our office. Will we receive multiple phone calls at that number? No. The ND Alert system will transmit a voice message to all Cisco Voice Over IP telephones. I did not receive a phone call, email or text message, even though others did, and I submitted my information. What should I do? Students: Please verify that the Registrar’s Office has your most up-to-date contact information, including your cell phone number. Faculty and Staff: In order to verify the mobile number in RAVE (ND Alert) is accurate, go to inside.nd.edu. Search for the “View and Update Emergency Contact” task and click on it. Scroll down to “Emergency Contact” and click on the pencil icon, verify your mobile number and ensure that “ND Alert Emergency Self” is selected in the “Relationship” tab. If you have trouble accessing inside.nd.edu, contact the OIT Help Desk at (574) 631-8111 for assistance. Report problems with ND Alert. You can also report trouble with ND Alert by contacting the Division of Campus Safety and University Operations at (574) 631-9007 or safety@nd.edu How do I change my contact information in the campus-wide emergency notification system? You can change your contact information in the campus-wide emergency notification system by following the instructions below: Students: At the beginning of each semester, you have the opportunity to update your contact information during ND Roll Call. In addition, throughout the semester you may contact the Registrar’s Office to provide updates by emailing address.1@nd.edu. Faculty & Staff: In order to update your mobile number in RAVE (ND Alert) go to inside.nd.edu. Search for the “View and Update Emergency Contact” task and click on it. Scroll down to “Emergency Contact” and click on the pencil icon to insert your mobile number and ensure that “ND Alert Emergency Self” is selected in the “Relationship” tab. If you have trouble accessing inside.nd.edu, contact the OIT Help Desk at (574) 631-8111 for assistance. Report problems with ND Alert. You can also report trouble with ND Alert by contacting the Division of Campus Safety and University Operations at (574) 631-9007 or safety@nd.edu Who is authorized to send messages out using the campus-wide emergency notification system? Messages will be distributed by members of the Notre Dame Police Department, others in the Division of Campus Safety and University Operations and trained representatives from the Office of Public Affairs and Communication. Should I submit my contact information even if I am located at an off-campus location? Yes. The campus-wide emergency notification system will be utilized when emergencies may impact the entire Notre Dame campus community. If I change my mind and don't want to receive emergency alerts, can I cancel? Faculty & Staff: Faculty and staff may have their personal contact information removed from the system by deleting the information that was self-reported in InsideND. Faculty and staff office telephone and nd.edu email information will remain in the system to allow the University to alert employees about emergencies while they are on campus. Students: Students will continue to remain enrolled in the system as long as they matriculate at the University. Students may opt-out of receiving emergency text messages by following the opt-out procedures. How often will I receive alerts? The University conducts full tests of all the emergency communications systems once each semester. However, the University reserves the right to conduct additional testing based on significant changes to either the enrollment population or upgrades to the systems. Will I receive information other than emergency alerts from the campus-wide emergency notification system? No. Currently, Notre Dame only uses the campus-wide emergency notification system for emergency situations that threaten the safety of the Notre Dame community. What steps are taken to ensure the information I submit is secure? The contact information submitted for use with the campus-wide emergency notification system is stored locally at Notre Dame in the administrative system (Banner) which is protected by multiple layers of physical and technological security. Access to that data is limited to authorized University staff. Your contact information is then transmitted via secure socket layer (SSL) technology to the vendor who uses multiple layers of security to protect the data once it is in their system. Will my contact information be sold to telemarketers? No. Our vendor for the ND Alert platform does not sell, lease, share, rent, or barter personally identifiable information (names, addresses, phone numbers, etc.) to any companies or persons outside service providers. What number will be reflected on my caller ID when an alert is issued? When an ND Alert is issued via the campus-wide emergency notification system, caller ID will show that you are receiving a call from 574-631-5000. What e-mail address will be reflected when an alert is issued? The “from” address of an emergency e-mail message sent from Notre Dame via the campus-wide emergency notification system will appear as helpdesk@nd.edu. What should I do if I receive an emergency call or e-mail from the campus-wide emergency notification system? If you receive an emergency message via campus-wide emergency notification system, do the following: Listen to or read the ENTIRE message. Take the message seriously. Follow any instructions given in the message. Alert others around you who may not have received the message (but do not delay taking necessary actions to protect your own safety. Should I do anything to ensure that emergency emails are not filtered? Some email clients may interpret the ND-Alert message as spam based on local filter configurations. To find out more on how to modify your local client filters contact the OIT Help Desk at 631-8111. What other emergency notification systems are used at Notre Dame? Currently, Notre Dame makes use of any or all of the following systems depending on the specific emergency: Phone calls & voicemail E-mail & LISTSERV lists Fire alarm systems speakers Outdoor Siren Indoor and outdoor public address system Speakers on Cisco Voice Over IP telephones emergency.nd.edu web site What else should I know about emergency preparedness? As always, we strive to keep Notre Dame a safe place, however emergencies and disasters can always occur. Every individual should be prepared both at Notre Dame and at home. Visit www.ready.gov for information on individual emergency preparedness. Emergency Contacts ND Alert FAQ Text Messaging FAQ VOIP FAQ SMS Opt-In Resources Business Continuity External Resources Division of Campus Safety and University Operations Risk Management and Safety ND Police Department ND Fire Department Campus Safety and University Operations emergency.ND.edu Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA Phone 574-631-5000 © 2022 University of Notre Dame Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn