Search: Go Search Filters: This Site Cornell Main Navigation Search Cornell Skip to main content Skip to secondary menu Skip to primary sidebar Skip to secondary sidebar Emergency Management Home Emergency Notifications About CornellALERT Sign Up For CornellALERT Community Notifications Plans Emergency Action Guide Overview Prevention and Mitigation Preparedness Response – Emergency Operations Plan Continuity and Recovery Resources Ithaca Campus Other Locations Weather Preparedness Topics Bus Services FAQ IMT ILT Primary Sidebar Alert Messages View all current emergency and non-emergency messages. Sign up for CornellALERT Cornell community members must enroll to receive CornellALERT phone notifications and should verify their info on a regular basis. You are here: Home / Fire, Smoke & Explosion Fire, Smoke & Explosion In the event of fire, smoke, or an explosion: Alert those around you to the hazard Evacuate the room, closing doors behind you as you leave Manually activate the fire alarm system as you exit the building Exit and move away from the building – DO NOT USE ELEVATORS If you encounter smoke, stay low and if necessary use your secondary escape route Call 911 from a safe location. Tell the dispatcher: Name of the building Location of the fire Description of the fire ALL fires, including extinguished fires, occurring on Cornell campus property must be reported. On the Ithaca campus notify Cornell Police by calling 607-255-1111 At Cornell AgriTech notify Cornell EHS by calling 607-255-8200 If your clothing is on fire Stop – Drop to the ground or floor and Roll to smother flames. Smother flames using a fire blanket. Drench with water from a safety shower or other source. Seek medical attention for all burns and injuries. If you are trapped in a building If possible, take shelter in a room with an outside window Close all doors and windows Use clothing, towels, or paper to block around the door or over vents to keep smoke out Stay low in smoke If there is a telephone, call 911 to report your location and situation Signal to rescuers and people outside the building by waving clothing and other light colored objects. Stay where rescuers can see you and do not attempt to break the window glass. Remain calm, stay low, and be patient. Fire Extinguishers If you have been trained and it is safe to do so, you may use one extinguisher to attempt to extinguish the fire Only attempt to extinguish small fires Make sure you have a clear escape path If you have not been trained to use a fire extinguisher you must EVACUATE immediately Secondary Sidebar Emergency Action Guide Active Threat to Life Animal Incidents Bomb Threat Building Evacuation Crime Earthquakes Elevator Emergencies Facility & Utility Problems Fire, Smoke & Explosion Hazardous Materials Medical or Mental Health Emergency Run – Hide – Fight Severe Weather Shelter-In-Place Suspicious Mail or Packages Workplace Violence Cornell AgriTech Emergency Information Preparedness Information Weather Preparedness Academic Preparedness Preparedness Checklist Emergency Supply Kit Preparedness Training Continuity of Operations Download Rave Guardian About this Site Cornell University © 2022 Web Accessibility Help Intranet Login