Search: Go Search Filters: This Site Cornell Main Navigation Search Cornell Skip to main content Skip to secondary menu Skip to primary sidebar Skip to secondary sidebar Emergency Management Home Emergency Notifications About CornellALERT Sign Up For CornellALERT Community Notifications Plans Emergency Action Guide Overview Prevention and Mitigation Preparedness Response – Emergency Operations Plan Continuity and Recovery Resources Ithaca Campus Other Locations Weather Preparedness Topics Bus Services FAQ IMT ILT Primary Sidebar Alert Messages View all current emergency and non-emergency messages. Sign up for CornellALERT Cornell community members must enroll to receive CornellALERT phone notifications and should verify their info on a regular basis. You are here: Home / Emergency Preparedness Training Emergency Preparedness Training Emergency preparedness training can give you the skills to properly react to emergency situations so you can better protect yourself and assist others until responders arrive. Life-threatening emergencies can happen fast and you may be able to save a life by taking simple actions immediately. Training opportunities include both in-person and web based offerings and are provided at no cost to Cornell community members. First Aid and CPR/AED Training Environmental Health and Safety hosts open enrollment first aid and CPR/AED (cardiopulmonary resuscitation – automated external defibrillator) courses on a regular basis. Enroll through the CULearn web site for these courses: EHS 5360 – First Aid EHS 5350 – CPR/AED Cornell University Emergency Medical Service (CUEMS) provides CPR/AED and first aid training upon request. Training can be requested by completing the form on their CPR/First Aid Classes web page. Watch this 2 minute video from CUEMS to learn Hands Only CPR. The FEMA You Are the Help Until Help Arrives web site provides a 30 minute web based training video that outlines basic steps you can take to help someone in an emergency situation. Personal Safety, Active Violence, and Anti-Crime Training The Cornell University Police Department Crime Prevention Unit provides a variety of crime prevention and public safety training and outreach programs. Information and contact information is provided on the Crime Prevention Unit web page. Available topics include: Active Violence Awareness Personal Security Stay Safe 360 Degrees Violence in the Workplace Sexual Assault Awareness You can also view Cornell’s Active Threat to Life Animation video for a information about the “Run. Hide. Fight.” strategy that law enforcement agencies use to outline the steps you should consider if you find yourself in a situation that poses an active threat to life. Fire Safety Training Environmental Health and Safety offers a variety of fire safety training opportunities. Search CULearn using the keyword of “fire” or for these specific courses: EHS 5300 – Fire Extinguisher EHS 5330 – Fire Safety (web based training) EHS 3995 – Flammable Liquid Safety (web based training) Free online fire prevention and safety training is available from the igot2kno website. Other Training Opportunities The Office of Emergency Management provides preparedness training to campus departments and organizations. E-mail oem@cornell.edu or call 607-255-8200 for further information. Other safety training is available from Environmental Health and Safety. Search (using keywords “safety” or “ehs”) and register for training through the CULearn system. Secondary Sidebar Emergency Action Guide Active Threat to Life Animal Incidents Bomb Threat Building Evacuation Crime Earthquakes Elevator Emergencies Facility & Utility Problems Fire, Smoke & Explosion Hazardous Materials Medical or Mental Health Emergency Run – Hide – Fight Severe Weather Shelter-In-Place Suspicious Mail or Packages Workplace Violence Cornell AgriTech Emergency Information Preparedness Information Weather Preparedness Academic Preparedness Preparedness Checklist Emergency Supply Kit Preparedness Training Continuity of Operations Download Rave Guardian About this Site Cornell University © 2022 Web Accessibility Help Intranet Login