Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today Work at KU Search form Search this site Home Job Searches Staff Students Faculty, Lecturers, and Academic Staff How to Apply FAQs Total Rewards Why KU? Diversity Contact Us Menu Home Job Searches Staff Students Faculty, Lecturers, and Academic Staff How to Apply FAQs Total Rewards Why KU? Diversity Contact Us Search Search form Search this site Home FAQs FAQs Registration Information Resumes and Cover Letters Searching for Jobs General Application Process Information Registration Information How do I register? You will need to “Sign In” the first time you access the applicant site by going to the link entitled “Don’t have an account yet.” This will require you to create a user name, using a valid email address, and a password for your applicant account. Once you have created this user account, you will be able to sign in and access your account whenever you return to the employment website by clicking the “Sign In” link. I have misplaced my User Name and/or Password; can you reset it for me? Once you have created your user name, you can utilize the “Forgot Username or Password” link on the “Sign In” screen at any time. This link will send an email to your account email with information concerning resetting your password. The system will lock you out if you try three (3) times to unsuccessfully access your account without remembering your password. If this happens, you can contact Human Resources Management at 785-864-4946 or employ@ku.edu for reset information. My account is locked. How do I fix it? Please contact Human Resource Management at 785-864-4946 or hrdept@ku.edu. Is there a system time-out limit? There is not a system time-out limit, but we recommend that you complete your application in a timely manner and then log out of the applicant site once you have completed applying for jobs. Resumes and Cover Letters Do I need to fill out the application if I attached a resume? To begin the application process you can Import your Profile information from LinkedIn, Facebook or a saved resume or you can key in your profile information manually. Please review all imported information to ensure that it has populated the fields as you would like them to be displayed on your application materials. Can I include a cover letter? If the application material requires it yes you should. If you forgot to include one at the time you submitted your application materials, you can upload a corrected or new cover letter as an additional file once you have submitted your materials. If you have any questions concerning updating, changing or editing your cover letter after you have applied to an opening, please contact Human Resources Management at 785-864-4946 or hrdept@ku.edu for further assistance. Searching for Jobs How do I search for jobs? You may search for jobs using keywords or the advanced search features at several locations such as employment.ku.edu, your Candidate Portal, etc. You can also save custom searches and refer back to your Candidate Zone Dashboard for access. How do I improve the results of keyword searches? Try to use generic terms for the job you are looking for, i.e. accounting or accountant. The broader you set your keyword searches to the more returns you will have. You can also use specific departments at KU to set a search, i.e. Theatre, English, and Economics. This will return only jobs that are currently posted for those departments at KU. General Application Process Information Who do I talk to concerning the details of the job? Each job opening will identify a specific contact to reach out to for specific details in regards to the position. The confirmation email that you received will also list the contact for each specific job(s) for which you have applied. You can retrieve your email messages within your Candidate Zone - Message Archive. Can you assist me with the application process? Applications to all job openings are through KU’s online application system. For assistance in the application process or to access a public computer to apply, please contact Human Resources Management at 785-864-4946 located at 1246 W. Campus Road in Carruth O’Leary Hall, Room 103. How long does it take to apply to a job opening? Once you click on the link “Apply to Job” from the job announcement, you will receive an estimated completion time statement at the top of the “Start Your Application” page as well as a progress bar throughout the process. You can also click the “Save and finish later” button at any time throughout the process if you need to leave the application and return to it at a later time. What is the salary range? Please refer to the salary range posted on the job announcement if available. If a salary range is not included on the job posting, salary ranges for staff positions may be found at https://humanresources.ku.edu/job-title-table by searching on the official job title. I saved an application to finish later. How do I find and finish it? Return to your Candidate Zone – Applications - Saved Applications to identify the position you are looking for to continue the application process prior to the job close date. How can I be sure that my application was submitted and received? You will receive a confirmation email that your application has been submitted. You can also view your submitted application in your Candidate Zone at Dashboard – Applications – Submitted Applications. This link will list the position(s) that you have submitted an application for and what your status is with each posting(s). I need to modify, add, and/or attach materials to my application. Is it possible to make changes after I have submitted my application? You will not be able to modify the application materials (resume/cv and cover letter) after applying, but you can add files to supplement your application materials until the job closes. Please return to your Candidate Zone – Dashboard – Applications – Submitted Applications. Click on the job title of the announcement and then select Add Files. Please follow the prompts to attach additional documents to this application. How do I view the job description after the announcement has closed? To view the job description, you can refer to the email message that you received when you applied. If you no longer have that message, a copy of the email has been saved for you at Candidate Zone – Message Archive so you can review the email you received as well as the entire job posting details. How long does it take to hear from the department? It varies depending upon the position opening. Reach out to the contact person listed on the job announcement or return to your candidate zone dashboard to select the position you have applied to in order to see if a status update has been posted. When will I find out if I get an interview? Please refer to your Candidate Zone – Dashboard – Applications – Submitted Applications for status updates on your application or reach out to the contact person listed on the job announcement after the position has closed for more information on whether interviews have been scheduled. How do I sign/accept an electronic offer letter? Faculty, Staff and Student Hourly employees will receive an email with a link to the electronic offer letter which will be posted to your online candidate portal to accept. Faculty, staff, lecturer renewals and graduate student positions (Graduate Teaching Assistants, Graduate Research Assistants, and Graduate Assistants) will be asked to apply a digital signature to their formal offer during the Onboarding process. What is the process or timeline once offered a position? You can expect to receive an email notification with instructions on the next steps to take to accept your position, complete required forms and to begin the onboarding process. Employees which are new to KU or are returning after a year will also be contacted to arrange an in person meeting with a Shared Service Center representative to complete specific federal and state forms (i.e., I-9, beneficiary statements) as well as take a picture for the KU ID card. Who do I contact if I was not hired but feel I meet the qualifications or I have a complaint about the hiring process? Please contact Human Resource Management at 785-864-4946 or hrdept@ku.edu. Other Employment at KU Athletics KU Dining and KU Memorial Unions Endowment Alumni KUMC Off-Campus Student Employment Related Links Employment Posters Human Resources Immigration Related Notices Institutional Opportunity & Access KUMC Human Resources About the Area Friendly folks. A big city vibe. Discover all that’s great about Lawrence. Lawrence, Kan. A beautiful, hilly campus is just one reason why Jayhawks fall in love with KU. Find out more. The University Contact Work at KU employ@ku.edu 785-864-4946 1246 West Campus Road, Room 103 Carruth O'Leary Hall The University of Kansas Lawrence, Kansas 66045-7521 Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login The annual security report about KU safety policies, crime statistics, and campus resources is available online at http://ku.edu/safety, or on paper by contacting the [Office of the Vice Provost of Student Affairs (previously Dean of Students)], 133 Strong Hall, (785) 864-4060.