Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today Work at KU Search form Search this site Home Job Searches Staff Students Faculty, Lecturers, and Academic Staff How to Apply FAQs Total Rewards Why KU? Diversity Contact Us Menu Home Job Searches Staff Students Faculty, Lecturers, and Academic Staff How to Apply FAQs Total Rewards Why KU? Diversity Contact Us Search Search form Search this site Home Why KU? Why KU? “Rock Chalk Jayhawk, KU!” Many people hear those words as the chant rises to a crescendo. They just hear the words. But as Jayhawks, we feel those words. We feel the goosebumps as “the greatest college chant” resonates through the air. Jayhawks don’t just hear, they feel, and they understand. Choose to be a Jayhawk, and you will know that you are part of a proud legacy of community, innovation and discovery. Join the University of Kansas—be a Jayhawk—and you will believe that together we can make a difference. You can get a job many places. But, if you want to feel, understand, know and believe you are changing the world, become a Jayhawk! About KU Discover and learn about KU’s history, mission and leadership Educating for the Future Providing the academic foundation for future scholars, researchers, and leaders. Making discoveries to help solve global problems As a major research university with a NIH Cancer Center designation collaboration, commercialization, and research opportunities span across all disciplines. KU’s Campuses Learn about KU’s multiple campus locations throughout the state. Traditions KU is rich in traditions, pride, and history. Community Lawrence, located in Douglas County, is rich with cultural, recreational, and artistic opportunities for all ages and is within 30 miles of Kansas City and Topeka. Contact Work at KU employ@ku.edu 785-864-4946 1246 West Campus Road, Room 103 Carruth O'Leary Hall The University of Kansas Lawrence, Kansas 66045-7521 Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login The annual security report about KU safety policies, crime statistics, and campus resources is available online at http://ku.edu/safety, or on paper by contacting the [Office of the Vice Provost of Student Affairs (previously Dean of Students)], 133 Strong Hall, (785) 864-4060.