Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search Harvard Human Resources | HARVARD.EDU Home HARVie Search ERGs About the Employee Resource Groups Association of Black Faculty, Administrators, and Fellows (ABFAF) Association of Harvard Asian and Asian American Faculty and Staff (AHAAAFS) Association of LatinX Faculty and Staff at Harvard (AHLFS) Harvard LGBTQ+ Faculty and Staff (QERG) Committee on the Concerns of Women (CCW) ERG Council Events News Resources Career & Talent Mobility HOME / ERGS / Association of Black Faculty, Administrators, and Fellows (ABFAF) WELCOME to the home page of The Association of Black Faculty, Administrators and Fellows (ABFAF). ABFAF strives to support and advocate for the University's Black community. We provide a means of communication, interaction and counseling for members through seminars, discussion groups, and social gatherings. The Association of Black Faculty, Administrators and Fellows is a university-wide group, and is open to all faculty, administrators, fellows and staff. We have 3 new Harvard sponsored email addresses: erg_abfaf@harvard.edu, erg_abfaf_events@harvard.edu, and erg_abfaf_members@harvard.edu Please be sure to add these addresses to your directories so that you don’t miss any communications. To be added to our mailing list, please send a request to us. Visit our Calendar of Events for a list of upcoming events, including ABFAF First Fridays! Mission and Goals Executive Committee Calendar of Events Resources The mission of the Association of Black Faculty, Administrators and Fellows (ABFAF) is advocacy on behalf of the University's Black community. It provides a means of communication, interaction and counseling for members through seminars, discussion groups, and social gatherings. UPCOMING CALENDAR OF EVENTS Harvard and the Legacy of Slavery After President Bacow released the report on Harvard’s involvement with slavery and the legacy it created, some in the Black community at Harvard have expressed a need to gather in community with each other in a safe space to express their thoughts, feelings, concerns, and other emotions related to learning or, for some, acknowledging this challenging information about Harvard. In response to this expressed need, ABFAF will host a gathering on Thursday, May 12, 2022, from noon until 1:30pm on Zoom. Dr. Stephanie Pinder-Amaker will facilitate this session and help us manage our emotions in the wake of receiving this information. Please plan to attend even if you cannot stay for the entire 90 minutes. Attendance will require registration. If you have questions let us know. You may reach us at erg_ABFAF_events@harvard.edu. Registration link: https://harvard.zoom.us/meeting/register/tJIufu-gqj0iHNTSQuS_xNJg05C8rqKGaySl PAST EVENTS The Strong Black Woman Tuesday, March 29, 2022 Noon until 1:30pm on Zoom Registration is required: https://harvard.az1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_3b1a3o6z6ztdBPM This event is co-sponsored by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s (MIT) African, Black, American and Caribbean (ABAC) ERG and ABFAF. FAS 2021-2022 Diversity Dialogue Series https://hr.fas.harvard.edu/fas-diversity-dialogues Led by experts in the field, FAS Diversity Dialogues are forums for FAS staff and faculty to build awareness around a range of issues related to diversity and inclusion. At these Dialogues, employees are able to learn from experts in the field about topics such as unconscious bias, cultural competency, and being an active bystander. The Diversity Dialogue series is open to all in the FAS and to the Harvard community at large. PAST EVENTS ABFAF First Fridays Book Discussion: The Color of Money: Black Banks and the Racial Wealth Gap Our next gathering will be on February 4, 2022. At that time, Dr. Pamela Mason, Senior Lecturer on Education, Faculty Director Language and Literacy at Harvard and Faculty Co-Chair of ABFAF, will moderate a discussion with Professor Mehrsa Baradaran, University of California, Irvine School of Law, based upon her book “The Color of Money: Black Banks and the Racial Wealth Gap”. Friday, February 4, 2022 Noon until 1 PM Zoom link: https://harvard.zoom.us/j/93531791753?pwd=RUFmS0d4QUVVNjZhRUZtbjRHTDdndz09 FAS Winter 2022 Diversity Dialogue Black Fatigue and Strategies to Achieve Sustainable Antiracist Impact Special guest speaker Mary-Frances Winters Thursday, February 10, 2022 10:00am - 12:00pm EST Register now for this Dialogue via Zoom Black Fatigue is a term that describes a harmful syndrome which is prevalent for many in the Black community. It can impact every aspect of an individual’s life including their ability to work at their best level due to things such as disillusionment, insecurities, lack of engagement and lack of trust. At this Diversity Dialogue, we will hear from and engage with Mary-Frances Winters. She is the author of the book “Black Fatigue: How Racism Erodes the Mind, Body and Spirit” within which she coined the term “Black Fatigue” and defined the syndrome. ABFAF First Fridays December 2021 Gathering “Association Reset for 2022” Please join us on FRIDAY, DECEMBER 3rd at Noon for our last Zoom gathering of 2021. At that time, we will engage in an interactive discussion of ABFAF’s work during 2021 and the direction YOU would like YOUR Association to take in 2022. FRIDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2021 12:00 PM (EST) Join Zoom meeting: https://harvard.zoom.us/j/94788429217?pwd=MHZpMkVqdHNNbHM3Y1prajJNMHdJUT09 Please think about and be prepared to share your ideas on how we can make ABFAF even better in 2022! FAS 2021-2022 Diversity Dialogue Series The Theme for the 2021-2022 Diversity Dialogues is Talking Loud and Saying Something - Progressing from Moment to Movement Details for this and all 2021-2022 Diversity Dialogues series will be shared soon on the FAS HR website. FAS Diversity Dialogues Cultural Appropriation and the Native American Community with special guest speaker Carolina Castoreno Thursday, November 18, 2021 10:00 am - 12:00 pm EST REGISTER HERE Join FAS Human Resources for "Cultural Appropriation and the Native American Community" with guest speaker Carolina Castoreno. Cultural appropriation is a phrase that has been in the news for many years but never more than in the past few years. And there are definitely differing opinions on the veracity of claims of cultural appropriation. At this Diversity Dialogue, Carolina Castoreno, Executive Director of The American Indian Center in Indiana, will discuss what cultural appropriation is and how it impacts the Native American (and other) communities, primarily communities of color. The discussion will be followed by a question and answer period. All are invited to send your questions in advance to Andrea Kelton-Harris at alharris@fas.harvard.edu. This program will be recorded and uploaded to the FAS Human Resources YouTube channel after the session. ABFAF First Fridays (rescheduled) HUECU Workshop: Improving your Money Habits ABFAF invites you to attend this workshop on best tips and strategies for managing debt and understanding your credit history. THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 18 2:00-3:00 PM (EST) Zoom Link:https://harvard.zoom.us/j/97620968686? pwd=MTFsQ1dEeEZhb3NNZDQrNWZhaUl4UT09 ABFAF First Fridays The POWER of My PLN (Professional Learning Network): Growing at Your Own Pace Dr. Josue Falaise Friday, October 1st, 2021 – 12:00 PM to 1:00 PM via Zoom Click on Invitation: https://harvard.zoom.us/meeting/tJYoce-orzsrEtHwHKSYlZLxJXvvETftjclI/ics Black, Indigenous, and People of Color Connections Welcome Event August 19–20, 2021 New to Harvard? Join us for the Black, Indigenous, and People of Color (BIPOC) Connections, a two-day, online welcome event for all incoming students, staff, faculty, postdocs, fellows, researchers, and other people of color. All sessions are rooted in an antiracist, social justice framework, with welcome remarks from Harvard President Lawrence S. Bacow and Chief Diversity & Inclusion Officer Sherri Ann Charleston. Registration Information ABFAF First Fridays Learn about opportunities to advance your career trajectory! Friday, August 6, 2021 12 pm – 1 pm (EDT) Via Zoom We hope to see you there! Save the Date for Our 2019 Summer Panel Mental Health as an Invisible Dimension of Diversity Thursday, August 22, 2019 1:00 - 3:00 P.M. Harvard Hillel 52 Mt. Auburn St., Cambridge, MA As a dimension of diversity, mental illness is often an 'invisible disability' that is not always apparent to others but can significantly impact one's daily work environment. According to the National Alliance on Mental Health, one in five adults in the U.S. (46.6 million people) experiences mental illness in a given year. Mental health issues intersect with all dimensions of diversity, including race, ethnicity, gender and sexual identity, religion, socio-economic status, and more. How can we support those around us who live with a mental illness? Moderated by Callie Crossley, WGBH host of Under the Radar, our panel of experts will share information about mental health, discuss challenges that may present in the workplace, and share best practices in creating an inclusive and supportive work environment. Information about the summer panel, including registration information, will be available on the FAS HR website. Space is limited so please mark your calendars now and plan to attend when registration opens. Registration will be available on Eventbrite August 1, 2019. This event will be live streamed on the FAS Human Resources YouTube channel. LANGUAGE AND LITERACY SPEAKER SERIES Featuring: Oneeka Williams MD, MPH Friday, April 12, 2019 12pm-1:30pm HGSE, Larsen Building, room 214 Lunch will be served RSVP: https://doodle.com/poll/knwgz5s2m9nhk53w FAS DIVERSITY DIALOGUES 2018 - 2019 FAS Diversity Conference: A Decade of Dialogue Tim Wise, Keynote Speaker Over the last ten years, the FAS Diversity Dialogue Series has sparked conversation about diversity, equality and inclusion in the FAS community and beyond. Join us for a retrospective look at diversity and inclusion, a discussion of current issues, and practical guidance on how we can move toward greater inclusion and belonging at Harvard. We are pleased to announce that our keynote speaker will be Tim Wise, prominent anti-racism writer, educator, and activist. A moderated discussion with Tim will be led by Renee Graham, an associate editor and columnist at the Boston Globe. Thursday, April 25, 2019, 8:00am to 1:00pm Location: Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center, 1350 Massachusetts Ave., Cambridge, MA 02138 Registration is required: https://www.eventbrite.com/e/fas-diversity-conference-a-decade-of-dialogue-tickets-59724027173 LIVE STREAM WILL BE HERE The morning will include: Introduction by: John Wilson Senior Advisor and Strategist to the President Opening Remarks by: Professor Philip J. Deloria Professor of History and Chair of the Committee on Degrees in History and Literature Panel Discussion Moderated by: Renee Graham featuring: Sandra Upton, Cultural Competence Allison Manswell, Race Relations Stephanie Huckel, LGBTQ Workplace Equity Michael Fosberg, Anti-Bias/Storytelling Keynote by: Tim Wise, Writer, Educator and Anti-Racist activist Special Presentation: Nina Livingstone, Journalist and Spoken Word Artist Book Signing and More https://hr.fas.harvard.edu/fas-diversity-dialogues DIVERSITY, INCLUSION, & BELONGING CONFERENCE May 21st, 2019 at Farkas Hall and the Smith Campus Center, 9:00am – 5:00pm Learn more here: https://dibconference.harvard.edu Register here: https://www.eventbrite.com/e/dib-conference-2019-registration-59350291319?aff=Opencall We are bringing together Harvard staff who are on the ground level of diversity work to exchange ideas, share action steps, and build a support network and we want you to join us! This inaugural conference will host speakers, panels, networking, workshops, and a poster session focusing on the Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging work here at Harvard. Our goal is to create a space to share work and promote/support best practices on campus. As Harvard works to adopt the recommendations of the Task Force on Diversity and Inclusion, staff are often on the front lines of institutional change. Implementing change is complicated, and staff have valuable insights that can help to accelerate and sustain important improvements in how we work. The Conference on Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging (DIB) will bring together support staff and mid-level managers to work toward 3 main goals: Translating big ideas into practice. We will focus on the perspectives of those executing ground-level action steps, both in our programming and in our facilitation. Strengthening community. This conference will be an opportunity for staff in the DIB space to break down silos, learn from each other, and build supportive relationships. Taking action. Our discussions will emphasize concrete and specific ways for Harvard to be a more inclusive place to work and learn. HARVARD HEARS YOU: THE 2019 SUMMIT FOR GENDER EQUITY https://titleix.harvard.edu/harvardhearsyou The Weatherhead Center for International Affairs and Harvard University Title IX Office are proud to announce Harvard Hears You: The 2019 Summit for Gender Equity, which will take place on April 2, 2019. Please save the date for this University-wide event, which will include two exciting events as part of the launch of the University’s Student Survey on Sexual Assault & Misconduct. The daytime portion of the Summit, open to all Harvard community members, will include events at the Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center. The day will bring together experts in our community: students, faculty, and staff, as well as invited guests to present in a variety of formats including on-stage interviews, performances and panel presentations. Candid discussions about key issues in the current climate, including gender discrimination on university campuses, due process, and intersectional approaches to equity will be encouraged. This Summit will begin a necessary dialogue, strengthened by lessons learned here and elsewhere, as Harvard strives to be a harassment-free community. The evening will feature a special guest panel at Memorial Church, and will include important discussion on gender equity and gender stereotyping across industries, popular culture, advertising, and consumerism. Attendance to daytime and evening portions of the Summit is free. Additional information on panels, speakers, and performers will continue to be updated. ASKWITH FORUMS – BLACK EDUCATORS AND THE STRUGGLE FOR JUSTICE IN SCHOOLS Harvard Graduate School of Education Longfellow Hall 13 Appian Way Cambridge Thursday, March 28 2019, 4:00 P.M. – 5:30 P.M. PLEASE NOTE: Seating for this forum will be available on a first come, first seated basis. Black educators were essential to the legal victory that was Brown vs. Board of Education, but over time, they saw the promise of greater access and greater equity grow dimmer, undermined by the way this now-iconic legal milestone was actually implemented. In a forum ranging widely over the past, present, and future of the long fight for justice in American schools, Emory University historian Vanessa Siddle Walker will explore the pedagogical and advocacy models that black educators developed, despite Jim Crow, that they hoped would be enhanced with the dismantling of racist school policies. She’ll describe how these practitioners came to make sense of what ultimately became a desegregation compromise, as the ruling took effect. And in a follow-on conversation moderated by HGSE assistant professor Jarvis Givens, Walker will be joined by Edith Bazile, the president of the Black Educators’ Alliance of Massachusetts, to examine the contemporary legacy of Brown — and how the perspectives of those earlier practitioners can create a new lens through which to view the continuing critical challenges of race and education today. Organization/Sponsor: HGSE Speaker(s): Vanessa Siddle Walker, Ed.M.’85, Ed.D.’88, president-elect, American Educational Research Association (AERA); Samuel Candler Dobbs Professor of African American and Educational Studies, Emory University, Edith Bazile, President, Black Educators’ Alliance of Massachusetts, Moderator: Jarvis Givens, Assistant professor of education, HGSE; Suzanne Young Murray Assistant Professor, Radcliffe Institute Cost: Free and Open to the Public Contact Info: askwith_forums@gse.harvard.edu More info: www.gse.harvard.edu… THE ASSOCIATION OF BLACK FACULTY, ADMINISTRATORS, AND FELLOWS (ABFAF) CELEBRATE THE APPOINTMENT OF AFRICAN AMERICAN WOMEN LEADERS AT HARVARD UNIVERSITY https://aaas.fas.harvard.edu/news/association-black-faculty-administrators-and-fellows-abfaf-celebrate-appointment October 30, 2018 On Wednesday, October 30, 2018, the Association of Black Faculty, Administrators, and Fellows (ABFAF) held a meeting to celebrate the appointment of African American women leaders at Harvard University. ABFAF celebrated the appointments of Deans Tomiko Brown-Nagin (Radcliffe), Claudine Gay (FAS and AAAS), Bridget Terry Long (HGSE), and Michelle Williams (HSPH) as well as Chief of Staff Patricia Bellinger (President's Office). At the event, Dean Bridget Terry Long talked about her origins and Dean Tomiko Brown-Nagin talked about her vision for the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study. Dr. John Silvanus Wilson (HGSE) attended the event as well and spoke briefly about the University-wide work on Inclusion and Belonging. As Dr. Wilson neared the end of his speech the lights went out in the room, then he stated that he’ll take that as his cue to end his speech, and the crowd erupted in laughter and applause. Shirley Greene, the Associate Dean of Students, closed the event by urging everyone to “reach back.” The event was organized by Pamela A. Mason (HGSE and Co-Chair of ABFAF), Andrea Kelton-Harris (FAS and Co-Chair of ABFAF), Shirley Greene (DCE) and Andrena Mason (HGSE). The event was held in Longfellow Hall at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Faculty Co-Chair Pamela Mason, Graduate School of Education Senior Lecturer on Education Director, Language and Literacy Program Jeanne Chall Reading Lab The Partnership for Just Educators Staff Co-Chair Andrea Kelton-Harris, Faculty of Arts and Sciences Director for Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Belonging Treasurer Shirley Green, Division of Continuing Education Associate Dean of Students Harvard Black Alumni Society http://hbas.sigs.harvard.edu Harvard Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging https://dib.harvard.edu/ Harvard University Disability Resources https://accessibility.harvard.edu/ The Center for Workplace Development https://hr.harvard.edu/learning-development The Harvard Foundation for Intercultural and Race Relations https://harvardfoundation.fas.harvard.edu The Hutchins Center for African & African American Research https://hutchinscenter.fas.harvard.edu/home The Office of Faculty Development & Diversity https://faculty.harvard.edu The Office for Gender Equity https://oge.harvard.edu/ ************************** Harvard Equity, Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Resources FAS Office for Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging https://odib.fas.harvard.edu/ FAS Division of Science Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging https://dib.science.fas.harvard.edu/ GSAS Office of Diversity and Minority Affairs https://gsas.harvard.edu/student-life/harvard-resources/office-diversity-and-minority-affairs Harvard University Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging https://dib.harvard.edu/ HGSE Diversity and Inclusion https://osa.gse.harvard.edu/diversity-and-inclusion HKS Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging (ODIB) https://www.hks.harvard.edu/more/about/diversity-inclusion-and-belonging/office-diversity-inclusion-and-belonging HSDM Office of Diversity and Inclusion https://hsdm.harvard.edu/office-diversity-inclusion HSPH Office of Diversity and Inclusion https://www.hsph.harvard.edu/diversity/ SEAS Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging https://www.seas.harvard.edu/office-diversity-inclusion-and-belonging/committee-dib ERGs About the Employee Resource Groups Association of Black Faculty, Administrators, and Fellows (ABFAF) Association of Harvard Asian and Asian American Faculty and Staff (AHAAAFS) Association of Harvard Latinx Faculty and Staff (AHLFS) Committee on the Concerns of Women (CCW) Harvard LGBTQ+ Faculty and Staff (QERG) Contact Us For questions or inquiries, please email us. Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement