Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today Work at KU Search form Search this site Home Job Searches Staff Students Faculty, Lecturers, and Academic Staff How to Apply FAQs Total Rewards Why KU? Diversity Contact Us Menu Home Job Searches Staff Students Faculty, Lecturers, and Academic Staff How to Apply FAQs Total Rewards Why KU? Diversity Contact Us Search Search form Search this site Home How to Apply How to Apply Searching for Job Openings Open positions are available online for prospective applicants to search and apply 24/7 at your desktop or mobile device by accessing the Employment.ku.edu web page. Job listings are posted in real time and are made available to applicants at the time in which they are opened. Enhance the search experience by utilizing the following tips: Narrow search demographics by selecting the job category you are interested in (i.e., Faculty, Staff, or Student Jobs). Use key words to identify specific positions Filter or Sort by Temporary or Regular (Benefits Eligible) positions Filter or Sort by Posting Date to see the newest postings Note that any posting denoted as a “Pool” accepts applications on ongoing basis and positions are filled as needed. *Kiosks are available at the Office of Human Resource Management for anyone interested in searching and applying for job openings. If you don’t find the perfect position opening, interested applicants can create a profile within the Applicant system without applying for a specific position. Your search history and preferences will be saved for you to access at another time. Helpful Application Tips Only candidates meeting Required Qualifications as identified in the position opening will be advanced for further screening. Develop a cover letter which identifies how you meet required and preferred qualifications as listed. Ensure that your candidate profile information is up-to-date and correct. Review the application instructions closely to ensure everything requested is attached. If the salary range for a position opening is identified, confirm that it meets your personal salary requirements. If you do not have an email address, you will be required to create one so you can have a valid profile and receive updates on your application’s process. Virtual Interview Tips & Tours Human Resource Management has developed a tip sheet Take a virtual tour of the Lawrence campus Take a virtual tour of the Lawrence & Campus community Human Resource Management Recruitment Office A representative from our recruitment team is available to answer any questions, assist with an accommodation request during the application or interview process, and help with any application issues you may have experienced. Information about the status of your application can be viewed by logging into your applicant profile at any time. Human Resource Management 1246 W. Campus Road, Room 101 Carruth O’Leary Hall Lawrence, KS 66045 785-864-4946 or employ@ku.edu 8 a.m. – 5 p.m., Monday – Friday (excluding observed holidays) FAQs Other Employment at KU Athletics KU Dining and KU Memorial Unions Endowment Alumni KUMC Off-Campus Student Employment Related Links Employment Posters Human Resources Immigration Related Notices Institutional Opportunity & Access KUMC Human Resources About the Area Friendly folks. A big city vibe. Discover all that’s great about Lawrence. Lawrence, Kan. A beautiful, hilly campus is just one reason why Jayhawks fall in love with KU. Find out more. The University Contact Work at KU employ@ku.edu 785-864-4946 1246 West Campus Road, Room 103 Carruth O'Leary Hall The University of Kansas Lawrence, Kansas 66045-7521 Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login The annual security report about KU safety policies, crime statistics, and campus resources is available online at http://ku.edu/safety, or on paper by contacting the [Office of the Vice Provost of Student Affairs (previously Dean of Students)], 133 Strong Hall, (785) 864-4060.