Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today Work at KU Search form Search this site Home Job Searches Staff Students Faculty, Lecturers, and Academic Staff How to Apply FAQs Total Rewards Why KU? Diversity Contact Us Menu Home Job Searches Staff Students Faculty, Lecturers, and Academic Staff How to Apply FAQs Total Rewards Why KU? Diversity Contact Us Search Search form Search this site Home Diversity A Diverse and Inclusive Workplace At the University of Kansas, we celebrate and value differences in perspectives, experiences and cultures. They strengthen and enrich the educational and work life experience across our campuses and the communities in which we serve. KU provides a variety of services and resources designed to promote diversity, equal opportunity, equitable access, engaged learning and inclusion. Learn more about KU’s mission, vision and provided resources through the following offices: KU Office of Diversity and Equity Accessible KU KU Center for Sexuality and Gender Diversity Office of Multicultural Affairs Lt. Gen. William K. Jones Military-Affiliated Student Center Other Employment at KU Athletics KU Dining and KU Memorial Unions Endowment Alumni KUMC Off-Campus Student Employment Related Links Employment Posters Human Resources Immigration Related Notices Institutional Opportunity & Access KUMC Human Resources About the Area Friendly folks. A big city vibe. Discover all that’s great about Lawrence. Lawrence, Kan. A beautiful, hilly campus is just one reason why Jayhawks fall in love with KU. Find out more. The University Contact Work at KU employ@ku.edu 785-864-4946 1246 West Campus Road, Room 103 Carruth O'Leary Hall The University of Kansas Lawrence, Kansas 66045-7521 Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login The annual security report about KU safety policies, crime statistics, and campus resources is available online at http://ku.edu/safety, or on paper by contacting the [Office of the Vice Provost of Student Affairs (previously Dean of Students)], 133 Strong Hall, (785) 864-4060.