Skip to Main Content University of Nebraska-Lincoln Employment Website Toggle navigation Home Search Jobs Log In /Create Account Help Thank you for your interest in the University of Nebraska-Lincoln. We are the flagship and land-grant university for Nebraska. Diversity and inclusion are central to our mission and pursuit of excellence. Explore opportunities to join our work in scholarship and creativity to forge new paths for Nebraska and the world. Learn more about our university Explore the Lincoln community See our commitment to inclusion Review employment benefits View faculty positions View managerial / professional positions View office / service positions View other campus positions More about the University University Fact Book Academic Affairs Institute of Agriculture and Research Office of Research and Economic Development Sustainability at Nebraska Employment Opportunities at other University of Nebraska campuses More about Nebraska Visit Nebraska Nebraska Innovation Campus Nebraska.gov Nebraska Department of Economic Development Application Resources & Hiring Practices Job Seekers FAQ Find answers to common questions when seeking employment at the University. PDF document Pay Transparency Policy Statement The University of Nebraska-Lincoln will not discharge or in any other manner discriminate against employees or applicants because they have inquired about, discussed, or disclosed their own pay or the pay of another employee or applicant. However, employees who have access to the compensation information of other employees or applicants as a part of their essential job functions cannot disclose the pay of other employees or applicants to individuals who do not otherwise have access to compensation information, unless the disclosure is: in response to a formal complaint or charge in furtherance of an investigation, proceeding, hearing, or action, including an investigation conducted by the employer consistent with the contractor’s legal duty to furnish information Campus Security and Fire Safety Report In compliance with the Clery Act the University of Nebraska-Lincoln publishes an annual safety report. This report contains policy statements, how to report crimes, on and off campus resources available to crime victims, UNL’s crime and fire statistics, campus safety and drugs/alcohol programs, fire safety information, and other campus security and safety facts. If desired, a free paper copy can be requested from the UNLPD at 300 N. 17th or via email. Hiring Practices Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) & Non-discrimination The Office of Institutional Equity and Compliance ensures that equal employment and non discriminatory hiring practices are observed at the University. EEO Statement Non-discrimination statement Veteran Preference All positions opened at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln are subject to veterans' preference. E-Verify The University participates in the E-Verify Program. E-Verify is an internet-based system that allows businesses to determine the eligibility of their employees to work in the United States. Connect with #UNL UNLincoln on Facebook @UNLincoln on Twitter UNL on YouTube @unlincoln on Instagram University of Nebraska–Lincoln on LinkedIn unlincoln on Pinterest UNLincoln on Snapchat unlincoln on Spotify Campus Links Directory Employment Events Libraries Maps Office of the Chancellor Nebraska Today Policies Emergency Planning and Preparedness Institutional Equity and Compliance Notice of Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Student Information Disclosures TIPS Incident Reporting University of Nebraska–Lincoln About the Big Ten Conference © 2017 University of Nebraska–Lincoln · 402-472-7211 University of Nebraska System To ensure the security of your data, you will be logged out due to inactivity in 3 minutes at . Any data not saved will be lost. Click 'OK' to keep your session active.