Skip to main content OSU Extension and Engagement Employee Intranet Search Main navigation Employee Resources 4-H Extension Communications Employee Lifecycle Management DEI Tech Help Home COVID-19 resources for OSU Extension Current guidance for OSU Extension employees BEaver Healthy. We are confident we can continue to offer in-person and onsite activities with the many plans and tools in place to help reduce the risk and spread of COVID-19. If you have symptoms of COVID-19, stay home; avoid close contact with others; and contact a health care provider. Be informed of OSU's positive case notification protocol and quarantine and isolation guidelines. Stay informed via emails from OSU and OSU Extension leadership. Key points are repeated on this page. Contact your supervisor with any questions or concerns. See OSU Safety and Success website Photo by Ann Murphy, Oregon State University (Cropped from original) Help create a culture of care in OSU Extension See current Extension operations guidance Continue vaccine outreach and education efforts OSU Extension operations OSU and Extension leadership continue to communicate updates via email, and we repeat key points on this page. See also latest university updates and FAQs. Overall operations and policies OSU's COVID-19 Safety and Success Policy applies to all university employees, students, contractors, volunteers, and visitors on university-owned or -controlled property or engaging in OSU activities while interacting in-person with others outside of their household. When the OSU policy differs from local, state or federal mandates, the more restrictive requirements apply. OSU will continue to follow federal, state and local health authority requirements and guidance, including OHA summer and youth programs public health recommendations. Be familiar with OSU's positive case notification protocol and quarantine and isolation guidance. Supervisors and supervisory teams will continue to work with employees on unit- and location-specific procedures, programming decisions and plans for onsite work and remote work arrangements. Requirements and guidance for Extension programming, activities and events Programming and services may be offered onsite, virtually and in hybrid formats as appropriate. Be flexible, and be prepared to adapt your plans as conditions change. Keep using robust public health measures to help protect yourselves and your participants. Each measure adds a layer of protection and reduces the likelihood of COVID-19 spread. OSU Extension will continue to follow university policy and guidance as well as federal, state and local health authority requirements and guidance including OHA requirements for youth programs. This applies when planning, delivering and considering participation in all programming, events and activities (OSU and partner events). When doing programming in schools, follow the school's requirements and continue to adhere to OSU policy and requirements. If you are concerned about participation in a partner's activity, speak with your supervisor as a first step. Reminders: OSU vaccination program, face coverings and travel Vaccination requirement: The OSU COVID-19 Vaccination Program Requirement applies to all university employees and students. Unvaccinated employees and students required to comply with the university’s vaccination program – and who work or are enrolled on the Corvallis or OSU-Cascades campuses – will be required to test weekly for COVID-19. This does not apply to employees who work at other OSU locations. Face coverings: Beginning March 12, 2022, in most OSU settings, masks will be welcomed, but not required. For details, refer to OSU's Face Covering Guidance. Travel: OSU-sponsored travel resumed beginning June 1. Employees should use standard process and approval procedures. Resources to support you Here are templates and guidance to support continuity of Extension and engagement operations. See also the university's FAQs. COVID-19 OSU Policy and guidance links Policy, compliance and guidance resources OSU COVID-19 Safety and Success Policy OSU Vaccination Program Requirement OSU Positive Case notification OSU quaranatine and isolation guidelines OSU In-Person Event Planning Guidelines OHA Summer and Youth Programs Public Health Recommendations Contact tracing template Extension and Engagement Division Remote Work Principles University Human Resources guidance Supervisor and employee guidance at a glance HR resources for employees and supervisors (FAQs, checklists, forms, information session recordings/slides) IT checklist for returning to the office (and printable version) COVID-19 Communication toolkit and templates (including office signage) Office signage and other tools for "masks welcome, not required" OSU masks welcome, not required signage (English and Bilingual Spanish and English) Masks welcome, not required message document (can help guide your communications and conversations) OSU masks welcome, not required video OSU Brand Tookits (Fall 2021) Resumption toolkit and templates "BE..." campaign templates "BE Vaccinated" templates Public emergency wifi access We publish the visitor wifi network across all of our sites and this could be used by students to support virtual learning and other community members in need. Sign templates (can customize with your hours or local instructions) Public emergency wifi access (English) Public emergency wifi access (Spanish) Use only if your location is officially approved to provide this. Supervisors are coordinating with OSU Extension leadership and IT to determine if a location can safely and technically provide this option. Questions? Contact Lucas Turpin. Sharing stories of Extension's impact, value and relevance OSU Extension news stories (Share with your networks. Help amplify these when you see them shared on OSU Extension's social media.) OSU Extension marketing templates, tools and inspiration COVID-19 leave OSU is providing faculty, staff, graduate assistants and student employees an additional block of 80 hours of paid COVID-19 leave (pro-rated to FTE). For more information, please visit the University Human Resources website. COVID-19 reporting and tracking Tracking programming we are doing Faculty Success (formerly Digital Measures) is the tool to capture what we are doing in this time. If you adapt or modify a program offering, enter the word “covid” in the “Description of Non-Credit Instruction” field along with a short explanation. The word can appear anywhere in the description. Example: “Due to COVID-19, I made the program free and offered it via Zoom and 75 people attended, instead of the usual 20." At a later date, we will most likely be asked to provide the impacts of COVID-19 on our programming. By adding “covid” as our searchable term, the process of generating reports will be quick and easy. Find instructions to report COVID-related efforts in the Faculty Success training resources for Extension and Engagement. Financial expenses and loss See "Financial tracking" section below. COVID-19 training (for employees and volunteers) Effective May 28, 2021: COVID-19 training for employees and volunteers will no longer be required. All employees are reminded to review and comply with applicable sector, OHA, and OSHA guidance. Additionally, offices can continue to post up-to-date signage reminding employees, volunteers, and visitors of recommended practices which will contribute to the safety and well-being of all. Finances (expenses, lost revenue) Contact Tiffany Gillis, OSU Extension Fiscal Officer, with financial questions related to COVID-19 expenses or lost revenue. Internal communiction We continue to focus use of the all-Extension (OES State) listserv for organization-wide update messages from the Director’s office and other such communications. If you have information, opportunities, bright spots or shout-outs to share with with all Extension colleagues, you can: Submit to ConnEXTion e-news or First Monday Update. Share in the OSU Extension Teams group. Contact Jennifer Alexander to discuss other options. Key messages, communication guidance It is important to communicate with participants, community members and stakeholders about our policies and decisions clearly, consistently and with confidence. Here are communication tips you may find helpful. Key messages: OSU Extension is committed to providing information and expertise to help meet local challenges and help every Oregonian thrive. Safety and health of our employees, volunteers, learners and communities is a top priority. We are confident we can continue to offer in-person and onsite activities with the many plans and tools in place to help reduce the risk and spread of COVID-19. In keeping with OSU policy and [[relevant federal/state/local]] guidance, we have decided to… [[This action]] helps us reduce risk and spread of COVID-19 while allowing us to continue [[purpose/outcome of the activity]] The pandemic continues to evolve, and we are adapting to changing conditions as we plan and deliver Extension programming and services. Consider how you represent OSU Extension: When writing and speaking, consider how your tone can be: Collaborative (better together) In consultation with [[partners/stakeholders/health authorities]], we have decided to… Helpful (focused on meeting needs of our communities) Thank you for the invitation to present at this event. While I’m unable to attend in person, I would be glad to [[present virtually, share online or hard copy resources, consider a future date, etc.]] Conscientious (Aware, with integrity and conviction) Changing this event to [[new format]] will help reduce risk and spread of COVID-19 while allowing us to continue [[purpose/outcome of the activity]] Vaccination (including a booster) remains the best protection against serious illness or death from COVID-19. If asked to speak about OSU’s response, planning and policies: Refer to OSU’s COVID-19 Safety and Success website. Refer media questions about OSU’s plans to Steve Clark, 541-737-3808. Each situation is unique. If you need more support and guidance: Consult with your supervisor or supervisory team (program leader/regional director) when making and communicating decisions. If your team needs additional communications guidance for a specific situation, contact Jennifer Alexander, Extension Communications Director. To consult about media relations, contact Chris Branam, Extension Communications public issues leader. Message reviews: The purpose of message review and communication consults is to ensure alignment with the university and consistency within Extension. If you are sending a message (such as an email, update in a newsletter, etc.) and would like a quick check for alignment and general communication feedback, please contact Jennifer Alexander. Prior review is not mandatory, but can be helpful for all to stay aligned and informed. This is especially important if you are including language about the university's COVID-19 plans, policies and responses. Program change/cancellation notification Method of program change notification It is important that updates about the status of events and other programming be consistent across all channels. Pick one place (such as the event listing on the Extension website) to be the primary source of updates and direct people there when changes are announced via email, social media, or other channels. Alternate content for canceled events In the event that programming must be canceled, we encourage you to share with participants any online resources Extension has available about the topic. Work with your content team to create or revise content. (Not sure who that is? Check the group contact dashboard in the Extension website. Or send a support ticket and we’ll connect you with the right team.) Social media Tookits and ready-made graphics OSU "BE..." Campaign and "BE Vaccinated" social media templates Vaccine outreach and education: See vaccine community outreach section below Social media guidelines for county/program OSU Extension accounts DO share OSU's posts as applicable for your audience. DO share OSU Extension's posts, or adapt these to your local/program context. DO use social media as a way to maintain engagement with audiences, as appropriate. DO keep sharing about your programs, people and activities. DO keep sharing Extension’s science- and evidence-based content. DO help your audiences access credible information on COVID-19 directly from CDC, OHA or other sources. See also OSU's social media policies, which include guidance on dealing with negative comments. OSU Extension website guidelines and COVID-related updates Requests, questions or guidance Please submit a web support request. Multiple people monitor this system. This assists with quickly routing requests to the appropriate individual to assist or advise. Here’s what we continue to manage centrally as needed: Statewide/sitewide alerts (top banner announcements) Notices of statewide requirements that apply at all locations (e.g., face coverings required) Curating public-facing COVID-19 topic page (content authors can use this tag, and Extension Communications curates the page in collaboration with the FCH content team and EXCITE grant team) Curated and featured content on OSU Extension homepage Automated view of online events (be sure to check the "online" box when adding an event) Updates: March 12, 2022: Removed face covering notice from event listings on OSU Extension website and visitor information section of OSU Extension county webpages. Aug. 17, 2021: Notice of the face covering requirement and policy link added to all event listings on the OSU Extension website and to the “Visitor information” section of all OSU Extension county webpages. June 30, 2021 COVID-19 Advisory emergency announcement and OSU Extension resumption page archived on the Extension website. May 12, 2021 Information about federal broadband internet access subsidies added to the Extension website Feb 4, 2021 Vaccine eligibility information announcements were posted on all county pages and expired June 30, 2021 March 2020-June 2021: OSU Extension resumption page, status map maintained July 27, 2020 Navigator blog post: COVID-19 resources for the pandemic and beyond A roundup of resources created to support OSU Extension faculty and staff during the pandemic and remind us of how these can continue to benefit us going forward April 21, 2020 Navigator blog post: Sharing on the website all that Extension is doing Guidelines and examples and considerations to get you started and coordinated related to: Prepping recordings, Program pages, County pages March 17, 2020 Navigator blog post: What’s new on the website and what you can do with it A quick overview of new features as well as tips about COVID-19 related updates and content on the website Reintegration: A path forward for OSU Extension In April 2021, Interim Vice Provost Anita Azarenko tasked a small and representative group to provide support to Extension’s efforts and plans as we begin to reintegrate into a post-pandemic society and workplace. In May, Extension employees were invited to complete a survey to help inform this work. Overall themes were: Childcare is a challenge and major planning factor for employees Flexibility in the work environment is valued and highly desired We should continue to build on lessons learned in both program delivery and operations—including leveraging technology to increase efficiency, reach and access. Many of the sentiments that emerged in this survey are consistent with needs and considerations being raised by others in the OSU community. We hear you. In parallel with our efforts to resume traditional on-site operations, Extension and university leaders will continue assessing and working to design flexible learning and work approaches. There were 182 respondents and more than 800 responses to open-ended questions. Thank you for your candor, your time and sharing your perspectives and experiences in this survey. See the reintegration survey results Extension's role in vaccine outreach and education OSU Extension supports COVID-19 and vaccine community outreach CDC vaccine toolkits Oregon Health Authority resources DEI and other specific audiences General messaging tips OSU Extension continues to work closely with local partners to reduce the risk and spread of COVID-19 in Oregon communities. This includes sharing research-based information and resources related to COVID-19 vaccine distribution and ongoing public health measures. There is an ongoing need to: Build knowledge, confidence, and participation in COVID-19 vaccinations; Share information about vaccine eligibility and access; and Promote continued personal and public health measures (like handwashing, face coverings, and physical distancing). Browse the outreach materials and sample messages in the various tabs above. CDC vaccine toolkits Oregon Health Authority resources DEI and other specific audiences information General messaging tips Use as part of your regular conversations, newsletters or social media posting. Take time at the start of your events or insert along with other information provided during consultations. Also, use these resources to provide science-based information and address common concerns when questions come up. Extension professionals, as trusted partners in your communities, are uniquely positioned to extend information to your participants, volunteers, stakeholders and community members. It’s important to work closely with your community partners—especially local public health authorities—in doing this. Extension website COVID-19 topic page Also direct people to the Extension website's coronavirus topic page to find resources on health and wellness, latest announcements and other support we provide during the pandemic. Go to the Topic Page The CDC toolkits provide a great resource for those working with industries and businesses (farms, ranches, fishers, packing plants, grocers, etc.). Sharing these posters and information with your partners is an easy way to get the information out to the communities we serve. From posters to presentations to social media toolkits, the CDC offers these customizable resources to get information out to essential workers and organizations serving communities affected by COVID-19. Resources for organizations serving communities Download essential workers resources Vaccinate with confidence campaign Check out collection of communications and social media resources, organized by the OHA containing accurate, reliable messaging on COVID-19 vaccines. Resources are tailored for specific audiences and available in several languages. Some are even county specific. Subscribe for COVID-19 Health Talking Points from OHA to receive frequent updates and talking points. Visit OHA's vaccine webpage COVID-19 safety and vaccination videos for Spanish and Mam speakers Informative COVID-19 safety and vaccination videos for Spanish and Mam speakers are available in Box. The videos were created by Juntos en Colaboración in Lincoln County, a partnership between Lincoln County Health and Human Services, Olalla Center, OSU Extension and community members. If you are interested in editing the videos to include local resources, please contact Victor Villegas. If you serve Mam-speaking community members, the Colaboración is able to assist with editing/translating the Mam videos . The videos are also available on YouTube. Have you seen the music video of “La Vacuna” produced by Olalla Center? Please share it. Please share these short videos “Preguntas al Dr. Nieto” (Questions for Dr. Nieto). Dr. Javier Nieto, Dean of the OSU College of Public Health and Human Sciences, responds to vaccine related questions, including: Preguntas al Dr. Nieto: ¿Es seguro vacunarse si estoy tomando medicamentos? (is it safe to get vaccinated if I am taking medications?) Preguntas al Dr. Nieto: ¿Cuáles son los efectos secundarios de la vacuna COVID-19? (what are the side effects of the COVID 19 vaccine?) Preguntas al Dr. Nieto: Si ya he tenido el Covid ¿Por qué debo que vacunarme? (If you already had Covid – why should you get vaccinated?) Preguntas al Dr. Nieto ¿De qué está hecha la vacuna? (What is the vaccine made of?) Preguntas al Dr. Nieto: ¿Es segura la vacuna si tengo otro enfermedad? (Is the vaccine safe if I have a preexisting illness?) Hispanic community vaccine toolkit If you are building your own creative campaign, you can review the Ad Council's latest audience insights and adapt its messaging guidelines to create motivating messaging for Hispanic audiences. If you are looking for existing assets to use in your campaign, check out its shareable videos, social graphics, email templates, and PSAs. All assets are free for use. Access it now For Native American communities Social media toolkits, radio scripts and fact sheets with relevant messages to share with tribal members about vaccines and COVID-19. Download these useful resources For vaccine-hesitant parents Boost Oregon empowers people to make science-based vaccine decisions for themselves, their families, and the community through parent-led health education. Use their resources to address common concerns Covid-19 communication strategies for agricultural workers The National Center for Farmworker Health (NCFH) held a panel discussion, “Mass Media and Interpersonal Communication Strategies for Increasing Agricultural Worker Vaccine Confidence.” The recording of the session is available in English and Spanish as well as other helpful links and resources, including slides from the panelists. Sign up Boletin to get weekly updates on the NCFH’s farmworker-related COVID-19 efforts. NCFH and other organizations have compiled culturally tailored information sheets, testimonial videos and more on their webpage. Access their information Radio spots (public service announcements) OSU Extension and Next Door Inc. have collaborated on Public Service Announcements in the Gorge. Check out the three radio spots (in MP3 audio files) promoting the Covid vaccine. Economic recovery Hug your grandchildren Getting back to normal Letters to the editor Letters to the editor in your local or regional newspaper are a great way to reach a large audience with your message. They are published on the editorial page, which is one of the most read sections in the paper. Each paper has its own word limits and rules, so make sure you check with your paper to see what their specific guidelines are and tailor your letter to meet those. Generally, they are very short (150-200 words) and respond to an article in the paper or a current news event. You should share your own particular experience or expertise on the issue about which you are writing. Write it in your own words. This template for the COVID-19 vaccines can be used as a jumping off point for a positive, solution-focused letter. Personalize it and make it your own, or share with partners who may want to do the same. We Can Do This Campaign A national HHS COVID-19 public education initiative to increase public confidence in COVID-19 vaccines while reinforcing basic prevention measures such as mask wearing and social distancing. The campaign resources are available in several languages and for multiple audiences. Learn more To communicate effectively Clear language that can be used when communicating with people who are mistrustful about vaccines. Also offers guidance for bringing racial equity forward. Put into practice these communication tips Changing the COVID conversation The de Beaumont Foundation provides messaging and language that to build support for public health measures and confidence in COVID vaccines, including their “cheat sheet” you can download below. Language that Works to Improve Vaccine Acceptance Answering FAQs about COVID This Washington Post article from January 31, 2022 answers lots of questions we all have about COVID. Read it online Stay informed: Resources to share In line with Extension's value of credibility, we encourage you to use and share information from trusted sources and serve as a conduit to help people access credible resources. OHA COVID-19 Vaccine Information OHA COVID-19 Information CDC COVID-19 info Was this helpful? YesNo Send feedback Copyright © 2022 Oregon State University Contact Us 541-737-2713 Report a website issue Disclaimer/Privacy Equal Opportunity/Accessibility External menu Log in