Skip to main content Employee Resources for Conflict Resolution   Office and Employees Served Description Contact Office of the Ombuds All Employees Confidential, impartial, informal, and independent resource to assist employees navigating concerns or conflict in the workplace. What we do: Listen to issues and concerns Help identify a range of options for problem-solving Answer questions or make appropriate referrals Offer information about CSU policies and procedures Facilitate communication between people Conflict coaching Informally mediate disputes Melissa Emerson, University Ombuds 316 General Services 6006 Campus Delivery Phone: (970) 491-1527 Email: melissa.emerson@colostate.edu Web: https://ombuds.colostate.edu Kathy Rickard, Faculty Ombuds Phone: (970) 491-5121 Email: kathryn.rickard@colostate.edu Web: https://ombuds.colostate.edu Vice Provost for Faculty Affairs Faculty Confidential resource for faculty and department chairs/heads for work related issues and conflicts. Facilitator of positive resolution of conflict. Sue James Phone: (970) 491-0212 Email: susan.james@colostate.edu Web: https://provost.colostate.edu Employee Assistance Program (EAP) All Employees On-site coordination: Faculty, Staff, Administrative Professionals, and Non-Student Hourly Offers coordination of counseling services, crisis intervention, traumatic event debriefing, departmental support, management consultation, and training. ComPsych: All CSU Employees and Graduate Assistants 3rd party confidential support offering counseling and guidance, legal and financial planning assistance, will writings, trainings, and work-life resources. ONSITE: Jan Pierce 555 S. Howes St. 6004 Campus Delivery Phone: (970) 491-3437 Email: jan.pierce@colostate.edu Web: https://hr.colostate.edu/employee-assistance-program ComPsych, 24 hours/day Phone: 1-800-497-9133 Web: https://guidanceresources.com Human Resources Employee Relations All Employees Offers consulting services to employees, supervisors and managers regarding: rule and policy interpretation leave coordination, including FMLA consultation performance management employee/supervisor conflict resolution workplace behavior consultations coaching training grievance process 555 S. Howes St., Suite 210 6004 Campus Delivery Phone: (970) 491-6947 Web: https://hr.colostate.edu/hr-community-and-supervisors/employee-relations Eric Ray Phone: (970) 491-0538 Email: eric.ray@colostate.edu University Grievance Officer Faculty and Administrative Professional Employees Administers procedures outlined in the Academic Faculty & Administrative Professional Manual Sections K, E.11, E.15, E.16, and E.17. Focuses on recommendations, actions, and decisions by supervisors and administrators that grievants believe are unfair, unreasonable, arbitrary, and/or capricious. Resolution can include conciliation, referral to other units, mediation, and/or a formal grievance hearing. Richard Eykholt Engineering D103 1875 Campus Delivery Phone: (970) 491-7366 Email: ugo@colostate.edu Web: https://www.universitygrievanceofficer.colostate.edu Office of Equal Opportunity All Employees and Students Information on discrimination, harassment and consensual relationships policies. Complaint procedures, including informal and formal resolution processes, for discrimination, harassment and retaliation. Evaluation and designation of disability status for employees. Facilitation of reasonable accommodations for employees with disabilities. Katherine Castaneda 101 Student Services 0160 Campus Delivery Phone: (970) 491-5836 Email: oeo@colostate.edu Web: https://oeo.colostate.edu Office for Inclusive Excellence All Employees Serve as a neutral resource for faculty and staff encountering work-related issues and conflicts related to diversity and inclusion. Respond to incidents of bias that are reported through the Bias Reporting System. Provide pro-active problem solving and serve as a referral to other campus resources as each situation dictates. Shannon Archibeque-Engle 645 S. Shields Ave. 0135 Campus Delivery Phone: (970) 491-2450 Email: shannon.archibeque-engle@colostate.edu Web: https://inclusiveexcellence.colostate.edu Student Resolution Center Students and Faculty Provides resources to students in conflict and to faculty/staff in matters involving students (e.g., grade disputes, disruptive behavior, supervision issues, grievances/complaints, classroom management, team dynamics, and advising challenges). Services include conflict coaching/consultation, social justice mediation, restorative justice, and educational presentations/training. Rahwa Woldeyesus 501 West Lake St., Suite A 8015 Campus Delivery Phone: (970) 491-7165 Email: rahwa.woldeyesus@colostate.edu Web: https://resolutioncenter.colostate.edu Student Case Management Students and Employees who are Students Student Case Management & Referral Coordination provides crisis prevention and intervention services. In difficult situations, such as medical, mental health, behavioral, personal or family crisis, illness, or injury, a student may find it difficult to navigate the resources and services available. Student Case Managers consult with students, faculty, staff, families, and providers to offer guidance on the next best steps. SNAP4Rams assists students and staff in applying for Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) benefits. Jennifer D. Van Norman 501 West Lake St., Office B 8051 Campus Delivery Phone: (970) 491-8051 Email: help4rams@colostate.edu Web: http://www.studentcasemanagement.colostate.edu SNAP4Rams Email: SNAP4Rams@colostate.edu Offi Colleges: Agricultural Sciences Business Walter Scott, Jr. College of Engineering Health and Human Sciences Liberal Arts Warner College of Natural Resources Natural Sciences Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences Schools & Programs: Graduate School International Programs Online Degrees and Courses School of Advanced Materials Discovery School of Music, Theatre and Dance School of Biomedical Engineering School of Education School of Global Environmental Sustainability School of Social Work School of Public Health Covid-19 Information Apply to CSU Contact CSU Disclaimer Equal Opportunity Privacy Statement Accessibility Statement © 2022 Colorado State University