Skip to Main Content Employment at Marquette Human Resources About Marquette Contact Human Resources Employment at Marquette Home Search Jobs Log In /Create Account Help Employee Benefits Diversity & Title IX Marquette News Campus Map Visit Marquette Be the difference. Welcome to Marquette University's Employment Homepage. The university's automated application system enables you to search for jobs and apply online. If you have questions, please feel free to email our employment team at humanresources@marquette.edu or call (414)288-7305. Marquette University does not discriminate in any manner contrary to law or justice on the basis of race, color, gender, age, sexual orientation, religion, disability, veteran's status or national origin in its educational programs or activities, including employment and admissions. At the same time, Marquette cherishes its right and duty to seek and retain personnel who will make a positive contribution to its religious character, goals and mission in order to enhance the Catholic, Jesuit tradition. Marquette University prohibits discrimination and harassment, including sexual harassment and sexual violence. Report sex discrimination, sexual harassment, or sexual violence to Kristen Kreple, Title IX Coordinator: Alumni Memorial Union, Room 437, P.O. Box 1881, Milwaukee, WI 53201-1881, (414) 288-3151, kristen.kreple@marquette.edu. Marquette University’s non-discrimination policy is available online at https://www.marquette.edu/tools/non-discrimination.php. Marquette University hires only U.S. citizens and aliens lawfully authorized for work, and require all new employees to submit documents necessary for certification of work eligibility under Federal Law. Marquette University publishes the Safety Resources Guide, a booklet which includes campus crime statistics and crime prevention strategies. A copy can be downloaded https://www.marquette.edu/mupd/crime-data.php. Printed copies are available from the Marquette University Police Department or by calling (414) 288-7320. Search Jobs New Users To search positions, click the Search Jobs. To apply for a job, click the Create Account link, then follow the directions. Returning Users Click Login, and enter your username and password © 2013 Marquette University, "Be The Difference" is registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. To ensure the security of your data, you will be logged out due to inactivity in 3 minutes at . Any data not saved will be lost. Click 'OK' to keep your session active.