Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search Harvard Human Resources | HARVARD.EDU Home HARVie Search ERGs About the Employee Resource Groups Association of Black Faculty, Administrators, and Fellows (ABFAF) Association of Harvard Asian and Asian American Faculty and Staff (AHAAAFS) Association of LatinX Faculty and Staff at Harvard (AHLFS) Harvard LGBTQ+ Faculty and Staff (QERG) Committee on the Concerns of Women (CCW) ERG Council Events News Resources Career & Talent Mobility HOME / ERGS / Association of Harvard Asian and Asian American Faculty and Staff (AHAAAFS) Mission and Goals Executive Committee Calendar of Events Resources As one of the Employee Resource Groups, the Association of Harvard Asian and Asian American Faculty and Staff (AHAAAFS) was established to provide opportunities for networking, career development, awareness, and support for Asian, Asian American, and Pacific Islander faculty and staff. It also serves as a resource for the larger Asian and Asian American community at Harvard. All staff and faculty are welcome to participate in AHAAAFS events and activities. To stay up-to-date and hear about upcoming events, please join our mailing list. https://web.calists.harvard.edu/mailman/listinfo/ahaaafs Varsha Ghosh, Co-Chair, Director, Faculty of Arts & Science Margaret Okada-Scheck, Co-Chair, Harvard Divinity School Joanne Kang, Institutional Research Analyst, School of Engineering and Applied Science Ellen Tang, Assistant Director, Graduate School of Design Ngoc Tang, Senior Diversity Talent Consultant, Harvard Human Resources Stephanie Yun, Assistant Director, Harvard Kennedy School Harvard University, Office of the Assistant to the President for Institutional Diversity and Equity The Office of the Assistant to the President, established in July 1971, is committed to ensuring that Harvard University selects faculty and staff without discriminating against individuals on the basis of race, color, sex, sexual orientation, religion, creed, national origin, age, veteran status, or disability unrelated to job requirements. The Office provides counsel to individuals who belong to the university community on these and other related matters. Harvard University, Office of Faculty Development and Diversity Our mission is to make the University a more welcoming and diverse institution by devising strategies for attracting exceptional scholars and nurturing their development. Harvard University Asia Center Generating and sharing knowledge about Asia in transnational and transregional perspective. Fostering teaching, collaboration, and innovation across and beyond cultural and disciplinary boundaries. The Harvard Foundation The Foundation seeks to involve students of all racial, ethnic, and cultural backgrounds in the ongoing enterprises of the University. The Foundation sponsors annual programs and activities that are designed to promote interracial and intercultural awareness and understanding in the Harvard community, as well as to highlight the cultural contributions of students from all backgrounds. Harvard Asian American Alumni Alliance Our mission is to foster and promote the global community of Harvard Asian alumni. ERGs About the Employee Resource Groups Association of Black Faculty, Administrators, and Fellows (ABFAF) Association of Harvard Asian and Asian American Faculty and Staff (AHAAAFS) Association of Harvard Latinx Faculty and Staff (AHLFS) Committee on the Concerns of Women (CCW) Harvard LGBTQ+ Faculty and Staff (QERG) Contact Us Subscribe to our mailing list Want to get involved? Serve as a member, volunteer, or leader to gain professional development, networking, and leadership opportunities. Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement