Facebook-f Twitter Youtube Search Home The Challenge Analytics Student Learning Outcomes We Teach Texas About Us Menu Home The Challenge Analytics Student Learning Outcomes We Teach Texas About Us What is EmpowerU? Creating a Culture of Student Completion & Equipping Educators Learn more The Challenge Every year, over 18,000 students enter The Texas A&M University System institutions as freshmen who are studying fulltime for their first time in college. Unfortunately, about one third of those students have not yet graduated six years later. It is our challenge to increase the percentage of completers within six years and thus decrease the percentage of those who do not complete. It is our challenge to assure that every student who does not complete has been provided every possible opportunity to be successful. Learn more Student Learning Outcomes Analytics The universities of the Texas A&M University System have developed and embrace a common set of student learning outcomes, and are dedicated to documenting, advocating, and facilitating the systematic use of learning outcomes assessment to improve student learning. A&M System members intentionally design learning experiences and assessment approaches that strengthen the outcomes for our diverse learners within a wide variety of institutional contexts. We are committed to responsible assessment practices that stress fairness and equity, and transparency. Learn more Total Student Enrollment All Universities - Fall Semester Learn more Every success story starts in the classroom. Become a teacher. The Texas A&M University System is committed to the development and implementation of outstanding PreK-12 teacher preparation programs that promote the achievement of all students. We prepare and support principals and superintendents to lead as proactive change agents in challenging environments, to inspire teachers to maintain uncompromising standards of excellence, and to serve as exemplars of the power of education to empower the leaders of tomorrow. 301 Tarrow Street, College Station, TX 77840 Phone: (979) 458-7401 E-mail: tamus-webmaster@tamus.edu Home The Challenge Analytics Student Learning Outcomes We Teach Texas About Us Menu Home The Challenge Analytics Student Learning Outcomes We Teach Texas About Us Copyright © 2022 The Texas A&M University System All rights reserved.