Skip to Main Content Brown University Health & Wellness Emergency Medical Services Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Campus Services Training Opportunities Working at BEMS Contact Us Search Health & Wellness Emergency Medical Services Training Opportunities Training Opportunities Brown University Emergency Medical Services (BEMS) offers EMT training as well as CPR and First Aid courses. Emergency Medical Services, known as EMS, has a highly visible but often misunderstood role in the healthcare system. EMS is out-of-hospital, or “prehospital” care. Emergency Medical Technicians (EMTs) provide emergency medical care wherever it is needed and transport patients to hospital facilities whenever definitive or specialized care is required. EMS is a rapidly evolving field — a unique intersection of healthcare, public safety and public health that demands a comprehensive educational experience. BEMS Prehospital Education Programs: EMT Course Back to Top This accredited EMT course prepares students according to National EMS Education Standards while also emphasizing the development of caregiver qualities appropriate for a global approach to community health. Students are exposed to a variety of simulated and real-life medical situations requiring critical thinking and decisive response. Challenges include ambulance operations and scene management, patient assessment, cardiac arrest management, airway management, injury and shock management, medication administration, and performance of all basic life support interventions for medical and trauma patients. Students who participate in all required course components and demonstrate proficiency in the above areas will receive a course completion certificate enabling them to take the National Registry of Emergency Medical Technicians (NREMT) certification exam. Certification by the NREMT is required for prehospital medical licensing in most U.S. states. Following Rhode Island statewide EMS protocols, EMTs are legally allowed and expected to perform routine care. This includes performing a primary or secondary assessment and obtaining vital signs, administering medication, transporting the patient to the nearest appropriate hospital emergency facility and more. RI EMS Protocols These protocols for emergency medical services in the state are established by the Rhode Island Department of Health and the Rhode Island Ambulance Service Coordinating Advisory Board. Learn more Course Components 140 classroom hours, including didactic and practical 20 clinical hours, including hospital and ambulance ride time Asynchronous learning modules, including weekly writing assignments and assessments Course Details The Brown EMS EMT course will resume in Summer 2023. CPR and First Aid Courses Back to Top CPR, or cardiopulmonary resuscitation, is an emergent and often lifesaving procedure performed on a person who goes into cardiac arrest. Immediate and high-quality CPR can double or triple the chance of survival after cardiac arrest. Learning CPR will prepare you to act quickly, confidently and effectively in the event of a cardiac emergency. BEMS delivers high-quality, budget-friendly and audience-appropriate CPR and first aid courses that meet the occupational needs and interests of Brown University departments, students and affiliates. Our CPR courses are offered a few times per month, or upon request for a group of five or more students. All of our instructors are student/non-student EMTs who work for Brown University EMS. They are all licensed as emergency medical providers in Rhode Island and are certified through the American Heart Association to teach CPR courses. For more information about the CPR training program, email bemscpr@brown.edu. Heartsaver CPR/AED Cost: $45 Duration: 2 hours Overview: Become certified and proficient in recognizing when individuals are in cardiac arrest and in administering high-quality CPR to adults, children and infants. Course Goals: Understand the purpose and use of an automated external defibrillator (AED) Properly apply an AED to a patient and deliver a shock Recognize when a patient is choking and utilize life-saving skills to intervene Heartsaver CPR/AED/First Aid Cost: $60 Duration: 3 hours Overview: Become certified and proficient in recognizing when individuals are in cardiac arrest and in administering high-quality CPR, as well as first aid, to adults, children and infants. Course Goals: Understand the purpose and use of an automated external defibrillator (AED) Properly apply an AED to a patient and deliver a shock Recognize when a patient is choking and utilize life-saving skills to intervene Recognize different medical and trauma emergencies and know how to provide first aid and potentially lifesaving treatment Gain first aid skills including: how to properly remove gloves, how to use an epinephrine auto-injector (e.g., EpiPen) and how to stop bleeding by applying direct pressure with pressure dressings Basic Life Support Provider Cost: $50 Duration: 3 hours Overview: The Basic Life Support Provider course is designed for healthcare providers only (e.g., EMS providers, lifeguards, CNAs, nurses, NPs, PAs and physicians). Participants will become certified and proficient in recognizing when individuals are in cardiac arrest and in administering high-quality CPR, as well as first aid, to adults, children and infants. Course Goals: Understand the purpose and use of an automated external defibrillator (AED) Properly apply an AED to a patient and deliver a shock Identify and check for a pulse prior to the start of CPR Use a bag-valve-mask device for ventilation delivery Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Campus Services Training Opportunities Working at BEMS Contact Us This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Training Opportunities Open details for Training Opportunities Bookmark this Page