Skip to Main Content Brown University Health & Wellness Emergency Medical Services Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Campus Services Training Opportunities Working at BEMS Contact Us Search Health & Wellness Emergency Medical Services Brown University Emergency Medical Services Brown University Emergency Medical Services provides 24/7 campus emergency care and medical assistance. Brown University Emergency Medical Services Brown University Emergency Medical Services provides 24/7 campus emergency care and medical assistance. Brown Emergency Medical Services (BEMS) is a blended volunteer/paid service licensed by the State of Rhode Island to provide 24/7 basic and advanced prehospital care to anyone requesting emergency aid through the Brown Communications Center. Our service area is the Brown campus or remote student or academic occupancies in the city of Providence. BEMS personnel are trained and equipped to provide the same level of services as other EMS agencies in Rhode Island, but BEMS is unique in its programs and mission as a collegiate ambulance corps. EMS is located in the Health & Wellness Center at 450 Brook Street. BEMS is staffed primarily by Brown students who are licensed prehospital providers including EMTs, advanced EMTs and paramedics. Students engage in both clinical and administrative partnerships with medical students or non-student professional staff promoting continuous skill and leadership development. This partnership extends beyond ambulance operations to ancillary services that support specific needs, such as event medical coverage or logistical support within the campus community. About BEMS Brown University Emergency Medical Services provides services on the Brown campus and for remote student or academic occupancies in Providence. BEMS Services Brown University Emergency Medical Services offers a variety of services to Brown University students. Contact Us Address 450 Brook St, Providence, RI 02906 Emergency Number 401-863-4111 Email brownems@brown.edu 1 of 6 Brown EMS students Maria Zou working a COVID shift at Minden Hall. During the shift, student EMS workers replenish the amenities in the rooms for students who need to be in isolation as well as deliver meals to students as well. 2 of 6 Brown EMS student Ana Malfa working a COVID shift at Minden Hall. 3 of 6 Students in the Brown Emergency Services program perform an ambulance check. 4 of 6 5 of 6 The BEMS situation room 6 of 6 The Respiratory Annex at Minden Hall Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Campus Services Training Opportunities Working at BEMS Contact Us This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Brown University Emergency Medical Services Open details for Brown University Emergency Medical Services Bookmark this Page