Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News Events Calendar Loading view. Events Search and Views Navigation Search Enter Keyword. Search for Events by Keyword. Find Events Hide filters Event Views Navigation List Filters Changing any of the form inputs will cause the list of events to refresh with the filtered results. Done Clear Featured Events: Open filter Close filter Remove filters Featured Events Close filter Show featured events only Calendars: Open filter Close filter Remove filters Calendars Close filter Event Types: Open filter Close filter Remove filters Event Types Close filter Featured Events| Remove filters Calendars| Remove filters Event Types| Remove filters Today Now Now - 2022-06-13 June 13 Select date. June 2022 Wed 1 January 10 - June 15 Introduction to ‘Omics: Applying ‘Omics to Your Research Virtual This online course covers the different 'omics areas, including their appropriate applications and experimental challenges. By the end of the course, participants understand the scope of 'omics research and methods in genomics, epigenomics, transcriptomics, proteomics, and metabolomics, know the importance of experiment design in 'omics research, and recognize the challenges and limitations of big data … Continue reading "Introduction to ‘Omics: Applying ‘Omics to Your Research" Wed 1 February 2 @ 9:00 am - June 15 @ 5:00 pm Fundamentals & Applications of Clinical and Translational Research (FaCToR) Virtual Fundamentals & Applications of Clinical and Translational Research (FaCToR) offers an overview of the concepts of clinical/translational research through the dynamic and interactive medium of online learning. As a selected participant of this online course, you will learn about the spectrum of clinical and translational research from first-in-human studies to healthcare interventions implemented on a … Continue reading "Fundamentals & Applications of Clinical and Translational Research (FaCToR)" Wed 1 June 1 - June 30 Pride Month Pride Month was created to commemorate the Stonewall Rebellion which took place on June 28, 1969, considered by historians to be the start of the modern LGBTQ+ movement. The month commemorates the progress of LGBTQ+ history and civil rights, and celebrates queer stories and excellence of the community. Learn more about Pride at Harvard. Wed 1 June 1 Summer Per-Credit Tuition Charges Posted Mon 6 June 6 June Session Courses Begin Mon 6 June 6 @ 8:45 am - 12:00 pm Exec. Ed Online: Leading in Health Systems Activating Transformational Change Virtual June 6 – 10, 2022 8:45am - 12:00pm ET A High-Impact Health Care Crisis Leadership Development Online Program The COVID-19 pandemic is the most dire public health crisis the global population has faced in recent times. Health care leaders are facing unprecedented pressure to effectively oversee response efforts, provide appropriate care – often with limited resources, support … Continue reading "Exec. Ed Online: Leading in Health Systems Activating Transformational Change" Mon 6 Featured Featured June 6 @ 12:00 pm - 1:00 pm Dismantling disinformation An on-demand video will be posted after the event. We’ve all seen the perils of disinformation. So, how do we combat it? This panel will explore concrete proposals for dismantling disinformation in communities, on social media, and through public policy and regulation. We’ll bring together experts from multiple fields — including communication, education, behavioral psychology, … Continue reading "Dismantling disinformation" Wed 8 Featured Featured June 8 @ 8:30 am - 4:30 pm The 23rd Annual Harvard Nutrition Obesity Symposium – The Neurobiology of Eating Behavior in Obesity: Mechanisms and Novel Therapeutics Virtual The Nutrition Obesity Research Center at Harvard (NORCH) and the Division of Nutrition at HMS (DON) invite you to attend our 23rd annual Harvard Nutrition Obesity Symposium. This year’s symposium will feature the latest research on a wide range of topics including appetite regulation, gut-brain communication, and mechanisms of surgical and non-surgical obesity interventions. The … Continue reading "The 23rd Annual Harvard Nutrition Obesity Symposium – The Neurobiology of Eating Behavior in Obesity: Mechanisms and Novel Therapeutics" Thu 9 June 9 @ 11:59 pm Last Date to Add/Drop/Change: June Session This is the last date that a student can add/drop/change ANY June course without permission. After this date, students can submit a petition to the Registrar’s Office via my.harvard to request a late drop, which will result in a WD (unless an exception is approved). Mon 13 June 13 @ 7:30 am - 6:30 pm Exec. Ed: Guidelines for Laboratory Design Health and Safety Considerations Longwood Campus June 13 – 17, 2022 Program Overview The design and construction of a laboratory, regardless of its use, involves many stakeholders. While providing a safe environment for laboratory users to perform their work is imperative, competing stakeholders’ needs often cause health and safety considerations to be overlooked. Participating in Guidelines for Laboratory Design: Health and Safety Considerations will help … Continue reading "Exec. Ed: Guidelines for Laboratory Design Health and Safety Considerations" Previous Events Today Next Events Featured Events Dismantling disinformation June 6 @ 12:00 pm - 1:00 pm The 23rd Annual Harvard Nutrition Obesity Symposium – The Neurobiology of Eating Behavior in Obesity: Mechanisms and Novel Therapeutics June 8 @ 8:30 am - 4:30 pm Harvard Chan C-CHANGE Youth Summit on Climate Change and Public Health July 24 - July 30 More events Other calendars Office of Faculty Affairs Department of Biostatistics Department of Environmental Health Department of Social and Behavioral Sciences Department of Molecular Metabolism Submit an event Have an event you would like to appear on this calendar? How to submit an event We want to hear from you The Department of Information Technology and the Office of Communications look forward to hearing your feedback on how we can improve the calendar experience for both visitors to our site and administrators who plan events. Provide feedback About the Events Calendar (beta) project Harvard Chan School on Twitter In the wake of a May 24 mass shooting at a Uvalde, Texas, elementary school that left 19 students and two teachers… https://t.co/x8GHo0fMZS RT @dengdiit: This week,I had the honor and responsibility of receiving a master’s degree in public health with concentration in health pol… RT @Harvard: “Don’t let your generation be defined by the pandemic. Let it be defined by public service,” said Attorney General Merrick Gar… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Looking for ways to take action on #climate? The Climate Health Organizing Fellowship trains health professionals to u… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Creativity is turning coal mines, landfills, and toxic waters into opportunities for #CleanEnergy. Your lights yearn to… RT @HarvardCenterHH: What is the relationship between #technology and #happiness? This @Forbes article offers potential considerations, wit… Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College