Skip to Main Content Brown University Health & Wellness Emergency Medical Services Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Campus Services Training Opportunities Working at BEMS Contact Us Search Health & Wellness Emergency Medical Services Campus Services Campus Services Brown University Emergency Medical Services offers a variety of services to Brown University students. Brown University Emergency Medical Services (BEMS) provides basic and advanced emergency medical care for medical emergencies, available by calling the Brown emergency number at 401-863-4111. The organization also provides a range of other services, including support specific to COVID-19 isolation and quarantine. For the most up to date resources related to COVID-19, visit healthy.brown.edu. Non-Emergency Transports for Appointments Back to Top If you are unable to take the shuttle due to illness or injury but need to get to Health Services, BEMS can provide a ride. Call the Brown Department of Public Safety (DPS) non-emergency number at 401-863-3322 to request EMS 30 minutes before your appointment. Be sure to have the name of your Health Services provider available. Transportation from the Hospital Back to Top Students who are COVID-positive or have been evaluated for COVID-19 will be transported back to campus by the BEMS non-medical vehicle. To get a ride home, please call DPS at 401-863-3322 and request BEMS for transport from the given hospital to a location within the campus area. In most situations, students take a taxi home from the hospital, but students with COVID-related conditions should utilize BEMS for this. Cost of EMS Services Back to Top There are no out-of-pocket or insurance billing costs for BEMS non-emergency services such as rides for appointments or COVID support. In a true emergency requiring hospital or other emergency resources, patients will be billed by the hospital for the cost of their hospital care and by any additional non-Brown EMS resources required to manage the emergency. BEMS itself does not bill for patient care or transport. Our specialized campus services are offered at no cost. Please note: A physician group in the local hospital system uses the name Brown Emergency Medicine. They are hospital emergency physicians and have no affiliation with BEMS. If you receive a bill from BEM or Brown Emergency Medicine, that is a hospital bill and not from the BEMS campus ambulance service. Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Campus Services Training Opportunities Working at BEMS Contact Us This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Campus Services Open details for Campus Services Bookmark this Page