Skip to Main Content Brown University Health & Wellness Emergency Medical Services Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Campus Services Training Opportunities Working at BEMS Contact Us Search Health & Wellness Emergency Medical Services Contact Us Contact Us Brown Emergency Medical Services (BEMS) is a blended volunteer/paid service licensed by the State of Rhode Island to provide 24/7 basic and advanced prehospital care to anyone requesting emergency aid through the Brown Communications Center. Contact Brown University Emergency Medical Services in an emergency or with questions about courses and services. Call 401-863-4111 For Emergency and Campus Services Request Brown University Emergency Medical Services (BEMS) at 401-863-4111 for campus emergency care and medical assistance, available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Reasons to call EMS include but are not limited to: Difficulty breathing Major bleeding Obvious major injury Injury that impairs mobility Loss of consciousness or unresponsiveness Diminished consciousness or mental confusion Severe pain — of sudden onset, of unknown cause, or of long duration Alcohol or other drug intoxication Sexual assault The BEMS ambulance will respond and provide prehospital care and transportation to the hospital or Health Services as indicated. In the event that BEMS is already engaged, backup response is coordinated with a private EMS and/or the Providence Fire Department EMS. General inquiries can be directed to brownems@brown.edu. Interested in CPR Training? If you have any questions about the CPR training program or would like more information, please email us at bemscpr@brown.edu. We do our best to respond to emails within 24 hours. See Available Courses Curious About Joining BEMS? Being a member of the BEMS team is a demanding yet rewarding experience. Students provide 24/7 service while developing leadership skills and gaining clinical training. If you have questions about joining, reach out to brownems@brown.edu. Working at BEMS Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Campus Services Training Opportunities Working at BEMS Contact Us This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Contact Us Open details for Contact Us Bookmark this Page