Skip navigation Search Columbia | SIPA Center on Global Energy Policy About Mission Independent Research Careers & Student Opportunities Visiting Faculty Program Postdoctoral Fellowship Program Contact For Media Our Work Topics Carbon Tax Carbon Management Climate Change & Environment Coal Energy for Development Energy Markets Energy Security Geopolitics Hydrogen Innovation & Technology International Security Natural Gas Nuclear Energy Oil Power Sector Renewable Energy Countries/Regions Americas United States Latin America Asia + Pacific China India Europe Middle East + North Africa Russia + Eurasia Sub-Saharan Africa Russia-Ukraine Resource Library Reports Commentaries Global Energy Dialogue Testimony Articles Op-Eds Books Interviews Our Team Experts & Staff Faculty Affiliates Advisory Board Academic Steering Committee Columbia University Partners News & Events News & Publications Announcements Events Past Events Livestream Initiatives Energy Journalism Initiative Book Series Energy Kingdoms Oil and Political Survival in the Persian Gulf Crude Volatility: The History and the Future of Boom-Bust Oil Prices The Art of Sanctions The Fracking Debate Carbon Accounting Project Carbon Dioxide Removal Law database Energizing America Energy Policy Tracker Future Power Markets Forum The Lancet Countdown Women in Energy World Economic Forum Oil and Gas Transformation Map Partners Podcast Columbia Energy Exchange CGEP Live The Big Switch Give Main menu About Mission Independent Research Careers & Student Opportunities Visiting Faculty Program Postdoctoral Fellowship Program Contact For Media Our Work Topics Carbon Tax Carbon Management Climate Change & Environment Coal Energy for Development Energy Markets Energy Security Geopolitics Hydrogen Innovation & Technology International Security Natural Gas Nuclear Energy Oil Power Sector Renewable Energy Countries/Regions Americas United States Latin America Asia + Pacific China India Europe Middle East + North Africa Russia + Eurasia Sub-Saharan Africa Russia-Ukraine Resource Library Reports Commentaries Global Energy Dialogue Testimony Articles Op-Eds Books Interviews Our Team Experts & Staff Faculty Affiliates Advisory Board Academic Steering Committee Columbia University Partners News & Events News & Publications Announcements Events Livestream Initiatives Energy Journalism Initiative Book Series Carbon Accounting Project Carbon Dioxide Removal Law database Energizing America Energy Policy Tracker Future Power Markets Forum The Lancet Countdown Women in Energy World Economic Forum Oil and Gas Transformation Map Partners Podcast Columbia Energy Exchange CGEP Live The Big Switch Give You are here Home Columbia Energy Exchange Columbia Energy Exchange features in-depth conversations with the world’s top energy and climate leaders from government, business, academia and civil society. The program explores today’s most pressing opportunities and challenges across energy sources, financial markets, geopolitics and climate change as well as their implications for both the U.S. and the world. Contact: [email protected] Please use the email above for all questions, comments and feedback on the show, including for any booking inquiries and suggestions. *** Support for Columbia Energy Exchange is provided by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. Featured Podcast It’s Boom Time For Refiners, At Least For Now Robin Mills Oil refiners are currently seeing a big boom in business – but how long will it last? The process of turning crude into usable products has been plagued for years by... OilRussia-Ukraine About the Hosts Jason Bordoff Jason Bordoff is Co-Founding Dean of the Columbia Climate School, Founding Director of the Center on Global Energy Policy, and Professor of Professional Practice in International and Public Relations at Columbia University SIPA (Full Bio) Bill Loveless Bill Loveless is a host on the Columbia Energy Exchange and Director of CGEP's Energy Journalism Initiative (Full Bio) Subscribe iTunesStitcherSoundcloud Share Facebook Twitter Google+ Forward Listen to More Podcast Episodes Search episodes Countries/Regions Any Country/RegionAmericasUnited StatesAsia + PacificChinaIndiaEuropeMiddle East + North AfricaRussia + EurasiaSub-Saharan Africa Topics Any TopicClimate Change & EnvironmentCoalEnergy for DevelopmentEnergy MarketsEnergy SecurityGeopoliticsInnovation & TechnologyInternational SecurityNatural GasNuclear EnergyOilPower SectorRenewable Energy It’s Boom Time For Refiners, At Least For Now Robin Mills Oil refiners are currently seeing a big boom in business – but how long will it last? The process of turning crude into usable products has been plagued for years by low profitability and overcapacity, and the... U.S. DOE Weathers Storm of Global Crises David Turk The U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) is responsible for safeguarding U.S. nuclear infrastructure, maintaining energy security, fostering technology innovation, and guiding the country towards a green energy transition. ... War Promotes Fresh Look at Nuclear Energy in Europe Mark Hibbs Europe is at a crossroads over nuclear power. Russia’s invasion of Ukraine has pushed Europe to reconsider its energy mix. Migrating away from Russian supply chains has become a priority, and Europe is looking at... Europe's Difficult Energy Decisions Kadri Simson Despite some setbacks, Europe is considering a ban on Russian oil, a major step toward energy independence from Russia. Meanwhile, Russia’s demand that buyers pay for its natural gas in rubles has put European consumers in a tough spot and has led Russia to cut... Turbulent Times for Commodities Javier Blas A rocky pandemic recovery, Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, and increasing social and consumer pressure to move away from Russian commodities have led to a spike in oil, natural gas, and even coal prices. For a look at... War’s Toll on Least Developed Countries Dr. Harry Verhoeven Russia’s invasion of Ukraine has sent oil and natural gas markets for a loop. But less attention has been paid to the implications of the war for global energy and food security, particularly for the world’s poorest... Making Sense of Surging Gas Prices Ira Joseph Around the world, natural gas prices continue to tick upward, surging to levels not seen in more than a decade. Russia’s war on Ukraine is largely to blame for high energy prices in Europe as the continent competes... War Roils Concerns Over Critical Minerals Abigail Wulf Russia’s oil and natural gas commodities get a lot of attention, but the country’s critical metals and minerals supplies – which include steel, titanium, nickel, cobalt and lithium – are also cause for concern. Moscow... A Climate Lens for Healthcare Dr. Renee Salas Wildfires, extreme heat and particulate matter from fossil fuel power plants are increasingly affecting the well-being of people in the U.S. and other countries. In this episode, host Bill Loveless visits with Dr.... Venezuela Oil: An Option Amid Crisis? Luisa Palacios Host Bill Loveless and Dr. Luisa Palacios discuss the potnetial ripple effects of easing sanctions on Venezuela as oil prices spike around the globe. Making Sense Of Soaring Oil Prices Ed Morse To make sense of the recent oil price volatility, host Jason Bordoff called on energy expert Ed Morse. Morse has been focused on energy policy and commodities since the 1970s and is currently the managing director and global head of commodity research at Citi Group. Threats to Nuclear and Energy Security Dr. Ernest Moniz An increased demand for energy following COVID-19 lockdowns created a severe energy supply crunch in Europe this winter. And now, decisions from corporate executives and government leaders to reduce or outright ban the purchase of Russian oil has forced energy... Oil, Gas, and the Russia-Ukraine conflict Meghan O'Sullivan and Angela Stent Russia’s continued military aggression towards Ukraine has become a full-blown humanitarian crisis. At the same time, energy prices are soaring as markets react to Russian oil and gas disruptions, including President Biden’s announcement today to ban US imports of... The Art of Sanctions in Russia and Iran Richard Nephew and Eddie Fishman Delegations from Kyiv and Moscow met in Belarus yesterday for the first round of talks which resulted in no resolution. At the same time Russian rockets battered Kharkiv, Ukraine’s second largest city, killing and wounding dozens, and leaving much uncertainty on... “Speed And Scale” for Climate Action John Doerr Silicon Valley is giving greater attention to potential business opportunities in clean energy and climate. It’s also seeing enormous potential for growth when it comes to battery storage, geothermal, electric vehicles, solar, and more. Russia and the Geopolitics of Energy Special crossover episode with The Carbon Copy The conflict between Ukraine and Russia is intensifying and President Biden has warned that Putin could send troops into Ukraine any day. NATO countries, including the US, are sending military equipment to Ukraine in... What Winter Storms Reveal About The Texas Grid Michael Webber In February 2021, Winter Storm Uri pushed the Texas power grid to its limit, leading to widespread blackouts across the state. At its peak, the storm left 4.5 million homes and businesses without power, causing an estimated 250 deaths and $90 billion in damages.... What We Know About Oceans and Climate Change Peter de Menocal Elevated ocean temperatures are rising sea levels, inundating coastlines, sinking island nations, bleaching coral, and creating more dangerous hurricanes. But oceans also act as a buffer against global warming. Climate... The Geopolitics Of Hydrogen Elizabeth Press The most abundant element in the universe, hydrogen seems – at least in theory – to be a good source of energy. But because of the high costs and other barriers associated with hydrogen power, the real story is more nuanced. ... Forging US-Canadian Partnerships On Climate Catherine McKenna How can the US and Canada cooperate to meet international and domestic climate targets? To try and answer that question, host Jason Bordoff spoke with Catherine McKenna – the former... Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next › last » Top Subscribe to our newsletter for the latest updates * indicates required Recent Tweets June 01, 2022 @ColumbiaUEnergy The latest in our CGEP book series-- edited by founding director @JasonBordoff-- offers an insider's look into the… https://t.co/kRxFV8JEUk June 01, 2022 @ColumbiaUEnergy "There are going to be tipping points with this transition and tipping points in technology, and I have no doubt th… https://t.co/Kl0BvFY4gk Center on Global Energy Policy at Columbia University SIPA 1255 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 [email protected] Twitter LinkedIn YouTube