Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Energy Institute Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin Energy Institute News EnergyTradeoffs.com Search Search Search Search Policy Studies Expand Full Cost of Electricity Energy Infrastructure of the Future UT Energy Research Expand 2021 Texas Electric Grid Blackouts 2021 Texas Hydrogen Roundtable Critical Minerals H2@UT Fueling a Sustainable Energy Transition (FSET) Micro-to-Macro Education Expand Graduate Portfolio Program in Energy Studies (GPPES) UT Energy Symposium Energy Calculators Membership Expand Events Expand UT Energy Symposium UT Energy Week About Expand People Advisory Board Faculty Advisory Council Energy Institute Fellows UT Austin and Southwest Research Institute Launch Research Collaboration Learn more about the Energize Program Homepage alt="view of a well-lighted building at dusk with a gold seashell sculpture in the courtyard and traffic/car lights on the street" The Energy University At The University of Texas at Austin, one of the world’s leading research institutions, the Energy Institute is the gateway to UT’s top scholars and experts working across the entire spectrum of energy. We facilitate interdisciplinary research and engagement to transform the future of energy worldwide. What we do Fueling a Sustainable Energy Transition The Energy Institute is supporting a series of interdisciplinary projects to advance the most promising global energy transition research at UT, comprising 53 faculty members and researchers from nine schools across the university. Learn about FSET Energy Infrastructure of the Future A multi-year, interdisciplinary study with a new interactive tool that supports a better understanding of the costs and impacts associated with investment in the nation’s aging energy infrastructure. More on EIoF Energy Education at The University of Texas at Austin The Energy Institute works with schools and departments across campus to foster energy-related courses. The Institute manages the interdisciplinary Graduate Portfolio Program in Energy Studies; sponsors a weekly guest lecture series, the UT Energy Symposium; and hosts UT Energy Week, an annual gathering of energy experts. More Resources Energy Tradeoffs Discussions Conversations with scholars and experts whose work addresses the difficult tradeoffs associated with the green energy transition. UT Energy Bulletin A monthly e-newsletter recap of all things energy on The University of Texas at Austin campus. Find an Expert Energy at UT has more than 300 energy experts contributing to world-class research. Spotlight UT Energy Week Save the Date for UT Energy Week 2022, to be held March 1 – 3, 2022. UT Energy Symposium This weekly class and public lecture series on Tuesdays during the fall/spring semesters features energy sector leaders and experts. Energy@UT Insights Independent perspectives, analysis, and opinions from UT scholars and affiliated experts 2020 Summer Energy Talks A special 4-part series in July and August: one-on-one conversations with experts about how energy affects our lives and economy. Featured Content The Energy University Leads on Battery Innovation The Cockrell School of Engineering has launched a new website for the UT Battery Research Group, which includes 28 faculty working on everything from novel storage materials to resource recovery. Learn More Report: The Timeline and Events of the February 2021 Texas Electric Grid Blackouts The University of Texas at Austin has released an unbiased assessment of the data and events of the February 2021 winter storm blackouts. Learn more and read the report New tool models future energy costs and carbon implications for U.S. A new online interactive dashboard enables users to understand the costs and impacts of major supplies and demands of energy through the year 2050 across the U.S. Read more UT, Department of Energy, and partners launch hydrogen project H2@Scale brings hydrogen industry leaders together in Texas to design, build, and operate the first dedicated renewable hydrogen network. Read more Energy Institute Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Contact Publication Policies Organizational Chart Subscribe to our newsletter UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022