Skip to main content Click to access main navigation menu Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Giving Library Tulane Search Undergraduate Undergraduate Bachelor of Science in Management Joint Bachelor of Science in Management/Master of Accounting Minors for Business Majors Energy & Entrepreneurship Specializations Summer Minor in Business Study Abroad Meet the Office Career Management Center Career Assessment Career Competencies For Credit Internship Ready to Apply? Graduate MBA Which MBA program is right for you? Two Year Full-Time Professional/Evening Executive/Weekend Joint Degrees JD/MBA MD/MBA MBA/Master of Sustainable Real Estate Development PhD About the Program Doctoral Faculty PhD Students Specialized Master's Which one-year program is right for you? Accounting Business Analytics Energy Finance Global Management Management Combining Specialized Master's Degrees Global International Partnership Programs Graduate Admissions Fellowships & Scholarships Graduate Admissions Faculty & Research Faculty Accounting Business & Legal Studies Finance Management Management Science Marketing All Faculty Publications Research Notes Interdisciplinary Programs Business Analytics Energy Health Care Real Estate Centers & Institutes Albert Lepage Center for Entrepreneurship & Innovation Goldring Institute for International Business Stewart Center for Executive Education Tulane Energy Institute Careers Resources For Students For Alumni For Employers Meet the Career Consultants News & Events News Current News Faculty & Research In the Media Freeman Blog Events Event Calendar Special Events Burkenroad Investment Conference Commencement Graduate Reunions Tulane Business Forum Freeman Business Magazine Current Issue Archives About About Office of the Dean Mission & Core Values Equity, Diversity & Inclusion History, Facts & Figures Only at Freeman Our Campuses Contact Us Undergraduate Back Undergraduate Back Bachelor of Science in Management Joint Bachelor of Science in Management/Master of Accounting Minors for Business Majors Energy & Entrepreneurship Specializations Summer Minor in Business Study Abroad Meet the Office Career Management Center Back Career Assessment Career Competencies Graduate Back MBA Programs Back Which MBA program is right for you? Two Year Full-Time MBA Evening/Professional MBA Weekend/Executive MBA Joint Degrees Back JD/MBA MD/MBA MBA/Master of Sustainable Real Estate Development Specialized Master's Degrees Back Which one-year program is right for you? Master of Accounting Master of Business Analytics Master of Finance Master of Management Master of Management in Energy Combining Specialized Master's Degrees PhD Program Back PhD Program Information Doctoral Faculty PhD Students Global Programs Back International Partnership Programs Graduate Admissions Back Applications & Admission Requirements Fellowships & Scholarships Faculty & Research Back All Faculty Faculty Publications Faculty by Area Back Accounting Faculty Business & Legal Studies Faculty Finance Faculty Management Faculty Management Science Faculty Marketing Faculty Interdisciplinary Faculty Back Business Analytics Faculty Energy Faculty Health Care Faculty Real Estate Faculty Centers & Institutes Back Albert Lepage Center for Entrepreneurship & Innovation Goldring Institute for International Business Stewart Center for Executive Education Tulane Energy Institute Careers Back Resources For Students Resources For Alumni Resources For Employers Meet the Career Consultants News & Events Back News Back Current News Faculty & Research In the Media Freeman Blog Events Back Event Calendar Special Events Back Burkenroad Investment Conference Commencement Reunions Tulane Business Forum Freeman Business Magazine Back Archives Current Issue About Back Office of the Dean Mission & Core Values Equity, Diversity & Inclusion History, Facts & Figures Only at Freeman Our Campuses Contact Us Master of Management in Energy Fast Track your Career Become a Leader in the Ever-Growing Field of Energy Home Graduate Master of Management in Energy (MME) Earn your graduate business degree from Freeman. Admissions Learn More Program Overview In the Master of Management in Energy program (MME), you will gain comprehensive knowledge about traditional and renewable energy sources throughout the energy value chain. This STEM-designated graduate business degree is strategically designed around the business of energy, with a career-focused curriculum emphasizing financial skills and hands-on experience in our Trading Center. You will gain marketable, technical expertise in everything from structure and valuation to financial modeling and risk management, preparing you to move ahead in the energy industry in less time than a traditional energy MBA. You can complete your degree on an accelerated schedule in only 10 months, or spread your coursework out over 18 months to allow for a summer internship. Leverage your electives to obtain marketable, targeted knowledge in one of 6 areas: analytics, banking & finance, electric power, energy trading & risk management, entrepreneurship or renewable & sustainable energy. The Master of Management in Energy degree program is STEM-designated, allowing international students to extend their training by 24 months if they work in their field of study. The Master of Management in Energy program reflects input from employers about the skills they want you to possess. With six specializations to hone your knowledge, we ensure that you will stand out in the job market. View Curriculum Employment Our graduates launch careers across the energy industry and more, with exceptional placement in corporate finance, banking and consulting. You will connect with accomplished alumni who are invested in your success. Here are just some of the companies where you’ll find our MME grads: From exploration to retail sales, the Tulane MME has given me a deeper understanding of the energy business while connecting me with a valuable network of peers, faculty members and industry professionals. -Gerard Dunphy (MME ’20), president, Tulane Energy Club Curriculum Freeman’s expert faculty members will guide you through industry examples, real-world projects and hands-on exercises in our Trading Center, a $3 million simulated trading floor. You will also participate in learning opportunities that you can only find at Freeman. Learn more. Burkenroad Reports In this award-winning course, the nation’s first university-sponsored securities analysis program, you and your team will meeting with company executives, perform financial research and write a comprehensive analyst report about an energy firm. Tulane Energy Institute The Tulane Energy Institute propels graduates into top positions in the energy field. In addition to making professional connections, you'll enjoy access to cutting-edge work being done at a broad spectrum of energy companies. Industry Immersion You’ll visit production platforms, power plants and refineries to deepen your understanding of all aspects of the energy industry, including generation, trading, analytics and renewables. Scholarships and financial aid are available to qualified candidates. Learn how a graduate business degree can be affordable. Tuition and Aid Our faculty have extensive experience in the energy industry, and we bring that experience into the classroom to ensure that what we’re teaching is relevant and immediately applicable. Pierre Conner, professor of practice and executive director, Tulane Energy Institute Ready to start? Get in touch. Loading... A. B. Freeman School of Business Tulane University Goldring/Woldenberg Business Complex 7 McAlister Drive New Orleans, LA 70118 Contact & Directions Copyright | Privacy Policy Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Careers News & Events About Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Giving Library Tulane Search Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter