Skip to Content Open Close primary navigation Search Search AboutExpand Collapse section News Events Dean’s Message College History Dean’s Leadership Council ABET Accreditation AcademicsExpand Collapse section Biomedical and Chemical Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Graduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Study Abroad Minors AdmissionsExpand Collapse section Undergraduate Graduate Undergraduate Application Graduate Application International Students Transfer Students Program Videos Online Programs Admissions Team Lab Tours AlumniExpand Collapse section Alumni Resources Make A Gift Volunteer & Mentorship Opportunities Directory ResearchExpand Collapse section Research Areas Activities and Support Centers and Institutes Funding Opps Graduate Student Research About Our Team Student ServicesExpand Collapse section Campus Resources Clubs and Organizations Graduate Resources Office of Inclusive Excellence Undergraduate Resources GiveExpand Collapse section Giving Options Support Engineering and Computer Science Search Search About Home About In this Section Established in 1901, the College of Engineering and Computer Science is located on Syracuse University’s 270-acre campus in the heart of Central New York. Syracuse is recognized as a student-focused global research university renowned for academic rigor, richly diverse learning experiences, and a spirit of discovery. The College of Engineering and Computer Science offers more than 30 programs in four departments—Biomedical and Chemical Engineering; Civil and Environmental Engineering; Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; and Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering. Our community of scholars is united in our commitment to the advancement of knowledge. The success of our College and, most importantly, our students stems from a special combination of rigorous thinking, deep knowledge, empathy, responsiveness, creativity, and the agility necessary to span the boundaries of disciplines, job descriptions, and cultures. We are equally committed to education and research and seek to achieve nothing less than a higher quality of life for all by building a safer, healthier, and more sustainable world. Enrollment Total College enrollment is 2624. Undergraduate, 1534; Master’s students, 818; Ph.D. students 272. (Measured in Fall 2016) Degrees Conferred in 2016 Bachelor’s, 310; graduate degrees, 477. Faculty and Staff Full-time faculty, 84; adjunct and affiliate faculty, 44. Approximately 98 percent of full-time faculty members have earned Ph.D. or professional degrees. Full-time staff, 66; part-time staff, 9. Sponsored Programs A total of $12.44 million was awarded for research, teaching, and other sponsored programs in fiscal year 2016. The federal government is the major sponsor ($8.15 million). Awards from non-federal sponsors totaled $4.29 million, the majority of which are from New York State ($3.1 million). A range of other entities including foundations and nonprofits provided $562,247. ABET Accreditation All Bachelor of Science degrees in Engineering at Syracuse University are accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET, and Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Science is accredited by the Computing Accreditation Commission of ABET. More information is available at our Accreditation page. In this Section Dean’s Leadership Council Dean’s Message Events Giving Opportunities News College History ABET Accreditation About Academics Admissions Alumni Research Student Services Apply Contact Directory Events Calendar Give News Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter Subscribe to Us on YouTube Follow Us on Instagram 223 Link Hall, Syracuse, NY 13244 | 315-443-2545 © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy