Skip to main content Extension and Engagement Keywords Search Main navigation About Units OSU Extension Service Professional and Continuing Education (PACE) Center for the Outdoor Recreation Economy (CORE) OSU KidSpirit Initiatives Carnegie Community Engagement Cassification Leadership Development Program Vice Provost Awards for Excellence Contact Photo: Stephen Ward (Cropped from original) Print We’re out there serving Oregon. And here for you. Extension and engagement are core to Oregon State University's mission. Through our core units and strategic initiatives, our Division is helping create real solutions and positive impact across Oregon and beyond. We engage communities in learning, identifying local needs and opportunities and problem solving. We believe in co-creation of innovation, knowledge, and expertise. We help connect OSU’s educational programs and resources to all people—wherever and whenever they wish to learn. This collaborative work serves to improve the health and well-being of Oregonians and communities, encourage economic development and industry innovation, co-create and share the science and knowledge of Oregon State University and deliver access to education for learner success across the lifespan. Newsletter Community Engagement Contact Leadership search update Oregon State University's Division of Extension and Engagement has three leadership recruitments in process: Executive Director for Engagement Executive Director for Extension Operations Director of Professional and Continuing Education Learn more OSU receives second Carnegie Community Engagement Classification This honor recognizes our university-wide commitment to engaging with local, national and global communities to advance all aspects of our mission through research and scholarship, teaching and learning and outreach. Read the news release Photo by Laura Zepeda (Cropped from original) OSU Extension Service OSU Extension engages the people of Oregon with research-based knowledge and education that strengthen communities and economies, sustain natural resources and promote healthy families and individuals. You can find us serving in every county and the Confederated Tribes of Warm Springs, providing information and expertise to help meet local challenges and help every Oregonian thrive — just as we have done for more than 100 years. Find OSU Extension in your community Professional and Continuing Education PACE partners with on- and off-campus stakeholders seeking resources related to continuing education, e-learning and online instructional technology. PACE programs offer the targeted professional development you need to succeed – wherever you happen to be. Start learning The Center for the Outdoor Recreation Economy CORE is delivering a new kind of workforce development to meet the unique needs of the vast, extremely entrepreneurial, and rapidly growing outdoor recreation industry. CORE partners to advance research and curriculum development, technical skills training and leadership programming for the U.S. outdoor industry. You can access professional and technical training or degree programs built around clearly defined career pathways in the outdoors. Make connections OSU KidSpirit KidSpirit provides young people with intentional, high quality, equitable learning experiences that promote positive interactions. You can explore sports, arts, science, gymnastics, cooking and many other activities offered each summer or throughout the year. Get involved Featured resource: Rural Communities Explorer Extension and engagement programs are grounded in and responsive to community-identified needs. Rural Communities Explorer provides information, including data about community vitality and changes, to help residents and policymakers make decisions about rural communities. Explore community data The Statewide Public Service Programs — OSU Extension Service, Oregon Agricultural Experiment Station, and the Oregon Forest Research Laboratory — partner with communities across the state to tackle complex problems that require Oregon State University's world-leading expertise. Learn more about our impact Contact Us Report a website issue Copyright © 2022 Oregon State University Web Disclaimer/privacy Equal Opportunity/accessibility External Menu Log In