Skip to main content Extension and Engagement Keywords Search Main navigation About Units OSU Extension Service Professional and Continuing Education (PACE) Center for the Outdoor Recreation Economy (CORE) OSU KidSpirit Initiatives Carnegie Community Engagement Cassification Leadership Development Program Vice Provost Awards for Excellence Contact Oregon State University Division of Extension and Engagement Supplemental Privacy Policy Print v. 1.0 Effective date: 10-1-2021 The Oregon State University Division of Extension and Engagement (OSU) follows this Privacy Policy in the collection, use, sharing, archiving, and destruction of Personal Information. This Privacy Policy is supplemental to the Privacy Notice for Oregon State University. OSU does not collect Personal Information (e.g., name, address or telephone number) unless required by law or You voluntarily provide it to us, for example by using our Services, sending email, participating in a survey, or completing a form, or You provide to a third party with permissions to share with OSU. OSU uses Personal Information in accordance with this policy, including to provide and improve our services to you. By using our services, You agree to the collection and use of information in accordance with this Privacy Policy. Interpretation and Definitions Interpretation Capitalized words have meanings defined below, regardless of whether they appear in singular or in plural. Definitions For the purposes of this Privacy Policy: Account means a unique account created for You to access our Services or parts of our Service. OSU means Oregon State University Division of Extension and Engagement, 1500 SW Jefferson Way Corvallis, OR 97331. Cookies are small files that are placed on Your computer, mobile device or any other device by a website, containing the details of Your browsing history on that website among its many uses. Personal Information means any information that relates to an identified or identifiable individual. Service means the Website and related support services. Third-party Social Media Service means any website or any social network website through which a User can log in or create an account to use the Service. Usage Data means data collected automatically, either generated by the use of the Service or from the Service infrastructure itself (for example, the duration of a page visit). Website means OSU websites, including but not limited to Professional and Continuing Education, accessible from https://pace.oregonstate.edu, and the OSU Extension Service, accessible from https://extension.oregonstate.edu. You(r) means the individual accessing or using the Service, or the company, or other legal entity on behalf of which such individual is accessing or using the Service, as applicable. Collecting and Using Your Personal Information Types of Data Collected Personal Information While using our services, OSU may ask you to provide us with certain Personal Information that can be used to contact or identify you. Personal Information includes, but is not limited to: Email address First name and last name Phone number Address, City, State, Province, or ZIP/Postal code Usage Data Personal demographics Date of birth Accommodations need Health considerations based on activity Photo Relevant identification number(s) for organizational or state credentials Emergency contact name and phone number Program specific information Consent forms and liability waivers Usage Data When you visit our Website, OSU automatically collects certain usage data that may be Personal Information, such as: Domain, country, IP address Browser, platform, resolution Entrance-Exit Pages, Referrals Date, Time Search Terms and Search Engines This is standard practice for websites and is not used for any purpose other than to evaluate how OSU can design the site to best serve your needs. Information from Third-Party Social Media Services The University allows You to create an Account and log in to use the Service through the following Third-party Social Media Services: Google Facebook Microsoft Twitter LinkedIn If You decide to register through or otherwise grant us access to a Third-Party Social Media Service, OSU may collect Personal Information that is already associated with Your Third-Party Social Media Service's account, such as Your name, Your email address. Tracking Technologies and Cookies OSU uses Cookies and similar tracking technologies to track the activity on the Service and store certain information. Tracking technologies used are beacons, tags, and scripts to collect and track information and to improve and analyze Our Service. The technologies OSU uses may include: Cookies or Browser Cookies. You can instruct Your browser to refuse all Cookies or to indicate when a Cookie is being sent. However, if You do not accept Cookies, You may not be able to use some parts of the Service. Unless you have adjusted Your browser setting so that it will refuse Cookies, the Service may use Cookies. Web Beacons. Certain sections of the Service and OSU emails may contain small electronic files known as web beacons (also referred to as clear gifs, pixel tags, and single-pixel gifs) that permit OSU, for example, to count users who have visited those pages or opened an email and for other related website statistics (for example, recording the popularity of a certain section and verifying system and server integrity). Use of Your Personal Information OSU may use Personal Information for the following purposes: To provide and maintain the Service, including to monitor the usage of the Service. To manage Your Account: to manage Your registration as a user of the Service. The Personal Information You provide can give You access to different functionalities of the Service that are available to You as a registered user. For the performance of a contract: the development, compliance and undertaking of the contract for the products, items, or services You have received or purchased, or of any other contract with Us through the Service. To contact You: To contact You by email, telephone calls, SMS, or other equivalent forms of electronic communication, such as a mobile application's push notifications regarding updates or informative communications related to the functionalities, products, or contracted services, including the security updates, when necessary or reasonable for their implementation. To provide You with news, special offers and general information about other goods, services and events which we offer that are similar to those that you have already purchased or enquired about unless You have opted not to receive such information. To manage Your requests: To attend and manage Your requests to OSU. To meet local, state, and federal reporting: OSU tracks race, ethnicity, and gender data only as required by applicable laws. This type of Personal Information is restricted in who can see it. It is only used in aggregate and without personally identifying information to fulfill reporting requirements. For other purposes: OSU may use Your information for other purposes, such as data analysis, identifying usage trends, determining the effectiveness of our promotional campaigns and to evaluate and improve the Service, products, services, marketing and Your experience. Disclosure of Personal Information OSU uses the Personal Information OSU collects to further the missions of Oregon State OSU. OSU does not sell online Personal Information that is collected. Personal Information is routinely shared among OSU affiliates to advance and support the overall missions of OSU. These affiliates include: Oregon State University Foundation Oregon State University Alumni Association Retention and Requests for Deletion of Your Personal Information Your information will be retained by OSU in accordance with legal requirements, including applicable state and federal laws. Subject to such obligations, requiring us to retain your data, your information will be destroyed upon your request. The manner of destruction shall be appropriate to preserve the confidentiality of Your Personal Information given the level of sensitivity of the data. To request removal of your Personal Information, contact us at [email protected] with the subject of Personal Information Removal Request. In some cases, such as to meet legal requirements, we may not be able to remove your Personal Information. Processing of Your Personal Information Your information, including Personal Information, is processed at OSU's and OSU’s contractor’s operating facilities and in any other places where the parties involved in the processing are located. It means that this information may be transferred to — and maintained on — computers located outside of Your state, province, country or other governmental jurisdiction where the data protection laws may differ than those from Your jurisdiction. Your consent to this Privacy Policy followed by Your submission of such information represents Your agreement to that transfer. Links to Other Websites The Service may contain links to other websites that are not operated by OSU. If You click on a third-party link, You will be directed to that third party's site. OSU strongly advises You to review the Privacy Policy of every site You visit. OSU has no control over and assumes no responsibility for the content, privacy policies or practices of any third-party sites or services. Updates to This Privacy Notice OSU may update or change this notice at any time. Your continued use of OSU’s Services, related services, and applications after any such change indicates Your acceptance of these changes. Contact Us If you have any questions about this Privacy Policy, You can contact us: By email: [email protected] Contact Us Report a website issue Copyright © 2022 Oregon State University Web Disclaimer/privacy Equal Opportunity/accessibility External Menu Log In