Skip to main content Extension and Engagement Keywords Search Main navigation About Units OSU Extension Service Professional and Continuing Education (PACE) Center for the Outdoor Recreation Economy (CORE) OSU KidSpirit Initiatives Carnegie Community Engagement Cassification Leadership Development Program Vice Provost Awards for Excellence Contact Leadership Development Program, Executive-Level Sidebar menu Leadership Development Program Program Details 2021-2022 Cohort 2020-2021 Cohort 2020-2021 Cohort 2019-2020 Cohort 2018-19 Cohort 2017-18 Cohort 2016-17 Cohort 2015-16 Cohort 2014-15 Cohort Facilitators and Leadership Project and Executive Mentoring Become an LDPE Mentor LDPE Photo Archive Print Preparing the next generation of leaders The Leadership Development Program, Executive-Level, is for employees within the Divisions of University Outreach and Engagement, Extended Campus, and the College of Agricultural Sciences. Participants should have significant professional experience (2+ years) within their assignment and a documented record of performance that indicates potential success in an advanced or executive leadership position. The ten-month program includes: Ohio State Leadership Center-led deep-dive personal assessment curriculum and self-reflection Personal coaching calls Book clubs led by LDPE alumni and executives Social justice and equity work Training and workshop sessions throughout the year as driven and selected by the cohort based on needs Executive project and goals-based mentoring Peer-coaching A summer Graduation Capstone with activities, speakers, team challenges, and certification Access to resources and support for your leadership journey And more... The application for the 2021-22 year is now closed. Check back in August 2022 to apply for the 9th Cohort! For general program questions, contact Amanda Bielenberg-Hayes at 503-970-7399 or [email protected] Important Dates Timeline is tentative and will be updated as dates are confirmed. We are also tentatively planning on a hybrid year, with the December kick-off workshops and Summer Graduation Capstone occurring in person (with distancing, masks, individually-wrapped catering, etc.), and the remaining activities occurring virtually. This is dependent upon current regulations and safety. 2021 November 10, 1-2pm: Cohort 8 Orientation Webinar December 13-15: Cohort 8 Kick-off: In-depth Workshop Series, led by the Ohio State University Center for Leadership - Alumni Center 2022 January - September: Cohort 8 Intermittent virtual leadership activities, including: trainings, coaching calls and peer-coaching, book clubs, activities, and discussions February - August: Cohort 8 "Leadership fellow” experience under supervision of assigned executive mentor, not to exceed three months August: Cohort 9 Applications available TBD 3 Days in August/ Early September: Cohort 8 Summer Capstone and Graduation September: Cohort 9 participants announced October: Cohort 8 evaluations Mid-November: Cohort 9 Orientation Webinar December 12-14: Cohort 9 Kick-off: In-depth Workshop Series, led by the Ohio State University Center for Leadership What people are saying about LDPE: "With LDPE, I appreciated the time to learn, to process, to explore. The program offers a variety of experiences over 9 months, each one building on the other. The greatest value for me was having the opportunity and time to actively participate in and reflect on each activity and the experience as a whole. I am forever grateful for the experience." “Through my LDPE mentoring, I was able to explore concepts such as: where I can exert control vs. influence, building emotional self-awareness, and making space for self-reflection.” “This project combined both of my roles and allowed me to connect with stakeholders across campus, with companies in the Portland area, and with OSU senior leadership.” “Throughout the project, I was reminded of the importance of communication, vision, accountability, flexibility and decision-making skills… As a result of this project, I feel I have gained new insights, new skills and a new appreciation for the tools I already bring to the process…” “Leadership lessons [learned] included learning about how strategy and structure drive an organization, the importance of communicating a clear mission and values, and techniques for influencing others to achieve genuine commitment and investment in partnerships.” “Being a details person, my mentor helped me look at my project—and day-to-day work—with ‘big-picture’ eyes, which allowed me to see it differently, make changes, and have a greater impact. The interpersonal assessments facilitated by Ohio State were also invaluable and enlightening, helping me to grow singularly and within my team.” Contact Us Report a website issue Copyright © 2022 Oregon State University Web Disclaimer/privacy Equal Opportunity/accessibility External Menu Log In