Skip to main content Extension and Engagement Keywords Search Main navigation About Units OSU Extension Service Professional and Continuing Education (PACE) Center for the Outdoor Recreation Economy (CORE) OSU KidSpirit Initiatives Carnegie Community Engagement Cassification Leadership Development Program Vice Provost Awards for Excellence Contact Who we are Print By the very nature of the land grant mission, we must respond to the realities of our communities and adapt as new challenges and issues arise. Extension and engagement are core to this work, to our commitment as a community-engaged institution and to pursuit of Oregon State University's strategic goals. Our Division is helping create real solutions and positive impact across Oregon and beyond. We engage communities in learning, identifying local needs and opportunities and problem solving. We believe in co-creation of innovation, knowledge, and expertise. We help connect OSU’s educational programs and resources to all people—wherever and whenever they wish to learn. This collaborative work serves to improve the health and well-being of Oregonians and communities, encourage economic development and industry innovation, co-create and share the science and knowledge of Oregon State University and deliver access to education for learner success across the lifespan. The division has these core units: OSU Extension Service Professional and Continuing Education (PACE) Center for the Outdoor Recreation Economy (CORE) OSU KidSpirit We also lead and contribute to several strategic initiatives. Executive Team Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Strategic Plan Reports Extension and Engagement Council Quarterly Conversations Our executive leadership team provides strategic leadership and oversight of the Division and its component programs and initiatives. Dr. Ivory W. Lyles Vice Provost, Extension and Engagement Director, OSU Extension Service Executive assistant: Kim Tarrant Contact Dr. Ivory W. Lyles Executive Director for Engagement Recruitment in process. To ensure full consideration, applications must be received by 03/21/2022. Learn more and apply. Executive Director for Extension Operations Recruitment in process. To ensure full consideration, applications must be received by 03/18/2022. Learn more and apply. Division contacts Communications and marketing, Jennifer Alexander Diversity, equity and inclusion, Ana Lu Fonseca Fiscal operations, Tiffany Gillis Human resources, Marcia Dickson Information technology, Lucas Turpin As a land grant institution, we have the power to impact every single person that we come in contact with. To realize this vision, we must gather and invest in resources that ensure inclusive action at all levels and ensure that people from all walks of life have the opportunity to transform the world through their unique talents, ideas and voices. Our goal is to ensure that these voices are not just heard but embraced. OSU’s Office of Institutional Diversity collaborates with university partners to advance diversity, equity and inclusion throughout all facets of Oregon State University. Our Division is a committed partner in that work. Our Extension Service’s Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion collaborates within the OSU community and beyond to design and implement related initiatives, partnerships and programs. These efforts support the creation of safe, welcoming and relevant Extension programs and spaces that meet the needs of all Oregonians. Division employees participate in professional development opportunities, such as OSU’s Search Advocate Program, Social Justice Education Initiative workshops or OSU Extension's Diversity Champions program. These activities generate conversations and reflection around the complex issues of equity and inclusion. OSU Extension is committed to equal access and opportunity, and to ensuring all reasonable effort is made to deliver and to provide access to Extension programs and services for all individuals. We invite you to connect with us around these topics. To begin a conversation, please email [email protected] Vision The life of each person we engage will be demonstrably improved and enriched by access to and co-creation of innovation, knowledge and expertise. Mission Outreach and engagement at Oregon State University enhances access to enrichment and problem solving through reciprocal relationships for the exchange of knowledge and resources in partnership with individuals, communities, businesses, industries, government and educational institutions. Values Learner-centered approach: We engage collaboratively with our diverse learners and stakeholders, and adapt to meet their needs. Innovation: We embrace creativity and new methods, ideas and products to improve the services we provide. Integrity: We are responsible, ethical and accountable for our actions. Diversity: We embrace and advocate for diversity, equity, inclusion and social justice. Knowledge: We use research-based, community-generated, and indigenous knowledge to guide our decisions, practices and actions. Healthy work environment: We respect that faculty and staff are a valuable resource, and believe we all deserve an empowering, supportive and caring environment. Social responsibility: We contribute to society's well-being and intellectual, cultural and economic progress. Strategic alignment Oregon State University's 2019-23 strategic plan (SP4.0): Transformation, Excellence and Impact articulates the university’s commitment to exceptional research, discovery, innovation and engagement — and to integrating that research and engagement mission to deliver a high-quality, globally relevant and affordable education that is accessible to all learners. The Division of Extension and Engagement is central to advancing this integrated mission through: Research, creative work and engaged scholarship Transformative, lifelong learning experiences accessible to all learners Fostering the deep connection to the places we serve, resulting in significant and visible impact in Oregon and beyond Our demonstrated commitments to diversity, equity, inclusion and justice We are currently reviewing our 2016 strategic plan to ensure alignment with SP4.0: Goal 1: Enhance the culture and impact of Oregon State University Goal 2: Equitably serve a broad diversity of learners, communities, and stakeholders Goal 3: Increase community and learner engagement Goal 4: Be broadly recognized for our impacts and as a resource Goal 5: Have a supportive workplace culture Strategic Plan Documents (2016) Download complete strategic plan Download strategic plan overview brochure Download Spanish language strategic plan overview brochure Engagement Reports Carnegie Community Engagement Classification application President's Commission on Outreach and Engagement Annual Reports 2017-18 University Outreach and Engagement Academic Report 2016-17 University Outreach and Engagement Academic Report 2015-16 University Outreach and Engagement Academic Report View Council meeting notes Purpose The intent of the Council is to provide integrated, campus-wide guidance to the Vice Provost around the following items: Advice and recommendations regarding development and implementation of the division's strategic plan Development of policy options and implications Identification of opportunities to advance outreach and engagement including: Issues and needs Partnerships Resources Approaches Business models Encouragement and recognition of innovation in developing, implementing and evaluating outreach and engagement activities Membership Membership of the Council consists of one representative of each OSU college as designated by the respective dean. Additional members are considered based upon issues and recommendations of the Council. Members are appointed for two-year terms and may be re-appointed by a dean (for collegiate representatives) or the vice provost without limit. Rotating terms are two-years beginning July and ending June. Work teams of the Council may include individuals who are not current members. Operations The Council meets quarterly (January, April, July, October) on the third Thursday, 10am-12pm or as called by the Vice Provost. Terms are two-years and start in July and end in June. Extension &Engagement Council Members: 2020 - 2021 Ivory Lyles,Vice Provost University Extension and Engagement, Director Extension Ann Murphy, Marketing Manager, Extension and Engagement Lisa Templeton, Associate Provost for Extended Campus Sam Angima, College of Agricultural Sciences Vacant, College of Business Vacant, College of Earth, Ocean and Atmospheric Sciences Lynn Dierking, College of Education Sahid L. Rosado Lausell, College of Engineering Holly Ober, College of Forestry Marion Rossi, College of Liberal Arts Juancho Ramirez, College of Pharmacy Vacant, College of Public Health and Human Sciences Vacant, College of Science Jill Parker, College of Veterinary Medicine Emily Bowling, Academic Success and Engagement John Valva, Alumni Association Allison Davis-White Eyes, Diversity & Cultural Engagement Scott Emery, University Information and Technology Vacant, International Programs Paul Carey, OSU Foundation Sue Ann Bottoms, Precollege Programs Shelby Walker, Sea Grant Annie Heck, University Relations & Marketing Natalia Maria Fernandez, Valley Library Staff: Kim Tarrant, Executive Assistant to the Vice Provost Quarterly Conversations are division-wide, all-employee meetings held in February, May, August, and November. Employees may attend in-person on campus or via Zoom. Agendas for the 90-minute meeting are shared in advance, and invitations are sent to Outlook calendars. View Quarterly Conversation recordings: E&E Division Quarterly Conversation (2/18/22) E&E Division Quarterly Conversation (11/19/21) E&E Division Quarterly Conversation (8/20/21) E&E Division Quarterly Conversation (5/21/2021) E&E Division Quarterly Conversation (2/19/2021) E&E Division Quarterly Conversation (11/20/2020) E&E Division Quarterly Conversation (8/21/20) E&E Division Quarterly Conversation (5/15/20) O&E Division Quarterly Conversation (2/14/20) O&E Division Quarterly Conversation (11/16/19) O&E Division Quarterly Conversation (8/16/19) O&E Division Quarterly Conversation (5/17/19) O&E Division Quarterly Conversation (2/15/19) O&E Division Quarterly Conversation (11/16/18) O&E Division Quarterly Conversation (8/17/18) O&E Division Quarterly Conversation (5/18/18) O&E Division Quarterly Conversation (2/16/18) Contact Us Report a website issue Copyright © 2022 Oregon State University Web Disclaimer/privacy Equal Opportunity/accessibility External Menu Log In