Home Who We Are About Outreach & Engagement CSU Extended Campus CSU Extension Colorado Water Center Salazar Center for North American Conservation Our Team Our Reach & Partners Engaged Institutes CSU Around the State Provost’s Council Expanding Rural Engagement Grants and Awards Community Voices Resources Economic & Community Development Emergency Planning Food & Agriculture Health & Well-Being Natural Resources & Sustainability Youth & Family Development Frequently Asked Questions Featured Programs Economic & Community Development Food & Agriculture Health & Well-Being Natural Resources & Sustainability Youth & Family Development News Get Connected With You, We Will Build Thriving Communities We learn and work together across Colorado to exchange, develop and apply knowledge, empowering individuals and communities to thrive. Get Started Connect with Colorado State University Resources Co-Create Solutions to Needs In Your Community and Beyond Thrive from Learning and Become An Agent of Change in Your Community Become an Agent of Change Partner with Colorado State University CSU’s Office of Engagement and Extension delivers on its land-grant mission by making the university’s educational programs, services and resources accessible to all, enabling individuals to act as agents of change and together build thriving communities. Learn more about the Office of Engagement and Extension. Ways to Connect: Learn About Our Work CSU Extended Campus Are you looking to enhance your knowledge or grow personally and professionally? CSU Extended Campus, including CSU Online, provides affordable access to exceptional online and distance education including degree, certificate and professional education programs from Colorado State University. Read More About CSU Extended Campus CSU Extension Access the resources, knowledge and tools you need. CSU Extension empowers Coloradans to address important and emerging community issues using dynamic, science-based educational resources. Read More About CSU Extension Colorado Water Center The Colorado Water Center leads interdisciplinary research, education, and outreach to address complex and evolving water-related challenges in Colorado and beyond. Read More About Colorado Water Center Salazar Center for North American Conservation The Salazar Center was created to build bridges between conservation research, policy, and practice at the continental scale. Its efforts span the United States and its territories, Canada, and Mexico, with a focus on both large landscapes and cities, and emphases on connectivity, climate resilience, and racial equity woven throughout. Read More About the Salazar Center Choose a Topic Area to Browse Resources Learn about different topics of interest to you. Find ways to engage, connect, learn and work together to co-create solutions to community needs. Economic & Community Development Get answers to questions about financial literacy, elder or child-care issues, or get involved in your community. Learn More Emergency Planning & Resources Access resources on drought, fire and flood to help plan, prepare and recover. Learn More Food & Agriculture Access research-based information on a broad range of food and agricultural topics. Learn More Health & Well-Being Promote health and wellness in your community and access resources that help you navigate issues, concerns and needs. Learn More Natural Resources & Sustainability Access resources for topics such as yard and garden, native plants, water and wildlife. Learn More Youth & Family Development Help today’s youth grow into tomorrow’s leaders through resources and programs such as Colorado 4-H. Learn More Program Spotlight Family Leadership Training Institute of Colorado Since 2009, FLTI has partnered with communities across Colorado to implement a transformational 20-week training program based on a nationally renowned curriculum. This training helps promote collaboration between individuals, families, institutions, administrators, and elected officials as they seek to address emerging social, health, and economic issues within their communities. Learn more Get Connected Find your connection to Colorado State University through the Office of Engagement and Extension. Get Started Today: • CSU Extended Campus • CSU Extension • Colorado Water Center • Salazar Center • View Our Resource Library Follow Follow Follow Not sure where to start? Office of Engagement and Extension 202 Administration Building 1050 Campus Delivery Fort Collins, CO 80523-1050 970-491-2785 engagement@colostate.edu Contact Our Office Search CSU Disclaimer Equal Opportunity Privacy Statement © 2021 Colorado State University, Fort Collins, Colorado 80523 USA