David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement A new integration of the Office of Engagement Initiatives and the Public Service Center Menu Grants & Awards +– Grants and Awards For Students Grants and Awards For Faculty & Staff Programs +– Programs For Students Programs For Faculty & Staff Explore Courses Resources +– Serve in Place during COVID-19 What is Community-Engaged Learning? Community Partnerships Course & Curriculum Design Critical Reflection Student Learning Assessment About +– News & Events Our Team Our Supporters Engaged College Initiative NYC Workspace Acknowledging Us Contact Close Grants & Awards For Students For Faculty & Staff Programs For Students For Faculty & Staff Explore Courses Resources Home About News & Events Our Team Our Supporters Engaged College Initiative Acknowledging Us Contact Subscribe Facebook Twitter Courses In community-engaged learning courses, students go beyond the classroom to connect theory and practice. They collaborate with communities — in Ithaca and around the globe — to design, implement and evaluate real solutions to real problems. These rigorous courses are as dynamic as their fields of study and challenge students to grow as global citizens. Browse below for all courses, or visit the class roster to see what’s available for summer and fall 2022. Course Listing Title Course No. Cooperative Business Management Course No. AEM 3260 Instructor T. M. Schmit Credits 3 Format Lecture An evaluation of the fundamental principles, structure, finance, management and governance associated with the cooperative business model, with a focus on agricultural cooperatives. Analyses of the cooperative business organization within the modern economy are emphasized through a mix of lectures, guest speakers, case study discussions and, and experiential learning projects with cooperative businesses. Outcome 1: Identify economic justifications for the cooperative as a business entity. Outcome 2: Illustrate unique characteristics surrounding the governance, finance, and management of cooperative businesses. Outcome 3: Analyze contemporary issues facing modern cooperatives with an emphasis on challenges and opportunities facing cooperatives that compete with investor-owned firms. View full course description Social Entrepreneurship Practicum: Anabel’s Grocery Course No. AEM 3385 Instructor A. Wessels Credits 3 Format Lecture AEM 3385 serves as an entry point for new Anabel’s team members, introducing them to social entrepreneurship, food justice, collaborative leadership practices, and the operational systems of Anabel’s. No prerequisites and no previous experience with Anabel’s required. The course is open to students regardless of major. We are looking for students with diverse interests who are passionate about making healthy, sustainable, and socially responsible food available to everyone. This is an experiential learning course that meets once a week and includes a practicum commitment of 4-5 hours per week working for the store and meeting with other team members. Outcome 1: Apply basic best practices in the governance, management and assessment of a nonprofit social venture. Outcome 2: Demonstrate relevant best practices at the intersections of design, wellness, hospitality, and food delivery, with a focus on community, accessibility and equity. Outcome 3: Demonstrate relevant best practices at the intersections of design, wellness, hospitality, and food delivery, with a focus on community, accessibility and equity. Outcome 4: In a setting where success requires effective teamwork, interact and work collaboratively with diverse peers, with a higher level of self-awareness and empathy. Outcome 5: Demonstrate an understanding of the impact and causes of food insecurity within the context of the larger food system, and incorporate this understanding into the design of a more effective solution with attention to financial sustainability and social/environmental impact. View full course description Impact Learning: Field Study Prep Experience Course No. AEM 3600 Instructor S. Kyle, C. van Es Credits 3 Format Lecture The lectures/discussions will introduce you to the influence of race, gender, and culture on corporations, small businesses and entrepreneurial enterprises in South Africa. Cultural and historical background will be covered to promote transcultural understanding. During the course students will be introduced to their South African entrepreneurial partners with whom they will be working with prior to and during the study trip. In addition students will learn about the concept of human centered consulting which will better enable them to be more effective and impactful consultants. Outcome 1: Analyze social ventures, make practical and actionable recommendations to help social entrepreneurs. Outcome 2: Interact and communicate with people of other cultures and ethnicities, with a higher level of self-awareness of local contexts. Outcome 3: Analyze social ventures using a human centered consulting approach, and gain an understanding of the complexity of building a diverse society. Outcome 4: Explain how “big business” creates an inclusive and diverse workforce within South Africa. Outcome 5: Employ ethical reasoning in judging ideas, actions and their implications particularly when assisting small business owners. View full course description Impact Learning: Project Reflection, Completion and Presentation Course No. AEM 3601 Instructor S. Kyle, C. van Es Credits 3 Format Lecture The seven week spring semester class will focus on reflection of winter trip and preparation and presentation of your South Africa project. Outcome 1: Analyze social ventures, make practical and actionable recommendations to help social entrepreneurs. Outcome 2: Interact and communicate with people of other cultures and ethnicities, with a higher level of self-awareness of local contexts. Outcome 3: Analyze social ventures using a human centered consulting approach, and gain an understanding of the complexity of building a diverse society. Outcome 4: Explain how “big business” creates an inclusive and diverse workforce within South Africa. Outcome 5: Employ ethical reasoning in judging ideas, actions and their implications particularly when assisting small business owners. View full course description Environmental Finance and Markets Course No. AEM 4090 Instructor J. Tobin Credits 3 Format Lecture This course considers the ways in which the tools of finance are used to address environmental challenges and how market mechanisms can be used to ensure the long-term sustainability of ecosystems. Following an introduction to the prevailing environmental policy framework, the course explores the uses of such products as debt-for-nature swaps, green bonds, structured notes, and environmental impacts bonds, and illustrates both their potential and their limitations through a review of market transactions. The course also explores how investment decisions can influence environmental outcomes and the role that sustainable asset management strategies can have in achieving desired conservation objectives. Outcome 1: Understand how the tools of finance can be used to address societal challenges such as ensuring the long-term sustainability of ecosystems. Outcome 2: Recognize opportunities to leverage the power of the investment markets to achieve particular outcomes by identifying potential cash flows inherent to preserved or sustainably-managed ecosystems. Outcome 3: Critically examine proposed investment blueprints and assess their potential to achieve desired conservation outcomes. Outcome 4: Propose ways in which financial products and services may be used to better manage environmental risks and deliver both financial and environmental returns. View full course description Advanced Design and Innovation Course No. AEM 4375 Instructor D. Ramzy Credits 3 Format Lecture This engaged learning course applies design strategies to real-world problems in a business context. You’ll act as a business design consultant working directly with a social enterprise client on a set of challenges throughout the semester, applying design tools, theories and overall process to a project that results in a portfolio-ready deliverable. Working in multidisciplinary teams with real deadlines and deliverables, you will use a design toolkit and mindset for creative problem solving. This collaboration will allow you to immerse yourself in a professional setting in which you explore business opportunities; develop innovative concepts; and propose and prototype innovative and entrepreneurial solutions. You’ll tackle issues and challenges such as new product, service or business model development; organizational structure and growth; and external threats and opportunities. This class builds on AEM 3110/AEM 5110, Design and Innovation, and also fulfills the requirement for Dyson’s Grand Challenge project course, AEM 4000. Outcome 1: Students will be able to apply qualitative and ethnographic design research techniques in a client-based project. Outcome 2: Students will be able to hone visualization and storytelling methods to synthesize and communicate data and concepts. Outcome 3: Students will be able to use the iterative process for problem solving: generating, testing, and refining ideas, products, business models, etc. Outcome 4: Students will be able to practice working collaboratively in multidisciplinary teams. Outcome 5: Students will be able to model innovative concepts at the intersection of design and business. View full course description Pre-Engagement with Social Enterprises in Emerging Markets Course No. AEM 4415 Instructor N. Kiiti Credits 1.5 Format Lecture The course is designed to prepare students who will be participating in a service-learning experience or field research emerging markets. It is primarily a preparatory course for students who will be participating in Student Multidisciplinary Applied Research Teams (SMART) projects over the winter intersession and the spring semester. Students planning independent research or internships in cross-cultural environment and with social enterprises can also benefit from this course. The course covers inter-cultural competence, case study methods, risk and security abroad, Institutional Review Board (IRB) for human participants, and analytical framework applicable to social enterprises in emerging markets. Outcome 1: Identify inter-cultural models, cultural differences and proven approaches to meaningful engagement with other cultures. Outcome 2: Use multiple frameworks in analyzing the macro and micro-environments of social enterprises in emerging markets. Outcome 3: Explain case study methods including background research, write up, analysis and teaching notes. Outcome 4: Identify multiple resources available (on and off campus) to support students before, during and after their international engagement. Outcome 5: Work and communicate in multidisciplinary teams to solve real-world problems. Outcome 6: Consider legal and ethical considerations for research dealing with human participants including compliance with Cornell’s Institutional Review Board (IRB). View full course description Ways of Knowing: Indigenous and Place-Based Ecological Knowledge Course No. AIIS 3330 / AMST 3330 / NTRES 3330 Instructor K-A. S. Kassam Credits 4 Format Lecture Based on indigenous and place-based “ways of knowing,” this course (1) presents a theoretical and humanistic framework from which to understand generation of ecological knowledge; (2) examines processes by which to engage indigenous and place-based knowledge of natural resources, the nonhuman environment, and human-environment interactions; and (3) reflects upon the relevance of this knowledge to climatic change, resource extraction, food sovereignty, medicinal plant biodiversity, and issues of sustainability and conservation. The fundamental premise of this course is that human beings are embedded in their ecological systems. Graduate students are required to read supplemental materials, undertake more complex research assignments, and participate in seminar discussion section. View full course description Leadership for Sustainability Course No. ALS 2000 Instructor K. Anderson, S. Brylinsky, K. Hilversum, M. Hoffman Credits 3 Format Lecture This course is for students who are interested in becoming leaders for sustainability while on campus and throughout their lives. It is open to all levels. Students will focus primarily on sustainability issues in residence halls but opportunities to address similar issues across campus and/or in the community are also available. In the fall semester the focus is on reducing waste. During the spring semester emphasis is on reducing energy use and the risks associated with a changing climate. Students will increase their leadership and communication skills and better understand how to motivate themselves and others to change behaviors that will improve our stewardship of the world around us. Outcome 1: Demonstrate knowledge of climate change and the ways in which we can reduce our carbon footprint, especially through reduction in energy use (spring semester). Demonstrate knowledge of waste on campus and its environmental consequences (fall semester). Outcome 2: Identify and evaluate behaviors and practices that reduce waste and/or energy use. Outcome 3: Identify specific practices that can be used to motivate themselves and others to develop new behaviors and practices around waste reduction and energy use. Outcome 4: Identify critical elements of leadership; identify their individual leadership strengths and weaknesses; practice new leadership skills. Outcome 5: Demonstrate knowledge of Community-Based Social Marketing and use it change their own and others’ behaviors to increase campus sustainability. Outcome 6: Describe how social-economic class, ethnicity, gender, and race affect perspectives toward sustainability. Outcome 7: Identify and use skills to work effectively in teams. Outcome 8: Find credible information on issues related to waste reduction, energy use, and climate change, and the connection to sustainability. Outcome 9: Demonstrate project management, peer-education, and assessment skills by implementing projects. Outcome 10: Demonstrate improved communication skills about controversial sustainability issues. View full course description CALS Global Fellows Program Pre-engagement Course Course No. ALS 2300 Instructor J. Hawkey, D. Viands Credits 1 Format Lecture This course is designed to equip CALS Global Fellows with the tools and knowledge to be prepared, effective, and cross-culturally competent during their summer internship placement abroad (and beyond). The course will encourage students to critically reflect on the objectives of an international experience and how it can influence academic and personal development. We will explore the invisible boundaries of working in global business and NGO settings and examine cultural intelligence and cross-cultural dynamics, encouraging students to develop as future leaders in a variety of environments. Outcome 1: Students will be able to explain and examine host organization, internship position, and region/country. Outcome 2: Students will be able to locate and employ resources that address individual health and safety abroad. Outcome 3: Students will be able to discuss and apply selected strategies and tools that address a variety of challenges of entering and working in an international setting. Outcome 4: 4: Students will be able to define and describe professional, personal, and intercultural learning objectives, and identify the avenues to meet these. View full course description CALS Global Fellows Program Post-engagement Course Course No. ALS 2301 Instructor C. Tarter, D. Viands Credits 1 Format Lecture The post-engagement course in the Global Fellows Program presents an opportunity for students to reflect, process, and synthesize their recent professional, personal and intercultural experience. It provides a platform to define and explore their achievement of personal and professional goals, and articulate their experience in ways that enhance the continuing journey as global learners and professionals. In this third and final piece of the program, students participate in a set of required course sessions and activities that culminate in a signature showcase event open to the Cornell and CALS community. Multi-term course. Students must enroll in both ALS 2300 and ALS 2301 to receive a final grade. Outcome 1: Engage with your experience through your weekly e-portfolio reflections [internship phase]. Outcome 2: Connect lived experience to pre-internship expectations and learning goals. Outcome 3: Identify individual intercultural and global learning outcomes. Outcome 4: Link experience to ongoing professional and academic trajectories. Outcome 5: Effectively communicate your international experience, associated outcomes, and contribution in part through the development and presentation of a poster. View full course description Community-Based Research in DC Course No. ALS 4100 Instructor K. Beem Credits 3 Format Lecture In this experiential, community-based research course, Cornell in Washington program participants will design, implement, evaluate, and reflect on a semester-long community engaged research and service-learning project with an established community partner. Students will receive training and grounding in community-based research theory and practice as well as reflective learning skills. Early in the semester, students will chose from a few optional projects that they will then further co-develop with the community partner, creating clearly defined project deliverables that they will carry out through the semester. The course will meet weekly for seminar instruction to ground students’ work, and then students will develop their research products and timelines, committing to 50 hours of work with the community partner. Outcome 1: Describe and explain the core principles of community-based research theory and best practices. Outcome 2: Apply community-based research practices to a project. Outcome 3: Create, implement, and evaluate a project in conjunction with a community partner that addresses a specific need. Outcome 4: Engage in reflective practice and evaluate their own performance on the project. View full course description Immersion and Engagement in DC Course No. ALS 4200 Instructor K. Beem Credits 1 Format Lecture In this community engaged course, Cornell in Washington program participants will explore and deepen their understanding of their experiences living and working in D.C. The course will ground students’ knowledge in critical social theory, place-based learning theory, and explorations of contemporary issues facing D.C. Students will also learn critical reflection techniques to further develop their knowledge and experiences while in the program. The course will consist of weekly class meetings, discussions, guest speakers, and field engagement activities. Outcome 1: Describe and explain the core principles of critical social theory, place-based learning theory, and reflective practice. Outcome 2: Engage in integrative and peer learning across disciplines and experiences. Outcome 3: Critically reflect on their experiences and knowledge. Outcome 4: Reflect on and describe the complexity and diversity of the D.C. community, Cornell in Washington community and their place in it. View full course description Understanding Global Capitalism Through Service Learning Course No. AMST 2016 / ASRC 2006 / HIST 2006 Instructor E. Baptist Credits 4 Format Lecture This course is a seminar focused on a service-learning approach to understanding the history of neoliberal transformations of the global economy through the lens of an island (Jamaica) and a community (Petersfield.) Building on the success of last year’s global service-learning course and trip to Petersfield, and now bringing the course under the auspices of both the Engaged Cornell and Cornell Abroad administrative and funding capabilities. Students will attend class each week and will also take a one-week service trip over spring break to work with the local community partner (AOC) in Petersfield. We will also work with Amizade, a non-profit based in Pittsburgh, who is the well-established partner of the AOC and which works with numerous universities on global service learning projects. They have a close relationship with CU Engaged Learning and Research. View full course description Immigrant Ithaca Course No. AMST 2252 / HIST 2252 / LSP 2252 Instructor M. C. Garcia Credits 4 Format Lecture This engaged learning course allows students to combine community service with academic learning. Students will learn about the post-1965 immigration to the United States, and especially to Ithaca and upstate New York. We will examine the reasons for migration, the policies that facilitated entry, and the particular needs of immigrant populations in the local setting. Because this course is a seminar there is a strong emphasis on the discussion of the weekly readings, and class participation weighs heavily in the assessment of the final grade. A key component of this course is the community service project. In consultation with the professor, students will identify and work on individual service projects in the local community and must agree to commit a minimum of 3-4 hours per week to their project. In the past, students have worked with a number of local organizations including the Immigrant Services Program at Catholic Charities; the Tompkins County Living Wage Coalition & Workers’ Rights Center; the BOCES ESL Program; the Translator Program; and the Cornell Friends of the Farmworkers. View full course description Incarceration, Policy Response, and Self-Reflection Course No. AMST 3142 / EDUC 3143 / GOVT 3142 Instructor Staff Credits 4 Format Lecture This class is intended to provoke some hard thinking about the relationship of committed “outsiders” and advocates of change to the experience of crime, punishment, and incarceration and to the men we meet at Auburn/Cayuga who have been in most instances long-confined to prison. We will read, think, talk and write about the incarceration experience and about policies that shape this experience. We will also think self-reflexively about the character of the ‘outsider’s’ educational, political, and personal engagement. What are the motivations and what are the goals of such engagement? What are the anticipated outcomes – personal, social, educational, political, and/or moral and perhaps spiritual? In an effort to delve deeply into these questions, we will read a broad selection of work on incarceration, itself, as well as on the experience of what has come to be termed service learning or civic engagement. View full course description Ways of Knowing: Indigenous and Place-Based Ecological Knowledge Course No. AMST 3330 / AIIS 3330 / NTRES 3330 Instructor K-A. S. Kassam Credits 4 Format Lecture Based on indigenous and place-based “ways of knowing,” this course (1) presents a theoretical and humanistic framework from which to understand generation of ecological knowledge; (2) examines processes by which to engage indigenous and place-based knowledge of natural resources, the nonhuman environment, and human-environment interactions; and (3) reflects upon the relevance of this knowledge to climatic change, resource extraction, food sovereignty, medicinal plant biodiversity, and issues of sustainability and conservation. The fundamental premise of this course is that human beings are embedded in their ecological systems. Outcome 1: To appreciate natural resource development from a human ecological perspective; Outcome 2: To apply the interdisciplinary lens of human ecology to understand human and environmental relations; Outcome 3: To appreciate the complex interconnectivity between the ecological and the cultural; Outcome 4: To comprehend that individual actions informed by cultural systems manifest themselves in social structures that rely on ecological foundations; Outcome 5: To extend the notion of transdisciplinary to include indigenous and place-based knowledge; Outcome 6: To situate indigenous and local knowledge within a humanistic framework of knowledge generation; Outcome 7: To illustrate the participatory and experiential basis of indigenous and place-based knowledge; Outcome 8: To propose a method best suited for researching such knowledge processes; and Outcome 9: To value the contributions of indigenous and place-based knowledge in the context of socio-cultural and environmental change and natural resource utilization. View full course description Dairy Herd Management Course No. ANSC 3510 Instructor J. Giordano Credits 4 Format Lecture Course integrates concepts of cow biology, management, economics, and sustainability of dairy operations. Special emphasis is given to management practices and technologies that affect cattle health and well-being, milk production and quality, reproduction, herd growth, milking, and environmental impact of dairy production. Basic concepts of dairy foods processing and the importance of milk quality for dairy products are covered. Laboratory sessions include hands-on learning of dairy software, analysis of alternative strategies, and decision-making. Commercial farm case studies are used to integrate concepts of biology and management learned in the course. View full course description Junior Dairy Fellows Course No. ANSC 3511 Instructor M. Van Amburgh Credits 2 Format Lecture Designed for undergraduates who have a sincere interest in dairy production management and the dairy industry. The objective of this course is to impart further understanding of the integration and application of dairy science to dairy production enterprises and related industries. The course emphasizes a wide range of dairy- and agriculture- related businesses and personnel that work with the dairy industry worldwide. Outcome 1: Students will enhance knowledge of dairy science, and gain critical thinking skills in applied dairy science. Outcome 2: Students will develop ideas on current dairy production management topics and defend their positions through evidence-based approaches, communication and debate. Outcome 3: Students will develop networking skills and participate in professional meetings and field experiences related to the dairy industry. View full course description Dairy Herd Business Management Course No. ANSC 4510 Instructor J. Karszes, M. Van Amburgh Credits 3 Format Lecture Emphasizes dairy herd business management with application to herd management analysis. Laboratory includes farm tours and analysis. Outcome 1: Students will develop critical thinking skills in business and financial decision making. Outcome 2: Students will gain experience in developing group based business outcomes through classroom discussion and interaction in support of their decision making process. Outcome 3: Students will gain perspective about real-life decisions through interactions with dairy farm families and employees, along with actual financial data pertaining to the business. Outcome 4: Students will learn how to think extemporaneously and develop verbal communication skills. View full course description Dairy Management Fellowship Course No. ANSC 4560 Instructor M. Van Amburgh Credits 2 Format Lecture Designed for undergraduates who have a sincere interest in dairy farm management. The course objective is to gain further understanding of the integration and application of dairy farm management principles and programs with respect to progressive dairying and related industries. There are field trips focusing on dairy farm business analyses and feedback, along with other experiential learning activities and professional development and networking opportunities. Field trips will be held on announced Saturdays throughout the course of the semester. Outcome 1: Enhance the student’s ability to conduct comprehensive dairy farm business evaluations that includes financial, human resource, herd level and CAFO level decision making and provide real-time feedback to the owner and manager and integrate sustainability and generational transfer as components of the process. Outcome 2: Recognize how and develop the skill to transfer business equity among generations and how to do the same thing with non-family partners while maintaining the viability of the business. This includes the use of insurance and other risk management tools available. Outcome 3: Learn to recognize potential risks to the business (financial, environmental, market, human and animal welfare) how to use current tools to mitigate or minimize risk and develop the appropriate approach to ensure profitability and sustainability of the business. Outcome 4: Learn to properly identify actual and perceived risks by consumers and non-producers and further to effectively communicate a response to such inquiries and to take appropriate action when needed. Outcome 5: Identify how and why conflict arises in family business and develop appropriate strategies for overcoming the conflict to minimize the effect of conflict on family and business function and dynamics. View full course description Global Engagements: Living and Working in a Diverse World Course No. ANTHR 1900 Instructor S. Villenas Credits 4 Format Lecture The path to global citizenship begins with a facility for navigating cultural difference. How might we engage with communities, whether here in Ithaca or across the globe, whose pasts and present understandings are fundamentally different than our own? This course is designed to help students bring global engaged learning into their Cornell education. It introduces skills that are vital for intercultural engagement, including participant-observation research, ethnographic writing, and the habits of critical reflexivity. Students will complete projects with service learning placements in the Ithaca community. They will also begin an ePortfolio as they explore their identity and engage with the international community on campus. View full course description Going Global: Preparing for Engaged Learning Course No. ANTHR 3901 Instructor S. Villenas Credits 2 Format Lecture So you’re enrolled in an upcoming study abroad program! Now what? How can you make the most of your experience? This half-semester course is designed to prepare students departing for any study abroad or domestic engaged learning programs. This course provides the opportunity to refine the skills necessary for cross-cultural encounters, including participant-observation research, ethnographic writing, and the habits of critical reflexivity. Students will research the culture and history of their destination and develop an ePortfolio to capture their experiences. They will also consider how to succeed in a foreign academic environment by engaging with the international community on campus. View full course description Coming Home: Making the Most of Engaged Experiences Course No. ANTHR 3902 Instructor S. Villenas Credits 2 Format Lecture How has your study abroad experience shaped you and your perspective on the world? What does it mean to be a global citizen? This half-semester course is designed for students returning from study abroad or other engaged learning programs. Students will reflect on topics such as identity, difference, and navigating cross-cultural encounters by writing narratives based on their experience and revising their ePortfolio. In doing so, they will grapple with “culture shock” and share moments of personal growth. They will also have the opportunity to contribute to the international community on campus. View full course description Fieldwork in Urban Archaeology Course No. ARKEO 2610 / CRP 2610 / LA 2610 Instructor S. Baugher Credits 4 Format Lecture Urban archaeologists study American Indian, colonial, and 19th-century sties that now lie within the boundaries of modern cities. The course explores how urban centers evolve, what lies beneath today’s cities, and how various cultures have altered the urban landscape. Students participate in a local, historical archaeological excavation. Outcome 1: Integration of Writing, Visual Representation and/or Speaking Presentation Skills. The Journals, archaeological field forms, and measured drawings of floor plans and wall plans of the excavation units will measure the students writing and visual presentation skills. The open house days will enable the students to develop their presentation skills. The final exam will also measure the students’ skills in writing. Outcome 2: Develop a disciplinary literacy through history, theory, and contemporary issues/ practice. The final exam will test/measure the student’s understanding of the literature and contemporary practice in American historical archaeology. Outcome 3: Develop technical skills in archaeology. The students will be graded on their skills in field techniques. Their field forms and field journals will measure their ability to examine, describe, discuss, and analyze their findings in from their fieldwork. Outcome 4: Students will work in teams to develop skills in negotiation and collaboration. Part of the fieldwork grade will evaluate the students’ ability to work in partnerships. Outcome 5: Develop critical thinking. The final exam will measure the student’s ability to place archaeological evidence within its historical context, to evaluate, compare and contrast evidence in order to arrive at conclusions. View full course description Laboratory in Landscape Archaeology Course No. ARKEO 2620 / LA 2620 Instructor S. Baugher Credits 3 Format Lecture Various American Indian civilizations and European cultures have altered the landscape to meet the needs of their cultures. Students learn how to interpret the Euro-American landscapes of a buried village excavated by Cornell students. The students will identify and date artifacts, stud soil samples, and create site maps. Outcome 1: Integration of Writing, Visual Representation and/or Speaking Presentation Skills. The artifact research reports will be a measure the students writing and visual presentation skills. The presentation to the park staff and to the Friends of Robert H. Treman State Park will measure the students public speaking, visual representation, and presentation skills. The take-home exam will also measure the students’ skills in writing. Outcome 2: Develop a disciplinary literacy through history, theory, and contemporary issues/ practice. The take-home exam will test/measure the student’s understanding of the archaeological literature and contemporary practice in American historical archaeology. Outcome 3: Develop knowledge of and ability to identify, date, and catalogue historical artifacts. The two laboratory exams will test the students’ abilities and knowledge of this material. Outcome 4: Develop research skills. The research paper will measure the student’s ability to describe examine, evaluate, and analyze historical artifacts. Outcome 5: Develop multicultural perspectives. The readings and the work with our community partners will enable the students to be exposed to multicultural perspectives. The final exam on the readings will test the students’ ability to compare and contrast archaeological evidence of cultural diversity. View full course description Statues and Public Life Course No. ARTH 1704 / CLASS 1704 Instructor V. Platt Credits 3 Format Lecture Why do so many societies create statues, and why do they set them up in prominent spaces within their communities? How and why do statues loom so large in the public imagination? Looking both to the cultures of Ancient Greece and Rome and to the modern West, this course examines the social, political, religious, and erotic power attributed to statues across diverse periods and contexts. Drawing on dynamic “Active Learning” methods, we will explore topics including the foundational role of statues for political states (from the Athenian Tyrannicides to the Statue of Liberty), the destruction of statues (from Christian iconoclasm to Confederate monuments), creative “statue-hacks” (from Rome’s Pasquino to Wall Street’s “Fearless Girl”) and objects of cult (from Olympian Zeus to weeping Madonnas). The course will encourage active engagement with statues relevant to students themselves, including the Cornell cast collection, statues on campus, and those in your own home town. View full course description Understanding Global Capitalism Through Service Learning Course No. ASRC 2006 / AMST 2016 / HIST 2006 Instructor E. Baptist Credits 4 Format Lecture This course is a seminar focused on a service-learning approach to understanding the history of neoliberal transformations of the global economy through the lens of an island (Jamaica) and a community (Petersfield.) Building on the success of last year’s global service-learning course and trip to Petersfield, and now bringing the course under the auspices of both the Engaged Cornell and Cornell Abroad administrative and funding capabilities. Students will attend class each week and will also take a one-week service trip over spring break to work with the local community partner (AOC) in Petersfield. We will also work with Amizade, a non-profit based in Pittsburgh, who is the well-established partner of the AOC and which works with numerous universities on global service learning projects. They have a close relationship with CU Engaged Learning and Research. View full course description Underground Railroad Seminar Course No. ASRC 3434 Instructor G. Aching Credits 4 Format Lecture This course offers undergraduates a unique approach to exploring the abolition movement and the Underground Railroad in Central New York. It is an experiential course that includes visits to specific known underground stations in Ithaca as well as Harriet Tubman’s residence and the William H. Seward House in Auburn, NY. It is also a community-engaged course in which students will contribute research for grant writing for two sites: the St. James AME Zion Church in Ithaca, which is a documented Underground Railroad station, and the Howland Stone Store Museum in Sherwood, NY. Readings include classic slave narratives by Frederick Douglass, Equiano, Mary Prince, and Solomon Northup and histories of the Underground Railroad by Eric Foner and Kate Clifford Larson. View full course description Peace Building in Conflict Regions: Case Studies Sub-Saharan Africa Israel Palestinian Territories Course No. ASRC 4721 / DSOC 4721 / GOVT 4723 / IARD 4721 / JWST 4721 / NES 4721 / STS 4721 Instructor C. Leuenberger Credits 4 Format Lecture This course focuses on issues of conflict, peace, and reconciliation in Israel and the Palestinian Territories as well as Sub-Saharan Africa. Both regions exemplify how issues ranging from nationalism and ethnocentrism to land, water and resource management, climate change and migration, as well as socio-psychological dynamics, can exacerbate conflicts. At the same time, these regions also exemplify how trans-border collaboration and regional integration, civilian peace building efforts, strategies for achieving historical justice, as well as science education and science diplomacy can become crucial tools for long-term peace-building, reconciliation and development. In this course we will work with and discuss issues of peace and conflict with policy-makers and local stakeholders involved in peace-building efforts. View full course description 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Next David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement Contact Subscribe Blog Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube © Cornell University