Skip to main content SEARCH: This Site Cornell more options Search This Site menu Engaged Cornell Hub Welcome The Hub’s “living room” is a great place for students to gather. Here, Amber Haywood ’21 chats with students during a drop-in coffee hour event. On the third floor of Kennedy Hall, the Hub houses six programs and units that support Cornell’s mission of public engagement. In this open and collaborative space, students, faculty, staff and community partners can learn more about and become involved in a variety of engagement opportunities on and off campus. Units in the Hub Community Learning and Service Partnership (CLASP) is a participatory adult learning program designed to create and support one-on-one mutual learning partnerships of Cornell students and employees. CLASP matches students from any major who take an EDUC/DSOC course in lifelong learning with Cornell employees interested in pursuing self-selected learning goals. The Cornell Commitment consists of The Cornell Tradition, Hunter R. Rawlings III Cornell Presidential Research Scholars and Meinig Family Cornell National Scholars programs. These programs recognize, reward and encourage further development of approximately 900 students across all seven undergraduate colleges who exemplify Cornell’s commitment to academic excellence, work and service, inquiry and discovery, and leadership and learning. The Cornell Prison Education Program brings together Cornell faculty, graduate students and undergraduates to offer a college-level liberal arts curriculum to a select group of incarcerated students at regional prisons. The David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement is a brand new unit dedicated to advancing community-engaged learning and public service across the university. Combining the Office of Engagement Initiatives and the Public Service Center, the center opens new pathways for Cornellians to embrace the university’s land-grant mission to improve lives in New York state, across the nation and around the world. With rich coursework and applied learning opportunities focusing on education in K-12 schools, adult learning programs, prison education programs, and Extension and Outreach, the Cornell Education Minor, in the Department of Global Development, prepares undergraduates from across the university to teach and support learning in a variety of contexts. An introductory gateway course requires weekly on- or off-campus engagement with a learning community (school, youth bureau, adult education program, etc.). Other required courses focus on education history, policy, and philosophy. Many other courses in the minor require students to apply what they are learning to enhance their understanding of, and meet, genuine community needs, such as after-school enrichment for youth and professional skill development for adult learners. New York Agricultural Outreach and Education programs offer relevance of core academic concepts as they are applied to the agriculture, food and natural resources systems that we all work with each day. New York Agricultural Outreach and Education works in partnership with Cornell and the New York State Education Department. Hub Hours and Location 8 a.m.–4:30 p.m., Monday–Friday 3rd floor, Kennedy Hall Getting Here TCAT buses serve the Kennedy Hall bus stop and the nearby Corson/Mudd Hall stop. For information about parking on campus, visit the Facilities and Campus Services website. Contact For more information or inquiries, contact engagedcornell@cornell.edu. Cornell University©2022University PrivacyWeb Accessibility Assistance Hosted by CampusPress Skip to toolbar Log In Search