University of Southern California USC Student Health Part of Keck Medicine of USC Menu Skip to content search For New Students Health Requirements for New Students: Entering for Fall 2022 Onboarding Sessions: June 21 and 22, 2022 Orientation Videos MySHR Portal: Quickstart Undergraduate and Graduate Students (U.S. based) International Students Health Professions Program Students For Parents Services Medical Care Patient Education Contraception, including LARCs Counseling & Mental Health Workshops and Programs Group Counseling BIPOC Mental Health Community-Centered Services: Embedded Counselors and Liaisons Sexual Assault Survivor Support Transgender Care Athletic Medicine The Health Fee and Student Insurance Bringing an Existing Insurance Plan to Campus Insurance Waiver Glossary of Terms Dental Plan Option Insurance for Student Travel Abroad For Students/Parents For Program Coordinators Student Health Insurance Office Contact Request a Presentation/Facilitation MySHR Login Emergencies Patient Feedback COVID-19 Health Services COVID-19 Vaccines at USC Vaccine Clinic Schedule List of Accepted Vaccines / Boosters CA Digital COVID-19 Vaccine Record FAQs on University Vaccine Policy Pop 3.0 Testing Hours and Locations COVID-19 TESTING: PCR and Antigen Trojan Check and MySHR Troubleshooting Guide Post COVID-19 Diagnosis and Recovery Instructions: Positive Test Results Instructions: Preparing for an Antigen Test Instructions: Exposure to a positive individual Instructions: Spring Recess Testing (Using Antigen Kits) Insurance Waiver Return to Content Mental Well-being for Students Learn about the programs that are available to support you. Learn more. My Student Health Record (MySHR) My Student Health Record (MySHR) makes it easy to manage your health, find great care, and see everything in one place. Schedule Health Center appointments online Register for text message appointment reminders Correspond with your provider using secure messages View your immunization history and compliance Complete necessary forms prior to your appointment Edit your local address and phone number (Health Center records only) MyShr Login We're here to answer your questions 213-740-9355 (WELL) Emergency In the Event of a Life-threatening Emergency More emergency resources Services Medical Care Sexual Assault Survivor Support Counseling and Mental Health Student Insurance Plan Patient Feedback Please send in your comments, compliments and concerns using our online form. Give feedback Locations Engemann Student Health Center University Park Campus 1031 West 34th St. Los Angeles, CA 90089 Directions Eric Cohen Student Health Center Health Sciences Campus 1510 San Pablo St. Suite 104 Los Angeles, CA 90033 Directions Announcements Health Advisory for Individuals at Higher Risk of Serious Cases of COVID-19 May 11, 2022—As COVID-19 cases nationally and in Los Angeles County continue to steadily increase in recent weeks, we are sharing the following information as a special advisory for individuals who may be at higher risk of serious symptoms of COVID-19. The best protection is to be up to date on vaccinations, including boosters when eligible. Boosters are safe, and people over the age of 50 can now get an additional booster 4 months after their prior dose to increase their protection further. This is especially important for those 65 and older and those 50 and older with underlying medical conditions that increase their risk for severe disease from COVID-19 as they are the most likely to benefit from receiving an additional booster dose at this time. Treatment for Individuals Positive for COVID-19 If you are over age 65 or at higher risk of serious COVID-19 illness and develop symptoms of COVID-19, get tested right away. Early diagnosis and treatment can reduce the severity of your illness. If you are at risk for serious/severe COVID-19 and you have tested positive for COVID-19 within the past 5 days, discuss treatment with your healthcare provider right away. You may be eligible for antiviral treatment if you: Are age 65 and older Are at high risk of getting more serious symptoms Have tested positive for COVID-19 Are not in the hospital but have mild to moderate symptoms for 5 days or less Employees should contact their regular healthcare provider. Students may contact USC Student Health at 213-740-9355 or through mySHR. If you do not have access to a regular healthcare provider, treatment is available through the Los Angeles County Department of Public Health “Test to Treat” program. Update on COVID-19 Procedures (5/2/22) In keeping with the state and county’s revised definition of “close contact” (someone sharing the same indoor space for a cumulative total of 15 minutes or more over a 24-hour period) the university is revising its COVID-19 notification practices. This change is needed to ensure compliance with the new definition. Beginning on Wednesday, May 4, all currently enrolled students and all university employees will receive a daily email message with an update on reported cases. A sample message is attached. The message contains a link to the daily report of cases, and instructions for individuals who believe that they have been in close contact with a positive individual. Sarah Van Orman awarded Presidential Medallion for advancing USC’s values in the field of student health After working in university health care for most of her professional career, Sarah Van Orman was well prepared for her role when she arrived at USC in 2017. Even so, the COVID-19 pandemic would put her and her department to the test. With calm and perseverance, Van Orman has led USC Student Health throughout these difficulties, earning her a Presidential Medallion. “To say that Student Health at USC has had a challenging five years is an understatement,” Van Orman said, “I am extremely proud of the staff at Student Health and their ability to be resilient through the unprecedented demands related to mental health and navigating a pandemic.” “I am extremely proud of the staff at Student Health, their ability to be resilient, grow, and continue to enhance the care that we’re providing,” she said. Update to Health Officer Order for the control of COVID-19 4/15/22—Updated guidance from the LA County Dept. of Public Health removes the quarantine requirement for individuals who are asymptomatic after having had a close contact exposure to a positive case of COVID-19. Individuals who have had an exposure are required to wear a highly protective mask around others, especially indoors, for a total of 10 days after the last contact with a person who tested positive for COVID-19, and to test to determine infection status. This updated guidance applies to members of the general public; this excludes health care personnel and other workers in high-risk settings. The definition of “close contact” has also been updated, in alignment with the California Dept of Public Health definition of “someone sharing the same indoor airspace, e.g., home, clinic waiting room, airplane, etc., for a cumulative total of 15 minutes or more over a 24-hour period (for example, three individual 5-minute exposures for a total of 15 minute) during an infected person’s (laboratory-confirmed or clinical diagnosis) infectious period.” Checklist for Summer As we near the end of the academic year, we would like to share some reminders to keep your health on track over the summer. ✅ Continuing Summer Health Care (available to all USC students, including May 2022 graduates). For students who are in Los Angeles for the summer (or will be in other regions of California, and would like to continue through Telehealth visits), signing up for the Summer Health Fee can provide you the same access to USC Student Health services that you have during the academic year. ✅ Health Insurance Continuity for Graduating Students. Your SHIP/Aetna coverage continues through August 14, 2022. ✅ Immunizations. Complete any outstanding immunization requirements. ✅ Safely discard drugs before you leave for the Summer. ✅ COVID-19 testing. Test before traveling, and don't travel if you are sick. ☀️ Wear Sunscreen “Black Men Will” summit creates community support Organizers of the USC "Black Men Will" Summit Event. April 1, 2022.The day-long USC "Black Men Will" summit event, conceptualized by Dr. Dakari Quimby, clinician in Counseling and Mental Health Services in Student Health, and assistant clinical professor in Psychiatry and the Behavioral Sciences, was an opportunity to re-affirm belonging for Black men at USC, creating a space that supports mental well-being and community connection. The event was co-sponsored by the Center for Black Cultural and Student Affairs. All news (213) 740-WELL (9355) studenthealth@usc.edu About Us Leadership Meet the Providers Mission, Values, and Vision Media Room News for Students Policies/Information Patient Privacy and Confidentiality Patient Rights and Responsibilities Patient Education Materials Medical Policies and Forms Fees and Deadlines List Hours of Operation For Online Degree Program Students Counseling and Mental Health Training Programs (graduate practica) Annual Report 2018-2019 COVID-19 Notifications To view this information, you must be logged out of a personal Gmail account, and logged in to your USC account, in order to access this site. Use your primary USC NetID; school/unit-based subdomain accounts (“med,” “law,” “marshall,” etc.,) will cause you to see a 404 error. * For instructions on how to log in to USC Google G-Suite apps using your USC NetID, visit the ITS instruction page. Toolkit for USC Campus Partners Well-being Collective | Data for Partners Student Health Advisory Committee Meet the Health Promotion Strategy Team USC Campus Climate Survey USC Healthy Minds Study AlcoholEdu® for College Emergency Response Guide (for Faculty) Guide: Talking about Suicide Guide: Grief and Loss Guide: Resilience Through Challenges Guide: LGBTQ+ Curriculum Patient Feedback Tell Us What You Think Social Media Rumi the Wellness Dog Twitter Facebook HEI 2022 Leader Feedback Site by USC ITS Web Services Content managed by USC Student Health Privacy Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination