Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Mechanical Engineering Graduate Programs Empowered Bryan Kinzer receives U.S. Student Fulbright Award Engaged TU participates in inaugural CyberTruck Challenge > Department of Mechanical Engineering > Mechanical Engineering Graduate Programs https://youtu.be/Rz5BoSW-QRY MECHANICAL ENGINEERING Accreditation Mechanical Engineering Undergraduate Programs Mechanical Engineering Graduate Programs Research Faculty Facilities News Contact the Department Apply Now Request Information The Department of Mechanical Engineering focuses on teaching students how to apply knowledge and experience to establish professional careers in a global marketplace and pursue advanced studies along with continued professional development. Mechanical engineers have played a central role in the technological development of Western civilization by creating and improving a wide variety of machines and systems used by industry and the general public. These professionals combine theory and practice to design and fabricate mechanical and thermal equipment such as tools, engines and machines. Faculty help students investigate the advanced principles and applications of mechanical engineering for graduate school preparation, careers in academia or industry jobs. These programs enhance students’ professional skills through a deeper understanding of mechanical engineering principles and applications. Program Objectives Master of Engineering in Mechanical Engineering The objective of the Master of Engineering degree is: To advance the student’s technical and professional skills. Master of Science in Engineering in Mechanical Engineering The objectives of the Master of Science in Engineering degree are: To advance the student’s technical and professional skills. To develop the ability of graduates to conduct research projects. Doctor of Philosophy in Mechanical Engineering The objectives of the Doctor of Philosophy degree are: To advance the student’s technical and professional skills. To develop the ability of graduates to conduct research projects and to develop independent research skills. To direct graduate students towards the advancement of the state-of-the-art in their area of research. Degree Options Mechanical Engineering, M.E. Designed for students who plan to work in industry immediately following graduation, focuses more on training and hands on engineering practices rather than research and preparation for a doctoral degree. Thesis not required, students must complete nine more credit hours than the master of science in mechanical engineering program. Mechanical Engineering, M.S.E. Intended to develop and improve students’ professional skills through coursework and design projects. Requires a thesis and offers greater opportunity for independent investigation and creative research. Mechanical Engineering, Ph.D. TU’s doctoral degree in mechanical engineering provides students with a thorough understanding of the scientific and engineering principles underlying their specific fields of interest. Students develop the ability to creatively apply these fundamentals to engineering problems while sharpening their research skills. Professional Opportunities Teaching Research and development Management Government Application Requirements To be considered for graduate admission, the following items must be submitted to the Graduate School: A completed Graduate School application Statement of Purpose (admission essay) 2 – 3 letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your academic potential. Official or unofficial transcripts from all universities attended GRE General Test results $60 application fee International students who studied at a university outside of the U.S. will also need to submit TOEFL or IELTS results 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT