Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Give Now School of Engineering Brown University School of Engineering Brown University Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Search Search Menu Undergraduate Awards Breadcrumb Home Undergraduate Sub Navigation In This Section ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Undergraduate Awards The School of Engineering currently has the following prizes and premiums which can be awarded to undergraduate students. Nominations are made by engineering faculty. Commencement Awards Outstanding Senior Award Established by the School of Engineering to be awarded annually to that senior in each concentration who has shown outstanding achievement in his/her field. (Awarded in each area: Biomedical, Chemical, Computer, Electrical, Environmental, Materials, Mechanical, AB and Engineering-Physics) Amount of Award/Prize: $100.00 Nominations are due March 31. Domenico A. Ionata '26 Award Established by gifts of the family of Domenico A. Ionata, Class of 1926, provides for a premium to be awarded annually to that senior concentrating in engineering who demonstrates an unusual degree creativity and imagination in an independent study project. Amount of Award/Prize: $2,550.00 Nominations are due March 31. Joseph Kestin Award of Excellence Awarded to the most outstanding undergraduate student in the field of Thermodynamics. Amount of Award/Prize: $250.00. Nominations are due March 31. Senior Capstone Project Awards Doris M. and Norman T. Halpin Prize Fund for Senior Capstone Project Thanks to the generosity of Doris M. and Norman T. Halpin, the School of Engineering will award seed funding and prize money to support one innovative and interdisciplinary senior capstone design project. A highly deserving student will be awarded a $750 cash prize for an innovative senior capstone design project. In addition, the student and research faculty advisor will receive up to $2500 in funding to support the project. Amount of Award/Prize: $750.00 cash prize and up to $2500.00 in funding to support the project. Nominations are due September 26. Summer Research Awards DiMase Summer Internship A merit based internship for 10 weeks of research. The DiMase family has endowed an annual summer internship for an engineering undergraduate junior who is especially motivated to acquire research skills during the summer months. A report of the student’s work must be submitted to the Dean of Engineering by the start of the new academic year. Please be advised that this internship can be shared between two equally rated candidates. In this case, one half of each internship stipend would be borne by the DiMase endowment, the other half would be charged to applicable research funds. Students who will hold a summer UTRA are not eligible for the DiMase award. If selected, winners will be asked to choose one. Amount of Award/Prize: $6,000.00 Nominations are due January 31. Sriram Jayakumar '13 Summer Research Fellowship Provides support for an undergraduate student to conduct research in a summer with a faculty member on a computer engineering topic/project. Amount of Award/Prize: $3,000. Nominations are due March 31. Neal B. Mitchell '58 Systems Thinking Project Award Provides support for an undergraduate student or students, in a summer or a semester of collaborative research with an individual faculty member, for research and study associated with systems thinking or a senior student working on advanced building structures. Amount of Award/Prize: up to $4,900. Nominations are due March 31. Carl Nielsen '56 Summer Research Fellowship Provides support for an undergraduate student to conduct research in a summer with a faculty member. Amount of Award/Prize: $5,000. Nominations are due January 31. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Reservations Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Flickr Instagram LinkedIn Twitter YouTube © Brown University School of Engineering Brown University For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Undergraduate Awards Open details for Undergraduate Awards Bookmark this Page