2022 Thayer Investiture Undergraduate Graduate Research Entrepreneurship Community About ThayerExpress Faculty Offices Visit Apply Give Undergraduate Undergraduate Engineering at Dartmouth Bachelor's Degrees Bachelor of Arts Bachelor of Engineering Dual-Degree Program Undergraduate Experience Engineering Design Research & Entrepreneurship Opportunities Study Abroad Project Spaces & Labs Student Life & Housing Life After Dartmouth Quick Links AB – Engineering Majors AB – Engineering Minors AB+BE – Degree Program BE – Program Examples Undergraduate Courses Courses for Non-majors Schedules & Textbooks Academic Calendar Career Services Program Areas Biological / Chemical Biomedical Electrical / Computer Energy Materials Science Mechanical / Operations / Systems Graduate Graduate Engineering at Dartmouth Master's Degrees Master of Science Master of Engineering Master of Engineering Management Doctoral Degrees Doctor of Philosophy PhD Innovation Program PhD + Doctor of Medicine Graduate Experience Engineering Design Online Certificates Collaborative Programs Degree Outcomes Student Life & Housing Quick Links Graduate Courses Schedules & Textbooks Academic Calendar Grad Student Handbook Career Services Program Areas Biological / Chemical Biomedical Electrical / Computer Energy Materials Science Mechanical / Operations / Systems Research Engineering Research at Dartmouth Research by Program Area Biological / Chemical Biomedical Electrical / Computer Energy Materials Science Mechanical / Operations / Systems Research by Activity Research News Active Projects Laboratories Libraries Collaborative Programs Undergraduate Research Research Opportunities Entrepreneurship Engineering Entrepreneurship at Dartmouth Startups listed by Startup Names Faculty Founders Research Programs Patents listed by Patent Titles Faculty Inventors Research Programs Explore Resources Entrepreneurship News Entrepreneurship Education Magnuson Center for Entrepreneurship Dartmouth Regional Technology Center Technology Transfer Office Entrepreneurship & Technology Transfer Community Dartmouth Engineering Community Community Info Faculty Leadership Offices Student Groups Undergrad Life Graduate Life Alumni Giving Magazine News Events Academic Calendar Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Flickr About About Dartmouth Engineering About Us Visit Facts History Leadership Diversity Disability Financial Aid Scholarships Transcripts Enrollment Verification Employment COVID-19 ThayerExpress Faculty Offices Give Apply Visit Undergraduate Bachelor's Degrees Bachelor of Arts Bachelor of Engineering Dual-Degree Program Undergraduate Experience Engineering Design Research & Entrepreneurship Opportunities Study Abroad Project Spaces & Labs Student Life & Housing Life After Dartmouth Quick Links AB – Engineering Majors AB – Engineering Minors AB+BE – Degree Program BE – Program Examples Undergraduate Courses Courses for Non-majors Schedules & Textbooks Academic Calendar Career Services Program Areas Biological / Chemical Biomedical Electrical / Computer Energy Materials Science Mechanical / Operations / Systems Graduate Master's Degrees Master of Science Master of Engineering Master of Engineering Management Doctoral Degrees Doctor of Philosophy PhD Innovation Program PhD + Doctor of Medicine Graduate Experience Engineering Design Online Certificates Collaborative Programs Degree Outcomes Student Life & Housing Quick Links Graduate Courses Schedules & Textbooks Academic Calendar Grad Student Handbook Career Services Program Areas Biological / Chemical Biomedical Electrical / Computer Energy Materials Science Mechanical / Operations / Systems Research Research by Program Area Biological / Chemical Biomedical Electrical / Computer Energy Materials Science Mechanical / Operations / Systems Research by Activity Research News Active Projects Laboratories Libraries Collaborative Programs Undergraduate Research Research Opportunities Entrepreneurship Startups listed by Startup Names Faculty Founders Research Programs Patents listed by Patent Titles Faculty Inventors Research Programs Explore Resources Entrepreneurship News Entrepreneurship Education Magnuson Center for Entrepreneurship Dartmouth Regional Technology Center Technology Transfer Office Entrepreneurship & Technology Transfer Community Community Info Faculty Leadership Offices Student Groups Undergrad Life Graduate Life Alumni Giving Magazine News Events Academic Calendar Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Flickr About About Us Visit Facts History Leadership Diversity Disability Financial Aid Scholarships Transcripts Enrollment Verification Employment COVID-19 Menu Close Back Home  |  Graduate  |  MS Master of Science Degree Program The Master of Science (MS) in engineering sciences degree program at Dartmouth stresses innovative research, advanced levels of engineering skills, and extensive project management experience. MS graduates acquire: basic competency in applied mathematics and engineering breadth of engineering knowledge through a range of coursework depth of engineering knowledge through focused research and academic study On This Page Areas & Options Courses & Requirements Tuition & Aid Admissions Request Info Loading... × Visit Apply Areas & Options Program Areas Dartmouth offers a diversity of concentrations with collaborative synergies between engineering disciplines. Graduate students are expected to propose a plan of study that supports their interests on a path unconstrained by disciplinary boundaries. Both faculty and students draw from these multiple areas of expertise for maximum human-centered impact: Biological and Chemical Engineering Biomedical Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Energy Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical, Operations and Systems Engineering Matching Interests to Faculty Engineering MS students typically are funded through a professor’s sponsored research or a fellowship. Applicants interested in pursuing a particular area of research are encouraged to reach out to individual faculty members to discuss potential projects. Arrangement of a thesis research topic is done with the individual faculty member who sponsors the student in the program. BE+MS Degree Program Bachelor of Engineering (BE) degree program course credits taken at the graduate level also count toward MS degree program credit requirements making it possible to earn an MS one year after the BE. Students may also earn the BE simultaneously with the MS. These students must have taken a substantial portion of the undergraduate program at Dartmouth or in one of its official exchange programs. Students should discuss their plans to satisfy both program requirements with the MS program director. At least one term prior to their thesis defense, the BE/MS candidate submits to the registrar a BE program plan approved by both their advisor and the BE program director. For available projects that can satisfy BE+MS degree requirements, see the MS projects list. MS+MD Degree Program Dartmouth's MS+MD program, offered by Thayer School and The Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth, is designed for people who intend to pursue clinical practice and want to develop research skills in a related engineering area. It is also well suited to students who want to better understand technologies they will employ as practicing physicians. The program provides a funded research experience in engineering that is expected to lead to a research publication and provides practice in engineering design and analysis. Courses & Requirements Degree Requirements Applied Mathematics Coursework (choose at least one course) ENGS 91: Numerical Methods in Computation ENGS 92: Fourier Transforms and Complex Variables ENGS 93: Statistical Methods in Engineering ENGS 100: Methods in Applied Mathematics I ENGS 105: Computational Methods for Partial Differential Equations I ENGS 106: Numerical Linear Algebra Engineering Depth Coursework (choose at least three courses) Courses in the area of the student's research should be chosen to increase the student's depth of expertise and knowledge. These courses should be chosen in concert with the thesis advisor from the graduate engineering listings. Engineering Management courses are not permitted. Engineering Breadth Coursework (choose at least two courses) The remainder of the courses may be any graduate course listing area, with approval of the thesis advisor and the graduate program committee. Engineering Management courses are not permitted. Research & Thesis Research leading to a written MS thesis demonstrates a depth of knowledge in a specific field of engineering research or design. A thesis committee typically consists of three Dartmouth faculty members (including the student's thesis advisor); one of the three may be from outside the program of study. Candidates must take ENGG 700: Responsible & Ethical Conduct of Research. Candidates must also present a public oral defense of the thesis, which is conducted by the candidate's thesis committee. Thesis Guidelines Prerequisites A bachelor's degree is required; MS students generally hold their degree in engineering or one of the physical sciences. Students admitted with engineering deficiencies must complete required undergraduate engineering courses. Students who need more than three courses will enroll initially as a special student. Students with insufficient engineering background may want to apply to the Bachelor of Engineering (BE) program. Advisors A faculty advisor aids each student in developing a program, which is submitted to and approved by the Thayer School Program Committee during the student's first term of residency. MS Course Planning Sheet — for planning purposes only. You will need to go to Banner Student to complete the MS program plan. Coursework All students entering the program are required to take six graduate-level courses, beyond the AB degree, which may simultaneously be counted for the BE degree. Courses taken previously, e.g., as an undergraduate, can be used in satisfaction of the degree requirements, but do not reduce the total number of courses required unless admission is with advanced standing. Service to Society In the tradition of founder Sylvanus Thayer, graduate students are encouraged to participate in service activities, such as those sponsored by the Tucker Foundation and Thayer Council. Academic Honor All students, upon matriculation, are required to attend a series of workshops in ethics and sign a statement that they agree to abide by the honor principles established by Dartmouth. See Graduate Academic and Conduct Regulations for a full statement of academic honor. Residency Students are required to be in residence a minimum of three terms. Tuition & Aid MS students may be self-funded or funded through research grants and faculty funding, if available. Grant/faculty funding for MS students normally begins with the initiation of thesis research and covers tuition, stipend, and health insurance. Grant/faculty funding does not normally cover the six graduate courses that MS students must have completed before commencing thesis work. Aid for BE+MS Students Current Dartmouth BE students applying to the MS program may be eligible for need-based "BE aid" for the terms that they need to take classes and then covered by faculty research support. BE aid eligibility is determined through the CSS PROFILE and Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Financial Aid & Scholarships Fellowships & Scholarships There are a number of fellowships offering financial awards that are available to graduate students. We have collected a list, organized by the application deadline, to help you navigate some of the opportunities available. Graduate Scholarships PhD & Graduate Student Fellowships Admissions Start Your Application Financial Aid & Scholarships Application Instructions Only complete applications will be considered for admission. (See application instructions for full details). A complete application includes: the online application form a $50 application fee three letters of recommendation the essay(s) a transcript from each college and/or university attended TOEFL or IELTS scores for those applicants whose native language is not English. Note: Graduate Record Examination (GRE) scores for MS applicants will NOT be required nor considered during the 2021–2022 admissions cycle. Application Deadline January 1: deadline to receive all application materials. In most cases the Admissions Committee will render decisions by April 30. Testing Requirements Graduates of programs other than the Dartmouth AB and the Thayer School Dual-Degree program must submit scores from the Graduate Record Exam (GRE). Students whose native language is not English must also submit results for either the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) or International English Language Testing System (IELTS). Interviews Interviews are encouraged but not required. To schedule an appointment contact: engineering.admissions@dartmouth.edu Part-Time & Special Students Part-time studies are available for local residents who can meet the requirements for admission. Help & Guidance Information and advice on applying to graduate school is available through Thayer School Career Services as well as Dartmouth Career Services. Contact Graduate Admissions Thayer School of Engineering at Dartmouth 15 Thayer Drive, Hanover, NH 03755 engineering.admissions@dartmouth.edu +1 (603) 646-2606 15 Thayer Drive, Hanover, NH 03755 +1 (603) 646-2230 Undergraduate Graduate Research Entrepreneurship Community About ThayerExpress Faculty Offices Visit Apply Give Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Flickr © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • A-Z Index • Privacy • Feedback