Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Give Now School of Engineering Brown University School of Engineering Brown University Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Search Search Menu Annual Review and Evaluation Procedures Breadcrumb Home Graduate Programs Programs Guide Sub Navigation In This Section Advising Annual Review and Evaluation Procedures Financial Support Requirements - Five-year ScB/ScM Requirements - ScM Requirements - PhD Safety Training Student Grievance Procedures Transfer Credit Annual Review and Evaluation Procedures Annual Review The progress of Ph.D. students is reviewed early in the program of study and on a regular annual basis thereafter. Each year near the beginning of Semester II, the Graduate Committee of Brown Engineering meets and reviews the academic progress of each of the Division's graduate students. Prior to this Annual Review, the group graduate representatives will solicit input from individual advisors on the status of each continuing student. The result of the Graduate Committee's review will be communicated to each student in writing. The individual research groups may supplement the Annual Review with their own internal procedures (progress seminars, reports, etc.) and students should consult the graduate representative in their group for details. For students with poor performance in coursework or research, the advisor or group graduate representative can at any time request a decision from the graduate committee on whether the student will be allowed to continue. The graduate committee will make a recommendation based on the students transcripts and advisor's report on research progress, if any. Evaluation Procedures Each year during the first weeks of Semester II, the Graduate Committee of Brown Engineering will meet and review the academic progress of each of the School's graduate students. Particular attention will be paid to Sc.M. candidates for May graduation and to students at all levels experiencing academic difficulties. Prior to the Annual Review, the group graduate representatives will solicit input from individual advisors on the status of each continuing student. The result of the Graduate Committee's review will be communicated to each student in writing. For students with poor performance in coursework, teaching assignments, or research, the advisor or group graduate representative can request a decision from the graduate committee on whether the student will be allowed to continue. The graduate committee will reach a decision based on the students transcripts and advisor's report on research progress, if any. For students who have completed the Preliminary Examination, dismissal will require evidence of chronic poor performance as an R.A., or a prolonged period of insufficient progress toward the thesis. Poor R.A. performance or lack of progress toward the thesis should be documented by a memo written by the advisor and given to the student and Graduate Committee as soon as the situation arises. If the student continues to make poor progress for one semester, a decision on continuation may then be requested from the Graduate Committee. The individual research groups may supplement the Annual Review with their own internal procedures (progress seminars, reports, etc.) and students should consult the graduate representative in their group for details. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Reservations Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Flickr Instagram LinkedIn Twitter YouTube © Brown University School of Engineering Brown University For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Annual Review and Evaluation Procedures Open details for Annual Review and Evaluation Procedures Bookmark this Page