Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Give Now School of Engineering Brown University School of Engineering Brown University Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Search Search Menu Engineering Advisory Council (EAC) The EAC provides advice to the dean and senior leadership of the School on strategy, development, and achievement of the highest priorities of the School of Engineering. Breadcrumb Home People Advisory Boards Sub Navigation In This Section Corporate Advisory Board (CAB) Engineering Advisory Council (EAC) Student Advisory Board Engineering Advisory Council (EAC) The EAC provides advice to the dean and senior leadership of the School on strategy, development, and achievement of the highest priorities of the School of Engineering. Engineering Advisory Council Mission Provide support and advice in the development, execution, and attainment of the School of Engineering’s strategic goals. Ensure the School of Engineering is providing the highest quality educational experience for its students, and is embarking on the highest impact, highest quality, research program. Coordinate with the Engineering Development Committee to ensure that our strategic and financial initiatives are achieved. Work with campus leadership to ensure their continued support of the School of Engineering, and recognition of the key role engineering plays in the vitality of the entire Brown community. Engineering Advisory Council Anish Bhimani ’91 Managing Director and Chief Information Officer JP Morgan Chase New York, NY Seth Coe-Sullivan '99 Chief Executive Officer and President NS Nanotech, Inc. Redondo Beach, CA D. Oscar Groomes ’82 P’15 Metallurgical Engineer, Physicist and Materials Scientist Groomes Business Solutions Charlotte, NC Deirdre Hanford ’83 - Chair Chief Security Officer, Corporate Staff Synopsys, Inc. Mountain View, CA Harry Holt '84, P'16 Executive Vice President of Operations BITHGROUP Technologies Baltimore, MD Ayanna Howard '93 Dean of Engineering The Ohio State University Columbus, OH Fazle Husain ’87 Head of US Healthcare CVC Capital Partners New York, NY Mary Lou Jepsen ’87 Ph.D.’97 Chief Executive Officer and Founder Openwater Sausalito, CA Julie Lassonde EMBA'18, P'24 President Canadian Engineering Memorial Foundation Ontario, Canada John Lawrence, M.D. ’79 Vice President, Head of Global Development for Cardiovascular & Metabolism Janssen Research & Development Raritan, New Jersey Deb Mills-Scofield ’82 Founder, Finding Blue Lobsters Brown University Mentoring Maven Pemaquid, Maine James R. Moody ’58 Sc.M.’65 P’97 Co-Founder Co-Planar, Inc. Denville, NJ Steven Moya ’94 President and Chief Executive Officer GENLED Brands San Antonio, TX H. Vincent Poor Michael Henry Strater University Professor of Electrical Engineering Princeton University Princeton, NJ Andrea Razzaghi ’82 Deputy Director of NASA Management Office Jet Propulsion Laboratory Washington, DC Paul Sorensen ’71 Sc.M.’75 Ph.D.’77 P’06 P’06 Co-Founder Hibbitt, Karlsson and Sorensen Inc. Providence, RI Jon Styslinger ’85 P’21 President Altec Industries Birmingham, AL Ted Tracy ’81 P’14 Vice President of Engineering BlueJeans Network Mountain View, CA T. Kyle Vanderlick Thomas E. Golden Jr. Professor of Chemical and Environmental Engineering, Thomas E. Golden Jr. Professor of Engineering Yale University New Haven, CT James E. Warne, III ’78 President WTI, Inc. Phoenix, AZ Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Reservations Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Flickr Instagram LinkedIn Twitter YouTube © Brown University School of Engineering Brown University For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Engineering Advisory Council (EAC) Open details for Engineering Advisory Council (EAC) Bookmark this Page