Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Physics Undergraduate Programs Engaged Professor takes physics show on the road My TU Story Nontraditional transfer student Dallas Elleman working toward career in robotics > Department of Physics and Engineering Physics > Physics Undergraduate Programs PHYSICS & ENGINEERING PHYSICS Accreditation Physics Undergraduate Programs Engineering Physics Undergraduate Programs Research Faculty Facilities News Contact the Department The Department of Physics & Engineering Physics offers the traditional BS and BA undergraduate physics majors as well as a combined Bachelor/Master of Science in Physics. These programs are structured such that students who complete the undergraduate program in physics will: 1) Be equipped to successfully enter and complete programs of graduate study in physics, 2) Function as productive, qualified scientific professionals, and 3) Demonstrate awareness of their responsibility to contribute to society as ethical, socially conscious practitioners of their profession. Bachelor of Arts degree program prescribes a thorough introduction to the core fundamentals of physics while retaining the flexibility to engage in a broad offering of arts and sciences courses. This degree plan is especially suitable for students who plan to apply their physics knowledge and abilities towards careers in education or health care. Bachelor of Science degree offers students a strong foundation in physics and mathematics in preparation for technical or scientific careers. More rigorous courses than the B.A. degree, the curriculum has been designed to allow students in their junior and senior years to focus on specific fields of physics. Participation in a minimum of two semesters of research, culminating in a senior thesis, is required. Additional research involvement is strongly encouraged (but not required). Graduates are qualified to work as physicists and may also pursue graduate degrees in physics or related science and engineering fields. Other options include professional degrees in medicine or engineering as well as technical careers in the science and engineering fields. Program Objectives BACHELOR OF SCIENCE Students who complete one of the undergraduate programs will have: The knowledge to successfully enter and complete programs of graduate study in one of several engineering fields as well as in physics. The skills to be able to function as productive, qualified engineering professionals in areas where traditional science and engineering disciplines overlap. An awareness of the importance of continued professional development. Degree Options Physics, B.A. Especially suitable for students who plan to apply their physics knowledge and abilities towards careers in education or health care. Physics, B.S. Provides a strong foundation in physics and mathematics in preparation for technical or scientific careers. Physics Minor Students majoring in other fields interested in learning more about the physics discipline are encouraged to earn a minor in physics. Typical Four-Year Schedule FRESHMAN – FALL SEMESTER FRESHMAN – SPRING SEMESTER The World of Physics General Physics II + Lab General Physics I + Lab Calculus II General Chemistry I and Lab Computer Science (scientific programming) Calculus I Block I (aesthetic inquiry & creative expression) Exposition and Argumentation General Elective SOPHOMORE – FALL SEMESTER SOPHOMORE – SPRING SEMESTER General Physics III + Lab Methods of Mathematical Physics Calculus III Statistical & Thermal Physics Electric Circuit Analysis + Lab Differential Equations Block I (aesthetic inquiry & creative expression) Block II (historical & social interpretation) General Elective General Elective JUNIOR – FALL SEMESTER JUNIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Physics Instrumentation Lab Senior Physics Lab Physics Elective * Math Elective Writing for the Professions Classical Mechanics Block II (historical & social interpretation) General Elective General Elective Block II (historical & social interpretation) General Elective General Elective SENIOR – FALL SEMESTER SENIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Senior Thesis Senior Thesis Quantum Mechanics I Quantum Mechanics II Electricity & Magnetism Physics Elective* General Elective Block II (historical & social interpretation) General Elective General Elective General Elective *Selected from electromagnetic waves & optics, solid state physics, photenics or astrophysics Professional Opportunities Physicists Physics teacher (primary or secondary) Research engineer 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT