Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences > About > ENS Alumni ENS Alumni ABOUT Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Graduates of the College of Engineering and Natural Sciences enjoy the advantage of 90 percent job placement rate, meaning alumni either begin graduate school or launch their careers within six months of graduation. More than half a century ago, the college became world-renowned for its petroleum engineering program, but since then degree options in all 10 of its departments have produced successful alumni who have established themselves within their respective industries. From engineers at Instagram to creative digital entrepreneurs, our alumni apply their TU knowledge, education and experience to develop exciting careers here in Oklahoma and around the world. Learn more about the TU alumni community here. Meet Our Alumni Phil McAllister With more than 800 million monthly users, Instagram is the world’s top photo-sharing mobile app, capturing life’s moments in photos and videos for an online audience. During the past five years, Instagram has become a household name with the help of TU alumnus Philip McAllister (BS ’04). Read more. Cikida Gcali Cikida Gcali completed a master’s degree in petroleum engineering in the summer of 2017 and returned to her homeland of South Africa. With interests in many areas, such as finance, community engagement and entrepreneurship, she launched her career at a global management consulting firm in its specialist program and created The Money Fam, a digital publication for ambitious millennials. Read more. Natasha and Matt Bray Natasha Bray (BS ’99) and husband Matt (BS ’99) are accomplished professionals who built their careers with TU degrees. The couple met while attending the Oklahoma School of Science and Mathematics and married as undergraduates in the TU College of Engineering and Natural Sciences. Matt is a native of Muldrow, Oklahoma, and earned his bachelor’s in mechanical engineering. Natasha, the daughter of a family physician in Enid, has always loved science, math and physics. She merged her interests into a biology/pre-med degree while participating in the Honors Program with Matt. Read more. Jonathan Torkelson Jonathan Torkelson (BS ’04, MS ’04) established his own company more than 10 years ago while an intern for the Oklahoma Center for the Advancement of Science & Technology. His undergraduate research showed promise in 2003, so he took a chance and filed as Embeddetech’s sole proprietor. Today, the company is thriving as a technology design and research service for customers worldwide. Embeddetech employees range from local developers and contractors in the Tulsa area, to University of Tulsa graduates in Texas, to engineers and graphic artists in India. Read more. Sarah Carter The classroom’s old wooden floor boards creak under Sarah (Hagan) Carter’s feet as she paces back and forth with her smart marker, drawing slopes and intercepts on a screen. Late in the afternoon at Drumright High School, she’s teaching with as much fervor and energy as she did her first session of the morning, enthusiastic while facilitating open discussion. A 2012 graduate of TU’s mathematics and education programs, Hagan teaches at a small, rural high school in central Oklahoma in an aged facility built more than a century ago. Resources are sparse, and many of the students are underprivileged, but Hagan wouldn’t have it any other way. Her personal blog about teaching, Math=Love, has millions of views, and she was named one of the “50 Great Teachers” by National Public Radio’s education team in 2015. Read more. Jerry Dawkins and Alex Pezold Alex Pezold (MS ’03) set his sights on a TU graduate degree in computer science after earning a bachelor’s from the University of Oklahoma and beginning his career at a Tulsa company. However, he discovered the position lacked a certain spark he was searching for in information technology. His introduction to a few TU faculty members persuaded him to apply to the Cyber Corps program. After completing the Cyber Corps training, he spent two years working for the U.S. Department of Commerce in Washington, D.C. Later, Pezold served in the information security departments at Anheuser-Busch and MasterCard in St. Louis, Missouri. While his wife’s career and other opportunities led Pezold home to Tulsa and then Chicago, he kept in touch with fellow TU alumnus Jerald Dawkins (MS ’03, PhD ’05). The excitement surrounding daily advancements in digital technology inspired Pezold and Dawkins to join forces. So on the back of a napkin one day at a Tulsa Starbuck’s, the pair mapped out a business plan. By partnering to help each other, Dawkins manages True Digital and Pezold owns and runs the company TokenEx. Read more. Kathleen McKee As a young girl at a Girl Scout camp out, Kathleen McKee (BS ’08) discovered the wonders of nature. Today, she studies jet acoustics in volcanoes and has developed a fascination with geology. When the TU Department of Geosciences recruited her to Tulsa, she seized an opportunity to arrive early the summer before her freshman year to participate in a six-week internship. Under the advisement of Associate Professor Bryan Tapp, she studied brine scars at the Tallgrass Prairie Preserve. Read more. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT