Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences > Centers, Institutes and Consortia > Institute of Nanotechnology Institute of Nanotechnology RESEARCH Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Research at TU Nanotechnology is the ability to construct products and materials with atomic precision. This requires contributions from various technical disciplines, including chemistry, engineering, and physics to achieve these objectives. Current research in the College of Engineering and Natural Sciences featuring nanopower supplies, sensor technology, modeling, control and advanced nanostructured materials are components of nanotechnology. The goal of the interdisciplinary Institute of Nanotechnology is to stimulate further collaboration between faculty and students in this area, In addition, this institute is tied to what we now refer to as our “Laboratory for Micro and Nanoscale Characterization.” This project is the first collaborative effort to use our new e-beam nanolithographic system. These new nanomanufacturing capabilities and this project will set the stage for additional projects in the future. Initial Projects It is predicted that a density of 1Gb/cm2 of DRAM memory will be needed by the year 2020 if computers are to keep up with the current pace of technology. We propose to develop and characterize a novel nanoscale memory unit that can store bit patterns and develop a computer simulation model of this unit that can be incorporated into commercial computer-aided design programs. This nanoscale memory device is composed of arrays of batteries that are 100 nm in size (nanobatteries) that are accessed by a nanoscale crossbar system. The system that we propose has the potential to approach the 1Gb/cm2 value necessary for growth of computer technology of the future. Nanostructured photovoltaic/nanobattery system In order to reduce energy consumption and improve system mobility, electronics have to constantly be reduced in size and increased in efficiency. The integration of a distributive battery system that is self-rechargeable by means of enhanced photovoltaics fits well in the technological needs of society. The ultimate goal of the proposed research is the final fabrication and characterization of a nanostructured photovoltaic (PV) system connected to nanostructured batteries in order to form a novel, self-sustaining energy storage system. The inherent nanostructuring will greatly enhance the PV system while simultaneously enhancing the electron and ion conduction kinetics of the battery. The combined effect will result in nanobatteries that can be charged more readily by the photovoltaic system and can have increased capacity. Nanoscale memory system It is predicted that a density of 1Gb/cm2 of DRAM memory will be needed by the year 2020 if computers are to keep up with the current pace of technology. We propose to develop and characterize a novel nanoscale memory unit that can store bit patterns and develop a computer simulation model of this unit that can be incorporated into commercial computer-aided design programs. This nanoscale memory device is composed of arrays of batteries that are 100 nm in size (nanobatteries) that are accessed by a nanoscale crossbar system. The system that we propose has the potential to approach the 1Gb/cm2 value necessary for growth of computer technology of the future. Other Collaborators: Institute Members Parameswar Hari, Physics and Engineering Physics Brenton McLaury, Mechanical Engineering Bill Potter, Chemistry and Biochemistry Gordon Purser, Chemistry and Biochemistry Surendra Singh, Electrical and Computer Engineering Winton Cornell (Geosciences), Daniel Crunkleton (Chemical Engineering), Alexei Grigoriev (Physics and Engineering Physics), Peter Hawrylak (Electrical and Computer Eng), Erin Iski (Chemistry and Biochemistry) Parameswar Hari (Physics and Engineering Physics), Michael Keller (Mechanical Engineering), Gabriel LeBlanc (Chemistry and Biochemistry), Todd Otanicar (Mechanical Engineering), William Potter (Chemistry and Biochemistry), Kenneth Roberts (Chemistry and Biochemistry), Surendra Singh (Electrical and Computer Eng), Dale Teeters (Chemistry and Biochemistry), Sanwu Wang (Physics and Engineering Physics), Peifen Zhu, (Physics and Engineering Physics) For more information about the Institute of Nanotechnology, please contact: Dale Teeters Institute Director, Professor and Chair of the Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry 918-631-3147 dale-teeters@utulsa.edu 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT