Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Give Now School of Engineering Brown University School of Engineering Brown University Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Search Search Menu Graduate Programs Brown University offers six master's and Ph.D. programs in engineering, as well as master's degree programs in computational engineering, design engineering, entrepreneurship, and technology leadership. Sub Navigation In This Section Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship Graduate Programs Brown University offers six master's and Ph.D. programs in engineering, as well as master's degree programs in computational engineering, design engineering, entrepreneurship, and technology leadership. Because of our unique structure and approach to engineering, and the lack of formal boundaries between engineering disciplines, our research is highly interdisciplinary and often includes connections to other departments on campus outside of the School. Areas of Study Biomedical Engineering Chemical and Environmental Engineering Data Enabled Computational Engineering and Science (Master's only) Design Engineering (Master's only) Digital Health Innovation (Certificate only) Electrical and Computer Engineering Fluids and Thermal Sciences Materials Science Mechanics of Solids Program in Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship (PRIME) (Master's only) Technology Leadership (Master's only) Design Your Own Graduate Program Craft your graduate program to align with your interests and future trajectory. Graduate students enjoy the ability to select from our wide course offerings to better match their interests. Ph.D. students can apply to enroll in Brown’s Open Graduate Education to pursue a master’s degree in a secondary field. Created for Student Success Students receive continual feedback. There are rigorous checkpoints, and nearly all students who enter the graduate program finish. Evaluations are centered on research skills and progress, not rote learning. Manageable Scale and Collaborative Culture Student-centered ratio of 2.8 Ph.D. students per faculty member allows for greater access and interaction with faculty members Brown's structure is designed to make interdisciplinary work fluid with no true boundaries. Collaboration on research projects across engineering disciplines and with other academic units on campus (physics, chemistry, biology, computer science, etc.) is encouraged. Our advisors are passionate, supportive, and committed to strong mentorship. Learn more about Brown’s Graduate School culture and distinctive opportunities. Students and faculty from diverse training, gender, and ethnic backgrounds The University is committed to creating a more diverse and inclusive academic community. Please read about diversity and inclusion at Brown. Brown Engineering is ranked No. 35 nationally (of 429 institutions) in Percentage of Doctoral Degrees Awarded to URM students (American Society of Engineering Education, 2020). Guaranteed Funding Our doctoral fellowships offer five years of guaranteed support through a mix of scholarships, research, and teaching assistance. The guaranteed support provides our Ph.D. students with the security that enables them to focus entirely on their research. Students also earn fellowships. Ivy League Education Brown offers a liberal arts education within a research university Brown's graduate programs in engineering are nationally-ranked among the best in the country by U.S. News and World Report, Academic Analytics, and others. Located in the heart of affordable, spirited, and creative Providence, RI “Providence combines the accessibility and friendliness of a small town with the culture and sophistication of a big city. With a thriving arts community, vibrant and diverse neighborhoods, outstanding hotels, a renowned restaurant scene and so many things to do, Providence is the perfect place to [attend graduate school].” -Providence Warwick Convention & Visitors Bureau Providence has recently been featured in Architectural Digest, GQ, Travel + Leisure, and the New York Times. Excellent career placement Both our master's and Ph.D. graduates enjoy successful post graduate career paths. More than 50% of master's graduates and 40% of Ph.D. graduates enter industry upon graduation. Some of our recent graduates have gone on to find positions at Apple, Amazon, Analog Devices, Boeing, Cognex, Draper Labs, Facebook, Google, Intel, Johnson & Johnson, Medtronic, Microsoft, NASA Jet Propulsion Lab, NIST, Owens Corning, PerkinElmer, Roku, Sandia, Snapchat, and Yelp. Nearly 40% of master's graduates go on to pursue a Ph.D., and nearly 50% of our doctoral graduates find employment in academia. Recent graduates have gone on to Columbia, Duke, Georgia Tech, Illinois, Johns Hopkins, Maryland, MIT, Northwestern, Princeton, UC San Diego, and Wisconsin. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Reservations Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Flickr Instagram LinkedIn Twitter YouTube © Brown University School of Engineering Brown University For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Graduate Programs Open details for Graduate Programs Bookmark this Page