Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Computer Engineering Graduate Programs Alumni Alumnus Josh Rodriguez receives NSF Bridge to Doctorate fellowship Research Students explore vehicle security in Cyber Truck Research Experience > Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering > Computer Engineering Graduate Programs ELECTRICAL & COMPUTER ENGINEERING Accreditation Electrical Engineering/Electrical and Computer Engineering Undergraduate Programs Computer Engineering Graduate Programs Electrical Engineering Graduate Programs Research Faculty Facilities News Contact the Department Apply Now Request Information Electrical and computer engineers are responsible for making day-to-day life easier while protecting the nation’s infrastructure against cyber and physical attacks. These engineers improve quality of life by creating innovative systems such as smart houses, self-driving cars and medical instruments. Overview The Tandy School of Computer Science and Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at The University of Tulsa jointly offer programs leading to the Master of Science degree in Engineering, Master of Engineering, and Ph.D. degree in computer engineering. After completion of core doctoral credits, students are allowed to pursue research and course work that emphasizes either the computer science or electrical engineering aspect of this joint degree. Alumni serve as faculty in academia and also enjoy successful careers in industry and government. Program Educational Objectives Master of Engineering in Computer Engineering Students will be able to: Apply hardware and software techniques and problem solving to a variety of topics in computer engineering. Demonstrate the basis for ethical behavior, conduct and responsibility demanded of computer engineering professionals. Master of Science in Engineering in Computer Engineering Students will be able to: Apply hardware and software techniques and problem solving to a variety of topics in computer engineering. Demonstrate the basis for ethical behavior, conduct and responsibility demanded of computer engineering professionals. Develop the ability to conduct research projects. Doctor of Philosophy in Computer Engineering The primary focus in selecting and training candidates for the doctoral program is to ensure breadth and depth of knowledge and to develop the student’s ability to conduct independent and productive research, synthesis, and design. The objectives of the program are: To ensure skills in the use of the tools of computer engineering and to ensure a broad understanding of the discipline’s basic areas. To ensure a firm foundation in computational mathematics and engineering sciences. To provide opportunities for advanced specialization and creative research in computer engineering. To provide the environment and academic, research and outreach opportunities that will prepare students to make tangible contributions to the computer engineering and to society. Degree Options Computer Engineering, M.E. Prepares students to apply hardware and software techniques and problem solving to a variety of topics in computer engineering. Computer Engineering, M.S.E. Prepares students with an expertise in the foundational areas of computer science and electrical engineering. Computer Engineering, Ph.D. Students can pursue research and course work that emphasizes either the computer science or electrical engineering aspect of this joint degree. Application Requirements To be considered for graduate admission, the following items must be submitted to the Graduate School: A completed Graduate School application Statement of Purpose (admission essay) 2 – 3 letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your academic potential Official or unofficial transcripts from all universities attended GRE General Test results $60 application fee International students who studied at a university outside of the U.S. will also need to submit TOEFL or IELTS results 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT