Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Petroleum Engineering Graduate Programs Research TUDRP consortium celebrates 50 years at North Campus Alumni Ken McQueen and James Brill join ENS Hall of Fame > McDougall School of Petroleum Engineering > Petroleum Engineering Graduate Programs https://youtu.be/7TUs6ONgLPY PETROLEUM ENGINEERING Accreditation Petroleum Engineering Undergraduate Programs Petroleum Engineering Graduate Programs Research Faculty Facilities News Contact the Department Apply Now Request Information Petroleum engineering focuses on the development, exploration, drilling, production and management of oil and natural gas resources and other minerals. Based on the solid fundamentals of math, physics and chemistry, a petroleum engineering degree includes education in geology and a proper blend of fluid and solid mechanics. Internationally recognized as having one of the top petroleum engineering graduate programs in the country, the McDougall School of Petroleum Engineering has more than 500 students. Overview Petroleum engineers plan and supervise drilling operations and evaluate and manage oil and natural gas reservoirs. They are qualified to work at an oil company, establish a consulting business or become an independent oil producer. Opportunities exist for travel and work overseas. While teaching is the major goal, the McDougall School of Petroleum Engineering is also committed to discovery of new concepts and technologies in drilling, production and reservoir engineering. The program offers M.S. and Ph.D. degrees. Graduate students learn advanced petroleum production concepts and collaborate on multi-disciplinary research projects to continue the development of their petroleum engineering skill set and professional careers. The school’s strong research program is supported by industry and government sources. Undergraduate and graduate students work alongside faculty at key research locations on the main campus and TU’s historic North Campus. TU’s reputable petroleum engineering program receives overwhelming support from industry and government sources, a prime landscape for those students who choose to obtain the highest degree offered in the petroleum field. Program Objectives Master of Engineering in Petroleum Engineering The objectives of the Master of Engineering (ME) degree are: Demonstrate advanced technical skills in petroleum engineering. Demonstrate high standards of ethical, environmental, and societal awareness. Demonstrate effective written and oral communication skills. Master of Science in Engineering in Petroleum Engineering The objectives of the Master of Science in Engineering (MSE) degree are: Demonstrate advanced research skills in petroleum engineering. Conduct an independent research work in petroleum engineering. Demonstrate high standards of ethical, environmental, and societal awareness. Demonstrate effective written and oral communication skills. Doctor of Philosophy in Petroleum Engineering The objectives of the Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) degree are: Demonstrate proficiency in the professional skills needed to become competent researchers, university professors, and scientists in petroleum industry and/or academia Synthesize, critique, apply, and extend major theories and methods and/or perform advanced engineering systems design in petroleum engineering. Demonstrate the ability to direct teams towards state-of-the-art in their research. Demonstrate high standards of ethical, environmental, and societal awareness. Demonstrate effective written and oral communication skills. Degree Options Petroleum Engineering, M.E. Ideal for students who plan to seek employment in the petroleum engineering industry immediately after graduation rather than pursue additional research and theoretical study. Petroleum Engineering, M.S.E. Learn advanced petroleum production concepts and collaborate on multi-disciplinary research projects to continue the development of their petroleum engineering skill set and professional careers. Petroleum Engineering, Ph.D. Acquire a broad knowledge of petroleum engineering concepts, primarily characterized in their doctoral dissertation, and prepares students for fulfilling careers in academia and for a lifetime of creative intellectual inquiry. Petroleum Engineering Student Organizations and Industry Societies American Association of Drilling Engineers American Association of Drilling Engineers TU Student Chapter American Association of Petroleum Geologists Artificial Lift Research and Development Council Gas Processors Association Oklahoma Energy Resources Board Oklahoma Independent Petroleum Association Petroleum Technology Transfer Council Society of Exploration Geophysicists Society of Petroleum Engineers Society of Petroleum Engineers Mid-Continent Section Society of Petroleum Engineers TU Student Chapter Society of Petroleum Evaluation Engineers Society of Petrophysicists and Well Log Analysts Society of Women Engineers 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT