Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Mathematics Graduate Programs Alumni Math = Love for alumna Sarah Hagan Research Collaborating for medical research > Department of Mathematics > Mathematics Graduate Programs https://youtu.be/uvDvyfPdAiQ MATHEMATICS Mathematics Undergraduate Programs Mathematics Graduate Programs Research Faculty Facilities News Contact the Department Apply Now Request Information Mathematics prepares students for the demands of a modern global society where sophisticated, quantitative skills are required to solve challenging programs in science, engineering, business, education and government. Mathematicians are essential to the fields of computer science, engineering, bioinformatics, data mining, computer animation, economics, epidemiology, ecology and climatology. Overview The master’s degree is designed to prepare students for careers in practical problem solving and mathematical modeling through collaboration with other professionals such as chemists and materials scientists. These mathematicians work in many areas of business and industry including engineering, defense, research and development and other STEM-related fields. The accelerated master of science degree programs for current TU undergraduate students provide a way for students to start taking graduate courses while completing an undergraduate degree. These students can enroll in up to nine graduate level courses their senior year as part of the undergraduate program that can potentially double count for undergraduate and graduate requirements. Professionals with a master’s degree earn higher salaries, receive additional job responsibilities and are more marketable for promotion in the workplace. Program Objectives Master of Science in Applied Mathematics Students will be able to: Apply methods of mathematical modeling and problem solving to a variety of applied topics, including computational and analytical methods. Demonstrate a general knowledge of mathematics beyond the undergraduate level. Communicate mathematics effectively in written and oral form. Degree Options Applied Mathematics, M.S. Prepare students for careers in practical problem solving and mathematical modeling through collaboration with other professionals such as chemists and materials scientists. Professional Opportunities Quantitative analyst Marketing statistician Computational scientist Mathematics educator Research mathematician Actuary Application Requirements To be considered for graduate admission, the following items must be submitted to the Graduate School: A completed Graduate School application Statement of Purpose (admission essay) 2 – 3 letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your academic potential. Official or unofficial transcripts from all universities attended GRE General Test results $60 application fee International students who studied at a university outside of the U.S. will also need to submit TOEFL or IELTS results 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT