Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Give Now School of Engineering Brown University School of Engineering Brown University Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Search Search Menu Honors Based on their academic performance up to the end of the junior year, students may apply for admission to the Honors Program. Breadcrumb Home Undergraduate Concentrations Concentration Options Sub Navigation In This Section Engaged Scholars Honors Independent Study Professional Tracks Study Abroad Honors Based on their academic performance up to the end of the junior year, students may apply for admission to the Honors Program. Honors are granted by the University to students whose work in a field of concentration has demonstrated superior quality and culminated in an 'Honors Thesis of Distinction'. Honors recipients in the School of Engineering must meet the following criteria: Demonstrate a strong academic record through the 7th semester through 60% A’s or “S with Distinction” in the 21 required courses in engineering ScB, as declared in ASK (NOTE: "S with Distinction" is not visible on the Brown transcript or in ASK. Please inquire with the Registrar or Student Affairs.) Propose and execute an independent research project under the guidance of a faculty member Complete a written thesis to the satisfaction of the Honors Program Committee Give a scientific/technical presentation at the Undergraduate Research Symposium Fulfill all deadlines for applying for or completing honors to the satisfaction of his/her research advisor and the Honors Program Committee The following guidelines are for non-BME concentrators. Students concentrating in Biomedical Engineering should review the guidelines for BME concentrators. If you wish to participate in the honors program, you will need to: Meet the cutoff of 60% A's or “S with Distinction” through the 7th semester through the 21 required courses in engineering ScB, as declared in ASK (NOTE: "S with Distinction" is not visible on the Brown transcript or in ASK. Please inquire with the Registrar or Student Affairs.) Select a thesis topic and find a thesis advisor Submit the application form (which must be signed by your advisor) Receive notification that you have been accepted into the program (note that acceptance does not guarantee that you will be awarded honors at graduation) Select a reader for your thesis Complete your thesis, and submit it to your advisor and reader Give a presentation at the Undergraduate Research Symposium Contact information for the honors thesis committee Relevant deadlines are listed in the table below. Failure to meet any of these deadlines is grounds for dismissal from the honors program. Note that these deadlines are intended for students graduating in four years. Students with different graduation timelines who would like to pursue Honors should contact a member of the Honors Program Committee to discuss alternative plans. 2021-22 Dates Deadline Sept. 14 Honors Information Session 5:00 p.m. via zoom Intended for all sophomores, juniors and seniors interested in honors Oct. 1 Honors Application Due Oct. 15 Applicants are informed of acceptance into the Honors Program Nov. 12 One page of Honors Proposal with advisor signature due March 4 Draft of two sections of thesis due Name of confirmed reader due to Honors Program Committee (text entry via canvas) April 15 Thesis submitted to advisor and reader for review April 29 Final thesis submission with advisor and reader signature to Honors Program Committee May 6 Undergraduate Research Symposium virtual or hybrid (TBD) Grade Used to Determine Eligibility for Honors The minimum grades for admission to the Engineering Honors Program is 60% A’s or “S with Distinction” through the 21 required courses in engineering ScB, as declared in ASK (NOTE: "S with Distinction" is not visible on the Brown transcript or in ASK. Please inquire with the Registrar or Student Affairs.) Due to COVID-19, students have the option not to count their grades from Spring 2020 towards honors. If students choose this option, NONE of the grades from concentration coursework in Spring 2020 will be included in the percentage calculation. We will calculate the percentage of A’s and “S with Distinction” in courses that are required to satisfy engineering concentration requirements, as listed on your approved engineering concentration form. It is important to make sure that your concentration form is up-to-date at the time of application. Humanities courses are not included in the calculation. We will calculate the percentage of A’s and “S with Distinction” in courses at the beginning of the fall semester of senior year to determine acceptance into the program (The percentage may be slightly below 60% if the seventh semester is expected to bring it above the threshold). Courses not taken at Brown will not be included in the percentage calculation. If you do not fully meet these criteria, you may petition the Honors Committee to consider other evidence of academic accomplishments, such as significant project work completed in collaboration with a faculty member. One or more letters of recommendation from faculty should accompany such a petition, which may be referred to the Concentration Committee for a final decision. Selecting a thesis topic and an advisor Your thesis could address a basic experimental, theoretical or computational research problem, or a major independent design project. You may propose your own idea, which could be based on course-work or an internship; or develop a thesis topic based on an on-going research area at Brown. Your thesis topic should be distinct from any project work undertaken during required engineering courses. To design a thesis program, you should work with a faculty member with expertise in your area of interest who can act as your thesis advisor. You can approach faculty members from whom you have taken classes, or use the faculty research pages to identify someone with relevant experience. If you have difficulty finding a research advisor, schedule a meeting with a member of the Honors Committee. You must identify a thesis advisor when you submit your honors proposal during the first semester of your senior year. Your thesis advisor must be an engineering faculty member. In cases of cross-disciplinary research students may be co-advised, so long as one faculty member is in engineering and/or biomedical engineering. It is very helpful to start planning your honors research project well before the start of senior year. Many honors candidates perform research over the summer before senior year, although this is not required. Many students also take independent study courses during sophomore or junior year, which is a great way to initiate a relationship with a potential research advisor. It is never too early to begin thinking about the process, and students of all levels are invited to attend the Honors Information Session at the start of the fall semester. Completing your honors program Honors candidates work closely with their advisors and/or research lab throughout their senior year. Writing a thesis can be a significant undertaking, and it is helpful to be able to be able to spread the workload over several months rather than to try to complete it at the last minute. It can be helpful to register for an independent study course that focuses on your thesis topic (but note that only one independent study can be used for concentration credit). Admission to the Honors Program does not guarantee that a student will receive Honors upon graduation. Recommendation for this distinction by the School of Engineering is contingent on demonstrable academic excellence throughout the senior year. The candidate’s thesis advisor will make recommendations to the Honors Committee regarding their advisee's progress toward achieving the honors thesis requirements. Choosing a Reader In addition to a research advisor, each honors candidate must also ask an expert in his or her field of research to be a “reader”. The reader’s responsibilities are to read the written thesis, attend the student’s presentation at the Undergraduate Research Symposium, and offer general guidance in both of these areas. The reader is commonly a member of faculty, but this is not a requirement so long as the reader is capable of assessing the student’s research. Non-faculty readers will require Honors Committee approval. The honors thesis advisor often helps candidates choose a reader. However, it is the honors candidate’s responsibility to approach potential readers by clearly communicating the thesis topic and outlining the reader’s responsibilities. A confirmed reader is due to the honors committee in March. Undergraduate Research Symposium Students will be required to present their research in an oral presentation at a research symposium at the end of their eighth semester. Details will be provided at the beginning of the eighth semester. Honors Form Application for Honors Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Reservations Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Flickr Instagram LinkedIn Twitter YouTube © Brown University School of Engineering Brown University For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Honors Open details for Honors Bookmark this Page