Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Computer Science Graduate Programs Engaged TU hosts statewide supercomputing competition Research Professor Moore publishes research on suspicious Bitcoin trading activity > Tandy School of Computer Science > Computer Science Graduate Programs https://youtu.be/3W_l4Ee7bcI COMPUTER SCIENCE Accreditation Computer Science Undergraduate Programs Computer Science Graduate Programs Computer Simulation & Gaming Research Faculty Facilities News Contact the Department Apply Now Request Information A dynamic combination of creativity and technical knowledge, computer science is a highly valued commodity in today’s job market. The Tandy School of Computer Science at The University of Tulsa provides students with a broad base of knowledge in computing and equips students for opportunities in industry, government, or academia. Overview The Tandy School is led by an energetic faculty committed to excellence in teaching and research at all levels. Undergraduates and graduate students alike enjoy personalized attention in classes and advising. The Tandy experience for graduate students combines research, education and service along a path of professional, technical and leadership development. The school maintains a world class reputation in strategic areas of study for computer science, including cyber security, software engineering, artificial intelligence, and bioinformatics. M.S. and Ph.D. students in the Tandy School of Computer Science are engaged in many interesting and high-impact research projects. As a consequence, they enjoy opportunities at conferences and meetings to network and interact with other professionals in their field. Graduate students not only build expertise in their specialty area, they also develop essential professional and leadership skills. An emphasis on team-oriented scholarly research and individualized advising creates an environment conducive to cultivating skills in scholarly writing and presentation, grantsmanship, project and team management, teaching, and student mentorship. This approach provides a foundation for career success as a graduate from the program. Program Objectives Master of Science in Computer Science Students will be able to: To possess a thorough and in-depth understanding of the foundational areas of Computer Science. Ability to apply theoretical findings. To demonstrate professional skills and behavior Doctor of Philosophy in Computer Science The primary focus in selecting and training candidates for the doctoral program is to ensure breadth and depth of knowledge and to develop the student’s ability to conduct independent and productive research, synthesis, and design. The objectives of the program are: Ability to synthesize and leverage solutions and techniques from the discipline’s foundational areas. Ability to specialize in and contribute to the body of knowledge in Computer Science topics. To demonstrate professional skills and behavior. Degree Options Cyber Security Online, M.S. Designed for working professionals seeking to gain the skills and expertise necessary to advance and thrive in this growing field. Computer Science, Interdisciplinary Track, M.S Prepares students for careers in a wide range of industries. Students take advanced courses in theory and applications. Computer Science, Non-Thesis Option, M.S. Prepares students for careers in a wide range of industries. Students take advanced courses in theory and applications. Computer Science, Thesis Option, M.S. Allows students to obtain a breadth of knowledge in computer science by taking advanced courses in theory, application and current research. Computer Science, Ph.D. Obtain a depth of knowledge in an area of interest by focusing on courses in that area, conducting independent research and producing scholarly work. Professional Opportunities Software developer Game developer Systems analyst Security architect Research scientist Professor Application Requirements To be considered for graduate admission, the following items must be submitted to the Graduate School: A completed Graduate School application Statement of Purpose (admission essay) 2 – 3 letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your academic potential. Official or unofficial transcripts from all universities attended GRE General Test results $60 application fee International students who studied at a university outside of the U.S. will also need to submit TOEFL or IELTS results 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT