Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Geosciences Undergraduate Programs Experience Students seek internships to set career goals My TU Story Geosciences alumna studying jet acoustics of volcanoes > Department of Geosciences > Geosciences Undergraduate Programs https://youtu.be/kDe8HgR6BFk GEOSCIENCES Geosciences Undergraduate Programs Geosciences Graduate Programs Research Faculty Facilities News Alumni Contact the Department Apply Find Admission Counselor Request Information Geologists study the history, materials, processes and products of the Earth. Some pursue solely academic interests such as how mountains form and erode while others are interested in practical applications, exploring fossil fuels and minerals or planning construction sites and disposal locations. A geologist studies environmental impact. The Department of Geosciences offers bachelor of science and bachelor of arts with specialization in geology, geophysics and environmental science. TU’s curriculum provides a sound foundation in the basic sciences while engaging in energy-related fields of exploration, environment and resources. The bachelor of science degree in geosciences with a geology option prepares students for careers in the study of Earth’s physical characteristics including composition and structure. The environmental science option is designed for students who intend to work as geoscientists at organizations, corporations and government entities. Program Objectives Bachelor of Science Students who complete the undergraduate program will: Be equipped to enter and complete graduate training in the geosciences. Be prepared to enter the geosciences profession. Apply knowledge in the geosciences, support sciences, and mathematics to solve complex geosciences problems. Communicate effectively with peers and professionals both orally and in written form. Adhere to accepted ethical and professional practice standards in the geosciences community. Recognize the need to engage in life-long learning. Understand contemporary issues in the geosciences. Degree Options Geosciences, B.S.G.S. Prepares students for careers in the study of Earth’s physical characteristics including composition, structure and processes. Track options available in Geology, Environmental Science, Petroleum Engineering, and Geophysics. Geosciences Minor Students from other disciplines may minor in geosciences. Typical Four-Year Schedule FRESHMAN – FALL SEMESTER FRESHMAN – SPRING SEMESTER Exposition and Argumentation General Elective Calculus I Calculus II General Chemistry I + Lab General Chemistry II + Lab Physical Geology + Lab Geology Elective Introduction to Geosciences SOPHOMORE – FALL SEMESTER SOPHOMORE – SPRING SEMESTER Block I - Aesthetic Inquiry and Creative Experience Block I - Aesthetic Inquiry and Creative Experience Block II - Historical and Social Interpretation General Elective Calculus III Technical Elective General Physics I + Lab General Physics II + Lab History of the Biosphere + Lab JUNIOR – FALL SEMESTER JUNIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Block II - Historical and Social Interpretation Block II - Historical and Social Interpretation General Elective Writing for the Professions General Elective Technical Elective Structural Geology + Lab Geomorphology Sedimentary Rocks and Processes + Lab Geology Elective (Upper Division) SENIOR – FALL SEMESTER SENIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Block II - Historical and Social Interpretation General Elective Technical Elective General Elective Technical Elective Scientific Programming or Intro to Geoinfographic Information Systems + Lab Physics of the Earth Technical Elective Technical Elective Field Camp (Summer) *Introduction to College Writing or its equivalent may be a prerequisite in some cases. ++Courses that fulfill Blocks I, II, and III are listed each semester in the advising center and in the university schedule of courses. Professional Opportunities Senior geologist Reservoir geologist Exploration geologist Remediation specialist Earth modeler 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT