Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences > Research > Engineering and Natural Sciences TURC Program Engineering and Natural Sciences TURC Program The Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) is an exclusive TU program that combines creative research, challenging coursework, student development and community engagement to enhance the TU experience and build scholars of research and society. TURC is a multi-disciplinary initiative that often involves the collaboration of students from different colleges around campus. The College of Engineering and Natural Sciences is home to many TURC scholars who begin their research careers as early as their freshman year. Our esteemed engineering and natural sciences faculty serve as TURC mentors, advising students in TU’s research laboratories throughout the summer months. Research is the primary focus of TURC, teaching students how to present papers at conferences, write publishable articles or facilitate meaningful community projects. Participants learn how to apply for nationally competitive awards such as the Goldwater, Marshall, Truman and Rhodes scholarships along with National Science Foundation graduate fellowships. In addition to research and scholarship, TURC scholars are challenged to serve their local communities through innovative service projects that not only build character within a student, but also improve the lives of local citizens. These compassionate students are allowed to select the project of their choice, and many continue supporting the program after their TURC days have concluded. TURC is one of the most effective ways to introduce students to original, thought-provoking research projects in the College of Engineering and Natural Sciences. Our faculty enjoy the summer research advising experience and continue mentoring TURC students throughout the year. Student Application Form Junior Scholars Program The TURC Junior Scholars Program recognizes outstanding high school students with opportunities to join TU faculty and TURC scholars in cutting-edge research. An extension of the original TURC model, the initiative includes in-depth work with a research team, access to modern instrumentation and training in the presentation of research findings. Junior scholar participants are bright, competitive high school students who progress to build successful collegiate and professional careers. High school juniors may apply to participate in the program during the summer prior to the senior year. For more information about TURC or the Junior Scholars Program, please contact the Office of Integrative and Experiential Learning. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT