Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Give Now School of Engineering Brown University School of Engineering Brown University Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Search Search Menu Diversity and Inclusion The School of Engineering seeks to promote diversity, inclusion and fair treatment of all members of the community. Breadcrumb Home About Us Sub Navigation In This Section Diversity and Inclusion DEI Committee Student Groups Engineering Research Center Fast Facts History Mission Staff Awards Diversity and Inclusion The School of Engineering seeks to promote diversity, inclusion and fair treatment of all members of the community. Diversity is a vital component of any university. Exposure to a broad range of perspectives, views and outlooks is key to fostering both breadth and depth in intellectual discovery and furthering research. The School of Engineering seeks to promote diversity, inclusion and fair treatment of all members of the community. In a time when the importance of geographic boundaries has been virtually eliminated by emerging technology, the importance of diversity and the understanding of different perspectives play a key role in the functioning of our society. Brown University is founded on the ideals of academic inclusiveness and the benefits of a liberal education. These principles are held strongly at the School of Engineering, where this philosophy has developed into a culture of multidisciplinarity that crosses many intellectual boundaries. The School of Engineering's success through creative and collaborative approaches are a testament to the benefits of inclusion and working with a variety of diverse perspectives. Diversity is therefore a foundational element, which facilitates our educational and research goals, and the School is keenly aware of how enhancing historically under-represented populations in our engineering community furthers achievement of these goals. We acknowledge the challenges and the opportunities of achieving diversity, particularly in the fields of engineering, which is why the School is strongly committed to developing these efforts at both the graduate and undergraduate levels. Outreach to under-represented populations for admissions, as well as efforts to engage students through student organizations and support/retention programs are a priority for the School. Many new initiatives are planned in these areas for the near future, and those with new ideas or support for our efforts should contact Associate Dean Jennifer Casasanto for further discussion and brainstorming. Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan After a thoughtful and wide-ranging dialog with our community during the spring of 2016, the School of Engineering has crafted a Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan. This represents the beginning of a process, and we expect that it will be constantly updated, assessed, and refined in the years ahead. Staff Diversity and Inclusion Statement The staff of the School of Engineering believes that we are enhanced by, and achieve success through, the teamwork and contributions of diverse community members’ ideas, life experiences, perspectives and cultures. We are committed to the values of equity and inclusion for their academic, social, and broader community benefits. Each of us is dedicated to learning and actively engaging in our own development to support the changing needs of our community. The staff demonstrates this by consciously reflecting on their learning and development to better advocate for our constituencies. We actively embrace the differences that enrich our community and make us great. Our beliefs and actions promote and foster the School’s culture of inclusivity, compassion, and mutual respect. Our open and welcoming environment makes our School a stronger organization. Affirmative Action Representative: Yue Qi The AAR is a tenured member of the faculty and is part of every search committee. The AAR is expected to take a leading role in identifying women and minorities who qualify for the position, and in ensuring compliance with all affirmative action guidelines in all phases of the search. The AAR assists the search committee in carrying out its responsibilities to develop a broad and diverse candidate pool and acts as a liaison to the EEO/AA Office during the process. Presidential Diversity Postdoctoral Fellowships This program identifies promising Ph.D. graduates from underrepresented groups and/or those who have demonstrated support for underrepresented groups through their teaching and research to spend up to two years at Brown University. More information on how to apply and previous cohorts can be found through the Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity. Resources For more information, please contact the Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity Student Body Demographics The most recent statistics are included (as of fall 2021). Undergraduate Students 453 Undergraduate Students 39% Women 21% URM 12% International Graduate Students 309 Graduate Students 43% Women 6% URM 59% International Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Reservations Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Flickr Instagram LinkedIn Twitter YouTube © Brown University School of Engineering Brown University For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Diversity and Inclusion Open details for Diversity and Inclusion Bookmark this Page