Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Tandy School of Computer Science Research Human-computer interactions 918-631-3143 Rayzor Hall, second floor Map Email https://youtu.be/3W_l4Ee7bcI COMPUTER SCIENCE Accreditation Computer Science Undergraduate Programs Computer Science Graduate Programs Computer Simulation & Gaming Research Faculty Facilities News Contact the Department Students who earn a computer science degree from The University of Tulsa’s Tandy School of Computer Science are equipped with the knowledge and expertise required for making significant contributions to computer science and the information technology industry and for leveraging learned techniques toward continued professional growth. Our faculty specializes in distributed systems, cloud computing, software engineering, gaming and simulation, bioinformatics, computer security and information assurance, cyberphysical systems, intelligent agents, machine learning, robotics and other areas of today’s computing and information technology landscape. Our students complete a core computer science curriculum and complementary engineering courses while participating in thriving multi-disciplinary research initiatives involving collaborators in other TU colleges as well as external research labs and institutions. The federal government has recognized TU’s Tandy School of Computer Science as a National Center of Academic Excellence in Cyber Operations in Information Assurance Education and in Information Assurance Research. Alumni John and Crystal Lister, GPSG, Reston, Virginia As University of Tulsa alumni, John and Crystal Lister are exploring the exciting career possibilities that a degree from the TU Tandy School of Computer Science provides. The husband and wife are members of the senior leadership team at Global Professional Services Group (GPSG) in Reston, Virginia. Although GPSG is primarily a recruiting company, John and Crystal implement their cyber capabilities to grow the enterprise and flex their cyber muscles in the digital security sector. They trace the expertise and skillset required to accomplish such a task can be traced back to Tulsa and their cyber security education at TU. Read their story. Phil McAllister, Instagram, New York With more than one billion monthly users, Instagram is the world’s top photo-sharing mobile app, capturing life’s moments in photos and videos for an online audience. Instagram has become a household name with the help of TU alumnus Philip McAllister (BS ’04). Read his story. Nathan Singleton, Tulsa, Oklahoma Nathan Singleton (BS ’08, MS ’10) has blazed his own trail to success first as a veteran, then a University of Tulsa student and now as a cybersecurity professional. He was the first full-time cybersecurity employee at a Tulsa-based drilling and technology company. Read about Nathan. Tony Meehan, Endgame, Washington, D.C. With two TU degrees to his name, Tony Meehan (BS ’03, MS ’05) has found his purpose in the cybersecurity field. Meehan is Vice President of Engineering at Endgame, an endpoint security software product company specializing in stopping advanced cyber threats. Their mission: to stop attackers from stealing data. The company recently announced its acquisition by Elastic, a public company with a focus on search, logging, security, and analytics. More about Tony. Distinguished Lecture Series We are excited to announce the creation of the Sarah and John Graves Cybersecurity Distinguished Lecture Series. The purpose of the series is to bring leading scholars to campus to speak about cybersecurity issues in a deep, engaging, and accessible manner. While the lectures are organized by the Tandy School of Computer Science, they will reflect the interdisciplinary nature of cybersecurity. All lectures are free and open to the public, and we would welcome your participation. The lecture series is made possible through the generous support of Sarah and John Graves. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT