Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Electrical & Computer Engineering Undergraduate Programs Veterans Veteran Matt Tweedy follows aviation electronics to electrical engineering degree Alumni Alumnus Will Schoenhals puts education to work in aerospace career > Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering > Electrical & Computer Engineering Undergraduate Programs ELECTRICAL & COMPUTER ENGINEERING Accreditation Electrical Engineering/Electrical and Computer Engineering Undergraduate Programs Computer Engineering Graduate Programs Electrical Engineering Graduate Programs Research Faculty Facilities News Contact the Department Apply Find Admission Counselor Request Information The world today is totally dependent on electricity, computers and electrical/electronic devices. Electrical and computer engineers are responsible for making day-to-day life easier while protecting the nation’s infrastructure against cyber and physical attacks. These engineers improve quality of life by creating innovative systems such as smart houses, self-driving cars and medical instruments. Electrical and computer engineering involves researching, developing and testing electronic and computer components. Engineers study computing processes, circuit boards, memory devices, networks and routers while examining new frontiers in computer hardware. The electrical and computer engineering field is marked by its advancements in evolving areas of technology such as optics, electric power systems and microelectronics. The bachelor of science degree in electrical and computer engineering ties together the disciplines, creating a platform for students interested in computer and hardware design. Students learn how to create schematics of computer equipment, test hardware models, analyze data, update existing computer equipment and manage the hardware manufacturing process. Students complete a core electrical engineering curriculum with an emphasis on computer science while allowing room for electives in TU’s reputable humanities-based programs. A strong background in mathematics and physics is required along with interests in bioengineering, electromagnetic fields and circuit systems. Program Educational Objectives Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering Based on both the mission statement and the primary objective of the department, the Electrical Engineering Program Educational Objectives are to provide graduates with the knowledge and skills: To establish a professional career as an electrical engineer within a few years after graduation To successfully engage in advanced study should they choose to continue their education within a few years after graduation Degree Options Computer Engineering, B.S.Com.E. Teaches students the skills required to become experts in computer hardware and software to repair and manage electrical, automotive and computer systems. Electrical Engineering, B.S.E.E. Provides students an education in designing and managing electrical equipment such as motors, radars and power generators. Typical Four-Year Schedule for Electrical Engineering Freshman – Fall Semester Freshman – Spring Semester Exposition & Argument General Elective Block I Calculus II Calculus I Physics I + Lab General Chemistry + Lab Digital Systems + Lab Introduction to Electrical Engineering Computer Tools for Electrical Engineering Sophomore – Fall Semester Sophomore – Spring Semester Differential Equations Block II Physics II + Lab Calculus III Circuit Analysis Physics III Measurements Lab Microprocessors Engineering Science Elective Engineering Science Elective Junior – Fall Semester Junior – Spring Semester Block II Writing for the Profession Power Systems Statistics Electronics I Electromagnetics Signals and Systems Electronics Lab Engineering Science Elective Electronics II Classical Control Systems Senior – Fall Semester Senior – Spring Semester Block I Block II Communications Block II Senior Project I Senior Project II Technical Elective Technical Elective Technical Elective Technical Elective Typical Four-Year Schedule for Electrical and Computer Engineering FRESHMAN – FALL SEMESTER FRESHMAN – SPRING SEMESTER Exposition & Argument Block II Block II - Aesthetic Inquiry and Creative Experience Discrete Math Calculus I Calculus II General Chemistry + Lab Physics I + Lab Introduction to Electrical Engineering Digital Systems + Lab Computer Tools for Electrical Engineering SOPHOMORE – FALL SEMESTER SOPHOMORE – SPRING SEMESTER Differential Equations Block I General Physics II + Lab Calculus III Engineering Economics Physics III Embedded Systems Microprocessors Circuit Analysis Fundamentals of Algorithms & Computer Applications Measurements Lab JUNIOR – FALL SEMESTER JUNIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Statistics Writing for the Profession Data Structures Operating Systems Electric Power Systems Electromagnetics Electronics I Electronics II + Lab Signals and Systems Classical Control Systems Solid State Electrical Devices SENIOR – FALL SEMESTER SENIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Block I - Aesthetic Inquiry and Creative Experience Block II - Historical and Social Interpretation Communications Block II - Historical and Social Interpretation Senior Project Senior Project HW Elective Technical Elective Net Elective Technical Elective Professional Opportunities Circuit design engineer Computer hardware engineer Aircraft simulator engineer Medical Device engineer Power systems engineer 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT