Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Latest information about COVID-19 Stanford Engineering Search this site Submit Search Menu Admission & Aid Graduate Admission Coterm Coterm Funding and Financial Aid Engineering Coterminal Fellowship Financial Aid Students & Academics Academics Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Online Learning Terman Engineering Award Terman Awards 2021-2022 Terman Awards 2020-2021 Terman Awards 2019-2020 Terman Award 2018-2019 Terman Awards 2017-2018 Terman Awards 2016-2017 Terman Awards 2015-2016 Terman Awards 2014-2015 Terman Awards 2013-2014 Terman Awards 2012-2013 Terman Awards 2011-2012 Terman Awards 2010-2011 Terman Awards 2009-2010 Terman Awards 2008-2009 Terman Awards 2007-2008 Terman Awards 2006-2007 Terman Awards 2005-2006 Terman Awards 2004-2005 Support and Resources Undergraduate Resources Graduate Resources Tutoring Career Resources Jobs and Internships Student Organizations Terman Engineering Library Global Engineering Programs Global Engineering Internships GEI Program Structure GEI Application Process GEI Frequently Asked Questions Internship Host Companies GEI Program Recommendation Travel Information Chinese UGVR Program UGVR Alumni Program Structure Host a UGVR Student About Equity and Inclusion Initiatives About the Equity and Inclusion Initiatives Our Student Community Undergraduate Programs Stanford Summer Engineering Academy (SSEA) SSEA 2021 Staff FAQs Summer Session Grants Additional Calculus for Engineers (ACE) Enroll in ACE Courses Become an ACE Course Assistant ACE Course List Prospective Graduate Programs Graduate Pathways to STEM Program At a Glance GPS Frequently Asked Questions Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship (SURF) Stanford Exposure to Research and Graduate Education (SERGE) Fee Waivers Graduate school frequently asked questions Graduate Programs Summer Opportunities in Engineering Research and Leadership (Summer First) NSF Research Exchange Program Student Societies Womxn of Color in Engineering (WOCE) Dean’s Graduate Student Advisory Council STEM K-12 Education Initiatives Funding and Financial Aid Funding Your Master’s Degree Funding Your PhD Teaching and Course Assistantships Technical Communication Program Consulting Request Form Frequently Asked Questions The Student Experience Faculty & Research Faculty Emeritus Faculty In Memoriam Events Departments Aeronautics & Astronautics Bioengineering Chemical Engineering Civil & Environmental Engineering Computer Science Electrical Engineering Management Science & Engineering Materials Science & Engineering Mechanical Engineering Institutes, Labs and Centers Faculty Awards Faculty Awards 2020-21 Faculty Awards 2019-2020 Faculty Awards 2018-2019 Faculty Awards 2016-2017 Faculty Awards 2015-2016 Faculty Awards 2014-2015 Faculty Awards 2012-2013 Faculty Awards 2011-2012 Faculty Awards 2010-2011 Faculty Awards 2009-2010 Faculty Awards 2008-2009 Faculty Awards 2007-2008 Faculty Awards 2006-2007 Faculty Awards 2005-2006 Get Involved Welcome Engineering Alumni Connect With Your Community Advance Your Career Explore Our Events Jumpstart Your Alumnihood Support Engineering Why Give Funding Initiatives Equity & Inclusion Stanford Data Science & Computation Complex Endowed Professorships Endowed Faculty Scholars Endowed Department Chairs Graduate Fellowships Faculty Launch Fund Hasso Plattner Institute of Design Engineering Fund Planned Giving How to Make Your Gift Development Contacts Industry Collaborations Gift Support Affiliate Programs Sponsored Research Recruiting Executive Education Technology Transfer/Technology Licensing About Dean Dean’s Office Directory Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Visit Location Inside the Engineering Quad Pillars History Persis S. Drell Heroes 2019 Heroes 2018 Heroes George and Alexandra “Sandra” Forsythe Jensen Huang Mae Jemison 2016 Heroes Martin Fisher Reed Hastings Perry McCarty 2015 Heroes Andreas Acrivos Marcian “Ted” Hoff Charles Simonyi 2014 Heroes Kenneth Arrow Sergey Brin Irmgard Flugge-Lotz Edward Ginzton Larry Page Sally Ride 2013 Heroes John A. Blume James H. Clark David Filo Martin Hellman John McCarthy William J. Perry Jerry Yang 2012 Heroes Craig Barrett Andreas Bechtolsheim Morris Chang George Dantzig Theodore Maiman Bradford Parkinson Calvin Quate Stephen Timoshenko 2011 Heroes Vint Cerf Ray Dolby William F. Durand William Hewlett Donald Knuth Charles Litton David Packard Fred Terman SoE-Future Vision Culture Education Impact Research The Catalyst for Collaborative Solutions White Papers The Committee Student Societies Main navigation Skip to main content Secondary Navigation Academics Support and Resources Global Engineering Programs Equity and Inclusion Initiatives About the Equity and Inclusion Initiatives Our Student Community Undergraduate Programs Prospective Graduate Programs Graduate Programs Summer Opportunities in Engineering Research and Leadership (Summer First) NSF Research Exchange Program Student Societies Womxn of Color in Engineering (WOCE) Dean’s Graduate Student Advisory Council STEM K-12 Education Initiatives Funding and Financial Aid Technical Communication Program The Student Experience Main content start From chapters of national organizations to groups founded by Stanford students, these vital student societies are at the heart of Stanford Engineering. In addition to professional development and academic assistance, these organizations give students a chance to make valuable connections, find support systems, and get involved in the greater engineering community. The Society of Women Engineers (SWE) SWE is a driving force to establish engineering as a highly desirable career for women through training and development programs, networking opportunities, scholarships, outreach and advocacy activities, and much more. The Society of Black Scientists and Engineers (SBSE) The mission of SBSE, a chapter of the National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE), is to increase the number of culturally responsible Black scientists and engineers who excel academically, succeed professionally, and positively impact the community! The American Indian Science and Engineering Society (AISES) The Stanford AISES chapter encourages American Indian and Alaska Native students to enter the world of science and engineering while preserving their cultural heritages. The chapter works to decrease isolation, increase self-esteem, and support the academic achievement of community members through informal and formal practices. The Stanford Society of Latinx Engineers (SOLE) We believe the world needs not just innovative engineers, but also ones who value familia, professionalism, outreach, and academics. SOLE is a chapter of SHPE-MAES and HENAAC. Black Engineering Graduate Student Association (BEGSA) The mission of BEGSA is to build a sense of community among the Black Stanford Engineering community. The group facilitates students’ professional development and academic success by providing forums for engagement, discussion, and collective learning. Latin@ Engineering Graduate Student Organization (LEGOS) LEGOS is an organization oriented toward the success of Latin@s pursuing graduate studies in engineering at Stanford. Stanford Native American Graduate Students (SNAGS) SNAGS is a part of the Native American Cultural Center (NACC), encouraging students to engage with resources and events associated with a vibrant Indigenous community in the surrounding Bay Area. Womxn of Color in Engineering (WOCE) We encourage Black, Latinx, American Indian, and/or Pacific Islander womxn graduate students to bond over shared experiences, ally with mentors, and enhance their leadership and professional development skills as part of an extensive network of university-wide support services. Out in Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics (oSTEM) A national student society dedicated to increasing the participation of queer people in disciplines related to science, technology, engineering, or mathematics (STEM). Engineering Students for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (ES4DEI) The purpose of this organization is to dismantle racism, sexism, ablism, homophobia, transphobia, classism, and ethnic discrimination and all forms of oppression in engineering departments, in solidarity with departments across Stanford and with other institutes of higher education, by advocating for policy change that actively supports, nurtures and sustains a diverse academic environment in engineering, and via community-based solutions such as action-oriented workshops, book clubs, journal clubs, and invited speakers. Form to become a member. Visit the Stanford Engineering student organizations page for more societies and initiatives Campus Resources Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) Maintain your well-being. CAPS, the university’s counseling center, is dedicated to student mental health and well-being. In addition to providing clinical services, CAPS supports programs that promote mental health, emotional resilience, and wellness throughout the campus community. Vaden Health Center Focus on your health and wellness. Vaden Health Center is home to Stanford’s resources for counseling, psychological, medical, and wellness/health promotion services. Stanford Neurodiverse Student Support Program Develop your strengths. This program provides comprehensive support to students with a variety of neurodiverse conditions, including autism, ADHD, and learning differences, as well as those without any formal diagnosis. Graduate Life Office (GLO) Get advice and support. GLO is available to help navigate the issues, challenges, and complications that are a part of adjusting to life on campus. Stanford Community Centers Find your home. The Stanford Community Centers provide a gateway to intellectual, cultural, and leadership opportunities for all Stanford students. Our centers include the Asian American Activities Center, Black Community Services Center, Diversity and First-Gen Office, El Centro Chicano y Latino, Queer Student Resources, Markaz: Resource Center for Engagement with the Cultures and Peoples of the Muslim World, Native American Cultural Center, and the Women’s Community Center. Graduate Student Council (GSC) Fund. Plan. Advocate. The GSC serves Stanford’s graduate students by representing their interests in university affairs, supporting graduate student organizations, and providing community events for graduate students. Bechtel International Center (I-Center) Expand your horizons. The I-Center believes that international educational exchange nurtures a lifelong global perspective. It offers support for international students as well as resources for U.S. students who are pursuing study and research opportunities abroad. Office of the Vice Provost for Graduate Education (VPGE) Expand what’s possible. VPGE offers academic guidance and support, opportunities for professional development, fellowships, and funding opportunities. Stanford Career Education: Bridging Education, Ambition & Meaningful Work (BEAM) Plan your next step. BEAM is Stanford’s central career education resource and helps students explore interests, seek opportunities, and develop professional connections. Vice Provost for Teaching and Learning (VPTL) Transform your learning experience. VPTL supports a range of services to help students optimize their learning potential. This includes academic skills coaching, tutoring, and practice for language learners, as well as mentoring and development support for graduate and postdoctoral students who teach. Print Stanford ENGINEERING Web Login Address 475 Via Ortega Stanford, CA 94305 United States Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Instagram Stanford Engineering Magazine Events Departments Open Faculty Positions Open Staff Positions Intranet Give Visit Contact Us Sign up for our email Your source for engineering research and ideas Research & Ideas email Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top