Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences > Chemical Engineering > Chemical engineering professor honored for research quality and impact Chemical engineering professor honored for research quality and impact February 14, 2022 Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering Nagu Daraboina has been named to the 2021 Class of Influential Researchers by the American Chemical Society journal, Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research (I&EC). Assistant Professor Nagu Daraboina Daraboina, who is the associate director of The University of Tulsa’s Paraffin Deposition Projects, was among 36 researchers selected from institutions around the world. These researchers are in the first 10 years of their independent researcher careers. I&EC’s global team of editors and editorial advisory board members selected this class of influential researchers on the basis of the quality and impact of their research. These influential researchers work on core areas of chemical engineering (e.g., kinetics, catalysis, and reaction engineering, thermodynamics, transport, separations) that describe important advances in bioengineering, process intensification, pharmaceutical engineering, biomass utilization, environmental protection, energy conversion, electrochemistry, membrane separations and synthesis of functional materials. After receiving his doctorate from the University of British Columbia in 2012, Daraboina worked for two years as postdoctoral research fellow in the Centre for Energy Resources Engineering at Denmark Technical University. While there, he acquired skills in experimental and computational petroleum thermodynamics. At TU, Daraboina’s main research interest is in the areas of flow assurance, carbon dioxide capture and storage, petroleum thermodynamics and polymer degradation. He has authored or coauthored more than 40 publications in these areas. Interested in solving social problems through technological innovation? Then check out the rich programming offered by TU’s Russell School of Chemical Engineering Chemical Engineering, Engineering and Natural Sciences, Faculty, Featured, Research, Stories American Chemical Society, Class of Influential Researchers, Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research, Nagu Daraboina 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT