Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Give Now School of Engineering Brown University School of Engineering Brown University Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Search Search Menu Commencement 2022 Commencement will be held May 27-29, 2022 Brown University Commencement 2022 Commencement Weekend Information Commencement Information for the Class of 2022 Commencement Information for the Class of 2020 Commencement 2022 Commencement will be held May 27-29, 2022 Please join us in celebrating the 2022 School of Engineering graduates. The University Commencement and the School of Engineering undergraduate diploma ceremony will be held on Sunday, May 29. Here are some answers to frequently asked questions for graduating seniors and families and master's and doctoral students and families who will be in Providence for the weekend. Procession and Diploma Ceremony Information Undergraduate Students Undergraduate students are asked to report to Waterman Street by 9:15 a.m. Lineup begins at Faunce Arch, facing east, on the south side of Waterman Street. All seniors should arrive to Waterman in academic regalia. Undergraduate students will process through the Van Wickle Gates, down College and Benefit streets to the grounds of First Baptist Meeting House for the College Ceremony (note: only graduates are permitted at the church, guests are asked to view the ceremony from the College Green). Undergraduate students will then partake in a return procession from the church to College Green prior to the University Ceremony. Once the University Ceremony ends on the College Green around 2:00 p.m, School of Engineering students and families will then proceed to the First Baptist Church, 75 North Main Street, located at the foot of College Hill. Lunch will be served for School of Engineering graduates and their families, beginning at 2:00 p.m. on the lawn of the First Baptist Church. The engineering undergraduate ceremony will begin around 2:45 p.m. Students will line up for the procession beginning at 2:30 in the basement of the church. Please note that times are approximate and are only an estimate. Graduate Students Graduate students are asked to report to Waterman Street by 9:15 a.m. Lineup begins at Faunce Arch, facing west, on the north side of Waterman Street. Academic regalia is required to participate in the procession and the Graduate School ceremonies. Graduate students will march through the Van Wickle Gates and take an immediate right onto Prospect Street and right again on Waterman Street. They will take a left onto Thayer Street and process to Meehan Auditorium (master's students) or Pembroke Field (doctoral students) for their ceremonies. The Doctoral and Master’s Ceremony will begin at approximately 10:30 am. After the graduate students pass through the Van Wickle Gates, master’s students will proceed to Meehan Auditorium and doctoral students will proceed to Pembroke Field. The ceremony runs aproximately 2 hours. The University Ceremony begins around 1:15 p.m. on the Main Green and is optional for graduate students and their families. The honorary and symbolic degrees are awarded here. Guests and Family All guests and family members are strongly encouraged to view the live simulcast of the procession from the seating available on the College Green and at the doctoral and master's ceremony sites. The procession is made up of approximately 7,000 participants who line the route, making photography very difficult. In addition, street closures and barricades around the procession route will make lines of sight challenging for guests. Families are welcome to return to the Van Wickle Gates following the ceremonies to take photographs, which will remain open until 6 p.m. on Monday. Once the University Ceremony ends on the College Green around 2:00 p.m. School of Engineering students and families will then proceed to the First Baptist Church, 75 North Main Street, located at the foot of College Hill. Lunch will be served for School of Engineering graduates and their families, beginning at 2:00 p.m. on the lawn of the First Baptist Church. The engineering undergraduate ceremony will begin around 2:45 p.m. Students will line up for the procession beginning at 2:30 in the basement of the church. Please note that times are approximate and are only an estimate. Faculty Faculty who wish to partake in the procession and view the University Ceremony are asked to report to Brown Street, near Fones Alley no later than 9:15 a.m. on Sunday. Please approach the lineup from Angell St. Faculty will line up behind the senior administration. Faculty will process through the Van Wickle Gates, down College and Benefit streets, and return to reserved seating on the College Green via Waterman Street to view the College and University ceremonies. Faculty who wish to process with the Graduate School and attend the doctoral or master's ceremonies are asked to report to Waterman Street in front of Page-Robinson Hall no later than 9:15 a.m. Once the University Ceremony ends on the College Green around 2:00 p.m. School of Engineering undergraduate students and families will then proceed to the First Baptist Church, 75 North Main Street, located at the foot of College Hill. Lunch will be served for School of Engineering graduates and their families, beginning at 2:00 p.m. on the lawn of the First Baptist Church. The engineering undergraduate ceremony will begin around 2:45 p.m. Students will line up for the procession beginning at 2:30 in the basement of the church. Please note that times are approximate and are only an estimate. Plan your visit to campus Hotel accomodations near campus Information on accessibility and disability related needs Parking on campus Stay connected - #brownengineering Facebook Twitter Instagram Brown University Commencement 2022 Commencement Weekend Information Commencement Information for the Class of 2022 Commencement Information for the Class of 2020 Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Reservations Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Flickr Instagram LinkedIn Twitter YouTube © Brown University School of Engineering Brown University For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Commencement 2022 Open details for Commencement 2022 Bookmark this Page