Skip To Main Content Departments Info For Giving Contact Search Aerospace Biological & Agriculture Biomedical Chemical Civil & Environmental Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Technology & Industrial Distribution Industrial & Systems Materials Science & Engineering Mechanical Multidisciplinary Nuclear Ocean Petroleum Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Former Students Search Search Menu About Academics Admissions and Aid Student Life Research Partner With Us Search Search About Academics Admissions and Aid Student Life Research Partner With Us Giving Contact About About Us The Vice Chancellor and Dean Facts and Figures News Our Departments Contact Us Zachry Engineering Education Complex Explore all that our state-of-the-art Zachry building has to offer. Academics Academics Degree Programs Our Departments Engineering Academies Advising and Support Engineering Global Programs Labs Engineering Online Explore our online degree options. Through our Engineering Online program, you can study online to earn the same quality degree as you would in person. Admissions and Aid Admissions and Aid Visit with us Advising and Support Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Transfer Students How to Apply Get information on the application process and funding opportunities for undergraduate, graduate and transfer students. Student Life Student Life Find Your Community Get Creative Interact with Industry Solve Problems ENGR[X] Zachry Engineering Education Complex SuSu and Mark A. Fischer '72 Engineering Design Center Ingenium Our blog by students, for students Get inspired by experiences and opportunities shared by fellow engineering students. Research Research Seminars Undergraduate Research Autonomy and Robotics Education and Training Research Energy Systems and Services Research Health Care Research Infrastructure Research Materials and Manufacturing Research National Security and Safety Research Partner With Us Partner With Us Industry Donors PK-12 and Educators Researchers Volunteers Reach Our Divisions PK-12 Outreach Spark! Students and organizations can bring hands-on activities or design challenges to your location or just visit as guest speakers. College of Engineering Important Notice COVID-19 guidance and testing locations College of Engineering Grid Graduate programs Explore our graduate degree programs, as well as funding opportunities for graduate studies. Top 10 Our graduate program is 10th overall and sixth among public institutions nationwide in 2023 U.S. News & World Report rankings. Hypersonics Our researchers are working with the Department of Defense in developing hypersonics technology. Fire protection A new environmentally benign fire retardant coating could mitigate the spread of fires and damage caused by them. READY TO FIND YOUR ENGINEERING DEGREE? Not sure where to start? Find out what kind of engineering matches your interests. College of Engineering Degree Finder - Program Type I am looking for a any type of program Bachelors Certificate Program Doctoral Doctoral of Engineering Master of Engineering Master of Engineering Technical Management Master of Industrial Distribution Master of Science Minor College of Engineering Degree Finder - Engineering Fields in any engineering field News More News @tamuengineering on Instagram Events View All Events Texas A&M University College of Engineering, 3127 TAMU, College Station, TX 77843-3127 ( ZACH) easa@tamu.edu (979) 845-7200 Staff Directory Site Map Site Policies About this Site Employment Follow Us: Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube The College of Engineering is a member of Texas A&M University Texas A&M Engineering is a member of The Texas A&M University System Copyright © 2022, Texas A&M Engineering Communications, All Rights Reserved State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Open Records Risk, Fraud, & Misconduct Hotline Accommodations Statewide Search Texas CREWS Environmental Health, Safety, & Security