Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Give Now School of Engineering Brown University School of Engineering Brown University Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Search Search Menu Spotlight Stories Breadcrumb Home All News Sub Navigation In This Section Magazine Research Stories Spotlight Stories Alumni Spotlight Faculty Spotlight Student Spotlight 76 Results based on your selections. News From Engineering Meeting Monica Martinez Wilhelmus December 13, 2021 As the Fluids faculty at Brown continues to expand, Assistant Professor Monica Martinez Wilhelmus tackles tangible contributions to climate science. Read Article Open details for Meeting Monica Martinez Wilhelmus News From Engineering The 3Rs according to Rodriguez November 15, 2021 Assistant Professor Mauro Rodriguez brings to Brown Engineering his own realization, reaffirmation, and reclamation as mentor and educator. Read Article Open details for The 3Rs according to Rodriguez News From Engineering Crafting lab solutions for the future November 15, 2021 Inspired by the small-scale self-assembly of objects due to the interaction of gravity and surface tension in liquid, mechanical engineer Maya Lewis ’23 used a DiMase Family Summer Internship to apply new methods and materials to explore the interaction of larger sets of objects at a fluid interface. Read Article Open details for Crafting lab solutions for the future News From Engineering Veteran aids in advancement of energy storage materials November 8, 2021 Funded in part by a Nielsen summer fellowship, U.S. Marine Corps veteran and mechanical engineer Joseph Massi ’22.5 spent the summer researching the mechanics of electrode and electrolyte materials for multifunctional structural batteries and supercapacitors. Read Article Open details for Veteran aids in advancement of energy storage materials News From Engineering Patching the heart October 4, 2021 A 2021 summer Mitchell Award enabled biomedical engineer Phillip Schmitt ’22 to advance a novel tissue scaffold design for the heart inspired by the Coulombe Lab, using a biodegradable polymer to repair damaged tissue. Read Article Open details for Patching the heart News From Engineering Creating novel passive air samplers with graphene-based nanosheet films September 30, 2021 Using his own steady hands and funds from a DiMase Family Summer Internship, Manuel Alejandro Lopez ’22 is exploring ways to expand the use of rGO (reduced graphene oxide) films to identify the Environmental Protection Agency’s list of top indoor air pollutants. Read Article Open details for Creating novel passive air samplers with graphene-based nanosheet films News from Brown Alejandro Jackson: A compassionate approach to science and biotechnology September 7, 2021 A first-year student beginning Brown’s distinctive eight-year Program in Liberal Medical Education, Alejandro Jackson aspires to become an M.D./Ph.D. who develops new technologies for amputees to improve quality of life. Read Article Open details for Alejandro Jackson: A compassionate approach to science and biotechnology News from Brown Nathan Brown: Toward a better, more versatile wheelchair August 5, 2021 With the help of a Royce Fellowship from the Swearer Center, Nathan Brown is developing a wheelchair design with the aim of increasing mobility for users on both indoor and outdoor terrain. Read Article Open details for Nathan Brown: Toward a better, more versatile wheelchair News From Engineering MediCircle invests winnings into pilot program July 8, 2021 Biomedical engineer Eliza Sternlicht ’22 and applied math and economics concentrator Jack Schaeffer ’22 took top honors at the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship’s Brown Venture Prize competition with their redistribution model for unused pharmaceuticals. Read Article Open details for MediCircle invests winnings into pilot program News From Engineering Out of this world July 3, 2021 Halpin Prize enables Lizzie Kimmel ’21 to engage in interplanetary space mission Read Article Open details for Out of this world News From Engineering Biotech company Amylyx emerges from scientific curiosity of Brown undergrads June 30, 2021 Biomedical engineering alumnus Josh Cohen ’14 partnered with Justin Klee ’13 eight years ago to build a company dedicated to the development of therapeutics for the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders. Read Article Open details for Biotech company Amylyx emerges from scientific curiosity of Brown undergrads News From Engineering Ares Rosakis awarded Horace Mann Medal April 29, 2021 Read Article Open details for Ares Rosakis awarded Horace Mann Medal News From Engineering Adding new value to a career spent fostering interdisciplinary education April 28, 2021 Linda Abriola is ready to reclaim her faculty identity. The computational modeler, National Academy of Engineering member, National Academy of Arts and Sciences member, U.S. State Department Science Envoy, and former dean at Tufts has arrived on College Hill for an opportunity to strike out again as an educator, teacher and researcher — something she hasn’t been able to singularly focus on since early in her career. Read Article Open details for Adding new value to a career spent fostering interdisciplinary education News from Brown Thomas Usherwood: Better health care through biomedical engineering April 13, 2021 The Brown undergraduate and newly named Goldwater Scholar draws from multiple math and science disciplines to help devise innovative ways to improve health care through biomedical engineering. Read Article Open details for Thomas Usherwood: Better health care through biomedical engineering News From Engineering Seven things you should know about Selim Suner ’86, ScM’87, MD’92 January 19, 2021 If the name seems familiar, it’s likely because Dr. Selim Suner has been frequently sought by newspapers and television stations in Rhode Island for his expertise on how local hospitals are handling the COVID-19 crisis. Read Article Open details for Seven things you should know about Selim Suner ’86, ScM’87, MD’92 News From Engineering Return to Brown feels like home January 19, 2021 As an employee of General Motors, Yue Qi was involved early with the Collaborative Research Laboratory partnership established between GM and Brown University. Continuing these collaborations with Brown colleagues as her career progressed from industry to academia, Qi’s return to campus in July as the newest engineering faculty member was eased by the familial feelings she already had for Brown Engineering. Read Article Open details for Return to Brown feels like home News From Engineering Obfuscating for security November 12, 2020 As researchers explore faster data transfer rates in the terahertz range, new strategies for thwarting eavesdropping attempts by utilizing atmospheric effects were investigated by Malachi Hornbuckle ‘22, funded in part by a Nielsen summer fellowship. Read Article Open details for Obfuscating for security News From Engineering Powering next gen battery research November 4, 2020 Energy storage technology interests led mechanical engineer Elizabeth Healy ’21 to the Sheldon Lab. A DiMase Family Internship allowed her to develop those interests in an academic research setting, pushing the boundaries on next generation lithium-ion batteries. Read Article Open details for Powering next gen battery research News From Engineering Investigating brain-inspired spiking neural networks October 28, 2020 Jayakumar Fellowship allows Andrew Duncombe ’21 to design computer architectures that make the implementation of complex computing processes, like neural networks, feasible for real-world applications. Read Article Open details for Investigating brain-inspired spiking neural networks News from Brown Portia Tieze: Conducting science research from home in a pandemic July 30, 2020 Novel coronavirus and its effect on University science laboratories has kept engineering student Portia Tieze from working on campus this summer — so she brought the lab to her apartment to continue her research. Read Article Open details for Portia Tieze: Conducting science research from home in a pandemic News from Brown Brown student startup seeks to revolutionize crop disease prevention July 23, 2020 Cloud Agronomics — a student and alumni venture launched with support from the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship — uses hyperspectral imaging to detect crop-borne diseases that destabilize food supplies and cost farmers billions. Read Article Open details for Brown student startup seeks to revolutionize crop disease prevention News From Engineering Identifying a new wing geometry May 22, 2020 Halpin prize funds enable undergraduate engineer to iterate bio-inspired wings, test designs in wind tunnel Read Article Open details for Identifying a new wing geometry News From Engineering Physics, Chemistry and Engineering – an interdisciplinary perspective with Yuan Liu April 27, 2020 Ph.D. candidate Yuan Liu will graduate this May with his doctoral degree in chemistry, after utilizing the Open Graduate Education program to earn his engineering master's degree in May 2018. In July, he will begin a postdoctoral associate position at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in the Center for Ultracold Atoms. Read Article Open details for Physics, Chemistry and Engineering – an interdisciplinary perspective with Yuan Liu News From Engineering Improving the CPR success rate with ResusciTech April 22, 2020 Halpin prize helps launch online training and certification program during pandemic Read Article Open details for Improving the CPR success rate with ResusciTech News From Engineering Conversations on COVID: A prelude to the pandemic for ENGN 2911R students April 17, 2020 Read Article Open details for Conversations on COVID: A prelude to the pandemic for ENGN 2911R students News From Engineering Conversations on COVID: Designing BrunO2 for the ventilator shortage April 9, 2020 A team of engineering faculty, students, alumni and other collaborators are designing and creating prototypes for low-cost ventilators with a device constructed of 3D printed and off-the-shelf components specifically designed for the COVID-19 crisis. Read Article Open details for Conversations on COVID: Designing BrunO2 for the ventilator shortage News From Engineering Conversations on COVID: Chris Bull engineers equipment to aid in crisis April 2, 2020 Read Article Open details for Conversations on COVID: Chris Bull engineers equipment to aid in crisis News From Engineering Designing a future February 3, 2020 DiMase Family Summer Internship recipient Eric DuBois ’20 is passionate about the intersection of design and research, and where the two may lead. Read Article Open details for Designing a future News From Engineering Understanding complex fluids January 5, 2020 Assistant Professor Jesse Ault looks to predict fundamental behaviors in complex fluids, an essential step to solving big picture challenges. Read Article Open details for Understanding complex fluids News From Engineering Undergraduate Maker Finds Home in Engineering Research Lab December 19, 2019 Read Article Open details for Undergraduate Maker Finds Home in Engineering Research Lab News From Engineering Synergy in science December 16, 2019 Professor Kimani Toussaint joins the Brown Engineering faculty, cultivating inspiration for new collaborations in engineering and beyond. Read Article Open details for Synergy in science News From Engineering Unmasking fluid mechanics December 15, 2019 Brown Professor of Engineering Roberto Zenit believes in the importance of understanding and predicting fluid behavior. Read Article Open details for Unmasking fluid mechanics News From Engineering Steeled for success December 5, 2019 Alumnus Harvey A. Heffner ’61 co-owns Empire City Iron Works, which manufactures, installs, and renovates steel works. Read Article Open details for Steeled for success News From Engineering One on one with Nicole Dusang December 3, 2019 Read Article Open details for One on one with Nicole Dusang News From Engineering Delving into deep learning October 3, 2019 Sriram R. Jayakumar ’13 Award allows Jon Nelson ’20 to explore deep learning algorithms for embedded devices. Read Article Open details for Delving into deep learning News From Engineering Tayhas Palmore named inaugural Elaine I. Savage Professor of Engineering June 3, 2019 Brown engineering’s first female full professor, Tayhas Palmore, awarded the endowed professorship named after engineering’s first female Ph.D. graduate, Elaine I. Savage. Read Article Open details for Tayhas Palmore named inaugural Elaine I. Savage Professor of Engineering News From Engineering Designing a lab mystery May 10, 2019 “Good afternoon, investigators,” boomed the voice welcoming players into the shadowy, otherworldly scene. “This is a class R, section 8C containment situation.” Eerie string music with intermittent bubbling cauldron sounds plays softly in the background. “We can afford to expose you to the specimens for a limited time. You will enter the unauthorized home laboratory of disgraced chief scientist Ko Tanaka …” Read Article Open details for Designing a lab mystery News From Engineering Stimulating new solutions for deep brain treatment April 26, 2019 With help from the Doris M. and Norman T. Halpin Senior Capstone Prize and fellow engineers, Thomas Skipper ’19 investigates steerable guide tubes for deep brain stimulation treatment. Read Article Open details for Stimulating new solutions for deep brain treatment News From Engineering Mixing chemical reactions and machine learning for data storage, computing March 26, 2019 Gabriel Weedon ’19 wins Doris M. and Norman T. Halpin Senior Capstone Prize for his neural network and chemical computing project. Read Article Open details for Mixing chemical reactions and machine learning for data storage, computing News From Engineering Quantitative science adds insight to cell motility December 20, 2018 A DiMase Family Summer Internship allows Zachary Neronha ’19 to examine the collective migration of individual and groups of cancerous cells. Read Article Open details for Quantitative science adds insight to cell motility News From Engineering Bold research drives intersections of biomedical systems, mechanics December 14, 2018 Vikas Srivastava recently joined the Brown School of Engineering and Center for Biomedical Engineering as an assistant professor. Srivastava’s background is in solid mechanics and mechanics of materials. Read Article Open details for Bold research drives intersections of biomedical systems, mechanics News From Engineering Engineering new solutions November 27, 2018 Upon opening its doors a year ago, the Engineering Research Center (ERC) welcomed a host of professors, grad students, and undergraduates into the state-of-the-art space that connects both Prince Lab and Barus and Holley on the Hope St. edge of campus. Professor Iris Bahar talks specifically of how the new space has influenced her work; the interaction, accessibility, and energy of this knowledge hub. Read Article Open details for Engineering new solutions News From Engineering Aerodynamics researcher navigates course to success November 24, 2018 With help from a Carl Nielsen ’56 Summer Research Fellowship, Katie Wu ’19 furthers Breuer Lab work on a robotic flapping wing with implications for both biological and engineering communities. Read Article Open details for Aerodynamics researcher navigates course to success News From Engineering Yuri Bazilevs October 27, 2018 E. Paul Sorensen Professor of Engineering Yuri Bazilevs works to bridge applied and computational mechanics, applied mathematics, and computer science to solve a myriad of problems. Read Article Open details for Yuri Bazilevs News From Engineering Q&A with Andrea Razzaghi '82 October 24, 2018 Read Article Open details for Q&amp;A with Andrea Razzaghi &#039;82 News From Engineering Playing it unpredictable June 27, 2018 Taking risks and embracing change helped steer Steven Moya ’94 in bold, new directions. Read Article Open details for Playing it unpredictable News From Engineering Networking seismic sensors for earthquake warnings June 20, 2018 Pioneering earthquake early warning technologies, Zizmos’ eQuake smartphone application is steadily gaining traction in the commercial industry, bolstered by winning multiple competitions and earning government funding. Read Article Open details for Networking seismic sensors for earthquake warnings News From Engineering Using nanomaterials for big issues in biomed, biotech June 20, 2018 Center for Biomedical Engineering Director Vicki Colvin and the Colvin Lab work with materials that do impossible things, exploring how nanoscale particles interact with the environment and living systems. Read Article Open details for Using nanomaterials for big issues in biomed, biotech News From Engineering Using engineering to decipher the impact of chemical exposure May 16, 2018 Professor Kurt Pennell is bridging the gap between environmental engineering and public health. Read Article Open details for Using engineering to decipher the impact of chemical exposure News From Engineering Engineer. Lawyer. Mentor. Volunteer. Philanthropist. May 3, 2018 Never one to back down from a challenge, Frances Bivens, class of 1988, is continuing to evolve as her interests change and grow. Read Article Open details for Engineer. Lawyer. Mentor. Volunteer. Philanthropist. Previous 1 2 Next Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Reservations Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Flickr Instagram LinkedIn Twitter YouTube © Brown University School of Engineering Brown University For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Spotlight Stories Open details for Spotlight Stories Bookmark this Page