Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences > Department of Biological Science > Pre-Med Program Pre-Med Program BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES Biological Science Undergraduate Programs Biological Science Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Research Faculty Facilities News Contact the Department Housed within the Department of Biological Science, The University of Tulsa has provided exceptional preparation for the healthcare professions for more than 60 years. Although a majority of pre-health professional students at TU choose to major in one of the sciences, students can major in any discipline. The TU curriculum can be tailored to students seeking admission to schools of allopathic or osteopathic medicine, dentistry, veterinary medicine, optometry, podiatry and physician assistant. Many of TU’s pre-health professional students are on the pre-medicine track, which boasts an annual average acceptance rate of 70 percent to some of the finest medical schools in the country including Baylor, Harvard, Northwestern, Vanderbilt and Washington University. Complemented by small class sizes and individual instruction, TU’s pre-professional education is distinguished by faculty who are dedicated to teaching and research. Faculty provide a rigorous and personal approach to the pre-professional program. Health professions advisers work closely with students to help them reach their goals. A health professions committee, made up of faculty from multiple departments, provides evaluations for students seeking acceptance to schools of medicine or dentistry. Health professions students may participate in the local chapter of Alpha Epsilon Delta, a national honor society for pre-professional students interested in a medical arts career. The Early Careers in Community Medicine (ECCM) program provides highly qualified undergraduate students a unique opportunity to pursue early provisional acceptance to the University of Oklahoma College of Medicine, leading to an M.D. degree. Visit the ECCM webpage for eligibility and application requirements. Professional Opportunities Medical School Dental School Optometry School Pharmacy School Veterinary School Physician Assistant Health Professions Advisers Akhtar Ali, Ph.D., Professor of Biological Science Miriam Belmaker, Ph.D., Chapman Associate Professor of Anthropology Ron Bonett, Ph.D., Professor of Biological Science Warren Booth, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Biological Science Mark Buchheim, Ph.D., Professor of Biological Science and Chief Health Professions Adviser Greg Gardner, Ed.D., ATC/L, Chapman Clinical Professor of Athletic Training Mohamed Fakhr, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Biological Science For more information about the health professions program, please contact: Mark Buchheim 918-631-3833 mark-buchheim@utulsa.edu Pre-med Program Preprofessional program that provides the necessary preparation to enter and succeed in a professional degree program in allopathic or osteopathic medicine. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT