Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Give Now School of Engineering Brown University School of Engineering Brown University Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Search Search Menu Concentrations Explore undergraduate degree programs and options. Breadcrumb Home Undergraduate Sub Navigation In This Section ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Computer Engineering Electrical Engineering Environmental Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Engineering Physics Engineering (Sc.B.) Bachelor of Arts Concentration Options Declaring a Concentration Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Concentrations Explore undergraduate degree programs and options. Program Goals Concentrations offered by the School of Engineering are designed with four aims in mind: To prepare graduates for professional practice in engineering, for graduate school, or to use their engineering expertise in non-technical fields To enable graduates to work across disciplinary boundaries To provide students with a wide range of options from which to construct a program To enable students to combine their engineering programs with Brown's rich offerings in the arts, humanities and social sciences Students may choose from several Sc.B. degree programs, which are intended to prepare graduates for professional practice or graduate school in engineering and science. Alternatively, they may elect to pursue an A.B. program, which is designed to allow graduates to combine their engineering studies with other interests. The A.B. engineering degree is an excellent foundation for careers in entrepreneurship, technology management, public service, architecture, teaching, or patent law, among many others. Program Structure All Brown's engineering degree programs share a similar structure: The Engineering Core: During freshman and sophomore year, students take foundation courses in several engineering disciplines, together with courses in computer science, mathematics, and physical and life sciences. The core is intended to prepare graduates to work across disciplinary boundaries, and to help students to decide on an area of specialization. Students choose their degree option ('Concentration') at the end of their sophomore year. Please see the University Bulletin for degree requirements. Specialization: The Sc.B. degrees include a set of six or seven specialized courses in an engineering discipline. At least one of these must be a 'capstone' course in which students complete a major realistic design or research project. A.B. degree candidates take at least two specialized courses, and also have the option of completing a capstone course. The Sc.B. programs in Biomedical Engineering, Chemical Engineering, Computer Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Environmental Engineering, Materials Engineering, and Mechanical Engineering are accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET http://www.abet.org/ Concentrations Biomedical Engineering Visit Page Open details for Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Visit Page Open details for Chemical Engineering Computer Engineering Visit Page Open details for Computer Engineering Electrical Engineering Visit Page Open details for Electrical Engineering Environmental Engineering Visit Page Open details for Environmental Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Visit Page Open details for Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Visit Page Open details for Mechanical Engineering Engineering Physics The Sc.B. degree in engineering and physics is offered jointly by the School of Engineering and the Department of Physics. It enables students to craft a program that combines both disciplines, and provides an excellent foundation for a research career. Visit Page Open details for Engineering Physics Engineering (Sc.B.) The Sc.B. in engineering concentration is intended to prepare graduates for advanced study in engineering or for professional practice, but in an area that is not covered by one of the existing Sc.B. programs. Visit Page Open details for Engineering (Sc.B.) Bachelor of Arts The A.B. degree enables students to combine a rigorous and interdisciplinary foundation in engineering with the diverse opportunities offered by Brown's liberal arts curriculum. With only ten required courses, it provides the most flexibility. Visit Page Open details for Bachelor of Arts Other degree options Combined A.B./Sc.B. degree: Students who wish to earn a combined A.B. and Sc.B. degree may do so in a five-year program in which work for both degrees proceeds concurrently. Concurrent Baccalaureate and Master's Degree: Exceptionally capable students may be permitted to petition to complete an Sc.B. or A.B. degree concurrently with a master's degree in four years. Brown-Rhode Island School of Design dual degree program: Students may receive a Bachelor of Arts (A.B.) degree from Brown and a Bachelor of Fine Arts (B.F.A.) degree from RISD. The program is five years in length. An engineering A.B. and RISD B.F.A. provides a particularly strong preparation for industrial design or architecture. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Reservations Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Flickr Instagram LinkedIn Twitter YouTube © Brown University School of Engineering Brown University For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Concentrations Open details for Concentrations Bookmark this Page