Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences > About > Engineering and Natural Sciences Dean’s Circle Engineering and Natural Sciences Dean’s Circle ABOUT Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies A gift to the Annual Fund means that you are making a difference for the College of Engineering and Natural Sciences. Your support makes you a partner in fulfilling a variety of needs and opportunities that enrich student experiences. Annual Fund donors giving $2,500 and up are recognized as members of the Dean’s Circle. Members of the Dean’s Circle provide the crucial unrestricted support that serves as a lifeline to the college. During the past year, College of Engineering and Natural Sciences Annual Fund gifts have supported many programs. Here are a few examples: ENS students attended conferences and competitions in Europe, Singapore, South Korea, Boston, Salt Lake City, Massachusetts, California, Texas and Oklahoma City. High school and other public outreach programs, such as the Physics Journal Club, encourage the development of future engineers and scientists in our state through STEM programs. Heartland Gaming Expo TEDxUniversityofTulsa, an independently organized event Faculty mentors worked with talented students who won nationally competitive scholarships, such as National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowships, enhancing TU’s academic reputation. TU Student Research Colloquium Teaching lab computer replacements Software license renewals Travel to conferences for NSBE, SHPE, SWE Support for the FIRST Robotics outreach teams Petroleum engineering job fair Refreshments for students during finals week Your support of the College of Engineering and Natural Sciences confirms that you understand how vital the Annual Fund is in the daily work of hands-on learning. Individuals Fiscal Year 2018 (ends June 30, 2018) Anne and Chris ('85) Anderson Cecilia and Chad (’61) Bardone Terry and Stu Bauman Elizabeth (’82) and Ed (’81) Behm Janet Bellovich Cherrie (’75) and Bob (’77) Bierley Pat (’50) and Arnold (’50) Brown Pris (’79) and Craig (’77) Ciarlelli George and Gene (’60) Cole Diane (’65) and Wiley (’65) Cox Joyce and Jerry (’62) Dees Tiffaney and Michael (’07, ’15) DeShazer Donna and David Dutton Janet (’82) and Bill Ellis Garvin Emanuel (’57) Jane Beatty (’80) and Matt Foehr (’80) Nancy and Jim (’73) Franklin Susan and Dick (’70) Frazier Katie Garrett (’13) Ryan Guldan (’06) James Hadley (’03) Janet Haggerty Laura Haworth (’93) Yitie Han (’08) and Mingzhe Xu Jean and Mark (’82) Hatfield Michelle and Mike (’84) Heinz Deanne (’92) and Dow Hughes Traci and David (’88) Iverson Sandy and Randy (’82) Jones Shirley (’56) and Jim (’57) Jorden Kelly and Mohan (’89) Kelkar Kathy and Ron (’80, ’94) Key Kate and Kevin (’80) Lacy Jennifer (’01) and John (’02) Laeger Adam Leeper (’07) Christy and John (’86) Lindsay Helen and Andy MacKay Frank Manning Cinda and Mark (’84) Marra Sarah (’85) and Tom (’84, ’87) McCoy Nicole and Dustin (’99) McDaniel Theresa and Jeff (’84) McDougall Sharon (’86) and Chip (’85) McElroy Sally and Pat McKee Cal McKee (’48) Sharon and Chris (’82) McMahon Dana (’76, ’77) and Allan (’78) Moore Diane Padgett Sabine and Antonio (’87) Pietri Stefan Radloff (’93) Sharon and Troy (’86) Reusser Andrea and Wayne (’60) Rumley Pam and Tom Russell (’57) Karen and Bill (’70) Scoggins Anna and Don (’57) Seago Patrick Smith (’05) Gentra and Jim Sorem Delora and Gene (’62) Stalnaker Lisa (’81) and Michael Stewart Vada and Bob Strattan Carol and Walter (’89) Taylor Jonathan Torkelson (’04) Barbara (’64) and John (’65, ’67) Turner Megan and Tony (’97) Uerling Maureen and Wilf (’56) Uhren Morgan and Cole Walton (’09) Crystal (’04) and Aaron (’04) Weber Doug York (’83) Corporate and Foundation Donors to the Annual Fund Corporate and Foundation Donors to the Annual Fund Chevron ConocoPhillips GasTech Engineering Corp. McElroy Manufacturing Newfield Exploration Co. Occidental Petroleum ONEOK Petroleum Phillips 66 Pearl and Julia Harmon Foundation Project Lead the Way 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT