Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Give Now School of Engineering Brown University School of Engineering Brown University Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Search Search Menu Date August 30, 2021 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Powers named to Reviews of Modern Physics editorial board Brown School of Engineering Professor Thomas Powers has been named Associate Editor for Fluid, Geometric and Solid Mechanics for the Reviews of Modern Physics. Reviews of Modern Physics (RMP) is the world’s premier physics review journal and the most highly cited Physical Review publication. Written by leading international researchers, RMP’s in-depth essays provide coverage of topics, and give context and background for current research trends. Powers joined Brown Engineering in 2000 as the first holder of the James R. Rice Chair in Solid Mechanics. He was promoted to associate professor in 2006 and professor in 2012. Since 2011, he has also been affiliated with the Department of Physics. From 2009 to 2014, he was Associate Editor of RMP for biological physics. Powers is a Fellow of the American Physical Society. He received an S.B. in physics and an S.B. in mathematics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1989, and earned his Ph.D. in physics from the University of Pennsylvania in 1995. After Penn, he held postdoctoral positions in the physics departments of Princeton and the University of Arizona, and the Division of Engineering and Applied Sciences at Harvard. Like all of the journals in the Physical Review family, RMP is shaped by researchers to serve the research community. This commitment ensures that its mission and standards prioritize the needs of researchers and authors, not commercial publishing interests. The journal is international, with approximately three-fifths of published articles originating from outside the U.S. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Reservations Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Flickr Instagram LinkedIn Twitter YouTube © Brown University School of Engineering Brown University For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Powers named to Reviews of Modern Physics editorial board Open details for Powers named to Reviews of Modern Physics editorial board Bookmark this Page