Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences > School of Cyber Studies > Ph.D. in Cyber Studies Ph.D. in Cyber Studies CYBER STUDIES Cyber Educational Programs Online M.S. in Cyber Security Ph.D. in Cyber Studies Co-Curricular Activities Faculty Institute for Information Security (iSec) Cyber at TU TU Cyber News Faculty in the News Apply Now Request Information The interdisciplinary Ph.D. in Cyber Studies draws on faculty expertise across the University of Tulsa (TU) to conduct cutting-edge research at the interface between cyber and many disciplines. The program seeks high-achieving students who want to pursue independent scholarly research. Students in the Ph.D. in Cyber Studies program will: Demonstrate expertise and proficiency in the discipline’s areas including cyber security, networking, data analysis, and a disciplinary specialization relevant to cyber studies. Create and advance the body of knowledge in cyber topics by and submitting scholarly papers to peer-reviewed conference proceedings and journals. Demonstrate research skills and professional behavior consistent with the scholarly cyber scientific community. A wide range of disciplinary perspectives are valuable when researching cyber topics. The Ph.D. in Cyber Studies is designed to accommodate many such perspectives while ensuring that students acquire core knowledge from relevant disciplines to become effective, independent researchers in cyber-related domains. As such, students entering the program come from disciplinary backgrounds that reflect the composition of the School of Cyber Studies Faculty – computer science, engineering, business, and the humanities. The Ph.D. in Cyber Studies is open to both full-time and part-time students, local or remote. The full curriculum is described in the University Bulletin. Full-time Ph.D. in Cyber Studies students who are selected for merit-based assistantships will receive full tuition remission and an annual living stipend of approximately $30,000. Awards are renewable annually subject to satisfactory performance and progression towards degree completion as described in the Bulletin. To receive support, full-time Ph.D. students are required to work through research or teaching assistantships. Students supported by assistantships are expected to relocate to Tulsa. Applications for Spring and Fall 2022 are now open. The priority deadline for Fall 2022 is February 1, 2022. Early applications are strongly encouraged, as decisions for assistantships are made at the time of admission and there is a limited number available. We also welcome applications from independent, highly motivated part-time students who currently work in cyber and have completed a master’s degree. If you have questions, please first review the FAQ below. If you still have questions, please reach out to Dr. Sal Aurigemma, Graduate Program Advisor for the Ph.D. in Cyber Studies, or Dr. Tyler Moore, Chair, School of Cyber Studies. Ph.D. in Cyber Studies Frequently Asked Questions a What kind of assistantships are available? Research assistantships are typically supported by external research funding. In recent years, faculty have received awards from the US National Science Foundation, Department of Defense, Department of Energy and Department of Homeland Security. TU also hosts the innovative TU-Team8 Cyber Fellows program, which supports students who conduct research on projects with high commercialization potential. Students funded by teaching assistantships support courses offered through the School of Cyber Studies. a I am interested in the TU-Team8 Cyber Fellows program, but I’m not sure. What should I do? On your application, please check the box indicating your interest in that program. Checking that box does not preclude you from being considered for other assistantship opportunities. a I’m interested in the TU-Team8 Cyber Fellows program. Do I have to do a Ph.D. in Cyber Studies? No. Any Ph.D. program offered by the College of Engineering and Natural Sciences is eligible for the program. Of course, we do anticipate that many of the students in that program will want to pursue a Ph.D. in Cyber Studies. a What should I write for my statement of purpose? The statement of purpose should explain why you want to pursue a Ph.D. in general and in cyber studies in particular. Explain how your professional and educational background have prepared you for this program. Indicate which faculty you are interested in working with, as well as the topics that interest you. If you have already communicated with a faculty member about a Ph.D. topic, please say so. If you have not, consider reaching out to some faculty before you apply. a What faculty can I work with on the Ph.D.? A dissertation must be advised by a faculty member in Cyber Studies. Please visit this page for the most up-to-date list. If there is a TU faculty member you’d like to work with who is not a faculty member in Cyber Studies, please let us know. The School is new and is adding new members regularly. a Can I complete the program as a part-time student? Yes. Note that completing a Ph.D. takes a lot of time and effort, and is traditionally a full-time job. Nonetheless, for highly-motivated individuals with domain expertise from their day job and a Master’s degree already completed, part-time study may work. You will need to indicate that this is your plan on the statement of purpose, and find an advisor who is willing to supervise you. a Can I complete the program remotely? Yes. Full-time students supported by assistantships will typically need to reside in Tulsa. For students not supported by assistantships, the program can be completed remotely. Once again, the caveat is that you must find an advisor who is willing to supervise remote students. Note that not all courses will be offered both online and in-person. Required doctoral courses (e.g., CYB 7083 and CYB 8003) will be offered in a hybrid fashion as required. Elective courses and those in the disciplinary specialization may or may not be offered online. a Are international students eligible for the program? Yes. Note that some assistantships have citizenship restrictions depending on the funding source. But there are no restrictions on who is eligible for the PhD program. a Can I qualify for an assistantship and tuition scholarship if I work full-time in another job? No. Doing a Ph.D., while also carrying out the duties of an assistantship and working in a different full-time job, is not feasible. a Where do alumni go after completing the program? The Ph.D. in Cyber Studies is brand new. Nonetheless, there have been many successful Ph.D. graduates from TU whose research focus has been in cyber studies. In recent years, TU Ph.D. graduates have gone onto faculty positions at University College London, Wake Forest and Ole Miss, for example. Many Ph.D. graduates pursue careers in industry or government, having gone on to work at places such as NVIDIA, General Motors, and the National Security Agency. a I’m unsure if I should pursue a Ph.D. in Cyber Studies or a more traditional degree program. What’s your advice? This is a personal decision. If the faculty member you work with works in a department offering Ph.D. study (e.g., computer science, psychology), consider reaching out to that faculty member for their thoughts. There is no right answer. You should also look at the degree requirements. One advantage of the Ph.D. in Cyber Studies is that it is designed to facilitate interdisciplinary study. You can take courses in multiple disciplines that align more closely to your research area. Many of the most fruitful areas for impactful research lies at the interface between disciplines, which the Ph.D. in Cyber Studies actively cultivates. You’ll also be part of a community of scholars with varied disciplinary backgrounds. Through regular research seminars, you will be exposed to many new ways to approach problems, which can be intellectually invigorating. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT