Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Geosciences Graduate Programs Research Geosciences research looks at hazards of blowing dust on roadways Empowered Samson Resources donates XRF spectrometer to geosciences > Department of Geosciences > Geosciences Graduate Programs https://youtu.be/kDe8HgR6BFk GEOSCIENCES Geosciences Undergraduate Programs Geosciences Graduate Programs Research Faculty Facilities News Alumni Contact the Department Apply Now Request Information Geologists study the history, materials, processes and products of the Earth. Some pursue solely academic interests such as how mountains form and erode while others are interested in practical applications, exploring fossil fuels and minerals or planning construction sites and disposal locations. A geologist studies environmental impact. Overview The Department of Geosciences offers master of science degrees with specialization in geology, geophysics and environmental science. Students research the most effective ways to detect oil, iron, copper, and many other minerals in the Earth while learning to identify and survey properties for environmental hazards. Our students also study the structure above and below the Earth’s surface to investigate earthquakes, oceanic shifts and other physical changes of our planet. Students are motivated to apply these principles creatively through training in advanced methods of analysis, research and synthesis. Graduates use their education to establish respectable careers in academia, consulting, industry and government. Program Objectives Master of Science in Geosciences Develop advanced content knowledge and technical skills in geosciences. Ability to develop, recognize and test hypothesis in specific areas of Earth Sciences. Effective communication of research. Develop testable research goals and implement experimental tests. Degree Options Geosciences, Thesis Option, M.S. Prepares students for careers as professional geologists or for additional education at the doctoral level. Geosciences, Non-Thesis Option, M.S. Prepares students for careers as professional geologists but intended for students who plan to conduct less research than graduate students who prepare a thesis. Professional Opportunities Geoscientist Resources manager Health and safety researcher Environmental forensics technician Application Requirements To be considered for graduate admission, the following items must be submitted to the Graduate School: A completed Graduate School application Statement of Purpose (admission essay) 2 – 3 letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your academic potential. Official or unofficial transcripts from all universities attended GRE General Test results $60 application fee International students who studied at a university outside of the U.S. will also need to submit TOEFL or IELTS results 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT