Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Give Now School of Engineering Brown University School of Engineering Brown University Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Search Search Menu Faculty Spotlight Breadcrumb Home All News Spotlight Stories Sub Navigation In This Section Magazine Research Stories Spotlight Stories Alumni Spotlight Faculty Spotlight Student Spotlight 28 Results based on your selections. News From Engineering Meeting Monica Martinez Wilhelmus December 13, 2021 As the Fluids faculty at Brown continues to expand, Assistant Professor Monica Martinez Wilhelmus tackles tangible contributions to climate science. Read Article Open details for Meeting Monica Martinez Wilhelmus News From Engineering The 3Rs according to Rodriguez November 15, 2021 Assistant Professor Mauro Rodriguez brings to Brown Engineering his own realization, reaffirmation, and reclamation as mentor and educator. Read Article Open details for The 3Rs according to Rodriguez News From Engineering Adding new value to a career spent fostering interdisciplinary education April 28, 2021 Linda Abriola is ready to reclaim her faculty identity. The computational modeler, National Academy of Engineering member, National Academy of Arts and Sciences member, U.S. State Department Science Envoy, and former dean at Tufts has arrived on College Hill for an opportunity to strike out again as an educator, teacher and researcher — something she hasn’t been able to singularly focus on since early in her career. Read Article Open details for Adding new value to a career spent fostering interdisciplinary education News From Engineering Return to Brown feels like home January 19, 2021 As an employee of General Motors, Yue Qi was involved early with the Collaborative Research Laboratory partnership established between GM and Brown University. Continuing these collaborations with Brown colleagues as her career progressed from industry to academia, Qi’s return to campus in July as the newest engineering faculty member was eased by the familial feelings she already had for Brown Engineering. Read Article Open details for Return to Brown feels like home News From Engineering Conversations on COVID: A prelude to the pandemic for ENGN 2911R students April 17, 2020 Read Article Open details for Conversations on COVID: A prelude to the pandemic for ENGN 2911R students News From Engineering Conversations on COVID: Designing BrunO2 for the ventilator shortage April 9, 2020 A team of engineering faculty, students, alumni and other collaborators are designing and creating prototypes for low-cost ventilators with a device constructed of 3D printed and off-the-shelf components specifically designed for the COVID-19 crisis. Read Article Open details for Conversations on COVID: Designing BrunO2 for the ventilator shortage News From Engineering Conversations on COVID: Chris Bull engineers equipment to aid in crisis April 2, 2020 Read Article Open details for Conversations on COVID: Chris Bull engineers equipment to aid in crisis News From Engineering Understanding complex fluids January 5, 2020 Assistant Professor Jesse Ault looks to predict fundamental behaviors in complex fluids, an essential step to solving big picture challenges. Read Article Open details for Understanding complex fluids News From Engineering Synergy in science December 16, 2019 Professor Kimani Toussaint joins the Brown Engineering faculty, cultivating inspiration for new collaborations in engineering and beyond. Read Article Open details for Synergy in science News From Engineering Unmasking fluid mechanics December 15, 2019 Brown Professor of Engineering Roberto Zenit believes in the importance of understanding and predicting fluid behavior. Read Article Open details for Unmasking fluid mechanics News From Engineering Tayhas Palmore named inaugural Elaine I. Savage Professor of Engineering June 3, 2019 Brown engineering’s first female full professor, Tayhas Palmore, awarded the endowed professorship named after engineering’s first female Ph.D. graduate, Elaine I. Savage. Read Article Open details for Tayhas Palmore named inaugural Elaine I. Savage Professor of Engineering News From Engineering Bold research drives intersections of biomedical systems, mechanics December 14, 2018 Vikas Srivastava recently joined the Brown School of Engineering and Center for Biomedical Engineering as an assistant professor. Srivastava’s background is in solid mechanics and mechanics of materials. Read Article Open details for Bold research drives intersections of biomedical systems, mechanics News From Engineering Engineering new solutions November 27, 2018 Upon opening its doors a year ago, the Engineering Research Center (ERC) welcomed a host of professors, grad students, and undergraduates into the state-of-the-art space that connects both Prince Lab and Barus and Holley on the Hope St. edge of campus. Professor Iris Bahar talks specifically of how the new space has influenced her work; the interaction, accessibility, and energy of this knowledge hub. Read Article Open details for Engineering new solutions News From Engineering Yuri Bazilevs October 27, 2018 E. Paul Sorensen Professor of Engineering Yuri Bazilevs works to bridge applied and computational mechanics, applied mathematics, and computer science to solve a myriad of problems. Read Article Open details for Yuri Bazilevs News From Engineering Using nanomaterials for big issues in biomed, biotech June 20, 2018 Center for Biomedical Engineering Director Vicki Colvin and the Colvin Lab work with materials that do impossible things, exploring how nanoscale particles interact with the environment and living systems. Read Article Open details for Using nanomaterials for big issues in biomed, biotech News From Engineering Using engineering to decipher the impact of chemical exposure May 16, 2018 Professor Kurt Pennell is bridging the gap between environmental engineering and public health. Read Article Open details for Using engineering to decipher the impact of chemical exposure News From Engineering Blending science and art in research January 20, 2018 Passionate about visualizing the intrinsic beauty of scientific phenomena, Assistant Professor Daniel M. Harris melds the realms of art and science to aid in understanding fluid mechanics. Read Article Open details for Blending science and art in research News From Engineering David Borton creates implantable devices class June 20, 2016 Bringing together experts across the wide array of engineering and health science fields and demonstrating the importance each one brings, Assistant Professor David Borton created the class Implantable Devices, illustrating how communication and input from multiple areas is key to generating a final product. Read Article Open details for David Borton creates implantable devices class News From Engineering Meet the Faculty: Christopher Rose November 15, 2015 Christopher Rose has a rather broad view of his chosen field of communication theory. It’s a cosmic-scale view, one might say. Read Article Open details for Meet the Faculty: Christopher Rose News From Engineering Meet the Faculty: Dan Mittleman October 24, 2015 Frequencies in the terahertz range could greatly increase the capacity of wireless communications systems. Daniel Mittleman is working to solve technical challenges that would make terahertz improvements possible. Read Article Open details for Meet the Faculty: Dan Mittleman News From Engineering Assistant Professor of Engineering Jonghwan Lee October 1, 2015 Read Article Open details for Assistant Professor of Engineering Jonghwan Lee News From Engineering Meet the New Faculty: Kareen Coulombe January 2, 2014 Read Article Open details for Meet the New Faculty: Kareen Coulombe News From Engineering Meet the New Faculty: C. Franklin Goldsmith January 2, 2014 Read Article Open details for Meet the New Faculty: C. Franklin Goldsmith News From Engineering Meet the New Faculty: David Henann September 5, 2013 Read Article Open details for Meet the New Faculty: David Henann News From Engineering Meet the New Faculty: Ian Wong September 5, 2013 Read Article Open details for Meet the New Faculty: Ian Wong News From Engineering Meet the New Faculty: Anita Shukla September 5, 2013 Read Article Open details for Meet the New Faculty: Anita Shukla News From Engineering Meet the New Faculty: Haneesh Kesari March 21, 2013 Understanding a small sea sponge and its ability to anchor itself to the ocean floor, Haneesh Kesari hopes, will point the way to stronger, lighter, better man-made materials. Read Article Open details for Meet the New Faculty: Haneesh Kesari News From Engineering Meet the New Faculty: Jacob Rosenstein March 21, 2013 Biological sensors that detect currents at the nanoscale would have important clinical applications, but how to separate signal from noise when the current lasts for 10 microseconds? Jacob Rosenstein has theories and devices that enable measurement at small timescales. Read Article Open details for Meet the New Faculty: Jacob Rosenstein Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Reservations Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Flickr Instagram LinkedIn Twitter YouTube © Brown University School of Engineering Brown University For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Faculty Spotlight Open details for Faculty Spotlight Bookmark this Page