Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences About the College of Engineering & Natural Sciences ABOUT Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies The College of Engineering and Natural Sciences welcomes students from around the world to experience TU’s elite educational experience in the sciences, engineering and technological fields. We combine the development of creativity and ingenuity with foundational learning to prepare graduates for successful, enduring careers in domestic and international markets. Our Mission The mission of the College of Engineering and Natural Sciences is to provide a modern, high-quality educational experience for all students. We provide the knowledge and principles upon which engineering and science are founded in order to graduate engineers and scientists who are technically competent, creative, literate, ethically informed and socially aware. Points of Pride 2017 Rhodes Scholar 96 Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) Scholars 64 Goldwater Scholarships 63 National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowships 15 research consortia and joint industry projects 2016 and 2017 National Collegiate Cyber Defense Competition qualifiers 2014 PetroBowl World Champions Ranked No. 4 among petroleum engineering graduate schools by U.S. News & World Report Home of the Make a Difference Engineering (MADE at TU) initiative that designs and fabricates mobility and developmental devices for local residents. Home of the Cyber Corps, a university flagship program housed within the Tandy School of Computer Science that trains “cyber warriors” in advanced computer science, engineering and cyber security operations to work at the NSA, CIA, Department of Defense and FBI as well as state and local law enforcement operations. Recognized as a top 50 nationwide gaming program by The Princeton Review. Recipient of ARPA-E and U.S. Department of Energy grants for solar power research and other alternative energy projects. Home to the TU CyberTruck Experience partnering with the National Motor Freight Traffic Association and a consortium of other organizations to boost the security of heavy vehicles connected through electronic logging devices. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT