Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences > Centers, Institutes and Consortia > TU Artificial Lift Projects (TUALP) TU Artificial Lift Projects (TUALP) RESEARCH Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Research at TU Founded in May 1983 by Dr. Zelimir Schmidt, the TU Artificial Lift Projects (TUALP) is a cooperative industry-university consortium to conduct research on artificial lift technologies and strategies for petroleum production. Our primary objective is to provide our members with experimental results and theoretical analyses on the performances of various artificial lift methods, and useful tools for artificial lift applications and production optimization. Through different research projects, our graduate students are also equipped with up-to-date technical knowledge and skills so they can be productive in research and development or technical service position. TUALP is a leading research consortium in developing artificial lift technologies. The overall research directions are guided collectively by the Advisory Board consisting of member representatives, and the costs are shared by all participating companies. The deliverables include: Research theses, dissertations, reports, and subroutines Semiannual Advisory Board Meetings Access to short courses taught by TUALP personnel at a reduced rate, and Opportunities to conduct tailored research at TUALP facilities at a reduced rate Since TUALP’s inception in 1983, we have completed projects on hydraulic jet pumping, gas-lift, gas allocation, sucker-rod pumping, electric submersible pump (ESP) performances, and other topics. All of the technical reports, together with data and supporting computer programs, are available to members. View the Letter of Agreement. If you are interested in joining TUALP, please contact: Dr. Holden Zhang, Director of TUALP 800 South Tucker Drive, Tulsa, OK 74104, USA 918-631-5142 hong-quan-zhang@utulsa.edu 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT