Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences McDougall School of Petroleum Engineering My TU Story TU the right choice for Venezuelan Hector Hernandez Sansone 918-631-2533 Stephenson Hall, 2330 Map Email https://youtu.be/7TUs6ONgLPY PETROLEUM ENGINEERING Accreditation Petroleum Engineering Undergraduate Programs Petroleum Engineering Graduate Programs Research Faculty Facilities News Contact the Department Internationally recognized as one of the top petroleum engineering schools in the country, the McDougall School of Petroleum Engineering is the largest department on the TU campus. Our mission is to provide a high-quality educational experience that prepares each graduate either to work in the petroleum industry or to pursue an advanced petroleum engineering degree. The school offers many research opportunities with 21 existing consortia and joint industry projects that are supported by some of the world’s top energy firms. While striving to teach a balanced curriculum, the McDougall School of Petroleum Engineering is committed to discovery of new concepts and technologies in the areas of drilling, production and reservoir engineering. Software Donation The McDougall School of Petroleum Engineering is grateful to our partners for donating the software that allows our students to excel in innovative research. Application Requirements To be considered for graduate admission, the following items must be submitted to the Graduate School: A completed Graduate School application Statement of Purpose (admission essay) 2 – 3 letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your academic potential. Official or unofficial transcripts from all universities attended GRE General Test results $55 application fee International students who studied at a university outside of the U.S. will also need to submit TOEFL or IELTS results Alumni Oil and gas provides more than 60 percent of the world’s energy supply, and with increasing prosperity, energy demand is expected to increase. As young petroleum engineers, TU alumni have the opportunity to advance faster than those in any other engineering field. Many of our graduates have established competitive careers at some of today’s leading energy companies. Ninety-five percent of our petroleum engineering alumni find employment within six months after graduation. The average starting salary is more than $90,000, and experienced executive positions pay close to $300,000. Petroleum engineering is a technology-driven, outdoor industry that often requires travel to remote areas of the world. Our graduates plan and supervise drilling and well operations as well as evaluate and manage oil and natural gas reservoirs. With so many career options domestically and oversees, alumni also are qualified to work in consulting, independent oil production, or in the environmental prevention and control of petroleum waste. More than 40 international and domestic oil and gas exploration and production companies, along with international and domestic service companies, actively recruit alumni from the McDougall School of Petroleum Engineering. Industry Advisory Board Members are selected from major and independent oil and gas producers, service companies, state government and federal agencies by the Department Chairman in consultation with the Petroleum Engineering Faculty and approved by the Dean of Engineering & Natural Sciences. For more information visit the Petroleum Engineering Industry Advisory Board (IAB) website North Campus The goal of TU’s North Campus is to explore innovations for the petroleum industry and foster learning by students, researchers, private industry and governments. Our research projects have generated millions of dollars and hundreds of research projects designed to solve the problems of today’s energy industry. Learn more … Student Organizations and Industry Societies American Association of Drilling Engineers American Association of Drilling Engineers TU Student Chapter American Association of Petroleum Geologists Artificial Lift Research and Development Council Gas Processors Association Oklahoma Energy Resources Board Oklahoma Independent Petroleum Association Petroleum Technology Transfer Council Society of Exploration Geophysicists Society of Petroleum Engineers Society of Petroleum Engineers Mid-Continent Section Society of Petroleum Engineers TU Student Chapter Society of Petroleum Evaluation Engineers Society of Petrophysicists and Well Log Analysts Society of Women Engineers TU Midstream Club 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT