2022 Thayer Investiture Undergraduate Graduate Research Entrepreneurship Community About ThayerExpress Faculty Offices Visit Apply Give Undergraduate Undergraduate Engineering at Dartmouth Bachelor's Degrees Bachelor of Arts Bachelor of Engineering Dual-Degree Program Undergraduate Experience Engineering Design Research & Entrepreneurship Opportunities Study Abroad Project Spaces & Labs Student Life & Housing Life After Dartmouth Quick Links AB – Engineering Majors AB – Engineering Minors AB+BE – Degree Program BE – Program Examples Undergraduate Courses Courses for Non-majors Schedules & Textbooks Academic Calendar Career Services Program Areas Biological / Chemical Biomedical Electrical / Computer Energy Materials Science Mechanical / Operations / Systems Graduate Graduate Engineering at Dartmouth Master's Degrees Master of Science Master of Engineering Master of Engineering Management Doctoral Degrees Doctor of Philosophy PhD Innovation Program PhD + Doctor of Medicine Graduate Experience Engineering Design Online Certificates Collaborative Programs Degree Outcomes Student Life & Housing Quick Links Graduate Courses Schedules & Textbooks Academic Calendar Grad Student Handbook Career Services Program Areas Biological / Chemical Biomedical Electrical / Computer Energy Materials Science Mechanical / Operations / Systems Research Engineering Research at Dartmouth Research by Program Area Biological / Chemical Biomedical Electrical / Computer Energy Materials Science Mechanical / Operations / Systems Research by Activity Research News Active Projects Laboratories Libraries Collaborative Programs Undergraduate Research Research Opportunities Entrepreneurship Engineering Entrepreneurship at Dartmouth Startups listed by Startup Names Faculty Founders Research Programs Patents listed by Patent Titles Faculty Inventors Research Programs Explore Resources Entrepreneurship News Entrepreneurship Education Magnuson Center for Entrepreneurship Dartmouth Regional Technology Center Technology Transfer Office Entrepreneurship & Technology Transfer Community Dartmouth Engineering Community Community Info Faculty Leadership Offices Student Groups Undergrad Life Graduate Life Alumni Giving Magazine News Events Academic Calendar Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Flickr About About Dartmouth Engineering About Us Visit Facts History Leadership Diversity Disability Financial Aid Scholarships Transcripts Enrollment Verification Employment COVID-19 ThayerExpress Faculty Offices Give Apply Visit Undergraduate Bachelor's Degrees Bachelor of Arts Bachelor of Engineering Dual-Degree Program Undergraduate Experience Engineering Design Research & Entrepreneurship Opportunities Study Abroad Project Spaces & Labs Student Life & Housing Life After Dartmouth Quick Links AB – Engineering Majors AB – Engineering Minors AB+BE – Degree Program BE – Program Examples Undergraduate Courses Courses for Non-majors Schedules & Textbooks Academic Calendar Career Services Program Areas Biological / Chemical Biomedical Electrical / Computer Energy Materials Science Mechanical / Operations / Systems Graduate Master's Degrees Master of Science Master of Engineering Master of Engineering Management Doctoral Degrees Doctor of Philosophy PhD Innovation Program PhD + Doctor of Medicine Graduate Experience Engineering Design Online Certificates Collaborative Programs Degree Outcomes Student Life & Housing Quick Links Graduate Courses Schedules & Textbooks Academic Calendar Grad Student Handbook Career Services Program Areas Biological / Chemical Biomedical Electrical / Computer Energy Materials Science Mechanical / Operations / Systems Research Research by Program Area Biological / Chemical Biomedical Electrical / Computer Energy Materials Science Mechanical / Operations / Systems Research by Activity Research News Active Projects Laboratories Libraries Collaborative Programs Undergraduate Research Research Opportunities Entrepreneurship Startups listed by Startup Names Faculty Founders Research Programs Patents listed by Patent Titles Faculty Inventors Research Programs Explore Resources Entrepreneurship News Entrepreneurship Education Magnuson Center for Entrepreneurship Dartmouth Regional Technology Center Technology Transfer Office Entrepreneurship & Technology Transfer Community Community Info Faculty Leadership Offices Student Groups Undergrad Life Graduate Life Alumni Giving Magazine News Events Academic Calendar Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Flickr About About Us Visit Facts History Leadership Diversity Disability Financial Aid Scholarships Transcripts Enrollment Verification Employment COVID-19 Menu Close Back Undergraduate Professor Douglas Van Citters discusses orthopaedic biomaterials research with students in GlycoFi Atrium. Photo by Michael Manning. Home  |  Undergraduate Undergraduate Engineering Studies at Dartmouth At Dartmouth, you'll design and build things from the start while you learn to think like a problem-solver. You'll work in teams and have access to faculty, workshops, and labs with staff and resources to help along the way. You'll get your hands dirty and learn how to make a difference in any path you choose. Problems don't fall neatly within engineering disciplines. That's why we take a systems-based approach and teach principles you can apply to all engineering program areas. Problems also don't happen in a vacuum. That's why you'll learn engineering as part of a full liberal arts education so you can deepen your understanding of the world. After exploring both the sciences and the humanities, you can stay and finish the professional accredited Bachelor of Engineering (BE) degree in less than a year. Or you can choose to complete both the AB and BE in four years. Either way, need-based financial aid is available. All engineering sciences majors earn a Bachelor of Arts (AB) with the analytical, creative, and communication skills to succeed in any field. Most majors stay on to earn a professional Bachelor of Engineering (BE) Students from other schools can earn a Dartmouth BE through the Dual-Degree Program Engineering Bachelor's Degrees AB Bachelor of Arts Offers a unique undergraduate major in engineering sciences grounded in the liberal arts. Learn More BE Bachelor of Engineering Provides a professional accredited engineering degree in addition to the Bachelor of Arts. Learn More Dual Dual-Degree Program Gives students at partner institutions a path to study engineering at Dartmouth. Learn More Undergraduate Information Sessions & Campus Tours Register to attend a 30-minute Dartmouth Engineering undergraduate degree programs information session with a professor or senior staff member, followed by a 30-minute tour/chat with a current student. Undergraduate Information Sessions & Campus Tours Human-Centered Engineering The most impactful engineers invent and discover at the intersection of the human-made world and the human experience. Embedded in our curriculum and culture is the importance of a human-centered approach to engineering and design and the belief that our work should strive to make the world better for everyone. A Dartmouth engineer has the expertise and problem-solving skills, along with the drive and compassion for humanity, to tackle the world’s greatest challenges. Your first engineering class. Your very first class, Introduction to Engineering—a.k.a. ENGS 21—will challenge you to build a novel solution to a real-life problem. You’ll team up with classmates to define the problem and solve it by designing a device or system. You’ll research patents to make sure your idea has never been done before. You’ll create a business plan just as if you were taking your product to market. You’ll build and test a prototype and present your project to a professional review board. Design Thinking Engineering products, services, structures, tools, and electronics that people love to use takes more than math and science. It takes an understanding of human nature, needs, habits, desires, abilities, and cultures. At Dartmouth, we give students the skills to assess those human factors and incorporate them into a technological design. "Students who become really good at design become experts at a process that they can apply to anything, from designing medical devices to improving the lives of infants in their car seats. The same process can be applied, no matter what the problem is." —Professor Peter Robbie We'll help you get your hands dirty. Even if you've never used a tool before, our faculty and staff are committed to helping all students get comfortable with the creation process. Our state-of-the-art MShop is an important part of that goal and is open to all. In addition, our Dartmouth Emerging Engineers (DEE) program provides support and mentoring to first-year students as they work through their prerequisite courses. An engineer and... …an athlete, a musician, an artist, an entrepreneur, a humanitarian. You name it, we've seen it. Our students combine their passion for engineering with a wide range of other interests. And that's the way we like it. See our full "I'm an engineer and…" playlist. Engineering for everyone. Engineering isn't just for engineers. We offer several courses for non-majors to better understand science, technology, and society. You'll experience engineering's power to improve the world and gain problem-solving skills useful in all areas of work and life. You may even decide to become an engineer. Why Choose Dartmouth? Engineering and liberal arts. Study engineering, but not just engineering. Choose from the entire range of liberal arts courses at Dartmouth. You'll better understand the world and how to help it. Breadth and depth. No pressure to choose. Master systems-based engineering principles and explore a variety of disciplines before deciding your area of focus. Project-centered. Learn by doing. Never built anything before? No worries. We'll teach you everything you need to know. Collaborative. Play well with others. Work in teams and network with students and faculty throughout Dartmouth including from Geisel School of Medicine and Tuck School of Business. Flexibility. Pursue your unique interests. Modify your major with any other subject—the sciences, math, economics, public policy, studio art, etc. Multiple skills. Be prepared for any career. Lay your foundation in design, analysis, fabrication, research, writing, presentation, entrepreneurship, and more. One department. Work alongside experts in a range of fields. The world's problems aren't divided into separate disciplines, so why should engineering education be? You matter! Get taught by professors, not graduate students—just one reason why Dartmouth is ranked in the top 10 for undergraduate teaching. Discover Dartmouth Engineering Student Life Studying engineering will take time, but not ALL your time, and our students enjoy the benefits of other interests along the way. Learn More Research Opportunities There are many ways undergraduates can participate in research including applying to the First Year Research in Engineering program. Learn More Study Abroad Engineering students may pursue a variety of study abroad programs through Dartmouth's Guarini Institute for International Education. In addition, we offer a number of foreign exchange/study programs designed especially for engineering majors. Learn More Life After Dartmouth Question: What can you do with a Dartmouth engineering degree? Answer: Anything you want. Learn More Quick Links Undergraduate Courses Schedules & Textbooks Career Services Academic Calendar BE Students Win NASA BIG Idea Challenge A team of eight undergraduates won the 2019 NASA BIG Idea Challenge for their innovative design of a Mars greenhouse that can grow food and sustain a crew of astronauts on a future mission to the red planet. Learn More 15 Thayer Drive, Hanover, NH 03755 +1 (603) 646-2230 Undergraduate Graduate Research Entrepreneurship Community About ThayerExpress Faculty Offices Visit Apply Give Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Flickr © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • A-Z Index • Privacy • Feedback