Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Mechanical Engineering Undergraduate Programs Innovation Designing for the future My TU Story SAE Aero Design team competes at international event > Department of Mechanical Engineering > Mechanical Engineering Undergraduate Programs https://youtu.be/Rz5BoSW-QRY MECHANICAL ENGINEERING Accreditation Mechanical Engineering Undergraduate Programs Mechanical Engineering Graduate Programs Research Faculty Facilities News Contact the Department Apply Find Admission Counselor Request Information Mechanical engineers have played a central role in the technological development of Western civilization by creating and improving a wide variety of machines and systems used by industry and the general public. These professionals combine theory and practice to design and fabricate mechanical and thermal equipment such as tools, engines and machines. TU’s bachelor of science degree in mechanical engineering offers hands-on classroom experiences and interactive research opportunities to help students compete in a global marketplace. Small class sizes encourage interaction among peers and faculty. The program is fully accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology. Students complete courses rooted in mathematical and scientific basics before advancing to theoretical work and laboratory experiments in their final semesters. Creativity is fostered through innovative design projects where seniors work together in small teams to design and build products for local industry and community service initiatives. Students are encouraged to compete in regional and national engineering competitions with projects centered on their research or design work. Many students participate in valuable internships with well-respected engineering firms to prepare for challenging and fulfilling professional roles or graduate programs. Program Objectives Bachelor of Science Program Educational Objectives of the mechanical engineering program are to prepare graduates such that, within a few years of graduation, they have: Established an engineering career in the global marketplace and/or Begun graduate studies in engineering or another professional field Degree Options Mechanical Engineering, B.S.M.E. Prepares students for careers in manufacturing, engineering, research and development and government platforms. Typical Four-Year Schedule FRESHMAN – FALL SEMESTER FRESHMAN – SPRING SEMESTER To Be a Mechanical Engineer Mechanical Engineering Graphics Engineering Applications Programming General Physics I General Chemistry I and Lab General Physics I Lab Calculus I Calculus II Exposition & Argumentation* Block I – Aesthetic Inquiry & Creative Experience Block I – Aesthetic Inquiry & Creative Experience SOPHOMORE – FALL SEMESTER SOPHOMORE – SPRING SEMESTER Statics Dynamics Thermodynamics Mechanics of Materials General Physics II Differential Equations General Physics II Lab Electrical Engineering Science Calculus III Basic Electrical Measurements Lab Block II – Historical & Social Interpretation Energy Conversion JUNIOR – FALL SEMESTER JUNIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Manufacturing Processes Machine Dynamics Properties of Materials Computational Elective Instrumentation and Measurements Thermofluids Introductory Fluid Mechanics Heat Transfer Block II – Historical & Social Interpretation Writing for the Professions SENIOR – FALL SEMESTER SENIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Block II - Historical & Social Interpretation Block II - Historical & Social Interpretation General Chemistry II or General Physics III General Elective Mechanical Engineering Elective Math or Science Elective System Dynamics & Controls Interdisciplinary Design Projects Mechanical Engineering Design Engineering Economics *Introduction to College Writing or its equivalent may be a prerequisite in some cases. +The language requirement may be fulfilled with Spanish, German, French or Russian. ++Courses that fulfill Blocks I, II, and III are listed each semester in the advising center and in the university schedule of courses. Professional Opportunities Power generation engineer Fluid mechanics engineer Automotive engineer Manufacturing engineer Cryogenics engineer 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT