Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Give Now School of Engineering Brown University School of Engineering Brown University Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Search Search Menu Admissions Learn about undergraduate admission and studying engineering at Brown. Breadcrumb Home Undergraduate Sub Navigation In This Section ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Visiting Brown The best way to get to know Brown is to experience it — here's what you need to know to visit campus. Visit Admissions Learn about undergraduate admission and studying engineering at Brown. Studying Engineering Students studying engineering today will face unprecedented challenges and opportunities as new technologies replace the old, the global population expands, resources diminish, and demographics change. Many of these will be technical, and will require the traditional foundation in science, mathematics and engineering design. But tomorrow's engineers will need more than just technical skills. They will need to understand economics, politics, and the environment; they will face difficult ethical decisions; they will need to communicate, educate and innovate. The Engineering programs offered by the School of Engineering, in combination with Brown's renowned open curriculum in the liberal arts, provide an ideal setting to nurture the aspirations and talents of future leaders in engineering. Engineering at Brown The School offers a large number of degree programs to choose from, which range from rigorous Sc.B. degrees intended to prepare graduates for professional practice or graduate school, to more flexible A.B. degrees, which allow study of engineering to be combined with other interests. All these programs share a common structure. During their first two years, all students take a similar set of 'core' courses, which cover many engineering disciplines, along with mathematics, computer science, chemistry, and biology. This broad foundation is intended to prepare graduates to work on inter-disciplinary teams after graduation. At the end of their fourth semester, students select one of the School's many degree options, and take a set of advanced courses in their area of specialization. Programs are designed to provide as much flexibility as possible consistent with providing the rigorous preparation required for professional practice. Students can tailor their programs to prepare them for a Ph.D. or Sc.M. program in engineering; for professional practice, or for non-technical careers, depending on their interests. Design and Research Students take advantage of many opportunities to participate in engineering design and research. Team design projects are included in many engineering courses, starting in the freshman year, and culminating with a major design experience in the senior year. Students collaborate with faculty in research through paid summer internships, and through independent study courses. Students also develop their design and leadership skills through a range of extra-curricular activities, from student chapters of professional societies, the FSAE formula race car design team, to individual projects completed in the Brown Design Workshop. After Brown Students enter the engineering program at Brown with unique aspirations, and pursue a wide range of careers after graduation. Approximately 30% of graduates go on to an Sc.M. or Ph.D. program in engineering, 30% enter professional practice as engineers, 10% pursue other advanced degrees such as an MD, JD or MBA, and 30% pursue other opportunities, which include finance, medicine, law, consulting, among many others. Why Choose Brown? Brown and the School of Engineering attract exceptional students with diverse backgrounds and interests. Collaboration and teamwork are a hall-mark of the engineering experience at Brown. Being a part of this community will be an rewarding and challenging experience. Brown faculty are leaders in their field. You will have opportunities to explore areas of potential interest both within and outside engineering before needing to declare a specialization. The core program in engineering will prepare you to work across disciplinary boundaries. Your specialized courses will prepare you with a deep understanding of the theoretical and mathematical foundations of your discipline, as well as the experience necessary to put theory into practice. You will have opportunities to participate in research and design projects through internships, working in labs, and independent study courses. You will study engineering in a broader context through Brown's curriculum in the liberal arts. More Information Overview of Engineering degree programs (concentrations) Brown University Office of Admission Engineering and Physical Science Tours Visiting Brown Student Affairs Office (for general inquiries) Play 1 of 2 Play 2 of 2 Frequently Asked Questions Do I apply specifically to the School of Engineering? No, prospective students apply to the University. They are free to choose their department at any time after they enroll at Brown. When do I have to decide on a concentration? Students typically start taking general engineering classes in their freshman year. They declare their concentration at the end of their sophomore year. How do I decide on a specialization within engineering? If you declare an interest in engineering on your application or pre-registration you will be assigned a faculty advisor from the School of Engineering who will help you select courses and consider potential concentrations during your first two years. After completing the core program you will have some experience with different opportunities available within engineering. Each concentration has an advisor who can meet with you at any time to discuss your options; your concentration advisor will also work with you to select courses during your junior and senior years. Can engineering students study abroad? Yes - approximately 15% of engineering graduates have spent one or more semesters abroad. There are some programs created specially for engineering students. Are there opportunities to do research as an undergraduate? Yes, you can do research through many summer internship programs, by working in a lab during the semester, or through independent study courses. What is the ratio of male to female students? Currently, almost 40% percent of our students are female which is well above the national average. Can I pursue a double concentration? Yes - former graduates have completed a double concentration in many different fields from visual arts and music, to international relations and foreign languages. But many students find that trying to meet requirements for two concentrations restricts their freedom to explore many potential areas of interest. Can I participate in athletics, theater, music or other extracurricular activities while studying engineering? Yes - Brown engineering students are everywhere and do everything, from football to swimming, performance art, to editing newspapers. I have visited campus twice. Does that count in favor of my being admitted? We do not keep a record of visiting students. What internship opportunities are available for engineering students? As an engineer you have skills that will be in demand. Brown students have the initiative to arrange internships at companies, with startups, or at University labs. Does Brown School of Engineering award credit based on Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, or other external examination results? High scores on Advanced Placement (AP) exams will usually allow you to place into a more advanced course at Brown but are not used to replace courses required for the Engineering degrees. International Baccalaureate (IB), and General Certificate of Education (A-level) examinations can sometimes receive both Brown course credit and meet engineering requirements. How can high school students best prepare if they are considering engineering? It is very helpful to take many mathematics, physical sciences, life sciences and computer science courses. Visiting Brown The best way to get to know Brown is to experience it — here's what you need to know to visit campus. Visit Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Reservations Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Flickr Instagram LinkedIn Twitter YouTube © Brown University School of Engineering Brown University For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Admissions Open details for Admissions Bookmark this Page