Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Chemistry Undergraduate Programs MY TU STORY Chemistry student Kennedy Boyd pursuing career in immunology MY TU STORY Freshmen encouraged to conduct undergraduate research > Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry > Chemistry Undergraduate Programs https://youtu.be/m52ziOOb2ls CHEMISTRY & BIOCHEMISTRY Chemistry Undergraduate Programs Biochemistry Undergraduate Programs Research Faculty Facilities News Contact the Department Apply Find Admission Counselor Request Information A chemistry degree serves as an integral component of modern research in medicine, the environment, new materials and energy technology. Chemists study the atomic and molecular properties of materials and are easily placed in thriving professional opportunities. Beyond careers in chemistry, chemists are needed in engineering, medicine, business, education and law where a technical background is highly recommended for work in patents and environmental law. The Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry offers bachelor of arts, bachelor of science, master of science and doctor of philosophy degrees in chemistry. Students also can pursue a combined bachelor’s and master’s program to complete both degrees in five years. The bachelor’s degree is certified by the American Chemical Society. Supporting work in mathematics and physics and a personal selection of electives allow each student to customize his or her degree to match their career objectives. The bachelor of arts option is well suited for students with an interest in chemistry but with career aspirations in law, business, education or fields requiring technical literacy. Program Objectives Bachelor of Science in Chemistry/Biochemistry Students who complete the undergraduate program should be able to: Describe the structure, composition and properties of various chemical substances. Plan the synthesis of various inorganic and organic substances. Characterize substances based upon analysis of their physical and chemical properties. Use theories of microscopic properties to explain macroscopic behavior. Explain the role of energy in determining structure and reactivity. Employ chemical theory to explain the rate and outcome of chemical reactions. Core Skills – Upon completion of the undergraduate program, students should have developed a set of core skills which they use in approaching the fundamental concepts. These include the ability to: Conduct meaningful and successful experiments. Communicate results. Think critically. Apply ethical reasoning. Extend results through lifelong learning. Degree Options Chemistry, B.A. Provides students with a diverse background in chemistry. Chemistry, B.S.C Degree option in chemistry consists of chemistry, physics, mathematics, writing and humanities courses that serve as the groundwork for graduate or advanced professional study. Chemistry Minor Study the atomic and molecular properties of materials and acquire a background in general and organic chemistry. Neuroscience Minor Provides foundational knowledge of the structure and function of the brain and nervous system. Typical Four-Year Schedule FRESHMAN – FALL SEMESTER FRESHMAN – SPRING SEMESTER Introduction to Chemistry Calculus II Block I – Exposition and Argumentation General Physics I and Lab Calculus I General Chemistry II and Lab General Chemistry I and Lab Block II – Historical and Social Interpretation General Elective SOPHOMORE – FALL SEMESTER SOPHOMORE – SPRING SEMESTER Calculus III Molecular Modeling General Physics II and Lab Organic Chemistry II and Lab Organic Chemistry I and Lab Technical Elective General Elective General Elective Sophomore Seminar JUNIOR – FALL SEMESTER JUNIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Physical Chemistry I and Lab Writing for the Professions Biochemistry I Physical Chemistry II and Lab Block II – Historical and Social Interpretation Analytical Chemistry I and Lab Technical Elective General Elective General Elective Block I – Aesthetic Inquiry and Creative Experience Junior Seminar SENIOR – FALL SEMESTER SENIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Analytical Chemistry II and Lab Inorganic Synthesis Introduction to Research Technical Elective Inorganic Chemistry Technical Elective Technical Elective General Elective Block II – Historical and Social Interpretation Block II – Historical and Social Interpretation Senior Project Professional Opportunities Industrial chemist Food scientist Forensic scientist Environmental inspector/technician Secondary ed chemistry teacher Materials engineer 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT