Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Give Now School of Engineering Brown University School of Engineering Brown University Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Search Search Menu Instructional Computer Facility (B&H 191) Barus & Holley 191 is an Undergraduate Computer Lab which is open 24 x 7 to undergraduates enrolled in engineering courses, who need to access course software. Instructional Computer Facility (B&H 191) Barus & Holley 191 is an Undergraduate Computer Lab which is open 24 x 7 to undergraduates enrolled in engineering courses, who need to access course software. Barus and Holley Room 191 is an instructional computer lab. The procedures for reserving and using the room, as well as the policies to be used in making scheduling decisions are described below. Capacity: Per policy, only one half of the room, 24 seats plus the instructor desk, may be reserved. Equipment: Barus and Holley 191 includes a projector as well as the appropriate screens and a white board. Procedures: To request a reservation of Room 191 for a single event, click on Calendar, and confirm that the room is available at the time you are requesting. If the room is available, go back, and click on Reservation Form, fill in the information requested on the form and send. Confirmation is subject to change based on the scheduling guidelines outlined below. Rules/Restrictions: No food or drinks are allowed in Room 191 Room 191 is the primary computer lab for engineering students, so only one half of the space (24 seats) is reservable via the form. In addition, reservations are limited to daytime hours, generally ending before 5 PM, since student use peaks in the evening. This is to prevent conflicts with the engineering students' use of the space to complete coursework during the term. If you have questions, please contact David Mycue to coordinate. Please be aware that the ability to login to the systems is restricted to engineering students - any other users will not be able to log into the systems and use them, even for such simple purposes as web browsing. If your group will include non-engineering students, please submit a request at least one month in advance for your user list to be added to the access list for the lab. Please be aware that the set of software available in the lab is fixed two months before the start of each term and is not changed during the term. Scheduling Guidelines: As a first step in minimizing scheduling conflicts, users of Room 191 are asked to book only for those times for which there is a very high likelihood that the planned activity will take place and to release the scheduled time as soon as it is known that a scheduled activity will not take place. Secondly, users reserving Room 191 should also understand that there may be times when they will be asked to reschedule or relocate their activity because the room is needed for another activity that is regarded as having higher priority. If scheduling conflicts arise that cannot readily be resolved to the satisfaction of the users involved, then these conflicts will be referred to the Dean of Engineering who, in consultation with the chairs of the departments with competing claims, will make the final decision. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Reservations Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Flickr Instagram LinkedIn Twitter YouTube © Brown University School of Engineering Brown University For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Instructional Computer Facility (B&H 191) Open details for Instructional Computer Facility (B&H 191) Bookmark this Page