Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Biological Science Undergraduate Programs Research Pollen research helps student track allergy trends Alumni TU couple follows medicine, law to rural Oklahoma > Department of Biological Science > Biological Science Undergraduate Programs BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES Biological Science Undergraduate Programs Biological Science Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Research Faculty Facilities News Contact the Department Apply Find Admission Counselor Request Information Biology is a rapidly changing science that incorporates molecular and cellular biology; behavioral and molecular ecology; developmental biology; organismal, ecological and evolutionary genetics; microbiology; aerobiology; molecular systematics; and neuroscience. Flexible degree requirements lead to careers in the biology and health fields or graduate school. The Department of Biological Science offers B.S., B.A., M.S. and Ph.D. degrees. Research opportunities allow undergraduate and graduate students to work directly with professors in laboratories as well as ecological field sites such as the Tall Grass Prairie Preserve, the Oklahoma Cross Timbers and the Ozark Mountains. Students are encouraged to participate in the local chapters of the Beta Beta Beta biology honor society and Alpha Epsilon Delta pre-med honor society and are often invited to present research at nationwide conferences. Program Objectives Bachelor of Arts or Science in Biological Sciences Students who complete the undergraduate program will demonstrate skills relevant to: Display fundamental understanding of basic genetics and evolution. Demonstrate basic knowledge of cell structure and function and molecular biology. Demonstrate basic knowledge of comparative organismic diversity. Demonstrate an understanding of basic organismal adaptations to ecological environments. Degree Options Biology, B.A. Learn the basic principles of biological science and how general science fundamentals apply to the area of biology. Biological Science, B.S.B.S. Study biology with a foundational science and mathematics curriculum. Biological Science, Pre-Med Option, B.S.B.S. Apply to medical, dentistry or veterinary school. Pre-professional program in medicine Biology Minor Non-majors interested in learning more about biology are encouraged to add it to their degree program as a minor. Neuroscience Minor Provides foundational knowledge of the structure and function of the brain and nervous system. Bioinformatics Minor Students from any discipline may minor in bioinformatics. Biomedical Engineering Minor Students majoring in any discipline may minor in biomedical engineering. Typical Four-Year Schedule FRESHMAN – FALL SEMESTER FRESHMAN – SPRING SEMESTER Exposition and Argumentation* Block I - Aesthetic Inquiry and Creative Experience General Elective General Elective General Chemistry I and Lab General Chemistry II and Lab Introduction to Organismal and Evolutionary Biology Introduction to Molecular and Cellular Biology Introduction to Biological Sciences SOPHOMORE – FALL SEMESTER SOPHOMORE – SPRING SEMESTER Block I - Aesthetic Inquiry and Creative Experience Block II - Historical and Social Interpretation Block II - Historical and Social Interpretation Calculus I Supplemental Area Concentration (SAC)† SAC Genetics Biology, Cluster B - Evolution JUNIOR – FALL SEMESTER JUNIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Block II - Historical and Social Interpretation Writing for the Professions SAC SAC General Elective Biology, Cluster A - Virology Introduction to Statistics Biology, Cluster B - Ecology Biology, Cluster C - Vertebrate Physiology Biology, Cluster C - Medical Botany SENIOR – FALL SEMESTER SENIOR – SPRING SEMESTER General Elective Block II - Historical and Social Interpretation Biology, Cluster A - Immunology Comparative Anatomy Field Ecology Microbiology Environmental Microbiology Animal Behavior Histology Population Ecology * Introduction to College Writing or its equivalent may be a prerequisite in some cases. † A Supplemental Area Concentration must consist of at least 16 hours with 8 hours taken at the upper division levels. Professional Opportunities Medicine Laboratory or field researcher Biology teacher Public health Forensics 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT