Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Give Now School of Engineering Brown University School of Engineering Brown University Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Search Search Menu B&H 190 Reservation Seminar Room 190 is intended for site visits, meetings, seminars, and other similar activities. No regularly scheduled classes are to be held in this room. Breadcrumb Home Room and Equipment Reservations Sub Navigation In This Section 85 Waterman 325 Reservation B&H 190 Reservation B&H 190 Calendar B&H 191 Reservation B&H 194 Reservation ERC 125 Reservation ERC 204 Reservation ERC 205 Reservation ERC 206 Reservation ERC 225 Reservation ERC 250 Reservation ERC 325 Reservation ERC 350 Reservation Hazeltine Commons Reservation Undergraduate Teaching Lab (ERC 101) Reservation The procedures for reserving and using the room, as well as the policies to be used in making scheduling decisions are described below. Capacity: 58 people Equipment: Seminar Room 190 includes overhead, computer, and slide projectors as well as the appropriate screens and a white board. There is also a kitchenette adjoining the room. Procedures: To request a reservation of Room 190 for a single event, please fill in the information requested on the Reservation Form. Confirmation is subject to change based on the scheduling guidelines outlined below. To request a reservation of Room 190 for a regularly scheduled series of seminars, please fill in the information requested on the Reservation Form. Guidelines used in deciding between competing requests include those mentioned under 'Scheduling Guidelines' below. An attempt is also made to share the resource among the various research groups. Confirmation is subject to change based on the scheduling guidelines outlined below. If you have any questions, please email soe-reservations@brown.edu. Rules/Restrictions: No food or drinks are allowed in Room 190. You may use the kitchenette or Barus and Holley lobby to set up refreshments. Attendees of your event are welcome to take their food and drinks onto the terrace off of Room 190 or any corridor in the addition, as well as the lobby of Barus and Holley. Please be sure that if you plan on serving any food, you make suitable arrangements to clean up afterwards. No food or drink may be left in the kitchenette (refrigerator, counter, cabinets) after your meeting. No regularly scheduled classes are to be held in this room. Seminar Room 190 is intended for site visits, meetings, seminars, and other similar activities. Scheduling Guidelines: Seminar Room 190 is intended to meet the longstanding needs of the School of Engineering and the Department of Physics for a state-of-the-art room to host seminars, colloquia, mini-conferences, and site visits. Furthermore, the Seminar Room is available for use by other departments, campus-wide, when not being used by Engineering and Physics. To fulfill the intended purposes it will be necessary to schedule the use of the room thoughtfully and to have guidelines and mechanisms in place for resolving scheduling conflicts. As a first step in minimizing scheduling conflicts, users of Room 190 are asked to book only for those times for which there is a very high likelihood that the planned activity will take place and to release the scheduled time as soon as it is known that a scheduled activity will not take place. Secondly, users reserving Room 190 should also understand that there may be times when they will be asked to reschedule or relocate their activity because the room is needed for another activity that is regarded as having higher priority. For example, regularly scheduled research seminars may have to be moved to accommodate an unanticipated need for a location to host a visiting team making a site visit. If scheduling conflicts arise that cannot readily be resolved to the satisfaction of the users involved, then these conflicts will be referred to the Dean of Engineering who, in consultation with the chairs of the departments with competing claims, will make the final decision. In responding to a request for a reservation, priority will be given to day-long events involving many participants from off campus because of the difficulty of finding suitable space for such events. Research seminars, including regularly scheduled seminars, are expected to account for much of the use of Room 190. Such additional considerations as the anticipated size of the audience and whether or not the availability of the kitchenette is important can be expected to influence scheduling decisions. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Reservations Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Flickr Instagram LinkedIn Twitter YouTube © Brown University School of Engineering Brown University For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search B&H 190 Reservation Open details for B&H 190 Reservation Bookmark this Page