Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Give Now School of Engineering Brown University School of Engineering Brown University Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Search Search Menu NIST PREP The Professional Research Experience Program (PREP) is a partnership between Brown University and the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) campuses in Boulder, Colorado and Gaithersburg, Maryland. Breadcrumb Home Research Sub Navigation In This Section Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research NIST PREP The Professional Research Experience Program (PREP) is a partnership between Brown University and the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) campuses in Boulder, Colorado and Gaithersburg, Maryland. Professional Research Experience Program (PREP) The Professional Research Experience Program (PREP) is designed to provide valuable laboratory experience and financial assistance to graduate students, postdocs, and faculty. The program is intended to assure continued growth and progress of science and engineering in the United States. NIST Boulder The Professional Research Experience Program (PREP) is a partnership between Brown University and the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) campuses in Boulder, Colorado and Gaithersburg, Maryland. It is our objective to provide research opportunities at NIST and to facilitate collaborations between our faculty and NIST staff. The program places graduate students, faculty, staff scientists, and postdoctoral researchers in NIST Boulder or NIST Gaithersburg labs to gain hands-on research experience working with NIST researchers. Graduate student participants receive full tuition reimbursement and a monthly stipend or hourly wage work for longer periods of their PhD at NIST on topics of mutual interest to NIST and Brown scientists. The opportunity is also available to international students. NIST Gaithersburg This opportunity requires spending 1-2 semesters in Boulder, Colorado or Gaithersburg, Maryland (all research must be done on site at NIST.). Travel to and from Boulder or Gaithersburg for participation in the PREP program will be covered for accepted Brown students/researchers. Learn more about living in Boulder or Gaithersburg and discover some of the advantages of the PREP program. Applicable disciplines include engineering, computer science, chemistry, and physics; for information about the types of research conducted at NIST, visit NIST's Projects/Programs listing and select the Campus (Boulder or Gaithersburg) in which you are interested. Interested graduate students must be in good academic standing, be enrolled full-time, and have a Brown faculty reference. Additional desired qualifications include: research publications/conference presentations, technical work experience, and computer programming/software expertise. To indicate your interest in the program: Graduate students and Postdocs: Please complete the interest form. All submissions are evaluated based on the above-mentioned criteria and the availability of positions at NIST; we will be in touch if an opportunity arises at NIST that matches your interests. Approximate Deadlines: Spring semester in Boulder or Gaithersburg - November 1 Fall semester in Boulder or Gaithersburg - March 1 Research Staff: Please contact Kate Duggan at NISTPREP@brown.edu. Faculty: Please identify potential NIST sponsors (see NIST's Projects/Programs listing) and send them an e-mail introducing yourself and your research and mentioning your interest in a NIST PREP collaboration. You are welcome to contact Kate Duggan at NISTPREP@brown.edu if you would like assistance reaching out. We will keep interest form submissions on file for when applicable positions are made available, as well as share them with NIST researchers to try to encourage their interest. Faculty participation will be more collaborative and require deeper planning and outreach on the part of the faculty member to establish a relationship with a lab head at NIST. Sometimes, lab heads at NIST will reach out to Brown to try to identify suitable candidates for a specific opening/need they have in their lab. In those cases, we will refer to our file of interested researchers as well as conduct additional outreach as necessary, first to the Brown research community and then beyond to try to find a match. Any researcher who fits NIST’s need for a specific position will need to complete the interest form, and then additional paperwork if selected for hire. Current openings at NIST: Economic Analysis Software Tool Development Fellow (undergrad/grad student) - NIST Gaithersburg (remote) (posted 12/16/21) Research Lab Assistant - NIST Boulder (posted 11/16/21) If interested, please contact Program Coordinator Kate Duggan at NISTPREP@brown.edu and send your current CV, cover letter, and position of interest. Brown PREP Administrative Team Main Contact: Program Coordinator Kate Duggan, NISTPREP@brown.edu Academic Contact: Jennifer Casasanto, Associate Dean Brown School of Engineering Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Reservations Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Flickr Instagram LinkedIn Twitter YouTube © Brown University School of Engineering Brown University For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search NIST PREP Open details for NIST PREP Bookmark this Page