Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences > Computer Science > Computer science major awarded Department of Defense scholarship Computer science major awarded Department of Defense scholarship May 2, 2022 Zachary Gaskins Computer science major Zachary Gaskins has been awarded a Department of Defense (DOD) Science, Mathematics, and Research for Transformation (SMART) scholarship. This highly selective award will allow him to finish his education free of financial worry as it provides full tuition plus an annual stipend to cover the cost of educational expenses. “I’ve always wanted a scholarship like this,” said Gaskins; “I originally looked into the Cyber Corps Scholarship Program at TU, but found that my interests lie more with software development than cyber security.” The SMART scholarship also provides a guaranteed yearly summer internship starting in 2023 at Tinker Airforce Base, Gaskins’ sponsoring DOD facility, which is located near Oklahoma City. Gaskins says that the internship will give him the hands-on experience he needs in order to better decide on the areas of study he would like to focus on back at The University of Tulsa. In addition, the scholarship guarantees a job at Tinker Airforce Base once Gaskins is ready to begin his career. Until then, Gaskins is working hard to finish his degree and pursue an all-expenses-paid graduate degree in computer science, thanks to yet another perk of the SMART scholarship. A thorough education After completing high school in Bristow in 2019, Gaskins enrolled at the Oklahoma State University Institution of Technology (OSUIT), where he received his associate of applied technology degree in 2021. While at OSUIT, Gaskins volunteered through the Phi Theta Kappa honor society and work-studied at the campus food pantry, Pete’s Pantry. He enjoyed his courses in information technology, but Gaskins ultimately decided the curriculum was not as in-depth as he wanted. As a result, he transferred to TU in the fall of 2021 in search of a thorough academic experience. Gaskins aims to graduate with a Bachelor of Science in 2024. At TU, Gaskins has received unwavering support from Assistant Professor Vidhyashree Nagaraju, who first introduced him to the SMART scholarship and wrote one of his recommendation letters. “Zach’s accomplishment is the result of his high aspirations and his dedication to achieving the goals he set for himself,” said Nagaraju. “He is the first member of his family to work towards a graduate degree and I am confident he will continue to realize success in his academic journey. I am also certain Zach will inspire future generations and lead his fellow TU colleagues to aspire to similar outstanding achievements.” Are you interested in a fascinating, well-paying job in the computer science and information technology industry? Then check out the Tandy School of Computer Science today to see all the great learning and career pathways! Computer Science, Featured, Internships, News, Stories, Student Stories Department of Defense, DOD SMART, Tandy School of Computer Science, Tinker Airforce Base, Vidyashree Nagaraju, Zachary Gaskins 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT