Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Give Now School of Engineering Brown University School of Engineering Brown University Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Search Search Menu Graduate Awards Breadcrumb Home Graduate Programs Sub Navigation In This Section Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship Graduate Awards The School of Engineering currently has the following prizes and premiums which can be awarded to graduate students: Outstanding Thesis Award The Outstanding Thesis Award has been established by the School of Engineering to be awarded annually to that graduate student that has presented the most outstanding thesis. Amount of Award/Prize: $200.00 Nomination Deadline: March 31. William N. Findley Award The William N. Findley Award for the best paper on the "Mechanical Behavior of Materials" - Professor William N. Findley has endowed an annual award to be given to a graduate student who has produced work, or has contributed to the work of another individual, which has been published or is deemed likely to be published on the subject of the mechanical behavior ofmaterials. It is Professor Findley's intent that this award be given for the best paper or thesis on the mechanical behavior of materials. All students who are, or have been, graduate students during any part of the academic year are eligible. Amount of Award/Prize: $500.00 Nomination deadline: March 31. Outstanding Teaching Assistant Award The Outstanding Teaching Assistant Award was established in 2013 by the School of Engineering to recognize outstanding achievement by a graduate student teaching assistant. The award is presented at the annual Engineering Award Dinner in May. Amount of Award/Prize: $250.00 Nomination deadline: March 31. Sc.M. Achievement Award The Sc.M. Achievement Award was established by the School of Engineering in 2014 and is awarded annually to the most outstanding master’s student. Amount of Award/Prize: $250.00 Nomination deadline: March 31. PRIME Achievement Award The PRIME Achievement Award is awarded annually based on academic performance and project leadership. PRIME Spirit Award The PRIME Spirit Award is presented to the student who embodies the entrepreneurial ethos of the PRIME program based on entrepreneurial mindset and activities. PRIME Ambassador Award The PRIME Ambassador Award is presented to the student who demonstrates excellence in engagement with external stakeholders, such as project advisors, through internships and trips. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Reservations Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Flickr Instagram LinkedIn Twitter YouTube © Brown University School of Engineering Brown University For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Graduate Awards Open details for Graduate Awards Bookmark this Page