Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Latest information about COVID-19 Stanford Engineering Search this site Submit Search Menu Admission & Aid Graduate Admission Coterm Coterm Funding and Financial Aid Engineering Coterminal Fellowship Financial Aid Students & Academics Academics Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Online Learning Terman Engineering Award Terman Awards 2021-2022 Terman Awards 2020-2021 Terman Awards 2019-2020 Terman Award 2018-2019 Terman Awards 2017-2018 Terman Awards 2016-2017 Terman Awards 2015-2016 Terman Awards 2014-2015 Terman Awards 2013-2014 Terman Awards 2012-2013 Terman Awards 2011-2012 Terman Awards 2010-2011 Terman Awards 2009-2010 Terman Awards 2008-2009 Terman Awards 2007-2008 Terman Awards 2006-2007 Terman Awards 2005-2006 Terman Awards 2004-2005 Support and Resources Undergraduate Resources Graduate Resources Tutoring Career Resources Jobs and Internships Student Organizations Terman Engineering Library Global Engineering Programs Global Engineering Internships GEI Program Structure GEI Application Process GEI Frequently Asked Questions Internship Host Companies GEI Program Recommendation Travel Information Chinese UGVR Program UGVR Alumni Program Structure Host a UGVR Student About Equity and Inclusion Initiatives About the Equity and Inclusion Initiatives Our Student Community Undergraduate Programs Stanford Summer Engineering Academy (SSEA) SSEA 2021 Staff FAQs Summer Session Grants Additional Calculus for Engineers (ACE) Enroll in ACE Courses Become an ACE Course Assistant ACE Course List Prospective Graduate Programs Graduate Pathways to STEM Program At a Glance GPS Frequently Asked Questions Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship (SURF) Stanford Exposure to Research and Graduate Education (SERGE) Fee Waivers Graduate school frequently asked questions Graduate Programs Summer Opportunities in Engineering Research and Leadership (Summer First) NSF Research Exchange Program Student Societies Womxn of Color in Engineering (WOCE) Dean’s Graduate Student Advisory Council STEM K-12 Education Initiatives Funding and Financial Aid Funding Your Master’s Degree Funding Your PhD Teaching and Course Assistantships Technical Communication Program Consulting Request Form Frequently Asked Questions The Student Experience Faculty & Research Faculty Emeritus Faculty In Memoriam Events Departments Aeronautics & Astronautics Bioengineering Chemical Engineering Civil & Environmental Engineering Computer Science Electrical Engineering Management Science & Engineering Materials Science & Engineering Mechanical Engineering Institutes, Labs and Centers Faculty Awards Faculty Awards 2020-21 Faculty Awards 2019-2020 Faculty Awards 2018-2019 Faculty Awards 2016-2017 Faculty Awards 2015-2016 Faculty Awards 2014-2015 Faculty Awards 2012-2013 Faculty Awards 2011-2012 Faculty Awards 2010-2011 Faculty Awards 2009-2010 Faculty Awards 2008-2009 Faculty Awards 2007-2008 Faculty Awards 2006-2007 Faculty Awards 2005-2006 Get Involved Welcome Engineering Alumni Connect With Your Community Advance Your Career Explore Our Events Jumpstart Your Alumnihood Support Engineering Why Give Funding Initiatives Equity & Inclusion Stanford Data Science & Computation Complex Endowed Professorships Endowed Faculty Scholars Endowed Department Chairs Graduate Fellowships Faculty Launch Fund Hasso Plattner Institute of Design Engineering Fund Planned Giving How to Make Your Gift Development Contacts Industry Collaborations Gift Support Affiliate Programs Sponsored Research Recruiting Executive Education Technology Transfer/Technology Licensing About Dean Dean’s Office Directory Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Visit Location Inside the Engineering Quad Pillars History Persis S. Drell Heroes 2019 Heroes 2018 Heroes George and Alexandra “Sandra” Forsythe Jensen Huang Mae Jemison 2016 Heroes Martin Fisher Reed Hastings Perry McCarty 2015 Heroes Andreas Acrivos Marcian “Ted” Hoff Charles Simonyi 2014 Heroes Kenneth Arrow Sergey Brin Irmgard Flugge-Lotz Edward Ginzton Larry Page Sally Ride 2013 Heroes John A. Blume James H. Clark David Filo Martin Hellman John McCarthy William J. Perry Jerry Yang 2012 Heroes Craig Barrett Andreas Bechtolsheim Morris Chang George Dantzig Theodore Maiman Bradford Parkinson Calvin Quate Stephen Timoshenko 2011 Heroes Vint Cerf Ray Dolby William F. Durand William Hewlett Donald Knuth Charles Litton David Packard Fred Terman SoE-Future Vision Culture Education Impact Research The Catalyst for Collaborative Solutions White Papers The Committee Travel Information Main navigation Skip to main content Secondary Navigation Academics Support and Resources Global Engineering Programs Global Engineering Internships GEI Program Structure GEI Application Process GEI Frequently Asked Questions Internship Host Companies GEI Program Recommendation Travel Information Chinese UGVR Program About Equity and Inclusion Initiatives Technical Communication Program The Student Experience Main content start Where to Start Once you have been accepted into a program, you can begin learning more about your destination by reading the U.S. Department of State’s Country Specific Information Page. On this page, you will find the location of the U.S. embassy in your destination country and any consular offices, visa information, crime and security information, health and medical conditions, localized hot spots and other helpful tips. If you are a non-U.S. citizen, please contact the embassy or consulate of the country that issued your passport for more information on the country to which you plan to travel. Travel Checklist Once you have been accepted into one of our programs, you will be assigned a SOLO Pre-Travel Checklist that will prompt you with action items such as updating your passport, applying for a visa, informing Stanford of your impending travel, receiving the necessary immunizations, and many more! Check off each item as you get closer to your date of departure. Travel Registry Registering your travel plans with the Office of International Affairs on campus allows the university to find and support you in the event of an emergency. For many programs registering your travel is required, but when it is not required it is still highly recommended. To register, please use the link below. Once you have signed in using your SUNetID, please fill out the form provided. International Travel Registry Register your travel with the Office of International Affairs HERE! Safety U.S. Department of State Travel Information The U.S. Department of State offers a wide range of information to support your travels. Please look at your travel destination’s information sheet to learn about warnings and precautions, as well as health and general information. U.S.D.S Country Information Sheets Center for Disease Control Travel Information GEP recommends that you read the information about your destination on the CDC website at least 8 weeks before your date of departure so as to have time to receive any recommended vaccinations. The CDC website is the ultimate source for travelers health information. Travelers’ Health — CDC Visas and Passports Passports A passport is a travel document that functions as an official form of identification and allows the bearer to enter and depart most foreign countries. To participate in any University sponsored travel program, you must have a passport that is signed and valid for at least 6 months after the scheduled end date of the program. For more information about how to apply for a passport or other passport requirements, please visit the following websites: Office of International Affairs website: Passports Bing Overseas Studies Program website: Passports Visas A visa is an endorsement sticker or stamp that is inserted by consular officials of a foreign country into a passport. This endorsement legally authorizes the bearer to visit, study, reside, or work in that foreign country for a period of time. It is always your responsibility to obtain the required visas before departing for your program. For more information about how to apply for a visa or visa requirements, please visit the following websites: Office of International Affairs website: Visas Bing Overseas Studies Program website: Visas Local Consulates for Global Engineering Programs Consulate General of the People’s Republic of China Consulate General of India Print Stanford ENGINEERING Web Login Address 475 Via Ortega Stanford, CA 94305 United States Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Instagram Stanford Engineering Magazine Events Departments Open Faculty Positions Open Staff Positions Intranet Give Visit Contact Us Sign up for our email Your source for engineering research and ideas Research & Ideas email Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top