Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Biological Science Graduate Programs Research Prize-winning study of salamander reproduction Research Wheat virus research published in Plant Disease journal > Department of Biological Science > Biological Science Graduate Programs BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES Biological Science Undergraduate Programs Biological Science Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Research Faculty Facilities News Contact the Department Apply Now Request Information Biology is a rapidly changing science that incorporates molecular and cellular biology; behavioral and molecular ecology; developmental biology; organismal, ecological and evolutionary genetics; microbiology; aerobiology; molecular systematics; and neuroscience. Flexible degree requirements lead to careers in biology, health fields and professional or graduate school. Overview Students work directly with faculty in a specified area of research and plan a program of courses and overall research goals in consultation with their supervising professor. We prepare these graduate students for careers in education, industry and government, or for continued graduate studies. A wide range of research opportunities are available to graduate students including basic studies in bioinformatics, cellular and molecular biology, developmental biology, ecology, genetics, microbiology, molecular systematics, neuroscience, virology and other areas. In addition to laboratory based studies, research opportunities are available at field sites in northeast Oklahoma and field stations in other locations. An in-depth understanding of one area of specialization is achieved through elective courses, independent study and dissertation research. Program Objectives Master of Science in Biological Sciences (Thesis Track) The focus of the program is to offer quality graduate level courses in advanced topics in biological science and graduate M.S. students prepared for an advanced degree program (e.g. M.D., D.O., Pharm.D., D.D.S) including those with a research focus (e.g. Ph.D), or research technician positions in industry or academia. Graduating students will be able to: Conduct original research of significant magnitude for publication. Exhibit knowledge of the scientific study undertaken beyond that expected of a technician. Write up and defend research results. Master of Science in Biological Sciences (Non-Thesis Track) The focus of the program is to offer quality graduate level courses in advanced topics in biological science and graduate M.S. students prepared for non-research positions or advanced degree programs not involving research (e.g. M.D., D.O., Pharm.D., D.D.S). Graduating students will be able to: Exhibit knowledge beyond the B.S. level within a selected special focus area of biological science. Effectively give an oral presentation on the selected area of focus. Doctor of Philosophy in Biological Sciences The program’s focus is to offer quality graduate level courses in advanced topics in biology, and to graduate Ph.D. students prepared for leadership roles in both academia and industry. Graduating students will have: An in-depth understanding of a particular set of sub-fields within the biological sciences, which involves both knowledge of the literature and analytical ability to relate existing studies to alternative theories. Conducted original research, with a leadership role in the experimental design, and the research will be of a magnitude that it could lead to several publications. Developed communication skills to function successfully in the scientific community. Developed research skills to the degree that they can work as independent scientists. Graduate Degree Options Biological Science, Non-Thesis, M.S. Study animal behavior, developmental biology, ecology, environmental science, evolution, genetics, microbiology, physiology, and cellular and organismic biology. Biological Science, Thesis, M.S. Study animal behavior, developmental biology, ecology, environmental science, evolution, genetics, microbiology, physiology, and cellular and organismic biology. Biological Science, Ph.D. Specialized training in select areas of biological science relevant to the research interests of individual faculty members. Application Requirements To be considered for graduate admission, the following items must be submitted to the Graduate School: A completed Graduate School application Statement of Purpose (admission essay) 2 – 3 letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your academic potential Official or unofficial transcripts from all universities attended GRE General Test results $60 application fee International students who studied at a university outside of the U.S. will also need to submit TOEFL or IELTS results 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT