Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Latest information about COVID-19 Stanford Engineering Search this site Submit Search Menu Admission & Aid Graduate Admission Coterm Coterm Funding and Financial Aid Engineering Coterminal Fellowship Financial Aid Students & Academics Academics Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Online Learning Terman Engineering Award Terman Awards 2021-2022 Terman Awards 2020-2021 Terman Awards 2019-2020 Terman Award 2018-2019 Terman Awards 2017-2018 Terman Awards 2016-2017 Terman Awards 2015-2016 Terman Awards 2014-2015 Terman Awards 2013-2014 Terman Awards 2012-2013 Terman Awards 2011-2012 Terman Awards 2010-2011 Terman Awards 2009-2010 Terman Awards 2008-2009 Terman Awards 2007-2008 Terman Awards 2006-2007 Terman Awards 2005-2006 Terman Awards 2004-2005 Support and Resources Undergraduate Resources Graduate Resources Tutoring Career Resources Jobs and Internships Student Organizations Terman Engineering Library Global Engineering Programs Global Engineering Internships GEI Program Structure GEI Application Process GEI Frequently Asked Questions Internship Host Companies GEI Program Recommendation Travel Information Chinese UGVR Program UGVR Alumni Program Structure Host a UGVR Student About Equity and Inclusion Initiatives About the Equity and Inclusion Initiatives Our Student Community Undergraduate Programs Stanford Summer Engineering Academy (SSEA) SSEA 2021 Staff FAQs Summer Session Grants Additional Calculus for Engineers (ACE) Enroll in ACE Courses Become an ACE Course Assistant ACE Course List Prospective Graduate Programs Graduate Pathways to STEM Program At a Glance GPS Frequently Asked Questions Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship (SURF) Stanford Exposure to Research and Graduate Education (SERGE) Fee Waivers Graduate school frequently asked questions Graduate Programs Summer Opportunities in Engineering Research and Leadership (Summer First) NSF Research Exchange Program Student Societies Womxn of Color in Engineering (WOCE) Dean’s Graduate Student Advisory Council STEM K-12 Education Initiatives Funding and Financial Aid Funding Your Master’s Degree Funding Your PhD Teaching and Course Assistantships Technical Communication Program Consulting Request Form Frequently Asked Questions The Student Experience Faculty & Research Faculty Emeritus Faculty In Memoriam Events Departments Aeronautics & Astronautics Bioengineering Chemical Engineering Civil & Environmental Engineering Computer Science Electrical Engineering Management Science & Engineering Materials Science & Engineering Mechanical Engineering Institutes, Labs and Centers Faculty Awards Faculty Awards 2020-21 Faculty Awards 2019-2020 Faculty Awards 2018-2019 Faculty Awards 2016-2017 Faculty Awards 2015-2016 Faculty Awards 2014-2015 Faculty Awards 2012-2013 Faculty Awards 2011-2012 Faculty Awards 2010-2011 Faculty Awards 2009-2010 Faculty Awards 2008-2009 Faculty Awards 2007-2008 Faculty Awards 2006-2007 Faculty Awards 2005-2006 Get Involved Welcome Engineering Alumni Connect With Your Community Advance Your Career Explore Our Events Jumpstart Your Alumnihood Support Engineering Why Give Funding Initiatives Equity & Inclusion Stanford Data Science & Computation Complex Endowed Professorships Endowed Faculty Scholars Endowed Department Chairs Graduate Fellowships Faculty Launch Fund Hasso Plattner Institute of Design Engineering Fund Planned Giving How to Make Your Gift Development Contacts Industry Collaborations Gift Support Affiliate Programs Sponsored Research Recruiting Executive Education Technology Transfer/Technology Licensing About Dean Dean’s Office Directory Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Visit Location Inside the Engineering Quad Pillars History Persis S. Drell Heroes 2019 Heroes 2018 Heroes George and Alexandra “Sandra” Forsythe Jensen Huang Mae Jemison 2016 Heroes Martin Fisher Reed Hastings Perry McCarty 2015 Heroes Andreas Acrivos Marcian “Ted” Hoff Charles Simonyi 2014 Heroes Kenneth Arrow Sergey Brin Irmgard Flugge-Lotz Edward Ginzton Larry Page Sally Ride 2013 Heroes John A. Blume James H. Clark David Filo Martin Hellman John McCarthy William J. Perry Jerry Yang 2012 Heroes Craig Barrett Andreas Bechtolsheim Morris Chang George Dantzig Theodore Maiman Bradford Parkinson Calvin Quate Stephen Timoshenko 2011 Heroes Vint Cerf Ray Dolby William F. Durand William Hewlett Donald Knuth Charles Litton David Packard Fred Terman SoE-Future Vision Culture Education Impact Research The Catalyst for Collaborative Solutions White Papers The Committee Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Help us build a diverse, equitable and inclusive culture Main navigation Skip to main content Secondary Navigation Dean Dean’s Office Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Visit History Main content start Embracing diversity, advancing equity and cultivating inclusion at Stanford Engineering is an active, ongoing practice. And it touches every level of our dynamic community — faculty, students, postdoctoral scholars and staff. While Stanford Engineering is committed to reflecting the vibrant world around us, our work is far from finished. We’re prioritizing bringing together the most talented people from all backgrounds. That means nurturing an environment that welcomes and validates diverse perspectives and beliefs. Only when our engineers understand — and mirror — the needs of all people can we achieve our school’s larger mission: to create a better world. Meet a few of Stanford Engineering’s students, faculty and staff. Their stories are our collective narrative. Isabel Gallegos, Computer Science Monroe Kennedy, Mechanical Engineering Meo Kittiwanich, Electrical Engineering Meet our community A voice for inclusion Dean Widom's letters > Managing physical and mental well-being > Stanford Engineering’s diversity initiatives > Expanding our equity and inclusion efforts > Difficult times at Stanford Engineering and in the world > Supporting our diverse population Dean's advisory group DGSAC The Dean’s Graduate Student Advisory Council is a graduate student group within Stanford Engineering dedicated to building a more positive environment for students to learn, work and thrive. Read about DGSAC Programs for all Read about the programs that are helping us strive for greater diversity, equity, inclusion and access for Stanford engineers at all academic levels. For incoming undergraduate students Stanford Summer Engineering Academy (SSEA) Many of our students say SSEA, a program that introduces first-year students to campus, is like family. Watch this video to hear why. Explore SSEA For current undergraduate students Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship (SURF) This initiative supports students who are interested in graduate studies and academic careers, but who have limited access to research university programs. Explore SURF For prospective graduate students Stanford Exposure to Research and Graduate Education (SERGE) The two-day program gives diverse students from around the globe a glimpse of PhD life at Stanford — and a community to welcome them. Explore SERGE For incoming graduate students Summer First An eight-week immersion into Stanford’s research culture to help first-year PhD students find their place and thrive. Explore Summer First Get to know our professors Stanford Engineering faculty play a powerful role in advocating for students, making them feel heard and building a community based on the inclusion of all voices. Meet these inspiring minds. Debbie Senesky My group is pretty diverse, and when students are having a hard time, I tell them to use the resources around them … focus on the people who want them to succeed, and speak their minds even when it goes against the grain because I want them to express themselves fully in the way that I was able to. I walk them to the window, and I tell them to look at the view, and I say, “You made it. You are here. You belong.” Read more Monther Abu-Remaileh “Now that I have a lab of my own at Stanford, one of my goals is to give new students hands-on experience and confidence in doing research, so they can see the possibilities available to them. I’m especially interested in giving undergraduates that opportunity while training more senior students and postdocs, so they can participate in discovering something new. As a young student, something like that can change your life.” Read more Stacey Bent “I always advise students and young faculty to find mentors. They don’t have to be formal relationships and you don’t have to limit yourself to a small number of helpful people. Most people love to be asked for their advice and they’re usually happy to give it. You can develop the relationship from there.” Read more Read more faculty stories What else can I explore? The new face of Stanford Graduate student enrollment Underrepresented minorities and women in STEM fields are the fastest-growing groups among Stanford’s graduate student population. Read more Event series playlist Engineering for All Watch this series focused on exploring how engineering can become more inclusive in education and in design. Watch playlist Cross-campus initiative IDEAL Inclusion, Diversity, Equity and Access in a Learning Environment is part of Stanford’s vision to increase and accelerate purposeful impact in the world. Explore IDEAL Print Stanford ENGINEERING Web Login Address 475 Via Ortega Stanford, CA 94305 United States Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Instagram Stanford Engineering Magazine Events Departments Open Faculty Positions Open Staff Positions Intranet Give Visit Contact Us Sign up for our email Your source for engineering research and ideas Research & Ideas email Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top