Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences > Undergraduate Majors Undergraduate Majors ACADEMICS Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Applied Mathematics The applied mathematics offers options in computer science, engineering, biomathematics, business and education. These choices provide a designated field of application for students while preserving the degree’s foundation in the mathematic sciences. This option is ideal for those who hope to attend graduate school or work in business or industry. Biochemistry The program in biochemistry features courses in chemistry, physics, mathematics, writing, humanities and biology while requiring interactive laboratory experience and strategic selection of electives. The degree is certified by the American Chemical Society. These degrees prepare students for careers in research and work in health-related disciplines. Biogeosciences This degree is an interdisciplinary program that draws from standard curriculum in the departments of Biological Science and Geosciences. Students are exposed to the hard sciences, mathematics and statistics while incorporating the core fundamentals of biology and geosciences with earth systems science. Graduates of this degree program find careers in many areas such as environmental biogeosciences or environmental forensics and also pursue graduate school. See the Department of Biological Science or the Department of Geosciences. Biological Sciences These degrees are intended for students interested in learning the basic principles of biological science as well as how general science fundamentals apply to the area of biology. This area of study is designed for those interested in studying biology with a foundational science and mathematic curriculum. Students pursue careers in research or laboratory operations and also attend graduate school. A pre-med option is available to students who aspire to earn a bachelor of science degree in biology and ultimately apply to medical, dentistry or veterinary school (see Pre-Med below). Chemical Engineering Students in the Russell School of Chemical Engineering begin their bachelor’s degree with a broad base of chemistry, physics and mathematics to acquire engineering design tools. Students are educated to think critically about engineering design problems while considering the fundamentals of engineering and science to apply their skills in many industrial areas. They are highly sought after and command excellent starting salaries. Students can specialize in pre-med, business, refining, materials and environmental areas. Alumni also have excellent opportunities in graduate school or professional programs such as medicine business and law. Chemistry The Bachelor of Science degree is certified by the American Chemical Society. This degree and the bachelor of arts degree include courses in chemistry, physics, mathematics, writing and humanities as well as interactive laboratories and a senior research project that serves as the groundwork for graduate or advanced professional study. These degrees can be tailored to student interests in environmental, advanced materials, applied, health and traditional chemistry. Computer Engineering An interdisciplinary graduate program in computer engineering is offered through a partnership of the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering and the Tandy School of Computer Science. After completion of core doctorate credits, students are allowed to pursue research and course work that emphasizes either the computer science or electrical engineering aspect of this joint degree. Alumni serve as faculty in academia and also enjoy successful careers in industry and government. See the Department of Computer Science or the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering Computer Science This undergraduate degree combines a strong foundation in mathematics and the sciences with core computer science courses. Graduates of this program design new approaches to computing technology while studying, testing and analyzing software systems that drive today’s computing experience. Students who have a strong mathematics background or aptitude generally choose this degree option. Non-majors are welcome to minor in computer science, which prepares students for graduate programs focused on computer modeling and simulation of technical and natural systems. These students work in the advanced fields of technical research and development and use computer simulation for scientific engineering and business operations. Computer Simulation & Gaming These degree programs feature design components used in the country’s top 10 simulation and gaming degree programs. The option includes a core computer science focus and set of professional courses aimed at exposing students to other academic areas relevant to simulation and game development. The computer simulation and gaming industry is growing rapidly. In the Tulsa area alone, there are three game companies and nine others that develop simulation technology for commercial and military entities. Earth and Environmental Science Programs that are broadly based and offer significant flexibility for students interested in the earth sciences but who do not necessarily want to work in the petroleum or energy-related industries. With strategic selection of elective courses, this undergraduate degree can provide the background necessary for entry into graduate-level studies in law, geology, environmental science, environmental policy, meteorology and business. Electrical and Computer Engineering Degrees in electrical and computer engineering prepare students for careers in the design, development and application of computer technology in industrial, commercial and military markets. Our curriculum teaches students the skills required to become experts in computer hardware and software to repair and manage electrical, automotive and computer systems. Electrical Engineering In a world dependent on electricity and electrical devices, electrical engineers are relied upon to improve our quality of life. The electrical engineering programs offer students an education in designing and managing electrical equipment such as motors, radars and power generators. Our graduates are skilled technicians in electronic equipment such as broadcast and communications systems. Engineering Physics These degrees are designed to prepare engineering physicists for careers in the fast-paced, evolving world of technology or in areas that overlap the traditional boundaries between engineering disciplines. The degree’s curriculum differs from other engineering courses of study in that additional mathematics and physics courses are substituted for select upper level courses. These students obtain physics or engineering positions immediately after graduation or pursue graduate studies in a physics or engineering discipline. Geology Much like a degree in earth and environmental science, this geology option targets students who have broad educational interests. These students are interested in applying geological sciences in non-technical careers such as scientific writing, business, and elementary or secondary teaching. Geophysics The bachelor’s option in geophysics applies the fundamentals of the physics discipline to the study of Earth’s material and organic systems. Geophysicists seek to better understand these natural functions and use physics principles to improve our quality of life and the environment. These scientists often work in the areas of volcanology, ecology, seismology, geographic mapping, and oil and gas exploration and recovery. See the Department of Geosciences or the Department of Physics and Engineering Physics. Geosciences The geosciences degree is to prepare students for careers in the study of Earth’s physical characteristics including composition, structure and processes. This undergraduate degree trains students to work as geoscientists at organizations, corporations and government entities. Many geoscientists are employed in the mining, quarrying and oil and gas extraction industries where fieldwork is prominent. An option in Environmental Science trains students to work as geoscientists at organizations, corporations and government entities. We equip our students with the skills and knowledge needed to investigate the Earth’s components while considering environmental factors. This option focuses on the responsible monitoring and remediation processes of actions that impact the Earth. Information Technology The information technology program offers students a strong foundation in computer science together with supporting subjects selected from professional business courses. A degree in Information Technology provides students with a solid foundation in computer science and emphasizes supporting study in business, economics, and statistics courses. Graduates of this program should be well prepared to pursue graduate study or industrial and business careers. Mathematics Students may choose to pursue either a bachelor of science degree or a bachelor of arts degree with a major in mathematics. Each program has the same requirements in mathematics with additional language requirements for the bachelor of arts degree. These programs prepare students for careers in fields requiring strong quantitative background or to attend graduate school. Non-major students interested in gaining a basic understanding of the mathematics discipline are encouraged to pursue a minor. They must complete Calculus I and II together along with a minimum of 15 credit hours beyond Calculus II. Mechanical Engineering The bachelor of science degree prepares students for careers in design and fabrication of mechanical and thermal equipment such as tools, engines and machines. From elevators and escalators to electric generators and air conditioning systems, students learn how to develop and repair the many mechanical and material-handling systems used in today’s manufacturing, engineering, research and development and government platforms. Petroleum Engineering The undergraduate option in petroleum engineering prepares students for careers in the extraction of oil and gas from below the Earth’s surface. Petroleum engineers design equipment to harvest oil and gas, develop ways to increase well production and manage those wells and drilling sites. Alumni oversee the installation, operation and maintenance of oil field equipment and conduct well testing and surveys for optimal production. Physics This degree offers students a strong foundation in physics and mathematics in preparation for technical or scientific careers. Graduates are qualified to work as physicists and may also pursue a physics graduate degree. This undergraduate option includes the fundamentals of physics while retaining the flexibility to engage in a broad offering of arts and sciences courses. Non-majors interested in learning more about the physics discipline and its career opportunities are encouraged to earn a minor in physics. Pre-Med This program includes dental, pharmacy, physician assistant, optometry, and veterinary. Preprofessional (premed, predental, pre-optometry, etc.) advising at TU is housed in the Office of the Dean in the College of Engineering and Natural Sciences no matter what the student’s major. A biology premed will automatically be assigned an advisor. Medical schools are not concerned about choice of major as long as a student has the prerequisite courses. Most premeds are biology or biochemistry majors, but other common majors include chemical engineering, psychology, and English. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT