Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Chemical Engineering Undergraduate Programs MY TU STORY Alternative energy students tour solar concentrator in France MY TU STORY Chem-E-Car teams compete at regional conference > Russell School of Chemical Engineering > Chemical Engineering Undergraduate Programs https://youtu.be/kLqvJk4Bkp0 CHEMICAL ENGINEERING Accreditation Chemical Engineering Undergraduate Programs Chemical Engineering Graduate Programs ChE Alumni Advisory Board Research Faculty Facilities News Contact the Department Apply Find Admission Counselor Request Information The Russell School of Chemical Engineering at TU prepares undergraduate students to solve industrial problems through progressive coursework and rigorous design projects with optional research. Chemical engineering is a broad discipline, training individuals to use chemistry, physics, mathematics and engineering for the advancement of mankind and solution of societal problems through technological innovation. Chemical engineers apply fundamentals of chemistry, biology, physics and mathematics to resolve issues associated with the use of chemicals, fuel, drugs, food and other products. They design operation procedures and manufacturing equipment, test production methods and monitor product performance. The Russell School of Chemical Engineering curriculum provides fundamental knowledge in science, engineering and chemical engineering principles as well as chemical engineering practice, design and electives. Students may earn a bachelor of science, master of science or doctorate in chemical engineering. In addition to TU’s general curriculum that offers the flexibility to choose coursework based on personal interests, students also can specialize in one of the following areas: refining, materials, environmental engineering, pre-med and business. The B.S. degree in chemical engineering is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET (https://www.abet.org). See the “Accreditation” link for our program educational objectives and student outcomes. Program Objectives Bachelor of Science in Chemical Engineering Our Program Educational Objectives are to prepare graduates such that, within a few years of graduation, they have established chemical engineering careers in the petroleum, natural gas, chemicals, alternative energy, environmental, materials or biotechnology industries, and/or have begun graduate studies in chemical engineering or related fields such as medicine, law and business administration. To meet these educational objectives, students in the program will attain: An ability to apply knowledge of mathematics, science, and engineering An ability to design and conduct experiments, as well as to analyze and interpret data An ability to design a system, component, or process to meet desired needs within realistic constraints such as economic, environmental, social, political, ethical, health and safety, manufacturability, and sustainability An ability to function on multidisciplinary teams An ability to identify, formulate, and solve engineering problems An understanding of professional and ethical responsibility An ability to communicate effectively The broad education necessary to understand the impact of engineering solutions in a global, economic, environmental, and societal context A recognition of the need for, and an ability to engage in life-long learning A knowledge of contemporary issues An ability to use the techniques, skills, and modern engineering tools necessary for engineering practice Degree Options Chemical Engineering, B.S.Ch.E. Prepares students to work in a broad range of fields including alternative energy, biotechnology, chemicals, environmental engineering, materials, natural gas and petroleum. Chemical Engineering, Pre-Med Option, B.S.Ch.E. Students seeking the B.S.Ch.E. degree must complete either the pre-med option or the general option. Chemical Engineering, General Option, B.S.Ch.E. Students seeking the B.S.Ch.E. degree must complete either the pre-med option or the general option. Chemical Engineering Minor Non-majors are welcome to minor in chemical engineering. Typical Four-Year Schedule FRESHMAN – FALL SEMESTER FRESHMAN – SPRING SEMESTER Introduction to Chemical Engineering Engineering Applications Programming Calculus I Calculus II General Chemistry I and Lab General Chemistry II and Lab Exposition and Argumentation General Physics and Lab Block I - Aesthetic Inquiry and Creative Experience SOPHOMORE – FALL SEMESTER SOPHOMORE – SPRING SEMESTER Thermodynamics Principles of Chemical Engineering Calculus III Differential Equations Organic Chemistry I and Lab Statics or Engineering Economics General Physics II and Lab Introductory Fluid Mechanics Block II - Historical and Social Interpretation Block I - Aesthetic Inquiry and Creative Experience Block II - Historical and Social Interpretations JUNIOR – FALL SEMESTER JUNIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Equilibrium Thermodynamics Mass Transfer Introductory Heat Transfer Advanced Chemistry Elective and Lab Math Elective Chemical Reactor Design Writing for the Professions Advanced Science Elective Block II – Historical and Social Interpretation Process Control Electrical Circuit Analysis SENIOR – FALL SEMESTER SENIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Process Component Design Chemical Engineering Plant Design Chemical Engineering Lab I Chemical Engineering Lab II Chemical Engineering Elective Advanced Engineering Elective Advanced Chemistry Elective and Lab General Elective Health, Safety and Environment Block II – Historical and Social Interpretation Professional Opportunities Environmental Petroleum Food Petrochemicals Natural gas Biotechnical fields AIChE Student Organization The American Institute of Chemical Engineers is the world’s leading organization for chemical engineering professionals with more than 40,000 members from 90 countries. Members of TU’s student AIChE organization have a breadth of resources and expertise in core process industries or in emerging areas such as nanobiotechnology. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT