Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Give Now School of Engineering Brown University School of Engineering Brown University Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Search Search Menu Student Organizations On campus and beyond, opportunities abound for engineering students to explore their passions. Breadcrumb Home Undergraduate Sub Navigation In This Section ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Application and Budget Request Student Organization Contacts Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Student Organizations On campus and beyond, opportunities abound for engineering students to explore their passions. Project Based Groups and Teams Brown Space Engineering The Brown Space Engineering Team (BSE) aims to make space accessible to people of all backgrounds. The team creates a baseline design for future projects, and all designs and procedures are open source. They strive to inspire future generation to explore space. Formula Society of Automotive Engineers Formula Society of Automotive Engineers (FSAE), is a class of formula car governed by the Society of Automotive Engineers. The cars are open-wheeled, with a maximum displacement of 610 cc, a minimum wheelbase of 60 in, and a mandatory 20-mm intake restrictor. Brown competes annually in the international competition held in Michigan. Professional Organizations and Societies American Academy of Environmental Engineers and Scientists AAEES at Brown focuses on creating a community for students concentrating in Environmental Engineering or related fields. Their aim is to spread awareness about environmental engineering, discuss the range of opportunity in the field, and build upon existing knowledge and skill sets from the classroom by interacting with professionals and fellow students at local environmental engineering companies and other universities. American Institute of Chemical Engineers AIChE is the world’s leading organization for chemical engineering professionals, with over 40,000 members from over 90 countries. AIChE has the breadth of resources and expertise in core process industries and emerging areas, including nanobiotechnology. The Brown AIChE chapter sponsors students to attend the annual AIChE national conference. The Brown chapter also organizes an annual liquid nitrogen ice cream event. Brown Biomedical Engineering Society BMES serves students and promotes biomedical engineering on campus. Through social activities, lab tours, and presentations by industry, BMES informs students concerning their academic and post-grad careers, facilitates faculty-students interactions, and builds a sense of community. BMES has sponsored trips to local companies and a trip to the national BME conference. National Society of Black Engineers NSBE is a student-run organization that works to raise awareness of careers in engineering among minority students and increase the number of minority engineers. NSBE has 270 college chapters, alumni and pre-college chapters. Brown's chapter works closely with other science-related student societies and programs to promote engineering among under-represented groups and engages in engineering outreach in local schools. Society of Asian Scientists and Engineers The Society of Asian Scientists and Engineers is committed to: prepare Asian heritage scientists and engineers for success in the global business world, celebrate diversity on campuses and in the workplace, and provide opportunities for members to make contributions to their local communities. SASE focuses on developing the leaders of tomorrow by hosting a myriad of professional development events for students to build crucial soft skills that they can utilize to succeed in their future careers.These events include conferences, panels, networking nights, company tours, resume workshops, and more. Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers SHPE is the leading national organization aimed at motivating Hispanics to pursue careers in STEM. SHPE has a strong but independent network of over 400 professional and student chapters and over 10,000 members. SHPE's mission is to change lives by empowering the Hispanic community to realize its fullest potential and to impact the world through STEM awareness, access, support and development. Society of Women Engineers SWE aims is to support and empower female engineers while making the field of engineering more desirable to women. Brown's chapter serves to increase community between female engineers at Brown and help prepare for their future. The chapter holds school-wide social events, study breaks, professional development and networking events. A popular event is the extreme gingerbread competition. Honor Societies Sigma Xi Sigma Xi, founded in 1886, is the honor society of research scientists and engineers. Sigma Xi offers opportunities for undergrad and graduate students to share their research with professional scientists and engineers. Membership is by invitation, those who have shown potential as researchers are invited to join as associate members. Full membership is conferred upon those who have demonstrated noteworthy achievements. Tau Beta Pi TBP, founded in 1885, is the nation's second-oldest honor society and the only one to represent the entire engineering profession. TBP's mission is to mark in a fitting manner those who have conferred honor upon their Alma Mater by distinguished scholarship and exemplary character as students, or by their attainments as alumni in the field of engineering, and to foster a spirit of liberal culture in engineering colleges. Teaching and Mentoring Groups and Organizations Design@Brown D@B is a student group aimed at connecting both students and faculty to the design resources and opportunities that exist at Brown through office hours, workshops, and events. The ability to iterate, think creatively, and draw from different disciplines to solve problems is highly sought after by employers, entrepreneurs, researchers, and more. ENGN DUG EngnDug is a group of Engineering concentrators who seek to create a sense of community and promote the diversity of the undergraduate community. DUGs help students make and strengthen connections with other concentrators and professors; provide a means for first- and second-year students to explore various concentrations; and enable concentrators to explore potential career opportunities related to their disciplines. Out in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math oSTEM is a chapter of the national non-profit professional society oSTEM Inc. with over 75 chapters across the U.S. Creating a space for LGBTQIA+ individuals in STEM to connect, the group provides professional development resources tailored to navigating STEM careers as out LGBTQIA+ individuals. By leveraging connections with LGBTQIA+ alumni and professionals, the group hosts panels, discussions, and workshops. Scientists for a Sustainable World Scientists for a Sustainable World (SSW) provides a platform for students with concrete ideas for energy, water, and waste reduction at Brown and in the community. Students engage with partners at Facilities, and are able to pinpoint and address problems. Initiatives include bringing photovoltaic solar power to buildings, identifying and reducing excess energy use in dorms, and ensuring energy efficiency is a priority in technology purchasing on campus. STEAM Brown Steam is a student group aiming to explore the interdisciplinary intersections of disparate fields, using the starting point of uniting the STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) fields with creative arts, design and the humanities. The group works in close partnership with RISD STEAM. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Reservations Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Flickr Instagram LinkedIn Twitter YouTube © Brown University School of Engineering Brown University For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Student Organizations Open details for Student Organizations Bookmark this Page