Skip To Main Content Departments Info For Giving Contact College of Engineering Home Search Aerospace Biological & Agriculture Biomedical Chemical Civil & Environmental Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Technology & Industrial Distribution Industrial & Systems Materials Science & Engineering Mechanical Multidisciplinary Nuclear Ocean Petroleum Current Students Faculty & Staff Resources Search Search Menu About Academics Admissions & Aid Research People Search Search Search About Academics Admissions & Aid Research People Giving Contact College of Engineering Home About Facts and Figures Accreditation Maps and Directions News Contact Us Organization Chart Materialize the Future Learn more about our department! Academics Academics Undergraduate Graduate Advising Engineering Honors Global Programs Student Organizations MSEN Fast Track Program Awards Admissions & Aid Admissions and Aid Entry to a Major Process Scholarships & Financial Aid Research Research Research Centers, Facilities and Labs Undergraduate Research Opportunities Core Faculty by Broad Expertise Area Seminars Materials Design Capstone Project Learn more about the materials science and engineering Materials Design Capstone Project to match the opportunity that's right for you. People Department Leadership Team Faculty Affiliated Faculty Research Staff Staff Materials Science and Engineering Important Notice COVID-19 guidance and testing locations Materials Science and Engineering Grid Research materialized Our students research today to materialize tomorrow. Core Faculty by Broad Expertise Area Online Research Experience for Undergraduates Learn more about the program and how to apply. Connect with an advisor Have questions? We have answers! Our Undergraduate Program is Newly Ranked Ranked No. 13 among public institutions By The Numbers More Facts and Figures 205 enrolled graduate students 167 enrolled Ph.D. students 181 enrolled undergraduate students Recent News A good defect? Researchers discover helicoidal screw dislocations in layered polymers In some human-interactive electronics, such as temperature gauges or health sensors, polymers are used that are capable of changing color depending on stimuli. A team of researchers recently discovered a helicoidal-shaped defect in layered polymers, uncovering how solvents can diffuse through these layers and produce these color changes. Zamarripa awarded two prestigious fellowships for doctoral studies Jessica Zamarripa ‘20 has received two prestigious awards, the 2022 National Defense Science and Engineering Graduate Fellowship and the National GEM Consortium Ph.D. Engineering and Science Fellowship, in recognition of her academic excellence and achievements. Researchers develop 3D-printed shape memory alloy with superior superelasticity Using laser powder bed fusion, a 3D-printing technique, researchers developed a shape memory alloy with superior tensile superelasticity. These nickel-titanium shape memory alloys have the potential to be used in the biomedical and aerospace industries. View All News Upcoming Events View All Events Resources Undergraduate Research Opportunities Learn about Undergraduate Research Opportunities available to our students. Explore One of Our Degree Programs Materials engineering is an applied field that seeks to design materials with some desired physical properties to serve a particular engineering function. Get Connected with a Student Organization Enhance your student experience by joining a materials science and engineering student group. Learn More Introduction to Materials Science video lectures MSEN Minor degree program Check out our Seminar Series Faculty Positions Department of Materials Science & Engineering College of Engineering Texas A&M University Department of Materials Science & Engineering Texas A&M University 209 Reed McDonald Building College Station, TX 77843-3003 Phone: 979-845-0750 Fax: 979-862-6835 materials@tamu.edu Follow Our Department: Materials Science and Engineering Facebook page Materials Science and Engineering YouTube channel Materials Science and Engineering LinkedIn group Find Us On Campus Office: Reed-McDonald Building (RDMC) Maps & Directions Texas A&M University College of Engineering, 3127 TAMU, College Station, TX 77843-3127 ( ZACH) easa@tamu.edu (979) 845-7200 Staff Directory Site Map Site Policies About this Site Employment Follow Us: Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube The College of Engineering is a member of Texas A&M University Texas A&M Engineering is a member of The Texas A&M University System Copyright © 2022, Texas A&M Engineering Communications, All Rights Reserved State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Open Records Risk, Fraud, & Misconduct Hotline Accommodations Statewide Search Texas CREWS Environmental Health, Safety, & Security