Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Chemical Engineering Graduate Programs Alumni World War II veteran, alumnus Calvin McKee knighted by Republic of France TU My Story IEL/ISL student prepares for engineering career in Germany > Russell School of Chemical Engineering > Chemical Engineering Graduate Programs https://youtu.be/kLqvJk4Bkp0 CHEMICAL ENGINEERING Accreditation Chemical Engineering Undergraduate Programs Chemical Engineering Graduate Programs ChE Alumni Advisory Board Research Faculty Facilities News Contact the Department Apply Now Request Information The Russell School of Chemical Engineering, a small, yet comprehensive department, has offered a master’s degree program since 1939 and a doctoral degree program since 1966. The school has established a strong tradition in the petroleum, natural gas, and environmental fields, and offers research opportunities in materials engineering, biochemical engineering, advanced modeling and simulation, alternative energy, surface science, and catalysis. Our current research focuses on modern experimental approaches and state-of-the-art computational studies, allowing for investigation of fundamental phenomena as applied to “real-world” problems and thereby enhancing our interactions with industry. Our computational studies address a wide range of complex problems in multiple time and length scales, ranging from multiphase flow models to complete energy supply chains, which help catalyze solutions to complex societal challenges. Chemical engineering graduate studies offer a dynamic environment for challenging, stimulating research and provide close interaction between faculty and students due to our small size. Program Objectives Master of Science in Engineering in Chemical Engineering Graduates of the thesis-based (MSE) program should be able to: Demonstrate a more advanced understanding in chemical engineering fundamentals compared to the B.S. degree holders. Display the ability to conduct research in a field of specialization within chemical engineering, and effectively communicated their findings orally and in writing to a technically literate audience. Illustrate ethical awareness of responsible conduct of research. Master of Engineering in Chemical Engineering Graduates of the non-thesis (ME) program should be able to: Demonstrate a more advanced understanding in chemical engineering fundamentals compared to the B.S. degree holders. Display the ability to perform and communicate an independent study in a field of specialization within chemical engineering. Illustrate ethical awareness. Doctor of Philosophy in Chemical Engineering Graduates from the Ph.D. program should be able to: Demonstrate a critical understanding of scientific and engineering principles underlying their fields of interest. Apply scientific and engineering principles creatively through advanced methods of analysis, research and synthesis, and effectively communicated their findings orally and in writing to a technically literate audience. Illustrate ethical awareness of responsible conduct of research. Graduate Degree Options Chemical Engineering, M.S.E This graduate option allows students to work on exciting and challenging research projects in many areas including energy, environment, materials and biochemical engineering. Our students thrive from small class settings, intimate research groups and direct collaboration with distinguished faculty. Graduates generally work in industry. Chemical Engineering, M.E. This master of engineering program is a popular choice among non-chemical engineers, students trained in other areas of the engineering field, and chemical engineers who would like to develop a more advanced understanding in chemical engineering without emphasizing research. The degree offers an opportunity for non-chemical engineering students to develop technical skills outside of their original area of expertise. A thesis is not required in this option. Chemical Engineering, Ph.D. The Ph.D. degree in chemical engineering aims to provide students with a critical understanding of scientific and engineering principles underlying their fields of interest and to cultivate their ability to apply these principles creatively through advanced methods of analysis, research and synthesis. Alumni work in academia and hold leadership roles in the industry. AIChE Student Organization The American Institute of Chemical Engineers is the world’s leading organization for chemical engineering professionals with more than 40,000 members from 90 countries. Members of TU’s student AIChE organization have a breadth of resources and expertise in core process industries or in emerging areas such as nanobiotechnology. Application Requirements To be considered for graduate admission, the following items must be submitted to the Graduate School: A completed Graduate School application Statement of Purpose (admission essay) 2 – 3 letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your academic potential. Official or unofficial transcripts from all universities attended GRE General Test results $60 application fee International students who studied at a university outside of the U.S. will also need to submit TOEFL or IELTS results 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT