Skip to main content University of California San Francisco UCSF Health Search UCSF About UCSF Health Innovation via Engineering Search form Search... FacebookTwitter Home About Contact Us Team Research News & Events Events News Subscribe to the HIVE newsletter Transforming Breakthroughs into Life-sustaining Solutions Learn More Creating Materials, Building Devices The Kidney Project seeks to develop a bioartificial kidney as a compact, surgically implanted, free-standing device to treat end-stage renal disease (ESRD). The Kidney Project Envisioning Amazing Technologies Dr. Lotz’s laboratory work focuses on identifying mechanisms of disc degeneration, developing novel diagnostics and therapies for low back pain, and spinal instrumentation. Dr. Jeffrey Lotz Engineering News Get the latest updates from our UCSF Engineering Community here. Top Stories Health Innovative via Engineering (HIVE) is the cross-UCSF engineering community that will work effectively, collaboratively and provides the necessary support for engineering innovation on a health sciences campus. It is this community of engineers which will translate discoveries to the patient. Message from the Director Tejal A. Desai, PhD HIVE is committed to nurturing a diverse, innovative group of bioengineers working for meaningful change in medicine and health equity. Continue Reading HIVE (Health Innovation via Engineering) seeks to strengthen the engineering community at UCSF Through supporting and promoting efforts of our finest engineers, HIVE aims to transform the amazing discoveries of basic science into applicable technological solutions for health. Our Research Monthly Lecture Series from Bioengineering Leaders Innovative leaders who pesonify scientific rigor, a broad-based wordview, and compassionate humanity. Schedule Engineering News Epigenome Actuation: Designer Reader-Effectors to Control Tumor Suppressors in Breast Cancer May 16, 2022 Cellular Innovation by Rational Design and Evolution April 26, 2022 Polymer networks as synthetic extracellular matrices: Biology in the 4th dimension April 01, 2022 UCSF Neurosurgeon receives the Pradel Research Award from the National Academy of Sciences March 30, 2022 Listening to the Body via Conformable Decoders February 11, 2022 The Need for Speed: Accelerating 3D Microscopy and Optical Imaging for Diverse Biomedical Applications. January 25, 2022 Skin-Integrated Wireless Wearables For Continuous Health Monitoring January 05, 2022 Microbes in Orthopaedic Biomechanics November 17, 2021 See All News UCSF Calendar Events Wed 01 DPBS Child and Adolescent Services Staff & Faculty Meeting Date: June 1, 2022 Time: 12:10 pm Wed 01 Neurology Wednesday Conference Date: June 1, 2022 Time: 3:00 pm Wed 01 Characteristics of Successful Applicants: For Medical, Nursing and Physician Assistant Applicants Date: June 1, 2022 Time: 4:00 pm Wed 01 UCSF Osher Mini Medical School- Transforming Cancer Care with Integrative Oncology Date: June 1, 2022 Time: 7:00 pm Contact Us Accessibility Privacy Policy Terms of Use A-Z Website List © 2022 The Regents of the University of California