Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Department of Mechanical Engineering Research Soft robotics 918-631-3002 Stephenson Hall, 2050 Map Email https://youtu.be/Rz5BoSW-QRY MECHANICAL ENGINEERING Accreditation Mechanical Engineering Undergraduate Programs Mechanical Engineering Graduate Programs Research Faculty Facilities News Contact the Department The Department of Mechanical Engineering provides math and science instruction to develop creativity, analytical abilities, disciplined reasoning, communication skills, advanced technology knowledge and sound ethics. We work diligently with students earning a mechanical engineering degree to prepare them for competitive careers in a global marketplace. In small class settings, theory and practice are applied to laboratory and design projects. Our curriculum and interactive approach to learning enables students to improve their experimental skills and apply theory and analyses methods in product design and development. Alumni As one of the best mechanical engineering programs, our mechanical engineering graduates specialize in the design and development of mechanical and thermal equipment such as tools, engines and machines. Alumni work in the manufacturing, research and development, and government industries. Make a Difference Engineering (MADE at TU) Since the 1970s, TU mechanical engineering students have focused their talents on projects that address the special needs of local residents with physical and developmental disabilities. Learn more … Student and Professional Organizations Mechanical engineers are encouraged to participate in several professional organizations for career development, peer support and job networking. View the list of industry affiliations. Advisory Board The mechanical engineering department is supported by an advisory board that includes some of the industry’s leading professionals. Learn more … 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT