Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Cyber Corps NSF awards TU's Cyber Corps program nearly $5 million TU earns Cyber Ops designation > Cyber Corps Tandy School of Computer Science Cyber Corps Washington Post: Ethics of Hacking 101 Bloomberg: Tulsa Cyber Corps L.A. Times: Specialized training Science: Professional-caliber cyber skills CS Monitor: Secret Service unlocks phone data Do you have what it takes to join an intelligence agency? If so, you may wish to consider joining The University of Tulsa’s Cyber Corps. The program has fielded more than 350 students since the fall of 2001. Approximately 70 percent have gone on to pursue very successful careers with the NSA or CIA. Other graduates have taken positions with agencies such as DHS, FBI, NASA and the Department of Defense (DoD). TU’s Cyber Corps accepts students interested in computer science, computer engineering, electrical engineering, chemical engineering, mechanical engineering, applied physics, engineering physics or mathematics. The program also accommodates students who have strong expertise in computer science or computer engineering and are interested in pursuing law or business degrees. TU’s Cyber Corps is an NSA Center of Excellence in Cyber Operations. The mission of the center is to train students in the art and science of cyber warfare, preparing them for professional careers with the intelligence community and DoD. Students must be U.S. citizens with the ability to obtain TS//SCI clearances. Good grades and a passion for technology, problem solving and tradecraft is required. Fluency in a foreign language is an asset. Cyber Corps students are eligible for two scholarships, NSF’s Federal Cyber Service: Scholarship for Service and the Department of Defense’s Information Assurance Scholarship Program. The scholarships cover two years of study (junior level or higher) and can be extended. Both awards provide the following benefits: Nine-month stipend and room and board allowance of $34,000 ($25,000 for undergraduates) Free tuition, books and supplies Summer internship, typically in the Washington, D.C. area, that pays approximately $10,000 ($8,000 for undergraduates) Tulsa Cyber Corps students have the opportunity to work directly with government agency personnel, including U.S. Secret Service and FBI agents, on real problems involving computers, networks and embedded devices. Students often work alongside local, state and federal law enforcement on active criminal investigations, including extracting digital evidence from damaged cell phones and other electronic devices (see details from Science). TU Cyber Corps students helped Tulsa Police crack a triple homicide case that was profiled on the nationally-televised program Forensic Files (view case details). Students also perform penetration tests and risk assessments of major critical infrastructure assets, such as oil and gas pipelines, offshore oil and gas facilities, and electric and gas utilities (see details from Washington Post). For more information, contact Dr. Sujeet Shenoi at Sujeet@UTulsa.edu. The program accepts students every semester. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT