Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences > Research > Research Grants Awarded: College of Engineering and Natural Sciences Research Grants Awarded: College of Engineering and Natural Sciences RESEARCH Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Research at TU The following research grants and contracts have been awarded to the College of Engineering and Natural Sciences. June 2018 (latest report) EAGER: Evolutionary Responses to Endocrine System Dysregulation Tested Through Independent Losses of Salamander Metamorphosis Sponsored by: National Science Foundation Awarded to: Associate Professor of Biological Science Ronald Bonett Award total: $91,820 Embedding Verification Awareness in Self-Repairing Systems Sponsored by: U.S. Department of Defense – Air Force Office of Scientific Research Awarded to: Tandy Professor of Computer Science Engineering Rose Gamble Award total: $28,000 Information-Driven, Adaptive Distributed Planning Sponsored by: U.S. Department of Defense – Air Force Office of Scientific Research Awarded to: Tandy Professor of Computer Science Engineering Rose Gamble and Associate Professor of Computer Science Roger Mailler Award total: $106,962 Collaborative Research: Carbon-Helium-Argon Isotope Relations at High-3He/4He Hotspots and Implications for Mantle Dynamics Sponsored by: National Science Foundation Awarded to: McMan Professor of Geosciences Peter Michael Award total: $1,607 CAREER: Developing Robust Longitudinal Indicators and Early Warnings of Cybercrime Sponsored by: National Science Foundation Awarded to: Tandy Associate Professor of Cyber Security Tyler Moore Award total: $66,247 Thermoplasmonic Membrane Desalination Sponsored by: U.S. Department of the Interior – Reclamation Managing Water in the West Awarded to: Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering Todd Otanicar Award total: $105,741 Tulsa University Drilling Research Projects 2018-2019 Sponsored by: Various Business Awarded to: Wellspring Associate Professor of Petroleum Engineering, Professor of Chemistry Nicholas Takach, Professor of Petroleum Engineering Mengjiao Yu and Jonathan B. Detwiler Professor of Petroleum Engineering Stefan Miska Award total: $540,000 TU CoRE: Entrainment Fraction Measurement Sponsored by: Chevron Awarded to: Assistant Professor of Petroleum Engineering Eduardo Pereyra Award total: $85,000 Tulsa University Horizontal Well Artificial Lift Project (TUHWALP) Sponsored by: Various Business Awarded to: F.H. “Mick” Merelli/Cimarex Energy Professor of Petroleum Engineering and Assistant Professor of Petroleum Engineering Eduardo Pereyra Award total: $325,000 IPA Agreement Sponsored by: U.S. Department of Defense – National Security Agency Awarded to: F.P. Walter Professor of Computer Science Sujeet Shenoi Award total: $29,956 Tulsa University Erosion/Corrosion Research Center 2018-2019 Sponsored by: Various Business Awarded to: Professor of Mechanical Engineering Siamack Shirazi Award total: $504,000 Erosion-Corrosion Inhibition JIP/Consortia (ECIC) 2018-2019 Sponsored by: Various Business Awarded to: Professor of Mechanical Engineering Siamack Shirazi Award total: $60,000 Total: 11 projects, 1,944,333 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT