Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Latest information about COVID-19 Stanford Engineering Search this site Submit Search Menu Admission & Aid Graduate Admission Coterm Coterm Funding and Financial Aid Engineering Coterminal Fellowship Financial Aid Students & Academics Academics Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Online Learning Terman Engineering Award Terman Awards 2021-2022 Terman Awards 2020-2021 Terman Awards 2019-2020 Terman Award 2018-2019 Terman Awards 2017-2018 Terman Awards 2016-2017 Terman Awards 2015-2016 Terman Awards 2014-2015 Terman Awards 2013-2014 Terman Awards 2012-2013 Terman Awards 2011-2012 Terman Awards 2010-2011 Terman Awards 2009-2010 Terman Awards 2008-2009 Terman Awards 2007-2008 Terman Awards 2006-2007 Terman Awards 2005-2006 Terman Awards 2004-2005 Support and Resources Undergraduate Resources Graduate Resources Tutoring Career Resources Jobs and Internships Student Organizations Terman Engineering Library Global Engineering Programs Global Engineering Internships GEI Program Structure GEI Application Process GEI Frequently Asked Questions Internship Host Companies GEI Program Recommendation Travel Information Chinese UGVR Program UGVR Alumni Program Structure Host a UGVR Student About Equity and Inclusion Initiatives About the Equity and Inclusion Initiatives Our Student Community Undergraduate Programs Stanford Summer Engineering Academy (SSEA) SSEA 2021 Staff FAQs Summer Session Grants Additional Calculus for Engineers (ACE) Enroll in ACE Courses Become an ACE Course Assistant ACE Course List Prospective Graduate Programs Graduate Pathways to STEM Program At a Glance GPS Frequently Asked Questions Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship (SURF) Stanford Exposure to Research and Graduate Education (SERGE) Fee Waivers Graduate school frequently asked questions Graduate Programs Summer Opportunities in Engineering Research and Leadership (Summer First) NSF Research Exchange Program Student Societies Womxn of Color in Engineering (WOCE) Dean’s Graduate Student Advisory Council STEM K-12 Education Initiatives Funding and Financial Aid Funding Your Master’s Degree Funding Your PhD Teaching and Course Assistantships Technical Communication Program Consulting Request Form Frequently Asked Questions The Student Experience Faculty & Research Faculty Emeritus Faculty In Memoriam Events Departments Aeronautics & Astronautics Bioengineering Chemical Engineering Civil & Environmental Engineering Computer Science Electrical Engineering Management Science & Engineering Materials Science & Engineering Mechanical Engineering Institutes, Labs and Centers Faculty Awards Faculty Awards 2020-21 Faculty Awards 2019-2020 Faculty Awards 2018-2019 Faculty Awards 2016-2017 Faculty Awards 2015-2016 Faculty Awards 2014-2015 Faculty Awards 2012-2013 Faculty Awards 2011-2012 Faculty Awards 2010-2011 Faculty Awards 2009-2010 Faculty Awards 2008-2009 Faculty Awards 2007-2008 Faculty Awards 2006-2007 Faculty Awards 2005-2006 Get Involved Welcome Engineering Alumni Connect With Your Community Advance Your Career Explore Our Events Jumpstart Your Alumnihood Support Engineering Why Give Funding Initiatives Equity & Inclusion Stanford Data Science & Computation Complex Endowed Professorships Endowed Faculty Scholars Endowed Department Chairs Graduate Fellowships Faculty Launch Fund Hasso Plattner Institute of Design Engineering Fund Planned Giving How to Make Your Gift Development Contacts Industry Collaborations Gift Support Affiliate Programs Sponsored Research Recruiting Executive Education Technology Transfer/Technology Licensing About Dean Dean’s Office Directory Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Visit Location Inside the Engineering Quad Pillars History Persis S. Drell Heroes 2019 Heroes 2018 Heroes George and Alexandra “Sandra” Forsythe Jensen Huang Mae Jemison 2016 Heroes Martin Fisher Reed Hastings Perry McCarty 2015 Heroes Andreas Acrivos Marcian “Ted” Hoff Charles Simonyi 2014 Heroes Kenneth Arrow Sergey Brin Irmgard Flugge-Lotz Edward Ginzton Larry Page Sally Ride 2013 Heroes John A. Blume James H. Clark David Filo Martin Hellman John McCarthy William J. Perry Jerry Yang 2012 Heroes Craig Barrett Andreas Bechtolsheim Morris Chang George Dantzig Theodore Maiman Bradford Parkinson Calvin Quate Stephen Timoshenko 2011 Heroes Vint Cerf Ray Dolby William F. Durand William Hewlett Donald Knuth Charles Litton David Packard Fred Terman SoE-Future Vision Culture Education Impact Research The Catalyst for Collaborative Solutions White Papers The Committee Student Organizations Main navigation Skip to main content Secondary Navigation Academics Support and Resources Undergraduate Resources Graduate Resources Tutoring Career Resources Jobs and Internships Student Organizations Terman Engineering Library Global Engineering Programs Equity and Inclusion Initiatives Technical Communication Program The Student Experience Main content start American Indian Science and Engineering Society (AISES) The Stanford chapter of AISES actively promotes Native American students in the fields of engineering and science and encourages American Indian youth to enter the world of science and engineering. American Institute of Chemical Engineers (AIChE) The Stanford Chapter of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers (AIChE) is a campus group made up of chemical engineering students. The group’s goal is to foster interest in chemical engineering and teach students about the chemical engineering profession. American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) ASCE is the primary professional society in the U.S. focusing on civil engineering and is the world’s largest engineering society. ASCE produces a monthly civil engineering news magazine and other technical publications. It also hosts conferences, seminars, and competitions. Asia-Pacific Student Entrepreneurship Society (ASES) ASES Stanford is the founding organization of the Asia-Pacific Student Entrepreneurship Society, a global student organization that spans five countries. ASES organizes projects, conferences and programming aimed at educating and networking future leaders in business, technology, and entrepreneurship. Business Association of Stanford Entrepreneurial Students (BASES) The primary goal of BASES is to cultivate the next generation of entrepreneurs by facilitating networking and entrepreneurship education. Membership and participation is open to all students, both undergraduate and graduate, from all schools at Stanford. Engineers for a Sustainable World Engineers for a Sustainable World addresses engineering-based challenges of developing communities through partnerships that foster cultural, educational and technical exchange. Projects include post-Tsunami reconstruction work on the Andaman Islands. Materials Research Society The Materials Research Society brings together scientists, engineers and research managers from industry, government, academia and research laboratories to share findings in the research and development of new materials of technological importance. Mechanical Engineering Women’s Group The Mechanical Engineering Women’s Group aims to to foster a sense of community and environment of support among all graduate women in engineering at Stanford. The club hosts events that address topics of interest to women engineers. Optical Society of America Stanford OSA is a student-run organization interested in the promotion of optical science and technology. Students collaborate with national OSA, other student chapters, and groups like the Stanford Photonics Research Center to provide exciting educational, networking, and community outreach activities. Product Design Student Association The Product Design Students Association caters to the Stanford Product Design community, providing students with opportunities to learn more about product design, build a community, network with faculty, graduate students and alumni, and find jobs. Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (SIAM) The Stanford chapter promotes basic research in computational mathematics and scientific computing to the graduate and undergraduate community. It provides opportunities for student research presentations and the sharing of information and feedback, and fosters mentorship between Stanford students and industry experts. Society of Black Scientists and Engineers (SBSE) SBSE is dedicated to fulfilling the mission of NSBE, which is to increase the number of black engineers and scientists who excel academically, succeed professionally, and positively impact the community. NSBE named Stanford’s chapter “Most Distinguished” in 2004 and 2005. SBSE has continued a long tradition of programs on Stanford’s campus geared towards the successful recruitment, retention, and graduation of black scientists and engineers. Society of Women Engineers (SWE) SWE sponsors programs on women’s issues in engineering and works to encourage K-12 girls to have an interest in engineering and science. Stanford Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers The purpose of the Stanford student chapter of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers is to heighten student awareness of opportunities in electrical engineering by promoting interaction between students, faculty, practicing engineers, and local industry. Stanford Society Of LatinX Engineers (SOLE / SSCLES) The central purpose of SOLE (formerly SSCLES) is to increase the number of Latinos in the academic and professional areas of engineering and science. The group sponsors both academic and social programs and promotes academic and career development for both undergraduate and graduate students. Stanford Solar Car Project The Stanford Solar Car Project is a student-run, donation-funded project that has been building and racing solar-powered vehicles since 1986. In the 2005 American Solar Challenge, Stanford’s car won in the stock class. Stanford Solar provides hands-on experience for students in various fields of study and educates various groups on and off campus. Stanford Student Space Initiative The Stanford Student Space Initiative believes space exploration can happen on a Silicon Valley timeframe. The group aims to advance the next era of space exploration by focusing on building future leaders of the space industry, developing space-related technology and building a space community at Stanford. Tau Beta Pi Tau Beta Pi is the only engineering honor society representing the entire engineering profession. The California Gamma chapter of Tau Beta Pi at Stanford University serves the Stanford community by acting as a representative entity for academic excellence, leadership and continued service. Tutoring services and office hours, conducted regularly at the Huang Engineering Center, encourage peer performance in science, mathematics and engineering. Women in Computer Science (WICS) WICS is an organization within the Stanford computer science department whose purpose is to support and promote women in computer science by encouraging discussion and raising awareness of the issues they face. Women in Electrical Engineering (WEE) WEE aims to provide community, mentoring and enrichment for women students in EE at Stanford. WEE addresses women- specific issues and provide a place for networking among current graduate women and EE alumnae. Do you want to create your own student group? Connect to Student Activities and Leadership to learn more. Student group funding Print Stanford ENGINEERING Web Login Address 475 Via Ortega Stanford, CA 94305 United States Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Instagram Stanford Engineering Magazine Events Departments Open Faculty Positions Open Staff Positions Intranet Give Visit Contact Us Sign up for our email Your source for engineering research and ideas Research & Ideas email Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top