Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Give Now School of Engineering Brown University School of Engineering Brown University Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Search Search Menu Date October 12, 2021 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Bruce Caswell: In Memoriam Emeritus Professor of Engineering Bruce Caswell, 85, passed away on September 24, 2021. Bruce was born in Recife, Brazil, to English parents, and raised in Niteroi / Rio de Janeiro. He spent his high school years in Victoria, British Columbia, and graduated from the University of British Columbia with a degree in engineering. He received his Ph.D. in 1962 from Stanford University and joined the faculty at the University of California, Davis as an assistant professor. Bruce Caswell, lower right, with the CRUNCH Group. In 1966, he moved to Providence and joined the School of Engineering at Brown University, where he would spend the rest of his academic career. Professor Caswell’s main area of research was the numerical simulation of flow processes. “Bruce and I came to Brown the same year, in 1966,” said Emeritus Professor of Engineering Joseph T.C. Liu. “I remember Bruce and Robin threw a gigantic hayride party shortly after we came to Brown. He and I taught ENGN-7 (equivalent to ENGN-4 now) in the beginning together with the late Professor Jacques Duffy. Our offices were next to each other for many years and I treasured Bruce as a congenial colleague.” While he retired in 2002, Caswell was still active in research and held an appointment as a Professor of Engineering (Research) until his death. “Upon his retirement about 20 years ago, Bruce worked closely with the CRUNCH research group in the Division of Applied Mathematics, where he supervised over a dozen postdocs, Ph.D. students, and visitors,” said Charles Pitts Robinson and John Palmer Barstow Professor of Applied Mathematics and Engineering George Karniadakis. “He co-authored over 30 papers published in rheology and biomedical journals as well as in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.” Bruce was instrumental in developing, together with Karniadakis, a new area in complex fluids for mesoscale modeling of complex fluids including healthy and diseased blood such as malaria, sickle cell anemia, and diabetes. This work later was funded by the Department of Energy Collaboratory on Mathematics for Mesoscopic Modeling of Materials (CM4). Bruce traveled extensively for his work and pleasure. He was fluent in Portuguese and spent a year as a visiting professor at Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. He also spent a year each at University of Grenoble, France, and the University of Sydney, Australia. In more recent times he and his wife Robin enjoyed exploring the national parks in the West. Their Maine cottage afforded him much pleasure for his love of nature. There was always a carpentry project in process in his workshop in the barn. He enjoyed dancing, sailing, and a daily swim. Bruce was a kind and caring person with a great sense of humor and unfailing integrity. He is survived by his wife Robin, his two daughters Alexandra and Eloise, and five grandchildren. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Reservations Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Flickr Instagram LinkedIn Twitter YouTube © Brown University School of Engineering Brown University For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Bruce Caswell: In Memoriam Open details for Bruce Caswell: In Memoriam Bookmark this Page