Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Give Now School of Engineering Brown University School of Engineering Brown University Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Search Search Menu Frequently Asked Questions Breadcrumb Home Graduate Programs Admissions Sub Navigation In This Section FAQs School of Engineering Graduate School Application Start my Application Frequently Asked Questions Thank you for your interest in the School of Engineering at Brown University. We are pleased that you chose to learn more about our Graduate Program. Your questions are very important to us and we hope they will be answered by the Frequently Asked Questions listed below. If your question is not answered after reading the FAQs carefully, please contact us at engingrad@brown.edu and we will ensure that you receive a response via email from the appropriate party. Note: The School of Engineering and its faculty can only evaluate your eligibility for admission based on your entire record, which must be formally submitted through the online application for consideration. We highly encourage you to apply. Applying How do I apply? Applications to the School of Engineering must be completed on-line. You can upload supporting documents, i.e. letters of recommendation, statement of purpose, and a copy of your transcript/s for evaluation purposes only. When should I submit official college transcripts? If Brown University offers you admission to the Graduate School, the original transcript/s must be sent to: Graduate School Brown University 47 George Street Providence, RI 02912. Are GRE scores required? Yes. The Graduate School requires all applicants to submit GRE scores except for 5th Year Masters. Brown University's reporting code is 3094 Fees Unfortunately, we cannot process applications without an application fee. Application-fee waivers are available under certain circumstances. Applicants to Brown's graduate programs who are U.S. citizens or permanent residents and can demonstrate either financial need or participation in certain specialized programs listed on the fee-waiver application may apply for an application-fee waiver. Please note: application-fee waivers are not available for international applicants. Who should I contact with questions? Individual faculty should be contacted for specific questions regarding their research. Administrative questions about application materials should be directed to the Graduate School. Technical questions should be addressed to the faculty representative for each research area. Are TOEFL/IELTS scores required and what are the recommended levels? All international applicants whose native language is not English must submit an official Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) or International English Language Testing System (IELTS) score. These exams should be taken early enough to allow the scores to reach the Graduate school by your departmentís deadline. To be considered for admission in any department, TOEFL score must be: 577 Paper-based test 233 Computer-based test 90 Internet-based test IELTS Minimum overall band score of 7 Must be taken two years or less prior to filling out application form on line. For additional information on the TOEFL/IELTS requirements please see TOEFL/IELTS guidelines. Deadlines and Decisions What are the deadlines for applications? Date Program December 31 BME Ph.D. December 31 Ph.D. January 19 Design Engineering (MADE) February 1 Data-Enabled Computational Engineering and Science (DECES) February 1 Sc.M. for full consideration (except BME) February 15 PRIME April 15 BME Sc.M. May 1 Five-year Integrated Sc.M. (except BME) May 15 Sc.M. (except the Five-year Integrated Sc.M.). Applications received by February 1 will receive full consideration. May 31 BME five-year integrated Sc.M. How will I know when I have been admitted? Once your application is complete and all supporting documents are received, the School of Engineering will review your application and will make the decision to admit applicants. The admission decision will be posted on CollegeNet so we encourage you to check it. The official notification will be sent through the Graduate School. Programs What Programs are available? Biomedical Engineering Chemical and Environmental Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Fluids and Thermal Sciences Materials Science Mechanics of Solids Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship (PRIME) Should I apply to the Ph.D. or Sc.M. Program? If your ultimate objective is to receive a Ph.D., you should apply to the Ph.D. Program. It is possible to be considered for the master's program if you were not accepted into the Ph.D. program - contact kathy_diorio@brown.edu. A master's degree on the way to Ph.D. is possible but it requires advisor approval. What is the PRIME Program? Is an engineering background required for applicants? The Program in Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship (PRIME) is primarily designed for students who have an engineering or science undergraduate background (this includes applied mathematics and computer science). Students from an industrial design background may qualify. For additional questions regarding this highly selective program please contact prime@brown.edu. How many courses do I need to take? Sc.M. Program requires eight (8) courses. There is also an optional thesis track Sc.M., which requires (8) courses plus completion of a research project and writing a master's thesis. Ph.D. Program has different course requirements, depending on the research group. Financial Aid Does Brown University offer financial support for incoming students? Students who are admitted to any of Brown's doctoral programs are guaranteed five years of support, including a stipend, tuition remission, health-service fee, and health-insurance subsidy. Master's students are self supported, (or often are funded by their companies.) Does Brown offer fellowships? Doctoral fellowships are awarded either by the Graduate School or the School of Engineering. It covers tuition and a monthly stipend. Recipient can take a maximum of 8 courses and conduct research with any member of the faculty. Some fellowships are named and are awarded to exceptional students. Such awards may carry additional benefits, such as travel support, etc. Does Brown offer Research Assistantships? Most of our Ph.D. students are supported with Research Assistantship (RA) appointments which pay tuition and a monthly stipend. In return, the student works with a faculty member, an average of 20 hours a week. The RA appointment is usually renewed each semester, and during summer, assuming good progress is being made towards a thesis. RAs are restricted to a maximum of three courses per semester. Does Brown offer Teaching Assistantships? A few full Teaching Assistantship (TA) positions are available, which pay for tuition and a stipend. These positions are not common and are usually given to senior graduate students. Students should not plan to support themselves through TA appointments. Additional Funding Information Some students are admitted without financial aid, but they are usually admitted to the master's degree program only. The U.S. Government will not issue a visa to a foreign student who does not have proof that they can support themselves financially. Learn more about financial aid at Brown or get more information about financial aid for graduate students: Ph.D. Funding Master's Funding Timeline How long does it take to get a degree? Program Time Ph.D. It varies and depends on the student's preparation and his particular research project (typical Ph.D. programs last 4-6 years). Non-Thesis Sc.M. The prescribed sequence is three courses the first semester, three courses the second semester, and two courses the third. Thesis Sc.M. The prescribed sequence is three courses the first semester, two courses the second semester (plus research), two courses the third (plus research), and one course the final semester. How long does it take to get an Sc.M. degree? The standard non-thesis sequence is three semesters, with three courses taken in the first semester, three in the second, and two in the third. The standard thesis sequence is four semesters with three courses taken in the first semester, two courses in the second, two courses in the third semester, and one in the final semester. How does the tuition work? If I take three semesters to do the Sc.M., am I paying more than I would in two semesters? The tuition for the eight required courses is spread over three semesters, with 3/4 of a semester's tuition charged in each of the first two semesters, and 1/2 of a semester's tuition charged in the third. Any deviation in the number of courses taken per semester may result in additional tuition charges/financial penalties. Can I complete the Sc.M. in two semesters? All 5th year master's students can complete in one-year. In rare circumstances this may be possible for regular Sc.M. students, however additional tuition units will be charged. What if I don't finish my thesis after the fourth semester? We expect this case to be very uncommon, but in this case the student must leave campus with the status 'enrollment terminated, requirements pending', and the thesis work must be completed elsewhere. School of Engineering Graduate School Application Start my Application Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Reservations Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Flickr Instagram LinkedIn Twitter YouTube © Brown University School of Engineering Brown University For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Frequently Asked Questions Open details for Frequently Asked Questions Bookmark this Page