Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Engineering Physics Undergraduate Programs My TU Story TU is leader in physics degrees for women My TU Story Photovoltaic research supports extended space exploration > Department of Physics and Engineering Physics > Engineering Physics Undergraduate Programs PHYSICS & ENGINEERING PHYSICS Accreditation Physics Undergraduate Programs Engineering Physics Undergraduate Programs Research Faculty Facilities News Contact the Department Apply Find Admission Counselor Request Information The Bachelor of Science degree in Engineering Physics is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commissionof ABET (https://www.abet.org). This engineering program is designed to prepare engineering physicists for careers in the fast-paced, evolving world of engineering or in areas that overlap the traditional boundaries between science and engineering disciplines. The physics and mathematics requirements for this program are similar to those of the B.S. in Physics. However, in addition to those requirements, students take an additional 30 credit hours of engineering courses. These courses focus on one area of engineering, known as the engineering physics concentration. The degree’s curriculum provides both the scientific foundation as well as the advanced technological knowledge required in engineering. As a result, this program provides the flexibility for students to obtain physics or engineering positions immediately after graduation or pursue graduate studies in physics (e.g. from solid state physics to astrophysics), in an engineering discipline (e.g. electrical, mechanical, or nanoengineering) or in professional programs such as medicine or law. Program Objectives BACHELOR OF SCIENCE Students who complete one of the undergraduate programs will have: The knowledge to successfully enter and complete programs of graduate study in one of several engineering fields as well as in physics. The skills to be able to function as productive, qualified engineering professionals in areas where traditional science and engineering disciplines overlap. An awareness of the importance of continued professional development. Degree Options Engineering Physics, Bioengineering Option, B.S.E.P. Designed for students who want to focus on bioengineering. Engineering Physics, Electrical Engineering Option, B.S.E.P. Chose from several concentrations: Electronics, Electro-Optical Communications, Digital Communications, or Robotics. Engineering Physics, Mechanical Engineering Option, B.S.E.P. Chose from several concentrations: Materials Processing, Dynamical Systems, or Thermal-Fluid Systems. Typical Four-Year Schedule FRESHMAN – FALL SEMESTER FRESHMAN – SPRING SEMESTER The World of Physics General Physics II + Lab Physics I + Lab Scientific Programming General Chemistry 1 + Lab Calculus II Calculus 1 Block I* Exposition and Argumentation Statics SOPHOMORE – FALL SEMESTER SOPHOMORE – SPRING SEMESTER General Physics III + Lab General Elective Dynamics Mathematical Physics Block I Differential Equations Calculus III Circuits + Lab Thermodynamics Block II JUNIOR – FALL SEMESTER JUNIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Electricity & Magnetism Classical Mechanics Solid-State Electronic Devices Physics Instrumentation Lab II Physics Instrumentation Lab I Engineering Elective Engineering Elective Engineering Elective English Math Elective Block II SENIOR – FALL SEMESTER SENIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Quantum Mechanics I Quantum Mechanics II Senior Research Project I Electromagnetic Waves and Optics Engineering Elective Senior Research Project II Engineering Elective Engineering Elective Block II** General Elective Block II *Selection from Tulsa Curriculum’s Aesthetic Inquiry & Creative Expression courses and ** from Historical & Social Interpretation courses Professional Opportunities Engineering physicist Manufacturing engineer Nanoengineering technician Robotics engineer 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT