Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Latest information about COVID-19 Stanford Engineering Search this site Submit Search Menu Admission & Aid Graduate Admission Coterm Coterm Funding and Financial Aid Engineering Coterminal Fellowship Financial Aid Students & Academics Academics Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Online Learning Terman Engineering Award Terman Awards 2021-2022 Terman Awards 2020-2021 Terman Awards 2019-2020 Terman Award 2018-2019 Terman Awards 2017-2018 Terman Awards 2016-2017 Terman Awards 2015-2016 Terman Awards 2014-2015 Terman Awards 2013-2014 Terman Awards 2012-2013 Terman Awards 2011-2012 Terman Awards 2010-2011 Terman Awards 2009-2010 Terman Awards 2008-2009 Terman Awards 2007-2008 Terman Awards 2006-2007 Terman Awards 2005-2006 Terman Awards 2004-2005 Support and Resources Undergraduate Resources Graduate Resources Tutoring Career Resources Jobs and Internships Student Organizations Terman Engineering Library Global Engineering Programs Global Engineering Internships GEI Program Structure GEI Application Process GEI Frequently Asked Questions Internship Host Companies GEI Program Recommendation Travel Information Chinese UGVR Program UGVR Alumni Program Structure Host a UGVR Student About Equity and Inclusion Initiatives About the Equity and Inclusion Initiatives Our Student Community Undergraduate Programs Stanford Summer Engineering Academy (SSEA) SSEA 2021 Staff FAQs Summer Session Grants Additional Calculus for Engineers (ACE) Enroll in ACE Courses Become an ACE Course Assistant ACE Course List Prospective Graduate Programs Graduate Pathways to STEM Program At a Glance GPS Frequently Asked Questions Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship (SURF) Stanford Exposure to Research and Graduate Education (SERGE) Fee Waivers Graduate school frequently asked questions Graduate Programs Summer Opportunities in Engineering Research and Leadership (Summer First) NSF Research Exchange Program Student Societies Womxn of Color in Engineering (WOCE) Dean’s Graduate Student Advisory Council STEM K-12 Education Initiatives Funding and Financial Aid Funding Your Master’s Degree Funding Your PhD Teaching and Course Assistantships Technical Communication Program Consulting Request Form Frequently Asked Questions The Student Experience Faculty & Research Faculty Emeritus Faculty In Memoriam Events Departments Aeronautics & Astronautics Bioengineering Chemical Engineering Civil & Environmental Engineering Computer Science Electrical Engineering Management Science & Engineering Materials Science & Engineering Mechanical Engineering Institutes, Labs and Centers Faculty Awards Faculty Awards 2020-21 Faculty Awards 2019-2020 Faculty Awards 2018-2019 Faculty Awards 2016-2017 Faculty Awards 2015-2016 Faculty Awards 2014-2015 Faculty Awards 2012-2013 Faculty Awards 2011-2012 Faculty Awards 2010-2011 Faculty Awards 2009-2010 Faculty Awards 2008-2009 Faculty Awards 2007-2008 Faculty Awards 2006-2007 Faculty Awards 2005-2006 Get Involved Welcome Engineering Alumni Connect With Your Community Advance Your Career Explore Our Events Jumpstart Your Alumnihood Support Engineering Why Give Funding Initiatives Equity & Inclusion Stanford Data Science & Computation Complex Endowed Professorships Endowed Faculty Scholars Endowed Department Chairs Graduate Fellowships Faculty Launch Fund Hasso Plattner Institute of Design Engineering Fund Planned Giving How to Make Your Gift Development Contacts Industry Collaborations Gift Support Affiliate Programs Sponsored Research Recruiting Executive Education Technology Transfer/Technology Licensing About Dean Dean’s Office Directory Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Visit Location Inside the Engineering Quad Pillars History Persis S. Drell Heroes 2019 Heroes 2018 Heroes George and Alexandra “Sandra” Forsythe Jensen Huang Mae Jemison 2016 Heroes Martin Fisher Reed Hastings Perry McCarty 2015 Heroes Andreas Acrivos Marcian “Ted” Hoff Charles Simonyi 2014 Heroes Kenneth Arrow Sergey Brin Irmgard Flugge-Lotz Edward Ginzton Larry Page Sally Ride 2013 Heroes John A. Blume James H. Clark David Filo Martin Hellman John McCarthy William J. Perry Jerry Yang 2012 Heroes Craig Barrett Andreas Bechtolsheim Morris Chang George Dantzig Theodore Maiman Bradford Parkinson Calvin Quate Stephen Timoshenko 2011 Heroes Vint Cerf Ray Dolby William F. Durand William Hewlett Donald Knuth Charles Litton David Packard Fred Terman SoE-Future Vision Culture Education Impact Research The Catalyst for Collaborative Solutions White Papers The Committee Graduate Resources Main navigation Skip to main content Secondary Navigation Academics Support and Resources Undergraduate Resources Graduate Resources Tutoring Career Resources Jobs and Internships Student Organizations Terman Engineering Library Global Engineering Programs Equity and Inclusion Initiatives Technical Communication Program The Student Experience Main content start The school, departments and university all are home to programs and services designed to support graduate students. Student Services As a graduate student in the Stanford School of Engineering, your primary resource for guidance and information about academic requirements, deadlines and procedures is your departmental student services manager. Office of Student Affairs The Office of Student Affairs is located in the Dean’s office in the School of Engineering. Student Affairs works with our departments to make sure that graduate financial and academic policies are well understood and implemented fairly — at the university, school and department level — and to develop administrative support for all aspects of graduate education. A graduate student’s first line of communication is usually at the department level (your advisor and your department student services office), but please come to our office if there are questions or issues that need further explanation. Graduate Student Policies and Procedures The GAP (Graduate Academic Policies and Procedures) includes policies such as pregnancy, childbirth and adoption leave options and support and other leaves of absence options. Degree requirements, milestones, tuition, fees and many more vital pieces of information are contained in your departmental handbooks/websites, and in related university sites. The most relevant for graduate students include the Stanford Bulletin, the Research Policy Handbook and the Registrar’s Office. Stanford’s Gateway for New Graduate Students also provides a very useful compendium of services, information, and programs for continuing students as well as new. Vice Provost for Graduate Education The Office of the VPGE works collaboratively across the university to enrich students’ academic experiences, advancing diversity, preparing leasers, and positioning Stanford at the forefront of innovation in graduate education. Engineering doctoral and master’s students contribute to and benefit from VPGE’s programs promoting professional development, interdisciplinary learning, fellowship programs and many forms of educational innovation. Financial Aid Many resources are available to help you fund graduate study. Each graduate department manages fellowships, research assistantships and teaching assistantships for graduate students; in addition, many students hold external fellowships (NSF, NDSEG, or equivalent international awards) or Stanford-wide fellowships. The VPGE’s “Graduate Student Funding” offers a useful guide to these external and University-wide programs. The university’s Financial Aid Office administers some need-based funding for graduate students, including the Grant-in-Aid program and federal loan programs, in addition to managing all support for Stanford’s undergraduates. All SoE PhD students who are in good standing relative to their PhD program requirements should be funded to the department’s 20-hour-RA level (which provides full payment of tuition and a salary/stipend consistent with the SOE-recommended minimum stipend). Arranging for this funding is the responsibility of the department and the faculty PhD advisor, and can include fellowships, research assistantships, training grants and teaching assistantships. Often, our PhD students apply for and may receive individual fellowships which can reduce the department’s or advisor’s cost of funding. In these cases, the guarantee of funding to the student will include the fellowship award and additional support from the department/advisor to reach the department-standard level. For educational purposes, departments and advisors may encourage their students to apply for such fellowships and provide resources to strengthen their applications; however, no department or faculty member may require students to obtain external individual funding or to “self-fund” as a condition of admission, entry to or continuation in the PhD. Full PhD information Research Opportunities At the School of Engineering, departments have different program requirements – some require research, others don’t. Some PhD programs match students with research advisors before matriculation, others expect you to find your own placement. The departments have varied policies and procedures, so it is important to read your graduate handbook and communicate with your student services office frequently. If you are graduate student who was not assigned a research placement upon admission, there are a few ways to find research opportunities on your own. Check out department and lab websites, do literature searches, and find faculty members you would like to work with. Put together your resume and transcripts, and compose an e-mail asking for a lab rotation. Some labs have open meetings that you can attend to get a feel for the people and projects. Be assertive, and don’t give up if you don’t hear back right away. Go to office hours and be persistent. If you have a fellowship, be sure to let the faculty member know, and if you are willing to volunteer, there will be more incentive to bring you on board. If you have questions or need guidance on this, please reach out to your student services manager. Print Stanford ENGINEERING Web Login Address 475 Via Ortega Stanford, CA 94305 United States Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Instagram Stanford Engineering Magazine Events Departments Open Faculty Positions Open Staff Positions Intranet Give Visit Contact Us Sign up for our email Your source for engineering research and ideas Research & Ideas email Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top