2022 Thayer Investiture Undergraduate Graduate Research Entrepreneurship Community About ThayerExpress Faculty Offices Visit Apply Give Undergraduate Undergraduate Engineering at Dartmouth Bachelor's Degrees Bachelor of Arts Bachelor of Engineering Dual-Degree Program Undergraduate Experience Engineering Design Research & Entrepreneurship Opportunities Study Abroad Project Spaces & Labs Student Life & Housing Life After Dartmouth Quick Links AB – Engineering Majors AB – Engineering Minors AB+BE – Degree Program BE – Program Examples Undergraduate Courses Courses for Non-majors Schedules & Textbooks Academic Calendar Career Services Program Areas Biological / Chemical Biomedical Electrical / Computer Energy Materials Science Mechanical / Operations / Systems Graduate Graduate Engineering at Dartmouth Master's Degrees Master of Science Master of Engineering Master of Engineering Management Doctoral Degrees Doctor of Philosophy PhD Innovation Program PhD + Doctor of Medicine Graduate Experience Engineering Design Online Certificates Collaborative Programs Degree Outcomes Student Life & Housing Quick Links Graduate Courses Schedules & Textbooks Academic Calendar Grad Student Handbook Career Services Program Areas Biological / Chemical Biomedical Electrical / Computer Energy Materials Science Mechanical / Operations / Systems Research Engineering Research at Dartmouth Research by Program Area Biological / Chemical Biomedical Electrical / Computer Energy Materials Science Mechanical / Operations / Systems Research by Activity Research News Active Projects Laboratories Libraries Collaborative Programs Undergraduate Research Research Opportunities Entrepreneurship Engineering Entrepreneurship at Dartmouth Startups listed by Startup Names Faculty Founders Research Programs Patents listed by Patent Titles Faculty Inventors Research Programs Explore Resources Entrepreneurship News Entrepreneurship Education Magnuson Center for Entrepreneurship Dartmouth Regional Technology Center Technology Transfer Office Entrepreneurship & Technology Transfer Community Dartmouth Engineering Community Community Info Faculty Leadership Offices Student Groups Undergrad Life Graduate Life Alumni Giving Magazine News Events Academic Calendar Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Flickr About About Dartmouth Engineering About Us Visit Facts History Leadership Diversity Disability Financial Aid Scholarships Transcripts Enrollment Verification Employment COVID-19 ThayerExpress Faculty Offices Give Apply Visit Undergraduate Bachelor's Degrees Bachelor of Arts Bachelor of Engineering Dual-Degree Program Undergraduate Experience Engineering Design Research & Entrepreneurship Opportunities Study Abroad Project Spaces & Labs Student Life & Housing Life After Dartmouth Quick Links AB – Engineering Majors AB – Engineering Minors AB+BE – Degree Program BE – Program Examples Undergraduate Courses Courses for Non-majors Schedules & Textbooks Academic Calendar Career Services Program Areas Biological / Chemical Biomedical Electrical / Computer Energy Materials Science Mechanical / Operations / Systems Graduate Master's Degrees Master of Science Master of Engineering Master of Engineering Management Doctoral Degrees Doctor of Philosophy PhD Innovation Program PhD + Doctor of Medicine Graduate Experience Engineering Design Online Certificates Collaborative Programs Degree Outcomes Student Life & Housing Quick Links Graduate Courses Schedules & Textbooks Academic Calendar Grad Student Handbook Career Services Program Areas Biological / Chemical Biomedical Electrical / Computer Energy Materials Science Mechanical / Operations / Systems Research Research by Program Area Biological / Chemical Biomedical Electrical / Computer Energy Materials Science Mechanical / Operations / Systems Research by Activity Research News Active Projects Laboratories Libraries Collaborative Programs Undergraduate Research Research Opportunities Entrepreneurship Startups listed by Startup Names Faculty Founders Research Programs Patents listed by Patent Titles Faculty Inventors Research Programs Explore Resources Entrepreneurship News Entrepreneurship Education Magnuson Center for Entrepreneurship Dartmouth Regional Technology Center Technology Transfer Office Entrepreneurship & Technology Transfer Community Community Info Faculty Leadership Offices Student Groups Undergrad Life Graduate Life Alumni Giving Magazine News Events Academic Calendar Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Flickr About About Us Visit Facts History Leadership Diversity Disability Financial Aid Scholarships Transcripts Enrollment Verification Employment COVID-19 Menu Close Back Home  |  Graduate  |  MEng Master of Engineering Degree Program Dartmouth's Master of Engineering (MEng) degree program prepares students for a professional career in engineering by covering both basic science and its application to practical problem-solving. This nine-course, non-thesis degree is flexible and tailored to individual student interest. The degree can be undertaken either full-time for nine months, or part-time over several years. On This Page Overview Areas of Study Design Project Elective Requirements & Guidelines Tuition & Expenses Financial Aid Admissions Request Info Loading... × Visit Apply Overview "Thayer is a call for action, an innovative hub, and a place to laugh all in one. And arguably most important, is a place to learn that we will all make a difference in our respective communities." —Stephanie Emenyonu '16 Th'17 '18 Flexible & Streamlined Dartmouth's MEng: can be completed in three terms is course-based does not require the completion of a thesis offers engineering design project elective Graduates acquire: basic competency in applied mathematics and engineering breadth of engineering knowledge through elective courses depth of engineering through courses specific to their areas of study project leadership skills Areas of Study Dartmouth MEng students can tailor their degree to their individual interests by choosing one of the six areas of study: Biological/Chemical Biological/chemical engineering exists at the interface of engineering, biological, and chemical sciences. This interdisciplinary field brings to bear fundamental design principles to both elucidate and modulate the function of biological systems, ranging in scale from molecular to cellular to whole organisms. Learn More Biomedical Biomedical engineering is the broad area of study in which engineers use an interdisciplinary approach to solve problems in the medical field, often associated with the interaction between living and non-living systems. The program is intended for engineers who want to add depth to their knowledge or acquire new specialized knowledge in biomedical engineering. Learn More Electrical/Computer Electrical/computer engineering leverages the fundamental principles surrounding electricity to advance today’s emerging technologies ranging from semiconductor devices to advanced communication networks, from self-powered sensors to electric cars, from wearable devices to cognitive medical imaging, and from autonomous vehicles to smart cities. Learn More Energy Energy is a major determinant of world events and quality of life. Energy engineering brings to bear the spectrum of engineering disciplines on challenges and opportunities involving energy, recognizing social, political, and economic contexts. Learn More Materials Science The study of materials science and engineering relates the properties of materials—chemical, electrical, magnetic, mechanical, optical—to their internal architecture or microstructure. Learn More Mechanical Mechanical engineers apply principles of engineering to the design, analysis, and manufacture of machines ranging from power systems, industrial equipment, and vehicles to athletic equipment and medical devices. Learn More Design Project Elective Combining engineering design with elements of human-centered design, this elective three-course sequence is open to students in all MEng areas of study to provide real-world training through design coursework and completion of an industry-sponsored project. Sponsored Project Working directly with an industry sponsor to address a particular design challenge, students gain unique leadership skills and hands-on technical experience. Projects are sourced through the Cook Engineering Design Center (CEDC). Interested students who are accepted into the MEng program are interviewed before enrollment about their professional interests to facilitate matching of students with potential projects. Required Courses (3) MEng students enrolled in the design project elective must substitute the following three-course sequence for three of the four elective courses required as part of the degree requirements and areas of study outlines. ENGM 191: Product Design and Development ENGG 199.1: MEng Design Project Initiation ENGG 199.11: MEng Design Project Completion Requirements & Guidelines Advisors An individual faculty advisor aids each student in developing their program, which is submitted to and approved by the MS-PhD Committee during the student's first term of residency. Residency and Program Duration The residency requirement of the MEng is flexible and is fulfilled through course attendance. Full-time students complete the program in three terms (nine months), taking three courses at a time. Part-time students can take one or two courses at a time over five or more terms. Students interested in pursuing a summer internship should visit the Career Services Job & Internship Search Tools webpage for more information and support. Course Requirements The program consists of nine courses in one of the six MEng areas of study, of which five should be from the list of core courses. The remaining four electives can consist of any graduate-level engineering or science courses at Dartmouth. For students with no engineering background, additional courses may be required. Six graduate courses may be double-counted in the BE and MEng programs beyond those courses required for the AB. Additional Guidelines For a one-course research experience, students can elect ENGG 192: Independent or Group Study in Engineering Sciences. With the exception of ENGM 191, which must be elected as part of the MEng Design Project, MEng students may not take ENGM courses for credit. Students may be allowed to transition to either the MS or PhD degree programs with the approval of the MS-PhD Committee, and at the invitation of a faculty member willing to sponsor them. Students enrolled in either the MS or PhD programs can only transition to the MEng upon request from their faculty advisor. Tuition & Expenses The following estimated expenses are for academic calendar 2021–2022. For a detailed breakdown, see Dartmouth Tuition and Fees. Students without their own health insurance must purchase a Dartmouth health insurance policy. Part-time enrollment is available. For more information, contact us. Tuition $19,651 per term Tuition covers instruction and use of instructional facilities. Fees $3,988–$5,802 per term Fees include health access/insurance, housing, student activities/services, class dues, etc. Total Cost $71,000–$77,000 per academic year The estimated total cost of a year — including tuition, books, room, board, and incidentals — not including meal plan options. Financial Aid Financial Aid Dartmouth Engineering offers need-based aid in the form of partial tuition scholarships to eligible MEng students capped at 40% of tuition. Students must submit their financial aid materials at the time of application. Late applications may be accepted, but awards will be capped at 20% based on budget availability. Apply for Financial Aid Loans Full-time MEng students, who are also US citizens, are eligible to apply for Federal Direct Stafford Loans and Federal Perkins Loans through the Dartmouth Financial Aid Office. The application requires submission of the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) form (available at fafsa.ed.gov) and the Dartmouth Graduate Financial Aid application form. For more information, please visit Graduate Student Financial Aid. Admissions Start Your Application Financial Aid & Scholarships Application Deadline & Instructions Applications are accepted on a rolling basis. Students may enter in the Fall, Winter or Spring terms. International applicants requiring a visa must apply at least three months prior to the intended entry date. See the academic calendar for term schedules. Only complete applications will be considered for admission. (See application instructions for full details). A complete application includes: the online application form a $50 application fee three letters of recommendation the essay(s) a transcript from each college and/or university attended TOEFL or IELTS scores for those applicants whose native language is not English. Note: Graduate Record Examination (GRE) scores for MEng applicants will NOT be required nor considered during the 2021–2022 admissions cycle. Eligibility & Requirements Applicants with an accredited bachelor's level degree in engineering or with bachelor's level degrees in scientific fields such as physics, chemistry, and computer sciences are encouraged to apply. The background engineering knowledge and skills of applicants without an accredited bachelor's level engineering degree will be considered on a case-by-case basis by the admissions committee. Non-holders of accredited engineering degrees may be required to take the necessary prerequisite courses in addition to the requirements of the MEng degree. Students whose native language is not English must also submit evidence of satisfactory completion of Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) or the International English Language Testing System (IELTS) scores. Interviews Applicants who are unable to visit campus and are finalists in the admission process may be asked to interview via videoconference. Contact Information Graduate Admissions Thayer School of Engineering at Dartmouth 15 Thayer Drive, Hanover, NH 03755 engineering.admissions@dartmouth.edu +1 (603) 646-2606 Join our mailing list to learn more about Dartmouth Engineering and get updates. 15 Thayer Drive, Hanover, NH 03755 +1 (603) 646-2230 Undergraduate Graduate Research Entrepreneurship Community About ThayerExpress Faculty Offices Visit Apply Give Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Flickr © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • A-Z Index • Privacy • Feedback