Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Research RESEARCH Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Research at TU The signature feature of all TU engineering and natural sciences academic programs is the opportunity for undergraduate students to step into a laboratory and conduct pioneering, enlightening research. Our initiatives prepare students for post-graduate work and have contributed to many Goldwater and National Science Foundation student scholarships and awards. Our students proudly represent the engineering and natural sciences college at TU’s annual Research Colloquium and in the university’s exclusive Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) program. Beyond campus, students are recognized for their innovative ideas and hard work with distinguished awards at technical conferences, research paper contests and other competitions. In the summer, TU faculty devote hundreds of mentoring hours to students in other university research initiatives including: Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) Chemistry Summer Undergraduate Research Program (CSURP) Summer Undergraduate Research Program in Physics Learn more about individual research in a specific discipline by visiting the respective department pages. Faculty in Research Our approachable, accomplished faculty are some of the top researchers in their fields, using their leadership and dedication to help advance the College of Engineering and Natural Sciences. Through technical expertise and a caring spirit, TU faculty apply inspiring and fun research projects to cultivate students’ passion for learning. Research Consortia Over the past 80 years, TU’s educational objectives and research facilities have become an international leader in petroleum engineering and energy education. Strong ties to the industry have drawn significant research funding to TU and enabled our programs to add a real world perspective. Learn more our progressive research initiatives and facilities in Centers, Institutes and Consortia. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT