Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Biochemistry Undergraduate Programs MY TU STORY Lyme Disease diagnosis leads Homecoming Queen Meghan Harrison to undergrad research My TU Story Camden Schinnerer wins Fulbright ETA award > Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry > Biochemistry Undergraduate Programs https://youtu.be/m52ziOOb2ls CHEMISTRY & BIOCHEMISTRY Chemistry Undergraduate Programs Biochemistry Undergraduate Programs Research Faculty Facilities News Contact the Department Apply Find Admission Counselor Request Information Biochemistry involves the science of chemical and physical elements in living things and the biological functions of cell generation and progression. Many of biochemistry’s original theories on biochemical action and basic experimentation have experienced a revolutionary modernization and now are much more broad. In addition to health sciences, biochemistry has become a powerful science in private industry, ranging from the analysis of pollutant decomposition to new drug testing. Among many other skills, biochemists isolate, analyze and synthesize proteins, enzymes, DNA, and other molecules. They also research the effects of substances such as drugs, hormones and food on biological processes. TU’s Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry in the College of Engineering and Natural Sciences offers bachelor of science and master of science degrees in biochemistry. The undergraduate program begins with a one-semseter introduction to biochemistry and builds on a foundation of basic science. Two semesters of biochemistry courses anchor a rich upper level curriculum in biology and chemistry. Through TU’s customized dual program, students have the option to complete biochemistry bachelor’s and master’s degrees in five years. Program Objectives Bachelor of Science in Chemistry/Biochemistry Students who complete the undergraduate program should be able to: Describe the structure, composition and properties of various chemical substances. Plan the synthesis of various inorganic and organic substances. Characterize substances based upon analysis of their physical and chemical properties. Use theories of microscopic properties to explain macroscopic behavior. Explain the role of energy in determining structure and reactivity. Employ chemical theory to explain the rate and outcome of chemical reactions. Core Skills – Upon completion of the undergraduate program, students should have developed a set of core skills which they use in approaching the fundamental concepts. These include the ability to: Conduct meaningful and successful experiments. Communicate results. Think critically. Apply ethical reasoning. Extend results through lifelong learning. Degree Options Biochemistry, B.S.B. Features courses in chemistry, physics, mathematics, writing, humanities and biology while requiring interactive laboratory experience and a senior research project, and prepares students for careers in health-related disciplines. Chemistry Minor Study the atomic and molecular properties of materials and acquire a background in general and organic chemistry. Neuroscience Minor Provides foundational knowledge of the structure and function of the brain and nervous system. Typical Four-Year Schedule FRESHMAN – FALL SEMESTER FRESHMAN – SPRING SEMESTER Introduction to Chemistry General Chemistry II and Lab General Chemistry I and Lab Cell and Molecular Biology Evolutionary Biology Calculus II Calculus I Block I - Aesthetic Inquiry and Creative Experience Exposition and Argumentation Introduction to Biochemistry SOPHOMORE – FALL SEMESTER SOPHOMORE – SPRING SEMESTER Organic Chemistry I and Lab Organic Chemistry II and Lab General Physics I and Lab General Physics II and Lab Block I - Aesthetic Inquiry and Creative Experience Block II - Historical and Social Interpretation Molecular Modeling General Elective Sophomore Seminar JUNIOR – FALL SEMESTER JUNIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Physical Chemistry I and Lab Biochemistry II and Lab Genetics or Biology Elective Biology Elective Biochemistry I General Elective Writing for the Professions Instrumental Analysis I and Lab Block II - Historical and Social Interpretation Junior Seminar SENIOR – FALL SEMESTER SENIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Instrumental Analysis II and Lab Block II - Historical and Social Interpretation Senior Seminar Chemistry/Advanced Science Elective (w/ one lab) General Elective Senior Thesis Chemistry Elective General Elective Professional Opportunities Biomedical engineer Epidemiologist Agricultural & food scientist Microbiologist Chemist & materials scientist Physician 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT