Engineering Physics Certificate Program Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Engineering Physics Certificate Program Main Menu Menu Home Program Details Faculty Departments Awards Log in Search Search Engineering Physics Certificate Program Interdisciplinary areas in physical sciences in engineering such as energy, environment, materials, microelectronics and photonics promise to become increasingly relevant in the twenty-first century. The Program in Engineering Physics, which provides students with a fundamental knowledge of physics, together with problem-solving skills, and an understanding of engineering, is designed to address the needs of students seeking innovative careers in today’s technological age. In addition, it allows students to keep their options open between physical sciences and engineering. Following completion of the engineering physics program, students typically enter careers in engineering, applied science or applied physics through research, teaching or entrepreneurial engineering. Past graduates have also pursued other careers as diverse as medicine, business and law. The program offers a unique combination of engineering, mathematics and physics, and is accredited for all participants by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology. It is directed towards students who have interest and ability in both engineering and physics. For engineering majors, in addition to courses in those subjects fundamental to the student’s field of interest, the program requires courses in quantum mechanics and encourages study of subjects as electromagnetism, statistical mechanics, thermodynamics, condensed matter physics, mathematical physics, complex analysis and partial differential equations. For physics majors, the program requires courses in engineering design plus specialization in such topics as solid-state electronics, fluid mechanics, optics/optoelectronics, computers and computational methods, control theory or a variety of other applied disciplines. An engineering physics certificate is awarded upon graduation to students successfully completing the program. Exceptionally outstanding students are awarded the Jeffery O. Kephart ’80 Prize (maximum of one per year). Requirements Any student who satisfactorily completes the B.S.E. freshman year program or its equivalent is eligible for admission to the program. Engineering students entering the program are strongly encouraged to complete Physics 203, 208 and Mathematics 201, 202 or their equivalents by the end of the sophomore year. The requirements for the Program can be obtained from the Program in Engineering Physics section of the Undergraduate Announcements. In applying for admission to the program, a student should indicate interest in a particular area of engineering and should be enrolled as a major in one of the six participating engineering departments or physics. A student planning to enroll in the program should consult the director of the program. Further details can be obtained from the Director or from the Engineering Physics Assistant, Room B405, Engineering Quadrangle. Footer Princeton, New Jersey 08544 USA Operator: (609) 258-3000 Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University