Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences > School of Cyber Studies > Co-Curricular Activities Co-Curricular Activities CYBER STUDIES Cyber Educational Programs Online M.S. in Cyber Security Ph.D. in Cyber Studies Co-Curricular Activities Faculty Institute for Information Security (iSec) Cyber at TU TU Cyber News Faculty in the News Apply Now Request Information TU students have a range of opportunities for getting involved in cyber security at TU beyond the classroom. One popular option is TURC – the Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge. Faculty in iSec regularly supervise TURC student research projects. To learn more, students should contact the faculty directly. TU also hosts a local chapter of WiCyS: Women in Cyber Security. Current WiCyS leaders are Jess Peraza and Kate Sharp. TU hosts a competitive learning club, TU CTF, in which students prepare for various competitive learning competitions. TU regularly fields teams in the Collegiate Penetration Testing Competition (CPTC), the Collegiate Cyber Defense Competition (CCDC), and various CTFs. TU regularly hosts a global online CTF every November, and has hosted the Southwest Region CCDC for the past several years. To get involved, please reach out to Codi West, TU CTF faculty advisor. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT