Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Latest information about COVID-19 Stanford Engineering Search this site Submit Search Menu Admission & Aid Graduate Admission Coterm Coterm Funding and Financial Aid Engineering Coterminal Fellowship Financial Aid Students & Academics Academics Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Online Learning Terman Engineering Award Terman Awards 2021-2022 Terman Awards 2020-2021 Terman Awards 2019-2020 Terman Award 2018-2019 Terman Awards 2017-2018 Terman Awards 2016-2017 Terman Awards 2015-2016 Terman Awards 2014-2015 Terman Awards 2013-2014 Terman Awards 2012-2013 Terman Awards 2011-2012 Terman Awards 2010-2011 Terman Awards 2009-2010 Terman Awards 2008-2009 Terman Awards 2007-2008 Terman Awards 2006-2007 Terman Awards 2005-2006 Terman Awards 2004-2005 Support and Resources Undergraduate Resources Graduate Resources Tutoring Career Resources Jobs and Internships Student Organizations Terman Engineering Library Global Engineering Programs Global Engineering Internships GEI Program Structure GEI Application Process GEI Frequently Asked Questions Internship Host Companies GEI Program Recommendation Travel Information Chinese UGVR Program UGVR Alumni Program Structure Host a UGVR Student About Equity and Inclusion Initiatives About the Equity and Inclusion Initiatives Our Student Community Undergraduate Programs Stanford Summer Engineering Academy (SSEA) SSEA 2021 Staff FAQs Summer Session Grants Additional Calculus for Engineers (ACE) Enroll in ACE Courses Become an ACE Course Assistant ACE Course List Prospective Graduate Programs Graduate Pathways to STEM Program At a Glance GPS Frequently Asked Questions Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship (SURF) Stanford Exposure to Research and Graduate Education (SERGE) Fee Waivers Graduate school frequently asked questions Graduate Programs Summer Opportunities in Engineering Research and Leadership (Summer First) NSF Research Exchange Program Student Societies Womxn of Color in Engineering (WOCE) Dean’s Graduate Student Advisory Council STEM K-12 Education Initiatives Funding and Financial Aid Funding Your Master’s Degree Funding Your PhD Teaching and Course Assistantships Technical Communication Program Consulting Request Form Frequently Asked Questions The Student Experience Faculty & Research Faculty Emeritus Faculty In Memoriam Events Departments Aeronautics & Astronautics Bioengineering Chemical Engineering Civil & Environmental Engineering Computer Science Electrical Engineering Management Science & Engineering Materials Science & Engineering Mechanical Engineering Institutes, Labs and Centers Faculty Awards Faculty Awards 2020-21 Faculty Awards 2019-2020 Faculty Awards 2018-2019 Faculty Awards 2016-2017 Faculty Awards 2015-2016 Faculty Awards 2014-2015 Faculty Awards 2012-2013 Faculty Awards 2011-2012 Faculty Awards 2010-2011 Faculty Awards 2009-2010 Faculty Awards 2008-2009 Faculty Awards 2007-2008 Faculty Awards 2006-2007 Faculty Awards 2005-2006 Get Involved Welcome Engineering Alumni Connect With Your Community Advance Your Career Explore Our Events Jumpstart Your Alumnihood Support Engineering Why Give Funding Initiatives Equity & Inclusion Stanford Data Science & Computation Complex Endowed Professorships Endowed Faculty Scholars Endowed Department Chairs Graduate Fellowships Faculty Launch Fund Hasso Plattner Institute of Design Engineering Fund Planned Giving How to Make Your Gift Development Contacts Industry Collaborations Gift Support Affiliate Programs Sponsored Research Recruiting Executive Education Technology Transfer/Technology Licensing About Dean Dean’s Office Directory Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Visit Location Inside the Engineering Quad Pillars History Persis S. Drell Heroes 2019 Heroes 2018 Heroes George and Alexandra “Sandra” Forsythe Jensen Huang Mae Jemison 2016 Heroes Martin Fisher Reed Hastings Perry McCarty 2015 Heroes Andreas Acrivos Marcian “Ted” Hoff Charles Simonyi 2014 Heroes Kenneth Arrow Sergey Brin Irmgard Flugge-Lotz Edward Ginzton Larry Page Sally Ride 2013 Heroes John A. Blume James H. Clark David Filo Martin Hellman John McCarthy William J. Perry Jerry Yang 2012 Heroes Craig Barrett Andreas Bechtolsheim Morris Chang George Dantzig Theodore Maiman Bradford Parkinson Calvin Quate Stephen Timoshenko 2011 Heroes Vint Cerf Ray Dolby William F. Durand William Hewlett Donald Knuth Charles Litton David Packard Fred Terman SoE-Future Vision Culture Education Impact Research The Catalyst for Collaborative Solutions White Papers The Committee Main content start What the humble planarian teaches us about the building blocks of life A bioengineer studies the flatworms' ability to regenerate nerves, muscle, and other tissue. “One of the big questions we want to answer is how it does this on a genetic level?” May 26, 2022 | By David Levin As unremarkable as planarians may seem, they have an ability humans could only dream of. | iStock/tonaquatic At first glance, planarians aren’t exactly awe-inspiring. These brownish flatworms, each less than half an inch long, have few defining features: At one end, a tail comes to a rounded point; at the other, a head is punctuated by a pair of large, cartoonish eyes. As unremarkable as the worms may seem, however, they have an ability we could only dream of. Cut off a planarian’s head, and it’ll sprout a new one. Lop off its tail, and it’ll soon be replaced. Even rending its body into tiny pieces is no big deal. Each chunk, regrowing from its wounded edges, replaces nerves, muscle, and other tissue until it becomes a separate, fully formed, individual worm in just a couple weeks. “One of the big questions we want to answer is how it does this on a genetic level,” says Bo Wang, assistant professor of bioengineering at Stanford. “What’s in the worm’s DNA that lets it choose which body parts to grow, how much they’re going to grow, where to stop, and when to stop?” Wang studies planarians’ alien-like regeneration. Part of what drives this astonishing ability, he says, is the fact that the worms’ bodies are filled with pluripotent stem cells, a type of “universal” cell that can grow into any type of tissue. When a worm is sliced in half, biochemical signals radiate outward from the damaged site, kicking those stem cells into action. Gradually, the cells differentiate into muscle, nerves, and other structures, forming a new head or tail over several days. Although this sort of research is his primary focus today, Wang says he never expected to wind up in the field. Originally trained as a physicist, he spent much of his early career studying Brownian motion, the random movement of tiny particles suspended in a liquid or gas. Then, by chance, he saw a video of the worm C. elegans developing from a fertilized egg. “As a physicist, I thought that when you’re dealing with things at the microscopic scale, all movement should be random, propelled by thermal energy and probability—but cells in these worm embryos could divide and move synchronously in a programmed manner even though they were just a few microns in size,” he says. “That blew me away. I think it’s what really converted me from working on physics to working on biology.” Today, Wang is digging into some of the most fundamental building blocks of life: the various types of cells that make up an organism. His lab is sequencing the DNA and messenger RNA, the linear molecules that guide protein synthesis, within individual cells of several animals, including planarians, and is developing computational methods to compare them with cell types in other animals ranging from sponge to human in order to find commonalities and differences. In the process, they’re learning how each of these organisms has developed unique and powerful ways to use conserved cell types for building new structures and has invented new cell types to survive in its environment. Wang doesn’t want to stop at just cataloging those cell types, however. He’s got his sights set on bigger goals. With a deeper understanding of how cell types make tissues and how DNA in a cell nucleus controls the fate and identity of that cell, he says, it may one day be possible to harness the power of biology for our own purposes. “As a bioengineer, I’m constantly thinking about that. Once we know the novel functions of a piece of DNA, we can transfer them to other cells—it’s really a matter of shifting the knowledge we get from one system to another,” he says. “I think we could eventually use them to program ‘living machines’ that do a specific job.” It’s not so far-fetched. New technologies developed in the past decade make it easier than ever to manipulate DNA and insert it into a living cell. Biologists do it every day with microbes and human cell lines, reprogramming them into tiny “factories” that spit out drugs or other products. In theory, constructing entirely new cells, or even new organisms, in the lab could be right around the corner. Wang thinks it’s just a matter of imagination. “We really don’t know the possibilities ahead of us yet,” he says. “But that’s the most exciting aspect of being a scientist. We’re constantly searching for new things, new surprises. That’s what gets me up each day.” Related: Bo Wang, assistant professor of bioengineering Related Departments Bioengineering More News Training the next generation of entrepreneurs How to develop ever-better computer chips Robert B. Tucker, IT specialist to Stanford computer science, has died See All News Print Stanford ENGINEERING Web Login Address 475 Via Ortega Stanford, CA 94305 United States Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Instagram Stanford Engineering Magazine Events Departments Open Faculty Positions Open Staff Positions Intranet Give Visit Contact Us Sign up for our email Your source for engineering research and ideas Research & Ideas email Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top