Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Latest information about COVID-19 Stanford Engineering Search this site Submit Search Menu Admission & Aid Graduate Admission Coterm Coterm Funding and Financial Aid Engineering Coterminal Fellowship Financial Aid Students & Academics Academics Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Online Learning Terman Engineering Award Terman Awards 2021-2022 Terman Awards 2020-2021 Terman Awards 2019-2020 Terman Award 2018-2019 Terman Awards 2017-2018 Terman Awards 2016-2017 Terman Awards 2015-2016 Terman Awards 2014-2015 Terman Awards 2013-2014 Terman Awards 2012-2013 Terman Awards 2011-2012 Terman Awards 2010-2011 Terman Awards 2009-2010 Terman Awards 2008-2009 Terman Awards 2007-2008 Terman Awards 2006-2007 Terman Awards 2005-2006 Terman Awards 2004-2005 Support and Resources Undergraduate Resources Graduate Resources Tutoring Career Resources Jobs and Internships Student Organizations Terman Engineering Library Global Engineering Programs Global Engineering Internships GEI Program Structure GEI Application Process GEI Frequently Asked Questions Internship Host Companies GEI Program Recommendation Travel Information Chinese UGVR Program UGVR Alumni Program Structure Host a UGVR Student About Equity and Inclusion Initiatives About the Equity and Inclusion Initiatives Our Student Community Undergraduate Programs Stanford Summer Engineering Academy (SSEA) SSEA 2021 Staff FAQs Summer Session Grants Additional Calculus for Engineers (ACE) Enroll in ACE Courses Become an ACE Course Assistant ACE Course List Prospective Graduate Programs Graduate Pathways to STEM Program At a Glance GPS Frequently Asked Questions Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship (SURF) Stanford Exposure to Research and Graduate Education (SERGE) Fee Waivers Graduate school frequently asked questions Graduate Programs Summer Opportunities in Engineering Research and Leadership (Summer First) NSF Research Exchange Program Student Societies Womxn of Color in Engineering (WOCE) Dean’s Graduate Student Advisory Council STEM K-12 Education Initiatives Funding and Financial Aid Funding Your Master’s Degree Funding Your PhD Teaching and Course Assistantships Technical Communication Program Consulting Request Form Frequently Asked Questions The Student Experience Faculty & Research Faculty Emeritus Faculty In Memoriam Events Departments Aeronautics & Astronautics Bioengineering Chemical Engineering Civil & Environmental Engineering Computer Science Electrical Engineering Management Science & Engineering Materials Science & Engineering Mechanical Engineering Institutes, Labs and Centers Faculty Awards Faculty Awards 2020-21 Faculty Awards 2019-2020 Faculty Awards 2018-2019 Faculty Awards 2016-2017 Faculty Awards 2015-2016 Faculty Awards 2014-2015 Faculty Awards 2012-2013 Faculty Awards 2011-2012 Faculty Awards 2010-2011 Faculty Awards 2009-2010 Faculty Awards 2008-2009 Faculty Awards 2007-2008 Faculty Awards 2006-2007 Faculty Awards 2005-2006 Get Involved Welcome Engineering Alumni Connect With Your Community Advance Your Career Explore Our Events Jumpstart Your Alumnihood Support Engineering Why Give Funding Initiatives Equity & Inclusion Stanford Data Science & Computation Complex Endowed Professorships Endowed Faculty Scholars Endowed Department Chairs Graduate Fellowships Faculty Launch Fund Hasso Plattner Institute of Design Engineering Fund Planned Giving How to Make Your Gift Development Contacts Industry Collaborations Gift Support Affiliate Programs Sponsored Research Recruiting Executive Education Technology Transfer/Technology Licensing About Dean Dean’s Office Directory Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Visit Location Inside the Engineering Quad Pillars History Persis S. Drell Heroes 2019 Heroes 2018 Heroes George and Alexandra “Sandra” Forsythe Jensen Huang Mae Jemison 2016 Heroes Martin Fisher Reed Hastings Perry McCarty 2015 Heroes Andreas Acrivos Marcian “Ted” Hoff Charles Simonyi 2014 Heroes Kenneth Arrow Sergey Brin Irmgard Flugge-Lotz Edward Ginzton Larry Page Sally Ride 2013 Heroes John A. Blume James H. Clark David Filo Martin Hellman John McCarthy William J. Perry Jerry Yang 2012 Heroes Craig Barrett Andreas Bechtolsheim Morris Chang George Dantzig Theodore Maiman Bradford Parkinson Calvin Quate Stephen Timoshenko 2011 Heroes Vint Cerf Ray Dolby William F. Durand William Hewlett Donald Knuth Charles Litton David Packard Fred Terman SoE-Future Vision Culture Education Impact Research The Catalyst for Collaborative Solutions White Papers The Committee Pillars Main navigation Skip to main content Secondary Navigation Dean Dean’s Office Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Visit Location Inside the Engineering Quad Pillars History Main content start Tour the Huang Engineering Center Each floor of the Huang Engineering Center includes tributes to some of the most important people and places in the history of the School of Engineering. We think of them as pillars — central to the support structures that made the school a leader in impacting global issues. First floor Leland and Jane Stanford Leland Stanford, a railroad magnate, California governor and U.S. senator, and his wife, Jane, established Stanford University to memorialize their son, Leland Jr., who died in 1884 at age 15. Jane Stanford was resolute that the university benefit society: “While the instruction offered must be such as will qualify the students for personal success and direct usefulness in life, they should understand that it is offered in the hope and trust that they will become thereby of greater service to the public.” Location: Terrace Level Brotherhood of Engineers Engineering students were a substantial presence at Stanford from the start, with 141 of the first 559 students majoring in the field. Here, 21 “roughs” from the “brotherhood of engineers” strike poses near an engineering lab in 1912. The School of Engineering was founded in 1925. Location: Terrace Level Engineering Corner The Engineering Corner of the Quad opened in 1905 and remained the headquarters of engineering education until 1977, when the university dedicated the Terman Engineering Center. During the 50 years after the School of Engineering’s founding in 1925, the school built the international reputation for excellence that continues today. Location: Forbes Family Café Jen-Hsun Huang MS ’92 Electrical Engineering Co-Founder and CEO, NVIDIA Corporation Jen-Hsun Huang has always followed his heart. Born in Taipei, Huang moved at age 6 with his family to Bangkok and came to the United States at age 10. His parents, Sidney and Maria, wanted him to have the opportunities that America afforded. He developed an early passion for table tennis, becoming a nationally ranked junior player. In high school, he joined the computer club and discovered the magic of computers while playing games. His fascination led him to study computer science and chip design while an undergraduate at Oregon State University. He moved to Silicon Valley after graduation and worked at AMD and then LSI Logic. While pursuing his career and raising two young children, he enrolled part-time in Stanford’s graduate engineering program, where he found inspiration, particularly in the lectures of Professor (and future Stanford President) John Hennessy. At Stanford, said Jen-Hsun, “I fell in love with computer design.” Shortly after receiving his master’s degree, Jen-Hsun invested his drive and passion in co-founding NVIDIA with Chris Malachowsky and Curtis Priem. The company has since become the world leader in visual computing. Through its development of the graphics processing unit, or GPU, NVIDIA has brought the power of parallel processing to devices ranging from smartphones and tablets to workstations and supercomputers. Location: Forbes Family Café Second floor Frederick E. Terman 1900-82 Professor of Electrical Engineering Dean, School of Engineering University Provost Fred Terman’s legacy is legendary. His efforts to encourage development of and partnerships with local technology industry earned him the tagline “The Father of Silicon Valley.” His visionary leadership as dean of engineering and then university provost in recruiting the best faculty in key fields and in increasing government funding accelerated Stanford’s ascent to international renown. He also broke new ground in radio engineering research and teaching, and authored the field’s leading textbook. But decades later, Terman cannot be reduced to a set of results, no matter how enduring. The personal qualities that he embodied remain a model for others who strive for excellence. Terman was a man not only of brilliant intellect but also of unshakeable concentration and dedication, both to Stanford as an institution and to the students and colleagues he served. His greatness lay not in wealth or glory, but in how many other people he helped inspire to greatness as well. Location: Terman Engineering Library Stanford Engineering Venture Fund Leveraging the strong partnership between Stanford Engineering and the venture capital community in building Silicon Valley and propelling technology transfer, the Stanford Engineering Venture Fund (SEVF) I and II have played a pivotal role in the success of the Stanford School of Engineering. Since 1985, its committed volunteers have managed a portion of the school’s endowment with extraordinary results. The SEVF has provided Stanford Engineering with the critical resources necessary to seize new opportunities and to build a solid infrastructure for engineering research and teaching. Proceeds from the fund have, among other things, established professorships, supported capital construction projects including the buildings in the Science and Engineering Quad, provided seed money for the Stanford Technology Ventures Program and served as matching funds for endowed graduate fellowships and professorships. Location: Terman Engineering Library Third floor Palm Drive The most spectacular approach to campus is Palm Drive, which originates at the formal entrance to the university then splits to border the vast, grassy Oval in front of the Main Quad. The Science and Engineering Quad, precisely aligned along an axis with the Main Quad, realizes the vision of a series of quadrangles that the Stanfords developed with famed 19th-century landscape planner Frederick Law Olmsted. Location: Mackenzie Room Jen-Hsun Huang Engineering Center Named for alumnus and NVIDIA Corporation co-founder Jen-Hsun Huang, the building represents a vision of engineering as a discipline built on a foundation of solid technical knowledge and imbued with values of collaboration, creativity, lifelong learning, entrepreneurship and leadership. The Huang Engineering Center was formally dedicated Oct. 5, 2010. Location: Mackenzie Room Print Stanford ENGINEERING Web Login Address 475 Via Ortega Stanford, CA 94305 United States Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Instagram Stanford Engineering Magazine Events Departments Open Faculty Positions Open Staff Positions Intranet Give Visit Contact Us Sign up for our email Your source for engineering research and ideas Research & Ideas email Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top