Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Mathematics Undergraduate Programs Engaged MATHCOUNTS – 30 years strong at TU My TU Story TU hosts Girls’ Adventures in Mathematics competition > Department of Mathematics > Mathematics Undergraduate Programs https://youtu.be/uvDvyfPdAiQ MATHEMATICS Mathematics Undergraduate Programs Mathematics Graduate Programs Research Faculty Facilities News Contact the Department Apply Find Admission Counselor Request Information Mathematics prepares students for the demands of a modern global society where sophisticated, quantitative skills are required to solve challenging programs in science, engineering, business, education and government. Mathematicians are essential to the fields of computer science, engineering, bioinformatics, data mining, computer animation, economics, epidemiology, ecology and climatology. The Department of Mathematics offers a bachelor of science, bachelor of arts, master of science and doctor of philosophy in mathematics and applied mathematics. Many math students also double major in another discipline. The B.A. option exposes students to the basic knowledge of mathematics. The degree is ideal for students interested in selecting a minor field in the arts or humanities. A B.S. degree in mathematics prepares students to use advanced mathematics in the development of mathematical principles, data analysis and problem solving. Mathematicians work closely with engineers and scientists in government, private corporations and research companies. The B.S. degree in applied mathematics is offered with four options: computer sciences, engineering, biomathematics and business. This option is best suited for those who plan to attend graduate school or work in business or industry. Program Objectives Bachelor of Science/Bachelor of Arts Students who complete the undergraduate program in mathematics will: Demonstrate the ability to apply algebraic, geometric, calculus and higher-order thinking and statistical methods to modeling and solving real-world situations. Use mathematical reasoning skills and formal logic to develop convincing mathematical arguments. Use computational tools to enhance mathematical thinking and understanding, to solve mathematical problems, and judge the reasonableness of the results. Degree Options Mathematics, B.A. Exposes students to the basic knowledge of mathematics. Ideal for students interested in teaching or working in a non-technical area of mathematics. Mathematics, B.S. Exposes students to the basic knowledge of mathematics. Ideal for students interested in teaching or working in a non-technical area of mathematics. Mathematics, Applied, B.S.A.M. This option is best suited for those who plan to attend graduate school or work in business or industry. Mathematics Minor Non-major students interested in gaining a basic understanding of the mathematics discipline are encouraged to pursue a minor. Typical Four-Year Schedule FRESHMAN – FALL SEMESTER FRESHMAN – SPRING SEMESTER Introduction to Mathematics Block III Exposition & Argumentation Block II - Historical and Social Interpretation Block I - Aesthetic Inquiry and Creative Experience Minor Block II - Historical and Social Interpretation Scientific Programming Calculus I Calculus II General Elective SOPHOMORE – FALL SEMESTER SOPHOMORE – SPRING SEMESTER Block I - Aesthetic Inquiry and Creative Experience Block III Block II - Historical and Social Interpretation General Elective Minor Minor Scientific Programming Differential Equations Calculus III Introduction to Advanced Mathematics JUNIOR – FALL SEMESTER JUNIOR – SPRING SEMESTER General Elective General Elective General Elective General Elective Writing for the Professions Minor Minor Modern Algebra or Intro to Topology Linear Algebra & Matrix Theory Math Elective (upper level) SENIOR – FALL SEMESTER SENIOR – SPRING SEMESTER General Elective General Elective General Elective General Elective General Elective Technical Elective General Elective General Elective Math Elective (upper level) Math Elective (upper level) Advanced Calculus Math Elective (upper level) Professional Opportunities Quantitative analyst Marketing statistician Computational scientist Mathematics educator Research mathematician Actuary 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT