Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Latest information about COVID-19 Stanford Engineering Search this site Submit Search Menu Admission & Aid Graduate Admission Coterm Coterm Funding and Financial Aid Engineering Coterminal Fellowship Financial Aid Students & Academics Academics Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Online Learning Terman Engineering Award Terman Awards 2021-2022 Terman Awards 2020-2021 Terman Awards 2019-2020 Terman Award 2018-2019 Terman Awards 2017-2018 Terman Awards 2016-2017 Terman Awards 2015-2016 Terman Awards 2014-2015 Terman Awards 2013-2014 Terman Awards 2012-2013 Terman Awards 2011-2012 Terman Awards 2010-2011 Terman Awards 2009-2010 Terman Awards 2008-2009 Terman Awards 2007-2008 Terman Awards 2006-2007 Terman Awards 2005-2006 Terman Awards 2004-2005 Support and Resources Undergraduate Resources Graduate Resources Tutoring Career Resources Jobs and Internships Student Organizations Terman Engineering Library Global Engineering Programs Global Engineering Internships GEI Program Structure GEI Application Process GEI Frequently Asked Questions Internship Host Companies GEI Program Recommendation Travel Information Chinese UGVR Program UGVR Alumni Program Structure Host a UGVR Student About Equity and Inclusion Initiatives About the Equity and Inclusion Initiatives Our Student Community Undergraduate Programs Stanford Summer Engineering Academy (SSEA) SSEA 2021 Staff FAQs Summer Session Grants Additional Calculus for Engineers (ACE) Enroll in ACE Courses Become an ACE Course Assistant ACE Course List Prospective Graduate Programs Graduate Pathways to STEM Program At a Glance GPS Frequently Asked Questions Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship (SURF) Stanford Exposure to Research and Graduate Education (SERGE) Fee Waivers Graduate school frequently asked questions Graduate Programs Summer Opportunities in Engineering Research and Leadership (Summer First) NSF Research Exchange Program Student Societies Womxn of Color in Engineering (WOCE) Dean’s Graduate Student Advisory Council STEM K-12 Education Initiatives Funding and Financial Aid Funding Your Master’s Degree Funding Your PhD Teaching and Course Assistantships Technical Communication Program Consulting Request Form Frequently Asked Questions The Student Experience Faculty & Research Faculty Emeritus Faculty In Memoriam Events Departments Aeronautics & Astronautics Bioengineering Chemical Engineering Civil & Environmental Engineering Computer Science Electrical Engineering Management Science & Engineering Materials Science & Engineering Mechanical Engineering Institutes, Labs and Centers Faculty Awards Faculty Awards 2020-21 Faculty Awards 2019-2020 Faculty Awards 2018-2019 Faculty Awards 2016-2017 Faculty Awards 2015-2016 Faculty Awards 2014-2015 Faculty Awards 2012-2013 Faculty Awards 2011-2012 Faculty Awards 2010-2011 Faculty Awards 2009-2010 Faculty Awards 2008-2009 Faculty Awards 2007-2008 Faculty Awards 2006-2007 Faculty Awards 2005-2006 Get Involved Welcome Engineering Alumni Connect With Your Community Advance Your Career Explore Our Events Jumpstart Your Alumnihood Support Engineering Why Give Funding Initiatives Equity & Inclusion Stanford Data Science & Computation Complex Endowed Professorships Endowed Faculty Scholars Endowed Department Chairs Graduate Fellowships Faculty Launch Fund Hasso Plattner Institute of Design Engineering Fund Planned Giving How to Make Your Gift Development Contacts Industry Collaborations Gift Support Affiliate Programs Sponsored Research Recruiting Executive Education Technology Transfer/Technology Licensing About Dean Dean’s Office Directory Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Visit Location Inside the Engineering Quad Pillars History Persis S. Drell Heroes 2019 Heroes 2018 Heroes George and Alexandra “Sandra” Forsythe Jensen Huang Mae Jemison 2016 Heroes Martin Fisher Reed Hastings Perry McCarty 2015 Heroes Andreas Acrivos Marcian “Ted” Hoff Charles Simonyi 2014 Heroes Kenneth Arrow Sergey Brin Irmgard Flugge-Lotz Edward Ginzton Larry Page Sally Ride 2013 Heroes John A. Blume James H. Clark David Filo Martin Hellman John McCarthy William J. Perry Jerry Yang 2012 Heroes Craig Barrett Andreas Bechtolsheim Morris Chang George Dantzig Theodore Maiman Bradford Parkinson Calvin Quate Stephen Timoshenko 2011 Heroes Vint Cerf Ray Dolby William F. Durand William Hewlett Donald Knuth Charles Litton David Packard Fred Terman SoE-Future Vision Culture Education Impact Research The Catalyst for Collaborative Solutions White Papers The Committee Technical Communication Program Main navigation Skip to main content Secondary Navigation Academics Support and Resources Global Engineering Programs Equity and Inclusion Initiatives Technical Communication Program Consulting Request Form Frequently Asked Questions The Student Experience Main content start The Technical Communication Program (TCP), in Huang Engineering 049, is a writing and public speaking resource center for Stanford students of all levels. The TCP offers individual consulting and coaching in addition to a range of courses to help Stanford students become more effective and confident writers and presenters. The TCP’s experienced and supportive instructors provide feedback on most types of documents (e.g., fellowship proposals, journal articles, statements of purpose) and presentations (e.g., dissertation defenses, pitches) and are familiar with the forms of STEM communication. The TCP also provides support for School of Engineering courses (including WIM courses) and offers workshops on various aspects of technical communication. Our services are primarily designed for students in engineering, but we welcome students from across the university. See a brief video introduction to the TCP: If you are interested in a remote consultation about a document or presentation, please click on the Consulting request form button below to submit a webform. Because we work with many courses and students and review written material before meeting students, please submit your request well in advance of your due date. Consulting request form TCP courses ENGR 202S: Directed Writing Projects (Individual Writing Instruction) 1-unit, non-lecture writing instruction. Effective writing is key to academic and professional progress. 202S provides individualized writing instruction for students working on important writing projects such as dissertations, fellowship proposals, theses, journal articles, and research statements. The course consists of once weekly one-on-one conferences with lecturers from the Technical Communication Program. Students receive close attention to and detailed feedback on their writing to help them become more confident writers, hone their writing skills, and tackle any writing issues they may have. No prerequisite. Grading S/NC. 1 unit. Offered autumn, winter and spring. ENGR 202W: Technical Communication To be effective as an engineer or scientist, you must communicate your research and projects effectively to a broad range of audiences: your professors, your fellow students, your colleagues in the field, and sometimes the public. ENGR. 202W offers a collaborative environment in which you will hone your communication skills by writing and presenting about a project of your choosing and working on your CV/resume. ENGR202W is a practicum (supervised practical application) that helps you build toward a complete skillset for technical communication in the twenty-first century. Through interactive presentations and activities, group workshops, and individual conferences, you will learn best practices for communicating to academic and professional audiences for a range of purposes. 3 units. Offered autumn, winter, spring. ENGR 102W: Technical and Professional Communication Effective communication skills will help you advance quickly. Learn the best technical and professional techniques in writing and speaking. Group workshops and individual conferences with instructor. Designed for undergraduates going into industry. Allowed to fulfill WIM for Atmosphere/Energy and Environmental Systems Engineering majors only. Designed for undergraduates. 3 units. Offered spring. Also listed as CEE 102W. ENGR 100: Teaching Public Speaking The theory and practice of teaching public speaking and presentation development. Lectures/discussions on developing an instructional plan, using audiovisual equipment for instruction, devising tutoring techniques, and teaching delivery, organization, audience analysis, visual aids, and unique speaking situations. Weekly practice speaking. Students serve as apprentice speech tutors. Those completing course may become paid speech instructors in the Technical Communications Program. Prerequisite: consent of instructor. To schedule an interview, contact Matt Vassar. 3 units. Offered winter and spring. ENGR 103/203: Public Speaking Priority to Engineering students. Introduction to speaking activities, from impromptu talks to carefully rehearsed formal professional presentations. How to organize and write speeches, analyze audiences, create and use visual aids, combat nervousness, and deliver informative and persuasive speeches effectively. Weekly class practice, rehearsals in one-on-one tutorials, videotaped feedback. Limited enrollment. 3 units. Offered autumn, winter and spring. School of Engineering course support In addition to its writing and public speaking courses, the TCP provides tutorial support for writing and speaking activities in the School of Engineering’s undergraduate and graduate courses, including WIM courses. Collaborating with course instructors, we customize support to meet the needs and learning aims of the course. We are also available to consult with faculty on assignment design, to give in-class presentations or workshops on writing or presentations, and to mentor TAs on how to respond to student writing or presentations. Contact For additional information or to request course support: Mary McDevitt, PhD, Director, TCP Print Stanford ENGINEERING Web Login Address 475 Via Ortega Stanford, CA 94305 United States Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Instagram Stanford Engineering Magazine Events Departments Open Faculty Positions Open Staff Positions Intranet Give Visit Contact Us Sign up for our email Your source for engineering research and ideas Research & Ideas email Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top