Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Prospective Undergraduate Students Current Undergraduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Employers Admissions» Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics» Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Online Learning Non-Degree & Special Programs Academic Policies Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Research» Faculty and Research Staff Institutes, Centers & Initiatives Department Research Research Areas Undergraduate Research Opportunities University and School Research Resources Innovation, Design & Entrepreneurship» Student Life» Undergraduate Student Life Graduate Student Life Living in New York City Commencement Student Profiles About» Dean of Columbia Engineering At A Glance Engineering for Humanity Mission & Vision Supporting the Vision History Plan A Visit Board of Visitors Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion People News Columbia Engineering Magazine Strategic Collaborations Get Involved Bulletin Make a Gift Contact Home > News 5G in 3D: Immersive COSMOS Education Toolkit Wins Verizon EdTech Challenge Feb 08 2019 | By Jesse Adams COSMOS STEM: Networking in Harlem Up to 100 times faster than current wireless networks, 5G is being touted as the future of entertainment and telemedicine. But how might it begin to transform education? For a glimpse of what’s next, look no further than an immersive new educational toolkit in development from NYU and Columbia Engineering researchers with public school teachers throughout New York City. Designed to teach fundamentals of math, physics, and computer science through interactive research experiments in wireless networking, the toolkit will use virtual and augmented reality to create STEM-themed “escape room”-style games. In recognition of its innovative approach, the project has just won a $100,000 prize from the Verizon 5G EdTech challenge, one of only ten selected for their potential to harness 5G speed and bandwidth to enrich curricula in under-resourced middle schools. The toolkit was borne out of a collaboration initiated this past summer, when NYU professor Thanasis Korakis led an intensive six-week program convening local math and science teachers with Data Science Institute-affiliated Electrical Engineering professors Zoran Kostic and Gil Zussman, Columbia Engineering Outreach director Emily Ford, and NYU’s Dr. Sheila Borges. The program explored how middle and high school lesson plans could be enhanced through COSMOS—the advanced wireless testbed Rutgers, Columbia, and NYU are jointly deploying in West Harlem as part of the National Science Foundation’s (NSF) Platforms for Advanced Wireless Research (PAWR) program. Together, the educators created a trial classroom kit of equipment to set up small-scale COSMOS-inspired testbeds along with curricula for 35 online educational labs ranging from signal modulation to data analysis. A pilot program launched in schools this past fall. “It's been fantastic to work so closely with teachers on this project,” said Ford. “They’ve developed incredible lessons that tie wireless networking into their classes and put technology directly into kids’ hands to conduct experiments and connect with the whole 5G testbed.” With support from Verizon labs, the researchers are now building on their initial project by integrating VR, AR, and clue-solving gameplay into an expanded toolkit, aiming to allow students to collaborate in a series of virtual labs about the cloud, the internet of things, and more. Dubbed 5G COVET (COSMOS Verizon Education Toolkit), this second installment includes a high-tech set of gamified learning modules integrating headsets, sensors, cameras, and state of the art connectivity. The team, which also includes Columbia postdoc Jonathan Ostrometzky and NYU PhD candidate Panagiotis Skrimponis, hopes to introduce a prototype this fall—and that their model will help spark a transformation in STEM education. “We are extremely excited about the opportunity to collaborate with Verizon, one of the NSF PAWR consortium companies, on developing advanced educational tools that could have direct impact on schools in the COSMOS testbed deployment area and throughout NYC,” Zussman said. Two other Columbia projects, Visceral Science: Grasping the Universe through Virtual Reality, led by physics Professor Brian Greene, and HoloLens to Improve Social Skills, from Xiaofan Zhang TC’19, also made the EdTech top ten. Tagged in Connected Humanity Share This Related Artificial Intelligence NSF Announces New York City as Testbed for New Wave of Mobile Technology Apr 10 2018 | Video: Columbia Engineering 500 W. 120th Street #510 New York, NY 10027 Tel (212) 854-2993 Google Maps Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University Privacy Policy Terms of Use Faculty Job Opportunities Make a Gift Contact