Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences > Tandy School of Computer Science > Applied Research Center for Cloud of Things Applied Research Center for Cloud of Things https://youtu.be/3W_l4Ee7bcI COMPUTER SCIENCE Accreditation Computer Science Undergraduate Programs Computer Science Graduate Programs Computer Simulation & Gaming Research Faculty Facilities News Contact the Department The Applied Research Center for Cloud of Things capitalizes on the Tandy School of Computer Science’s research and development expertise in web services, cloud computing, sensor networks, information assurance and critical infrastructure protection to articulate and demonstrate novel solutions to industry problems arising from the use of Cloud services in combination with the Internet of Things, referred to as the Cloud of Things. Manufacturing components may be instrumented with sensors, requiring communication with processes to aggregate business data in meaningful ways and analyze it to improve logistics, reduce costs and control waste. Networks of people and equipment involved in the discovery, refinement and distribution of energy products can also be Internet enabled. For organizations, the Cloud can provide communication, monitoring and control of enormous amounts of information. These complex systems, a Cloud of Things, may be geographically and organizationally dispersed. Those who can create clear representations of the scope of their concerns in this expansive system of systems will enjoy both competitive advantage and be positioned to realize new opportunities as new products, data and technologies are introduced. At the same time, there exist significant research and development challenges in Cloud of Things system configuration, management, analysis and protection from threats. Cloud of Things research and development can deliver innovative and customized technology solutions for information access and visibility, optimized and secure data gathering and flow control, and accelerated service delivery within stakeholder parameters for using the Internet and Cloud. This technology is particularly important for companies that rely on sensors and sensor networks that may be remote, exist in problematic environments, and must communicate information in a timely manner, so that alerts and actions can be taken to remedy a situation or optimize performance. The center will enable collaborative, member-directed applied research, development, experimentation and training projects that leverage the capabilities of the Tandy School of Computer Science faculty. The initial focus will be on the following technologies, services and algorithms, all of which include addressing a variety of security concerns: 1. Monitoring and analytics embedded in the Cloud for alerts and tracking 2. Communication and integration among components and Cloud services 3. Optimization of industry product and service performance using Cloud data analytics The director of the Applied Research Center for Cloud of Things is Rose Gamble, gamble@utulsa.edu, Tandy Professor of Computer Science and Engineering. The associate director is John Hale, john-hale@utulsa.edu, Tandy Professor of Bioinformatics and Computational Biology. Though the center will officially reside within the Tandy School of Computer Science, faculty across the university whose expertise can contribute to its research and development projects will be invited to participate. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT