Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Cyber Security Programs Cyber Careers Four in-demand cybersecurity jobs Expert Faculty TU Cybersecurity Expert Addresses Tulsa Ransomware Attack > School of Cyber Studies > Cyber Security Programs CYBER STUDIES Cyber Educational Programs Online M.S. in Cyber Security Ph.D. in Cyber Studies Co-Curricular Activities Faculty Institute for Information Security (iSec) Cyber at TU TU Cyber News Faculty in the News Apply Now Request Information For more than two decades, The University of Tulsa has been at the forefront of cybersecurity research and education. TU has been a Center of Academic Excellence in Information Assurance and Cyber Defense Education since 2000 – one of the first 14 institutions awarded this distinction. TU also is recognized by the federal government as a CAE in IA Research and Cyber Operations. TU alumni are employed in leading roles in the private and public sectors as well as academia. Cybersecurity skills are in high demand, yet supply is lacking. The industry estimates that more than one million cybersecurity jobs worldwide remain unfilled, with more than 200,000 of those in the United States. TU alumni are well equipped to meet the demand and serve in intellectually stimulating and personally rewarding roles that strengthen national and global security. Graduates have experience in the theory, concepts and techniques of information assurance and network defense in real-world settings. The School of Cyber Studies offers an undergraduate Minor in Cyber Security, a B.S. in Cyber Security, M.S. in Cyber Security, and a Ph.D. in Cyber Studies. Degree Options Cyber Security, B.S. A residential program that equips undergraduate students with the knowledge and skills required for success in the field of cyber security. Cyber Security Minor Undergraduate students from any discipline may minor in cyber security. Cyber Security Online, M.S. An online program designed for working professionals providing a comprehensive understanding of the foundational concepts of cyber security. Cyber Security, M.S. Non-Thesis Option A residential program providing a comprehensive understanding of the foundational concepts of cyber security. Cyber Security, M.S. Thesis Option A residential program providing a comprehensive understanding of the foundational concepts of cyber security while engaging in research. Cyber Studies, Ph.D. A residential or remote program that trains students to conduct scholarly research and make scientific contributions to our understanding of the Internet and its impact on society, including security and privacy. Program Learning Outcomes B.S. in Cyber Security Program Learning Outcomes The B.S. in Cyber Security Curriculum has been developed in accordance with the guidelines established by the engineering accreditor ABET. Additionally, the coursework has been aligned to knowledge units set forth by the NSA and DHS Centers for Academic Excellence in Cyber Defense Education. Students in the B.S. in Cyber Security program will: Analyze a complex computing problem and apply principles of computing and other relevant disciplines to identify solutions. Design, implement, and evaluate a computing-based solution to meet a given set of computing requirements in the context of the program’s discipline. Communicate effectively in a variety of professional contexts. Recognize professional responsibilities and make informed judgments in computing practice based on legal and ethical principles. Function effectively as a member or leader of a team engaged in activities appropriate to the program’s discipline. Apply security principles and practices to maintain operations in the presence of risks and threats. M.S. in Cyber Security Program Learning Outcomes Like the B.S. in Cyber Security, the M.S. in Cyber Security Curriculum has been developed to map to knowledge units set forth by the NSA and DHS Centers for Academic Excellence in Cyber Defense Education. Students in the M.S. in Cyber Security program will: Possess a comprehensive understanding of the foundational concepts of cyber security. Obtain and refine the skills necessary to improve an organization’s cybersecurity posture. Apply theoretical concepts to the practice of cyber security. Demonstrate professional skills and behavior. Ph.D. in Cyber Studies Program Learning Outcomes Students in the Ph.D. in Cyber Studies program will: Demonstrate expertise and proficiency in the discipline’s foundational areas including cyber security, networking, data analysis, and a disciplinary specialization relevant to cyber studies. Create and advance the body of knowledge in cyber topics by writing and submitting scholarly papers to peer-reviewed conference proceedings and journals. Demonstrate research skills and professional behavior consistent with the scholarly cyber scientific community. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT