Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Latest information about COVID-19 Stanford Engineering Search this site Submit Search Menu Admission & Aid Graduate Admission Coterm Coterm Funding and Financial Aid Engineering Coterminal Fellowship Financial Aid Students & Academics Academics Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Online Learning Terman Engineering Award Terman Awards 2021-2022 Terman Awards 2020-2021 Terman Awards 2019-2020 Terman Award 2018-2019 Terman Awards 2017-2018 Terman Awards 2016-2017 Terman Awards 2015-2016 Terman Awards 2014-2015 Terman Awards 2013-2014 Terman Awards 2012-2013 Terman Awards 2011-2012 Terman Awards 2010-2011 Terman Awards 2009-2010 Terman Awards 2008-2009 Terman Awards 2007-2008 Terman Awards 2006-2007 Terman Awards 2005-2006 Terman Awards 2004-2005 Support and Resources Undergraduate Resources Graduate Resources Tutoring Career Resources Jobs and Internships Student Organizations Terman Engineering Library Global Engineering Programs Global Engineering Internships GEI Program Structure GEI Application Process GEI Frequently Asked Questions Internship Host Companies GEI Program Recommendation Travel Information Chinese UGVR Program UGVR Alumni Program Structure Host a UGVR Student About Equity and Inclusion Initiatives About the Equity and Inclusion Initiatives Our Student Community Undergraduate Programs Stanford Summer Engineering Academy (SSEA) SSEA 2021 Staff FAQs Summer Session Grants Additional Calculus for Engineers (ACE) Enroll in ACE Courses Become an ACE Course Assistant ACE Course List Prospective Graduate Programs Graduate Pathways to STEM Program At a Glance GPS Frequently Asked Questions Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship (SURF) Stanford Exposure to Research and Graduate Education (SERGE) Fee Waivers Graduate school frequently asked questions Graduate Programs Summer Opportunities in Engineering Research and Leadership (Summer First) NSF Research Exchange Program Student Societies Womxn of Color in Engineering (WOCE) Dean’s Graduate Student Advisory Council STEM K-12 Education Initiatives Funding and Financial Aid Funding Your Master’s Degree Funding Your PhD Teaching and Course Assistantships Technical Communication Program Consulting Request Form Frequently Asked Questions The Student Experience Faculty & Research Faculty Emeritus Faculty In Memoriam Events Departments Aeronautics & Astronautics Bioengineering Chemical Engineering Civil & Environmental Engineering Computer Science Electrical Engineering Management Science & Engineering Materials Science & Engineering Mechanical Engineering Institutes, Labs and Centers Faculty Awards Faculty Awards 2020-21 Faculty Awards 2019-2020 Faculty Awards 2018-2019 Faculty Awards 2016-2017 Faculty Awards 2015-2016 Faculty Awards 2014-2015 Faculty Awards 2012-2013 Faculty Awards 2011-2012 Faculty Awards 2010-2011 Faculty Awards 2009-2010 Faculty Awards 2008-2009 Faculty Awards 2007-2008 Faculty Awards 2006-2007 Faculty Awards 2005-2006 Get Involved Welcome Engineering Alumni Connect With Your Community Advance Your Career Explore Our Events Jumpstart Your Alumnihood Support Engineering Why Give Funding Initiatives Equity & Inclusion Stanford Data Science & Computation Complex Endowed Professorships Endowed Faculty Scholars Endowed Department Chairs Graduate Fellowships Faculty Launch Fund Hasso Plattner Institute of Design Engineering Fund Planned Giving How to Make Your Gift Development Contacts Industry Collaborations Gift Support Affiliate Programs Sponsored Research Recruiting Executive Education Technology Transfer/Technology Licensing About Dean Dean’s Office Directory Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Visit Location Inside the Engineering Quad Pillars History Persis S. Drell Heroes 2019 Heroes 2018 Heroes George and Alexandra “Sandra” Forsythe Jensen Huang Mae Jemison 2016 Heroes Martin Fisher Reed Hastings Perry McCarty 2015 Heroes Andreas Acrivos Marcian “Ted” Hoff Charles Simonyi 2014 Heroes Kenneth Arrow Sergey Brin Irmgard Flugge-Lotz Edward Ginzton Larry Page Sally Ride 2013 Heroes John A. Blume James H. Clark David Filo Martin Hellman John McCarthy William J. Perry Jerry Yang 2012 Heroes Craig Barrett Andreas Bechtolsheim Morris Chang George Dantzig Theodore Maiman Bradford Parkinson Calvin Quate Stephen Timoshenko 2011 Heroes Vint Cerf Ray Dolby William F. Durand William Hewlett Donald Knuth Charles Litton David Packard Fred Terman SoE-Future Vision Culture Education Impact Research The Catalyst for Collaborative Solutions White Papers The Committee GEI Application Process Main navigation Skip to main content Secondary Navigation Academics Support and Resources Global Engineering Programs Global Engineering Internships GEI Program Structure GEI Application Process GEI Frequently Asked Questions Internship Host Companies GEI Program Recommendation Travel Information Chinese UGVR Program About Equity and Inclusion Initiatives Technical Communication Program The Student Experience Main content start All application materials are due on or before January 31, 2022, at 11:59 PM. An application is not complete until all materials have been received, including the letter of recommendation. Recommendations cannot be requested before submitting an application so please plan accordingly. Early submission is encouraged since the applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis. Steps to Complete Application Step 1: SOLO System Complete the application on the SOLO system (specific opportunity link would be provided upon available), including uploading your resume and unofficial transcript. Once in the SOLO system, click continue to application. Make sure you save your progress while you are applying. (Note: The recommendation request form will appear on the right side of your application page. If you try to submit a letter of recommendation request before saving a draft of your application, your responses will be lost.) For first-time applicants, you will need to first update your SOLO profile (there will be a link in the text box). You can connect to the Registrar’s office by selecting the checkbox to autofill your SOLO profile. Step 2: Letter of Recommendation One letter of recommendation is required. Recommendations can be from a professor (Stanford or elsewhere), employer, or anyone else you feel can attest to your skills and your ability to thrive in the type of internship abroad for which you are applying. Recommendations are requested in your SOLO system account. Visual instructions on how to send a recommendation request through the SOLO system are on to the right under Docs and Downloads. Selection Process: Stanford internship candidates will be selected based on overall fit with the program. GEP will conduct the initial screening of applicants. The companies will then review the applications and, in some cases, conduct interviews to finalize their selection. FOR INFOSYS, INDIA In addition to a shorter version of application through SOLO system, applicants need to complete a separate application process for the internship in Infosys of India here. A detailed step-by-step instruction is as below: 1. Go to https://www.infosys.com/instep/ 2. Click on the dropdown menu, click Apply Now. 3. Fill out the application form on the “Apply Now” webpage. N.B. The “Apply Now” form does not allow you to save the information you have already inputted. Ensure that you have all information on hand to finish the application in one step. If the website logs you out, your information will not be saved. For the University option, select “Stanford University – Liberal Arts” (even though you are enrolled within the School of Engineering). Contact your reference, asking permission to submit their name and contact information before doing so on the application form. An optional section exists for listing your preferences. You will have to look through the different projects if you want to have a better understanding of the different preference topics offered in this field of the application. By clicking on the link, you will be able to search for different projects by project area, duration or degree requirement. You can also enter keywords to see which project areas come up. 4. After filling out all relevant information, submit the application. It should be turned in before January 31st in order for GEP to review your application for possible referral to Infosys. 5. You should receive a confirmation e-mail with the Subject heading “Confirmation of your application”. It is recommended that you send an update of your application status to ming@stanford.edu so that the GEP staff can help to follow up with Infosys. FOR Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC), Taiwan In addition to a shorter version of application through SOLO system, applicants need to complete a separate application process for the internship at TSMC here. It is recommended that you send an update of your application status to ming@stanford.edu so that the GEP staff can help to follow up with TSMC. Print Stanford ENGINEERING Web Login Address 475 Via Ortega Stanford, CA 94305 United States Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Instagram Stanford Engineering Magazine Events Departments Open Faculty Positions Open Staff Positions Intranet Give Visit Contact Us Sign up for our email Your source for engineering research and ideas Research & Ideas email Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top