| Engineering Home Home A new magnetic device could revolutionize allergy diagnosis By isolating basophils, the rarest white blood cells, scientists aim to design a safer, more accurate allergy test. Read More Main content start Stanford Engineering has long been at the forefront of groundbreaking research, education and innovation. Through the development and application of engineering principles across disciplines, we are tackling the major challenges of the 21st century. Read the latest about our research News and Information What the humble planarian teaches us about the building blocks of life How to develop ever-better computer chips Training the next generation of entrepreneurs Meet some of the students, faculty and alumni who make up our community. Student spotlights >> Faculty back stories >> Alumni stories >> Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Central to the School of Engineering’s mission is a commitment to increasing diversity by supporting individuals historically excluded in the field. We welcome a diverse group of faculty, students, and staff in an environment that is nurturing, welcoming and inclusive of individuals from a variety of backgrounds, perspectives and beliefs. Learn more Degree & research opportunities With opportunities for exceptional research and mentorship and an array of majors and classes, students have the opportunity to get the most out of an experience at Stanford. We offer several degree programs, as well as research opportunities with faculty in labs and in worldwide experiences in the field. Start your application here What's it like to be a Stanford Engineering student? Learn more What is Computer Science? Through the study and application of the principles of mathematics, engineering and logic, computer science research makes contributions in areas including artificial intelligence, robotics, scientific computing and systems. Learn about Computer Science Jump right in Learn more below about how to get involved or stay involved. Subscribe to our email & podcast Read our biweekly email and listen to Stanford Engineering’s Future of Everything podcast to learn all about our latest research. Research & Ideas email Stanford Engineering’s Future of Everything podcast Support engineering Your gift can make a positive change for our people and our research. Giving options Connect with alumni The Stanford Engineering community is made up of 70,000 people who are working to solve global problems. Plug in for lifelong learning opportunities, career support and mentorship opportunities. Learn more Print Source URL: https://engineering.stanford.edu/home