Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences > Facilities Facilities TU’s engineering and natural sciences facilities host some of today’s most cutting-edge research projects that are enhanced by the university’s modern and unique system of equipment and operations. Auto Research Center, 12th and Harvard Avenue The Auto Research Center is an interdisciplinary, multi-purpose building that serves as a mechanical engineering classroom as well as an automotive research laboratory for electrical engineering, computer science and mechanical engineering students. Henneke Building, 1204 South Harvard Avenue Located just off of the main campus, the Henneke Building houses important university archives such as the Continuing Engineering and Science Education offices, the Institute for Information Security and the Alumni Heritage collection. It is also used for small speaking engagements. J. Newton Rayzor Hall, 3155 East 5th Place The state-of-the-art J. Newton Rayzor Hall is home to the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering and the Tandy School of Computer Science. The 37,600-square-foot facility includes 24 integrated classrooms, multiple teaching and research laboratories, faculty and graduate student offices, spacious conference rooms and inviting student commons areas. Keplinger Hall, 441 South Gary Avenue Keplinger Hall houses the departments of chemistry and biochemistry, geosciences, mathematics, physics and engineering physics, and the Russell School of Chemical Engineering. The 132,246-square-foot building features 23 classrooms, several teaching laboratories, advising offices and the college’s administrative offices. North Campus, 2450 East Marshall Street TU’s historic North Campus is the original site of Humble Oil and Refining Company. The property, which includes a drilling research laboratory and a full-sized enclosed drilling rig, was donated to the university in 1965. The facility is designed to explore the innovations of the petroleum industry while fostering research and learning opportunities for students, faculty, members of the private energy industry and governments. North Campus consortia and joint industry projects are supported by a testing laboratory, a multiphase flow facility, a rock and fluid laboratory and many other research systems. Oliphant Hall, 3015 East 7th Street Oliphant Hall hosts the Department of Biological Science and features teaching and research laboratories, a greenhouse, animal colonies and the Microarray Core Facility. Stephenson Hall, 3205 East 5th Place South TU’s Stephenson Hall encompasses 38,600 square feet of conference room, teaching, research laboratory and commons space along with 16 integrated classrooms, 34 faculty and graduate student offices and a student organization work space. The Department of Mechanical Engineering and the McDougall School of Petroleum Engineering are based in Stephenson Hall. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT