Dartmouth Engineering Dartmouth Academic Study Degree OverviewProgram OptionsCoursesInternshipStudent Life Career Advantage Graduate OutcomesMEM vs. MBAAlumni NetworkCareer ResourcesWhy Hire an MEM? People Faculty & StaffAlumni ProfilesStudent ProfilesStudent CouncilCorporate Council Admissions WebinarHow to ApplyTuition & CostsFinancial AidContact UsApply Now ⚲ Dartmouth MEM The Master of Engineering Management (MEM) program at Dartmouth is an immersive experience for engineering and science graduates who seek to become leaders in businesses and organizations driven by technology. Watch the video to learn more. Developing Future Technology Leaders ‍Taught by faculty from Thayer School of Engineering and Tuck School of Business, the MEM program at Dartmouth provides students with an immersive experience that broadens technical knowledge, deepens business expertise, and diversifies professional experiences and connections. Learn MoreRequest InfoHow to Apply Program Quick Facts 15 Months full-time on-campus internship 50 students 14 courses Information Session Webinar Join us at the next MEM Information Session Webinar to learn more about our program, the admissions process, and your future career pathways. During this interactive session, you will have the opportunity to hear from MEM staff, ask questions, and talk directly to a current Dartmouth MEM student. Register Today Areas of Study Data Analytics The MEM degree at Dartmouth equips students to interpret data and discern implications within a specific business context. They learn to crunch and deliver crucial input for strategic decision-making. Management MEM students study the lifecycles of products, projects, and programs, learning to balance marketing demands, ethical issues, and cultural considerations. Entrepreneurship Many MEM alumni have gone on to start their own companies after receiving unparalleled entrepreneurial training and access to key resources at Dartmouth, both during and after their studies. Career Tracks High Tech The Dartmouth MEM degree prepares students for leadership positions at top technology and consulting firms. Graduates are resourceful and ready to innovate collaboratively across disciplines. Healthcare Faculty involved in leading-edge research and startups in biotech, digital health, diagnostics, and medical devices prepare students to advance and lead these and other growing healthcare industry sectors. Energy MEM students take hands-on courses and engage in groundbreaking research, gaining specialized technical and management skills to suit the green energy and oil and gas industries. Employed Within 6 Months 94% Explore our MEM alumni career profiles. Median Starting Salary $100K Discover why Dartmouth MEMs get hired. 10 Reasons to Choose Dartmouth MEM 1 Tight-knit Community Work hard and play hard with ~50 of the best and brightest from around the world. 2 The Ivy League World-renowned reputation for academic rigor and powerful connections. 3 Flexibility & Range Customize your education with access to all the options of both an engineering and business curriculum. 4 Affordability Need-based financial aid can cover up to 40% of tuition. 5 Location Hanover, New Hampshire mixes small-town tranquility, natural beauty, and outdoor activities with high-tech startups and access to Boston and New York. 6 Jobs 94% of the class of 2020 received job offers within six months of graduation with a record median starting salary of $100,000. 7 Alumni Network A renowned dedication to Dartmouth gives you instant friends in high places ... worldwide. 8 Tuck With Dartmouth’s business school right next door, MEMs mix with MBAs in classes taught by Tuck faculty. 9 Internship 100% of students join a company to apply what they've learned and solve real-world problems. 10 Faculty Professors are both experts in their fields and passionate teachers. Personal attention and guidance are the norm. @dartmouthmem The Dartmouth MEM degree program is a founding member of the ‍Master of Engineering Management Programs Consortium (MEMPC). Thayer School of Engineering Thayer School of Engineering at Dartmouth 15 Thayer Drive, Hanover, NH 03755 +1 (603) 646-2230 master.of.engineering.management@dartmouth.edu Dartmouth Copyright © 2021 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy Contact