2022 Thayer Investiture Undergraduate Graduate Research Entrepreneurship Community About ThayerExpress Faculty Offices Visit Apply Give Undergraduate Undergraduate Engineering at Dartmouth Bachelor's Degrees Bachelor of Arts Bachelor of Engineering Dual-Degree Program Undergraduate Experience Engineering Design Research & Entrepreneurship Opportunities Study Abroad Project Spaces & Labs Student Life & Housing Life After Dartmouth Quick Links AB – Engineering Majors AB – Engineering Minors AB+BE – Degree Program BE – Program Examples Undergraduate Courses Courses for Non-majors Schedules & Textbooks Academic Calendar Career Services Program Areas Biological / Chemical Biomedical Electrical / Computer Energy Materials Science Mechanical / Operations / Systems Graduate Graduate Engineering at Dartmouth Master's Degrees Master of Science Master of Engineering Master of Engineering Management Doctoral Degrees Doctor of Philosophy PhD Innovation Program PhD + Doctor of Medicine Graduate Experience Engineering Design Online Certificates Collaborative Programs Degree Outcomes Student Life & Housing Quick Links Graduate Courses Schedules & Textbooks Academic Calendar Grad Student Handbook Career Services Program Areas Biological / Chemical Biomedical Electrical / Computer Energy Materials Science Mechanical / Operations / Systems Research Engineering Research at Dartmouth Research by Program Area Biological / Chemical Biomedical Electrical / Computer Energy Materials Science Mechanical / Operations / Systems Research by Activity Research News Active Projects Laboratories Libraries Collaborative Programs Undergraduate Research Research Opportunities Entrepreneurship Engineering Entrepreneurship at Dartmouth Startups listed by Startup Names Faculty Founders Research Programs Patents listed by Patent Titles Faculty Inventors Research Programs Explore Resources Entrepreneurship News Entrepreneurship Education Magnuson Center for Entrepreneurship Dartmouth Regional Technology Center Technology Transfer Office Entrepreneurship & Technology Transfer Community Dartmouth Engineering Community Community Info Faculty Leadership Offices Student Groups Undergrad Life Graduate Life Alumni Giving Magazine News Events Academic Calendar Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Flickr About About Dartmouth Engineering About Us Visit Facts History Leadership Diversity Disability Financial Aid Scholarships Transcripts Enrollment Verification Employment COVID-19 ThayerExpress Faculty Offices Give Apply Visit Undergraduate Bachelor's Degrees Bachelor of Arts Bachelor of Engineering Dual-Degree Program Undergraduate Experience Engineering Design Research & Entrepreneurship Opportunities Study Abroad Project Spaces & Labs Student Life & Housing Life After Dartmouth Quick Links AB – Engineering Majors AB – Engineering Minors AB+BE – Degree Program BE – Program Examples Undergraduate Courses Courses for Non-majors Schedules & Textbooks Academic Calendar Career Services Program Areas Biological / Chemical Biomedical Electrical / Computer Energy Materials Science Mechanical / Operations / Systems Graduate Master's Degrees Master of Science Master of Engineering Master of Engineering Management Doctoral Degrees Doctor of Philosophy PhD Innovation Program PhD + Doctor of Medicine Graduate Experience Engineering Design Online Certificates Collaborative Programs Degree Outcomes Student Life & Housing Quick Links Graduate Courses Schedules & Textbooks Academic Calendar Grad Student Handbook Career Services Program Areas Biological / Chemical Biomedical Electrical / Computer Energy Materials Science Mechanical / Operations / Systems Research Research by Program Area Biological / Chemical Biomedical Electrical / Computer Energy Materials Science Mechanical / Operations / Systems Research by Activity Research News Active Projects Laboratories Libraries Collaborative Programs Undergraduate Research Research Opportunities Entrepreneurship Startups listed by Startup Names Faculty Founders Research Programs Patents listed by Patent Titles Faculty Inventors Research Programs Explore Resources Entrepreneurship News Entrepreneurship Education Magnuson Center for Entrepreneurship Dartmouth Regional Technology Center Technology Transfer Office Entrepreneurship & Technology Transfer Community Community Info Faculty Leadership Offices Student Groups Undergrad Life Graduate Life Alumni Giving Magazine News Events Academic Calendar Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Flickr About About Us Visit Facts History Leadership Diversity Disability Financial Aid Scholarships Transcripts Enrollment Verification Employment COVID-19 Menu Close Back Home  |  Courses  |  Undergraduate Courses  |  Courses Recommended for Non-Majors Engineering Courses Undergraduate All Undergraduate Courses Courses for Majors/Minors Courses Recommended for Non-Majors Graduate All Graduate Courses Courses by Category Courses Recommended for Non-Majors Ideal for non-majors and first-year students exploring engineering, these courses have few or no prerequisites. ENGS 1.01 Mathematical Concepts in Engineering Description This course introduces prospective engineering students to mathematical concepts relevant in engineering while emphasizing the solving of engineering problems rather than mathematical derivations and theory. All topics are driven by engineering applications taken directly from core engineering courses. The course includes hands-on laboratory exercises as well as a thorough introduction to Matlab. Distribution Code TAS Copy link to ENGS 1.01 ENGS 2 Integrated Design: Engineering, Architecture, and Building Technology Description An introduction to the integrated design of structures and the evolving role of architects and engineers. The course will investigate the idea that design excellence is very often the result of deep collaboration between engineers, architects, and builders and that it is only in relatively recent history that a distinction between these areas of expertise has existed. The historical, social, and architectural impact of structures will be explored and several structures and their designers will be studied in depth. Enrollment is limited to 50 students. Distribution Code TAS Offered Term Time Location / Method Instructor(s) Term: Winter 2022 Time: 12 Location: MacLean B01 Instructors: John D. Wilson Term: Summer 2022 Time: 2A Location: – Instructors: John D. Wilson Term: Winter 2023 Time: 12 Location: – Instructors: John D. Wilson Term: Summer 2023 Time: 2A Location: – Instructors: John D. Wilson Term: Winter 2024 Time: 12 Location: – Instructors: John D. Wilson Copy link to ENGS 2 ENGS 3 Materials: The Substance of Civilization Description With the exception of ideas and emotions, materials are the substance of civilization. From the "Iceman's" copper ax to indium phosphide gallium arsenide semiconductor lasers, materials have always defined our world. We even name our epochs of time based on the dominant material of the age: Stone Age, Bronze Age, Iron Age and now Silicon Age. In addition to discussing the nature and processing of metals, polymers, ceramics, glass and electronic materials, this course will analyze the dramatic developments in civilization directly resulting from advances in such materials. The text Stephen Sass' The Substance of Civilization will be used in the course. Enrollment is limited to 50 students per section. Distribution Code TAS Offered Term Time Location / Method Instructor(s) Term: Winter 2022 Time: Cancelled Location: – Instructors: Eric S. Bish Term: Winter 2023 Time: 2A Location: – Instructors: Eric S. Bish Ronald C. Lasky Term: Winter 2024 Time: 2A Location: – Instructors: Eric S. Bish Ronald C. Lasky Copy link to ENGS 3 ENGS 4 Technology of Cyberspace Description This course will cover some basic concepts underlying the "information superhighway." The technologies of high-speed networking have stimulated much activity within the federal government, the telecommunications and computer industries, and even social science and popular fiction writing. The technical focus will be on communications technologies, information theory, and the communications requirements of video (standard and ATV), speech (and other audio), and text data. Social, economic, and policy issues will be an integral part of the course. Enrollment is limited to 30 students. Distribution Code TAS Offered Term Time Location / Method Instructor(s) Term: Fall 2023 Time: 2A Location: – Instructors: Stephen Taylor Copy link to ENGS 4 ENGS 5 Healthcare and Biotechnology in the 21st Century Description The course will explore technologies that will impact healthcare in the 21st century, including biology, robotics, and information. Included will be biotechnologies to be used for the treatment of diseases and the regeneration of missing organs and limbs. The course will also cover robotics that will replace human parts. Included will be artificial organs and joints, robots as replacement for human parts, the human genome project, gene therapy, biomaterials, genetic engineering, cloning, transplantation (auto, allo, and xeno), limb regeneration, man-machine interfaces, and prosthetic limbs. This section will also cover ethical issues related to the above topics and issues regarding the FDA and the approval of new medical treatments. We will discuss going beyond normal with respect to the senses, muscles, and creating wings. Enrollment is limited to 75 students. Distribution Code TAS Offered Term Time Location / Method Instructor(s) Term: Spring 2022 Time: 2A Location: – Instructors: Peter J. Robbie Joseph M. Rosen Term: Spring 2023 Time: 2A Location: – Instructors: Peter J. Robbie Joseph M. Rosen Term: Spring 2024 Time: 2A Location: – Instructors: Peter J. Robbie Joseph M. Rosen Copy link to ENGS 5 ENGS 6 Technology and Biosecurity Description This course will introduce students to the technologies used to combat biological threats to security ranging from pandemic influenza to bioterrorism. In particular, this course will explore the dual role that technology plays in both enhancing and destabilizing security. Specific technologies covered include the use of nanotechnology, synthetic biology, and mass spectrometry. The course considers questions such as: Where can technological solutions have the greatest impact? When can defensive technologies have offensive applications? And, how can we balance the need to regulate potentially dangerous technologies against the need for academic freedom and high tech innovation? Enrollment is limited to 30 students. Distribution Code TAS Offered Term Time Location / Method Instructor(s) Term: Spring 2022 Time: Cancelled Location: – Instructors: Kendall L. Hoyt Term: Spring 2023 Time: 2A Location: – Instructors: Kendall L. Hoyt Term: Spring 2024 Time: 2A Location: – Instructors: Kendall L. Hoyt Copy link to ENGS 6 ENGM 7.02 Climate Change Description Climate change has occurred naturally and frequently over the course of many time scales in the past. America today is engaged in a discussion of current climate change and its cause, ranging from calls for immediate action to denial. This course explores the published scientific literature on the nature and cause of climate change, potential impacts on us, and the implications for our nation's energy issues. Through readings, class discussion, and individual research, we will explore this complex problem; student writing will synthesize results from the literature to clarify the factual basis for their own understanding. Reading will include a number of published papers and selections from textbooks. Students will be required to actively participate in class by leading class discussions and actively engaging in small group activities. In addition students will write two short papers, develop an annotated bibliography, and write a research paper based on the research completed for the annotated bibliography. Enrollment is limited to 16 students. Distribution Code TAS Copy link to ENGM 7.02 ENGS 7.05 Contemporary and Historical Perspectives on Medical Imaging Description Medical imaging has evolved significantly over the last 100 years and has transformed modern medical practice to the extent that very few clinical decisions are made without relying on information obtained with contemporary imaging modalities. The future of medical imaging may be even more promising as new technologies are being developed to observe the structural, functional, and molecular characteristics of tissues at finer and finer spatial scales. This first-year seminar will review the historical development of modern radiographic imaging and discuss the basic physical principles behind common approaches such as CT, ultrasound, and MRI. Contemporary issues surrounding the use of imaging to screen for disease, the costs to the healthcare system of routine application of advanced imaging technology, and the benefits of the information provided by medical imaging in terms of evidence-based outcomes assessment will be explored. Students will be required to read, present, and discuss materials in class and write position papers articulating and/or defending particular perspectives on the historical development of medical imaging and its contemporary and/or future uses and benefits. Enrollment is limited to 16 students. Distribution Code TAS Copy link to ENGS 7.05 ENGS 7.06 Sustainability Revolution Description Humanity has previously seen two major resource transitions that have had radical impacts on day-to-day life: the Neolithic revolution (from hunting and gathering to agrarian) and the industrial revolution (from agrarian to pre-sustainable industrial). This writing course will consider the hypothesis that the human enterprise now requires a third such resource revolution - the sustainability revolution (from pre-sustainable industrial to sustainable industrial) - and that future generations will judge those of us alive today by how well we responded to this imperative. Topics addressed include past resource revolutions, resource and environmental metrics, energy, food, water, and climate. Writing assignments will include a personal essay, a critique encompassing one or a few sources, and an integrated analysis. Distribution Code TAS Copy link to ENGS 7.06 ENGS 8 Materials in Sports Equipment Description Sports equipment uses almost every type of material imaginable, as athletes and designers leverage state-of-the-art materials to maximize human efficiency, performance, comfort and safety. As something most people have some familiarity with, active Dartmouth students in particular, it is an excellent subject for an exploration of material characteristics, selection, design, and failure. This course will introduce materials science concepts in a way that is accessible and useful for the non-major. It will exercise student's critical thinking, quantitative and communication skills. In-class demonstrations will allow students to explore material behavior and differences between materials 'hands-on' and possible field trips or lab visits will introduce them to some engineering test methods. Finally, this course will demystify terms used by manufacturers and salespeople, and help students, as athletes and consumers, make informed equipment choices. Enrollment is limited to 40 students. Distribution Code TAS Copy link to ENGS 8 ENGS 9 Everyday Technology Description This course is intended to take the mystery out of the technology that we have grown to depend on in our everyday lives. Both the principles behind and examples of devices utilizing electricity, solid and fluid properties, chemical effects, mechanical attributes, and other topics will be discussed. In the associated lab project, students will dissect and analyze (and possibly revive!) a broken gadget or appliance of their choosing. Enrollment is limited to 50 students. Distribution Code TLA Offered Term Time Location / Method Instructor(s) Term: Spring 2022 Time: 11 Location: – Instructors: Scott C. Davis Term: Spring 2023 Time: 11 Location: – Instructors: Scott C. Davis Term: Spring 2024 Time: 11 Location: – Instructors: Scott C. Davis Copy link to ENGS 9 ENGS 10 The Science and Engineering of Digital Imaging Description Recent advances in electrical and computer engineering, computer science and applied mathematics have made remarkable digital imaging systems possible. Such systems are affecting everyone today — from eyewitness documentation of social and political events to health care to entertainment to scientific discovery. This course will introduce students to the fundamental concepts underlying a diverse and representative collection of modern digital imaging systems including cell phone cameras, medical imaging systems, space telescopes, computer games and animated movies. Specific attention will be paid to the scientific principles and engineering challenges underlying optics, computer processing chips, image processing software and algorithms, data compression and communication, and digital sensors as well as the basic principles of human vision and cognition. Students will explore and learn the basic science and technology through a combination of in-class lectures and active hands-on experimentation with digital cameras, image processing software and digital video systems. Students will participate in a course-long group project that demonstrates their understanding of and ability to harness these new technologies. Students will be expected to have access to an entry-level digital camera, either standalone or attached to a cell phone or tablet computer. Enrollment limited to 75 students. Distribution Code TAS Copy link to ENGS 10 ENGS 11 The Way Things Work - A Visual Introduction to Engineering Description Students will explore and compare engineered solutions to challenges or problems in the world around them. They will sketch and build models to help them understand and communicate. After being exposed to some basic engineering principles they will be asked to further investigate specific challenges and possible engineering solutions. What is the problem or need? What are some possible engineered solutions? What are the pros and cons of the different solutions? How could these solutions be improved? They will communicate their findings visually to the class, to the Thayer community, and beyond. Distribution Code ART Offered Term Time Location / Method Instructor(s) Term: Winter 2022 Time: 10A Location: Cummings 202 Instructors: David A. Macaulay Term: Winter 2023 Time: 10A Location: – Instructors: David A. Macaulay Term: Winter 2024 Time: 10A Location: – Instructors: David A. Macaulay Copy link to ENGS 11 ENGS 12 Design Thinking Description A foundation course on the cognitive strategies and methodologies that form the basis of creative design practice. Design thinking applies to innovation across the built environment, including the design of products, services, interactive technology, environments, and experiences. Topics include design principles, human need-finding, formal methodologies, brainstorming, heuristics, thinking by analogy, scenario building, visual thinking, and study of experienced thinkers. Weekly projects and exercises in a variety of media provide practice and development of students' personal creative abilities. Enrollment is limited to 20 students. Distribution Code TAS Offered Term Time Location / Method Instructor(s) Term: Winter 2022 Time: 10A Location: MacLean 132 Instructors: Peter J. Robbie Term: Winter 2022 Time: 2A Location: MacLean 201 Instructors: Rafe H. Steinhauer Term: Spring 2022 Time: 10A Location: – Instructors: Rafe H. Steinhauer Term: Spring 2022 Time: 2A Location: – Instructors: Rafe H. Steinhauer Term: Spring 2022 Time: 10A Location: – Instructors: Peter J. Robbie Term: Fall 2022 Time: 2A Location: – Instructors: Eugene Korsunskiy Term: Fall 2022 Time: 10A Location: – Instructors: Peter J. Robbie Term: Winter 2023 Time: 2A Location: – Instructors: Eugene Korsunskiy Term: Winter 2023 Time: 10A Location: – Instructors: Peter J. Robbie Term: Spring 2023 Time: 10A Location: – Instructors: Eugene Korsunskiy Term: Spring 2023 Time: 10A Location: – Instructors: Peter J. Robbie Term: Fall 2023 Time: 2A Location: – Instructors: Eugene Korsunskiy Term: Fall 2023 Time: 10A Location: – Instructors: Peter J. Robbie Term: Winter 2024 Time: 10A Location: – Instructors: Peter J. Robbie Term: Winter 2024 Time: 2A Location: – Instructors: Eugene Korsunskiy Term: Spring 2024 Time: 10A Location: – Instructors: Peter J. Robbie Term: Spring 2024 Time: 10A Location: – Instructors: Eugene Korsunskiy Copy link to ENGS 12 ENGS 13 Virtual Medicine and Cybercare Description There is a revolution in technology that is occurring in healthcare. This new technology will dramatically change how healthcare is delivered in the future. This course will cover topics related to the virtual human, created from bits. This will include virtual reality, augmented reality and datafusion, computer simulation, advanced 3D and 4D imaging techniques, the operating room of the future, minimally invasive surgery, space medicine, tele-operations, tele-medicine and tele-surgery, Internet 2 and cyberspace, artificial intelligence and intelligent agents applied to medicine, and the National Library of Medicine virtual human project. We will also discuss the FDA approval of computer simulators, robotic surgeons, and the ethics of robots doing surgery. In addition, we will discuss the medical library of the future, teleconferencing, and the use of interactive media in healthcare education. We will also discuss computerized patient records (CPR) and clinical information systems. Enrollment is limited to 48 students. Distribution Code TAS Offered Term Time Location / Method Instructor(s) Term: Fall 2023 Time: 2A Location: – Instructors: Joseph M. Rosen Kendall L. Hoyt Copy link to ENGS 13 ENGS 15 Undergraduate Investigations in Engineering Description An original investigation in a phase of science or engineering under the supervision of a member of the staff. Students electing the course will be expected to have a proposal approved by the department chair and to meet weekly with the staff member supervising the investigation. The course is open to undergraduates who are not majoring in engineering. It may be elected only once, or taken as a one-third course credit for each of three consecutive terms. A report describing the details of the investigation must be filed with the department chair and approved at the completion of the course. Distribution Code TAS Offered Term Time Location / Method Instructor(s) Term: Winter 2022 Time: Arrange Location: – Instructors: Douglas W. Van Citters Term: Summer 2022 Time: Arrange Location: – Instructors: Douglas W. Van Citters Term: Fall 2022 Time: Arrange Location: – Instructors: Douglas W. Van Citters Term: Winter 2023 Time: Arrange Location: – Instructors: Douglas W. Van Citters Term: Spring 2023 Time: Arrange Location: – Instructors: Douglas W. Van Citters Copy link to ENGS 15 ENGS 15.01 Senior Design Challenge I Description The Senior Design Challenge is a two-term course designed to serve as a senior capstone experience for Dartmouth students across all majors. Students in this project-based course will practice human-centered design, developing not only the skills, but also the creative confidence to apply their liberal arts education to make a positive difference in the world beyond Dartmouth. Students will work in interdisciplinary teams on projects that will be determined in partnership with organizations in the Upper Valley. The project topics will be designed to give students some flexibility in determining the specific problem on which to focus, while ensuring client responsiveness and substantial fieldwork opportunities. Distribution Code TAS Offered Term Time Location / Method Instructor(s) Term: Winter 2022 Time: 10A Location: MacLean 201 Instructors: Eugene Korsunskiy Term: Winter 2023 Time: 10A Location: – Instructors: Eugene Korsunskiy Term: Winter 2024 Time: 10A Location: – Instructors: Eugene Korsunskiy Copy link to ENGS 15.01 ENGS 15.02 Senior Design Challenge II Description The Senior Design Challenge is a two-term course designed to serve as a senior capstone experience for Dartmouth students across all majors. Students in this project-based course will practice human-centered design, developing not only the skills, but also the creative confidence to apply their liberal arts education to make a positive difference in the world beyond Dartmouth. Students will work in interdisciplinary teams on projects that will be determined in partnership with organizations in the Upper Valley. The project topics will be designed to give students some flexibility in determining the specific problem on which to focus, while ensuring client responsiveness and substantial fieldwork opportunities. Distribution Code TAS Offered Term Time Location / Method Instructor(s) Term: Spring 2022 Time: 3B Location: – Instructors: Eugene Korsunskiy Term: Spring 2023 Time: 3B Location: – Instructors: Eugene Korsunskiy Term: Spring 2024 Time: 3B Location: – Instructors: Eugene Korsunskiy Copy link to ENGS 15.02 ENGS 16 Biomedical Engineering for Global Health Description The past 20 years have seen an incredible amount of high-tech medical advances, but to what degree have these impacted the health of those living in the developing world? The potential for years of life gained through biomedical technology is tremendous in some of the world’s poorest regions, but appropriate design requires an understanding of the clinical, political, and cultural landscape, and a clean-slate approach to developing low-cost, effective tech. This course offers an exciting opportunity to understand how to design solutions for the most important health challenges of the developing world. Learning goals will be achieved through hands-on experience, including: a laboratory component where we deconstruct, design and build a low-cost medical device, case study discussions on successful global health innovations, and several “teardowns” of common medical devices. Lecturers from Thayer, Tuck School of Business, the Dartmouth Center for Health Care Delivery Science, and Geisel School of Medicine will cover complimentary topics in clinical medicine, healthcare delivery, innovation and medical imaging. A final project will bring everything together by addressing a real health problem with a prototype of a low-cost tech solution. Enrollment is limited to 40 students. Distribution Code TAS Copy link to ENGS 16 ENGS 17 Making Music: The Art, Science, and Symbolism of Musical Instruments Description A hands-on course in which students working in groups build and assemble simple musical instruments with the aim of understanding how materials, technologies, craftsmanship, and cultural knowledge interact in the conception, design, and production of diverse instruments around the world. Merging the methodologies of materials science and engineering with the approaches of arts and humanities, the course explores from an interdisciplinary perspective the social meanings and powers ascribed to musical instruments, and the way that instruments have come to function as potent symbols of personal, cultural, and political identity. Cross Listed Courses MUS 17.04/COCO 20 Copy link to ENGS 17 ENGS 18 System Dynamics in Policy Design and Analysis Description This course introduces systems dynamics, an approach to policy design and analysis based upon feedback principles and computer simulation. The approach is useful for gaining an understanding of the underlying structural causes of problem behavior in social, economic, political, environmental, technological, and biological systems. Goals of this approach are to gain better understanding of such problem behaviors and to design policies aimed at improving them. Lectures and exercises illustrate applications of the approach to real, current problems such as urban decay, resource depletion, environmental pollution, product marketing and distribution, and agricultural planning in an expanding population. The similarity and transferability of underlying feedback characteristics among various applications is emphasized. No prior engineering or computer science experience is necessary. Distribution Code TAS Offered Term Time Location / Method Instructor(s) Term: Winter 2022 Time: 2A Location: MacLean B01 Instructors: Steven O. Peterson Term: Winter 2023 Time: 2A Location: – Instructors: Steven O. Peterson Term: Winter 2024 Time: 2A Location: – Instructors: Steven O. Peterson Copy link to ENGS 18 ENGS 85 Special Topics in Engineering Sciences Description From time to time a section of ENGS 85 may be offered in order to provide an advanced course in a topic which would not otherwise appear in the curriculum. This course can only be elected once and either ENGS 84 or 85 may be used toward the Engineering Sciences major, but not both. Prerequisites Permission of the department chair Copy link to ENGS 85 15 Thayer Drive, Hanover, NH 03755 +1 (603) 646-2230 Undergraduate Graduate Research Entrepreneurship Community About ThayerExpress Faculty Offices Visit Apply Give Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Flickr © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • A-Z Index • Privacy • Feedback