Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Department of Geosciences Undergraduate Research A look at geosciences 918-631-2517 Keplinger Hall, L101 Map Email https://youtu.be/kDe8HgR6BFk GEOSCIENCES Geosciences Undergraduate Programs Geosciences Graduate Programs Research Faculty Facilities News Alumni Contact the Department TU’s Department of Geosciences offers unparalleled academic and research opportunities for students interested in geology, geophysics, environmental geology and biogeosciences. Traditionally, our geosciences program focuses on sedimentary geology and petroleum geophysics. Other department strengths include sedimentology, structural geology, geochemistry, organic geochemistry, petroleum geology, Earth surface processes and igneous petrology. Progressive curriculum standards challenge our students, and we invite them to participate in specialized, exclusive research projects. Our degree plans are enriched with physics, chemistry, mathematics, computer science and petroleum engineering courses that diversify our students for their future endeavors. Dedicated faculty strive to provide students with a sound foundation in the basic sciences while placing emphasis on the energy-related fields of exploration, environment and resources. Our students are welcome to join TU’s active Geosciences Club that hosts scholarly meetings and social events. Alumni Our graduates are well respected in the petroleum industry as well as other professions where employees study the physical aspects of Earth. They establish careers in the industrial, government, legal and academic arenas as well as environmental companies that specialize in monitoring and remediation. Geoscientists enjoy the freedom of multiple work environments and utilize office, laboratory and outdoor space to complete their projects. Job opportunities at state and federal agencies continue to grow as more Americans demand improved land and resource management. Check out what our alumni have to say about TU’s Geosciences programs. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT