Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Give Now School of Engineering Brown University School of Engineering Brown University Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Search Search Menu Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect The Brown School of Engineering eagerly welcomes the involvement of alumni, who offer a wealth of experience and insight to our students and faculty. Breadcrumb Home Get Involved Sub Navigation In This Section Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect The Brown School of Engineering eagerly welcomes the involvement of alumni, who offer a wealth of experience and insight to our students and faculty. The opportunities for alumni involvement are many and varied. For more information, please contact Associate Dean Jennifer Casasanto (Jennifer_Casasanto@brown.edu). Job Talks Come visit Brown and give a talk to our students about your industry and company. Capstone Design Courses Student teams work on your projects with concrete results as part of their educational program. Annual Career Fair Join numerous other companies to present opportunities to our growing engineering student population. Internship Program Utilize Brown School of Engineering students to enhance the workplace. Paid and unpaid opportunities are posted directly to relevant students. Brown Connect BrownConnect is the newest addition to CareerLAB’s suite of services. BrownConnect serves first years, sophomores and juniors who are seeking high-quality internships and research opportunities. BrownConnect provides “one stop shopping” for internship and research opportunities in a wide range of fields and geographical locations, as well as financial support to students in low-paid or unpaid internships. Students are able to search BrownConnect for internships, research opportunities, funding offered through and for the Brown community, and valuable alumni connections. Alumni: Be a career resource! Log into your Brown profile to make sure your work info is up to date. Your professional profile will be searchable by students through this site. Alumni, parents, and friends: support students by posting an internship -- or giving to BrownConnect. BEAM Award Each year we recognize outstanding Brown University engineering graduates for their accomplishments. Visit the BEAM Award Winners page for more details. If you would like to nominate someone, please contact Rick Fleeter at Rick_Fleeter@brown.edu. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Reservations Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Flickr Instagram LinkedIn Twitter YouTube © Brown University School of Engineering Brown University For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Open details for Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Bookmark this Page