2022 Thayer Investiture Undergraduate Graduate Research Entrepreneurship Community About ThayerExpress Faculty Offices Visit Apply Give Undergraduate Undergraduate Engineering at Dartmouth Bachelor's Degrees Bachelor of Arts Bachelor of Engineering Dual-Degree Program Undergraduate Experience Engineering Design Research & Entrepreneurship Opportunities Study Abroad Project Spaces & Labs Student Life & Housing Life After Dartmouth Quick Links AB – Engineering Majors AB – Engineering Minors AB+BE – Degree Program BE – Program Examples Undergraduate Courses Courses for Non-majors Schedules & Textbooks Academic Calendar Career Services Program Areas Biological / Chemical Biomedical Electrical / Computer Energy Materials Science Mechanical / Operations / Systems Graduate Graduate Engineering at Dartmouth Master's Degrees Master of Science Master of Engineering Master of Engineering Management Doctoral Degrees Doctor of Philosophy PhD Innovation Program PhD + Doctor of Medicine Graduate Experience Engineering Design Online Certificates Collaborative Programs Degree Outcomes Student Life & Housing Quick Links Graduate Courses Schedules & Textbooks Academic Calendar Grad Student Handbook Career Services Program Areas Biological / Chemical Biomedical Electrical / Computer Energy Materials Science Mechanical / Operations / Systems Research Engineering Research at Dartmouth Research by Program Area Biological / Chemical Biomedical Electrical / Computer Energy Materials Science Mechanical / Operations / Systems Research by Activity Research News Active Projects Laboratories Libraries Collaborative Programs Undergraduate Research Research Opportunities Entrepreneurship Engineering Entrepreneurship at Dartmouth Startups listed by Startup Names Faculty Founders Research Programs Patents listed by Patent Titles Faculty Inventors Research Programs Explore Resources Entrepreneurship News Entrepreneurship Education Magnuson Center for Entrepreneurship Dartmouth Regional Technology Center Technology Transfer Office Entrepreneurship & Technology Transfer Community Dartmouth Engineering Community Community Info Faculty Leadership Offices Student Groups Undergrad Life Graduate Life Alumni Giving Magazine News Events Academic Calendar Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Flickr About About Dartmouth Engineering About Us Visit Facts History Leadership Diversity Disability Financial Aid Scholarships Transcripts Enrollment Verification Employment COVID-19 ThayerExpress Faculty Offices Give Apply Visit Undergraduate Bachelor's Degrees Bachelor of Arts Bachelor of Engineering Dual-Degree Program Undergraduate Experience Engineering Design Research & Entrepreneurship Opportunities Study Abroad Project Spaces & Labs Student Life & Housing Life After Dartmouth Quick Links AB – Engineering Majors AB – Engineering Minors AB+BE – Degree Program BE – Program Examples Undergraduate Courses Courses for Non-majors Schedules & Textbooks Academic Calendar Career Services Program Areas Biological / Chemical Biomedical Electrical / Computer Energy Materials Science Mechanical / Operations / Systems Graduate Master's Degrees Master of Science Master of Engineering Master of Engineering Management Doctoral Degrees Doctor of Philosophy PhD Innovation Program PhD + Doctor of Medicine Graduate Experience Engineering Design Online Certificates Collaborative Programs Degree Outcomes Student Life & Housing Quick Links Graduate Courses Schedules & Textbooks Academic Calendar Grad Student Handbook Career Services Program Areas Biological / Chemical Biomedical Electrical / Computer Energy Materials Science Mechanical / Operations / Systems Research Research by Program Area Biological / Chemical Biomedical Electrical / Computer Energy Materials Science Mechanical / Operations / Systems Research by Activity Research News Active Projects Laboratories Libraries Collaborative Programs Undergraduate Research Research Opportunities Entrepreneurship Startups listed by Startup Names Faculty Founders Research Programs Patents listed by Patent Titles Faculty Inventors Research Programs Explore Resources Entrepreneurship News Entrepreneurship Education Magnuson Center for Entrepreneurship Dartmouth Regional Technology Center Technology Transfer Office Entrepreneurship & Technology Transfer Community Community Info Faculty Leadership Offices Student Groups Undergrad Life Graduate Life Alumni Giving Magazine News Events Academic Calendar Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Flickr About About Us Visit Facts History Leadership Diversity Disability Financial Aid Scholarships Transcripts Enrollment Verification Employment COVID-19 Menu Close Back Home  |  Undergraduate  |  BE Bachelor of Engineering Dartmouth's Bachelor of Engineering (BE) is a professional degree program accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET. Students interested in pursuing the BE must be admitted first as a Dartmouth undergraduate or as a dual-degree student from one of our partner institutions. At Dartmouth, completion of the BE requires a minimum of 9 courses beyond the engineering sciences major requirements for the Bachelor of Arts (AB). At least 6 courses must have significant engineering design content. Required courses and electives include mathematics, basic science, engineering sciences, and engineering design. Graduate-level courses taken as part of the BE program also count toward MS degree program requirements in order to earn an MS either simultaneously or one year after the BE. The BE degree generally takes 1 to 3 terms of additional study, depending on the courses taken during the first 4 years. (Advanced standing on entry to Dartmouth may shorten the time required.) Most add a fifth year to earn the BE (financial aid is available), but students may also plan ahead to finish a combined AB+BE in four years. The flexibility of the five-year BE program makes it possible for students majoring in physics or computer science at Dartmouth to also obtain the BE with an additional year of study following the AB. (See Sample AB/BE Programs for Dartmouth Physics Majors and Sample AB/BE Programs for Dartmouth Computer Science Majors for details.) Students interested in pursuing a BE degree are encouraged to work closely with their assigned faculty advisor to develop a multi-year course progression plan that will meet degree requirements and the student's personal academic goals. On This Page Overview Advantages Design Experience Opportunities & Support Areas of Study Requirements Tuition & Expenses Financial Aid Housing Admissions Visit Apply Overview Program Objectives The BE degree program seeks to produce engineers who: Apply interdisciplinary breadth to professional activities; Demonstrate innovation in professional activities; Practice effective teamwork and written and verbal communication; Initiate the process of lifelong learning; and Serve society at large. Enrollment and Degrees Awarded Academic Year Students Enrolled Degrees Awarded 2020–2021 108 106 2019–2020 120 114 2018–2019 120 116 2017–2018 91 89 The graduation rate fluctuates between 96 and 97%. Student Outcomes BE graduates achieve these objectives through: an ability to identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by applying principles of engineering, science, and mathematics; an ability to apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with consideration of public health, safety, and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors; an ability to communicate effectively with a range of audiences; an ability to recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situations and make informed judgments, which must consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental, and societal contexts; an ability to function effectively on a team whose members together provide leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives; an ability to develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions; an ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies. Advantages Students describe the advantages of taking a fifth year to earn the BE. Design Experience Capstone Design Sequence Design is an essential element of engineering. Project management is what makes a good design become a prototype and ultimately a tool that works. Toward the end of their degree, BE students enroll in a two-term capstone design sequence. These projects focus on engineering design, project management, and project completion. Working in teams of 3 or 4, they choose projects that industries have submitted to Thayer School's Cook Engineering Design Center (CEDC). Engineering Design Methodology In the design sequence (ENGS 89/90), students select a problem and collaborate with their industry sponsor to solve it. The entire process, which covers two 10-week terms, involves all the elements of the design process from problem definition to the industry application and includes feasibility studies, decision making, economic analysis, prototyping, and often final implementation. Lectures by experts on entrepreneurship, ethics, and legal issues are part of each course. At several points in each term, students practice their presentation skills before a review board of engineering professionals. The final product—a hardware prototype or a software program or a manufacturing process—is delivered to the industry partner at the end of the second term. BE candidate Max Fagin, far right, in reduced gravity. He and his Thayer design team created a dehumidification system for space flight for their ENGS 89/90: Engineering Design Methodology and Project Completion. The group was accepted to NASA's Microgravity University, where they tested their designs. Photo by James Blair and Bill Stafford, courtesy of Max Fagin. Opportunities & Support Research & Entrepreneurship Opportunities Engineering research at Dartmouth reflects our belief that innovation happens at the intersection of disciplines. Our non-departmental structure and collaborative culture enable faculty to draw on multiple areas of expertise to address critical human needs. Learn More Fellowships & Scholarships Endowed named scholarships and fellowships, established through the generosity of alumni, friends, foundations, and corporations, are awarded to engineering students with financial need who have demonstrated academic ability and show promise of contributing to the engineering profession. Learn More Grand Challenges Scholars Program The Grand Challenges Scholars Program (GCSP) is an education supplement for selected undergraduate engineering programs to develop five competencies promoting global awareness and social skills with a focus on the greatest engineering challenges of the 21st century. Learn More Study Abroad Engineering students may pursue a variety of study abroad programs through Dartmouth's Guarini Institute for International Education as well as four additional exchange programs designed especially for engineering majors. Learn More Areas of Study Students interested in focusing their AB+BE studies in a specific engineering discipline may review the following list of AB+BE example programs to help guide you in designing an academic plan with a faculty advisor. Biomedical Engineering Biological Engineering Chemical Engineering Computer Engineering Computer Science Electrical Engineering Energy Engineering Environmental Engineering Material Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Physics Requirements The BE degree program requires a minimum of nine courses beyond the requirements for the AB degree. At least six courses must have significant engineering design content. Additional required courses and electives include those in mathematics, basic science, and engineering sciences. Completion of the BE after the AB generally takes between one and three terms at Thayer School, depending on the courses taken during the first four years. Advanced standing on entry to Dartmouth may shorten the overall time required; some students complete both the AB and BE in four years. With approval of the Associate Dean for Undergraduate Education, Dartmouth students admitted to the BE may transfer up to four courses, two toward AB requirements and 2 toward BE requirements. Course credit transfers approved by the Dartmouth Registrar in partial satisfaction of AB requirements, with approval of the Associate Dean for Undergraduate Education, may be included in partial fulfillment of BE requirements. Courses transferred for course equivalency, or for engineering credit with no course equivalency, must be suitable for inclusion in a technical and applied science program and should be evaluated according to the process outlined by the Thayer Registrar for course transfers. Courses transferred in fulfillment of the math and natural science requirements for the BE will be assessed by the BE program committee, or appropriate math/science instructor at Dartmouth. Prior to approval for transfer, additional supporting material may be required, including course catalog descriptions, textbook information, syllabi, etc. Detailed information, for enrolled students, about specific courses that satisfy accreditation and BE degree requirements can be found and planned using the "BE – Program Plan" spreadsheet. BE – Program Plan Spreadsheet Engineering Gateway Choose 2 courses from 2 different disciplines; students who modify the engineering sciences major with science, and dual-degree students with science majors, may take their gateway courses in the same discipline. Electrical ENGS 31: Digital Electronics ENGS 32: Electronics: Introduction to Linear and Digital Circuits Mechanical ENGS 33: Solid Mechanics ENGS 34: Fluid Mechanics Chemical/Biochemical ENGS 30: Biological Physics ENGS 35: Biotechnology and Biochemical Engineering ENGS 36: Chemical Engineering Environmental ENGS 37: Introduction to Environmental Engineering Mathematics and Basic Science 9 courses MATH 3: Calculus MATH 8: Calculus of Functions of One and Several Variables MATH 13: Calculus of Vector-Valued Functions PHYS 13: Introductory Physics I PHYS 14: Introductory Physics II CHEM 5: General Chemistry ENGS 91: Numerical Methods in Computation, or ENGS 92: Fourier Transforms and Complex Variables, or ENGS 93: Statistical Methods in Engineering Two non-introductory courses chosen from ASTR 15 and above; BIOL 12 and above (except 20 and 52); CHEM 6, 10 and above (except 63); EARS 31, 33, 35, 37, 40-52, 59, 62, 64, 66-76, 78, 79 and above; ENVS 30 and 79; MATH 17-29, 31, 32, 35, 38, 39, 40, 42, 43, 50 and above; PHYS 19 or 40 (formerly 24), 41 and above (except 48); COSC 30/ENGS 66, COSC 31, 35, 39, 40, 49, 71, 73, 74; PSYC 21, 40, 45, 46, 65. Engineering Common Core 3.5 courses ENGS 20: Introduction to Scientific Computing - counts as 0.5 course for BE credit ENGS 21: Introduction to Engineering ENGS 22: Systems ENGS 23: Distributed Systems and Fields Engineering Distributive Core choose 2 courses ENGS 24: Science of Materials ENGS 25: Introduction to Thermodynamics ENGS 26: Control Theory ENGS 27: Discrete and Probabilistic Systems ENGS 28: Embedded Systems Engineering Electives choose 6 courses 3 courses must form a coherent disciplinary concentration; 1 of these having significant design content - Understanding that the BE is a degree that prepares one for the engineering profession, students must choose at least three, but preferably four (or more) courses in which they increase their depth in an engineering field. At least one of these courses must have significant design content. This depth of studies must be intellectually coherent as defined together by the student and their faculty advisor. While some course plans might be self-evident as classically defined (e.g. “mechanical engineering” or “electrical engineering”), others might be more tailored to a student’s chosen professional pathway. Students are therefore asked to provide a brief rationale for why they chose a certain group of courses. The courses need not build on one another but they must build on foundational courses in the engineering curriculum. These concentration courses allow the student to identify with a particular field of engineering on their resume, while still earning their degree in Engineering Sciences. 3 electives may be chosen from ENGS or ENGG courses numbered 24-88 (except 66, 75, 87), 103, 107-177, 192 and 199; COSC 50-84 (except 30, 31, 35, 39, 40, 49, 71, 73, 74) and COSC 170-276 (except 174, 179, 189, 210). - Two of the 3 electives may be mathematics or natural science courses as listed above. Significant Design Content at least 3 courses At least three courses in your program, excluding ENGS 21 and 89/90, must have significant design content. - Courses with significant design content include: ENGS/ENGG 26, 31, 32, 33, 34, 36, 37, 44, 51, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 64, 65, 69, 71, 73, 75, 76, 111, 124, 125, 126, 128, 129, 130, 135, 145, 146, 147, 150, 154, 156, 157, 158, 162, 163, 164, 165, 166, 169, 171, 173, 174, 240, and COSC 50. - ENGS 86 or 88 may be approved for design credit by the BE program committee, based on evaluation of the work done. Capstone Engineering Design 2 courses ENGS 89/90: Engineering Design Methodology and Project Initiation/Completion - Prior to enrollment in ENGS 89, at least 6 engineering sciences courses must be completed. These include ENGS 21 plus 5 additional courses numbered 22 to 76 (excluding 75) and 91 and above. Important Notes The only BE courses that can be taken under the Non-Recording Option are MATH 3, 8, 13; PHYS 13, and CHEM 5. If you have questions, please see the Registrar in MacLean 103. Tuition & Expenses The following estimated expenses are for academic calendar 2021–2022. For a detailed breakdown of tuition and fees visit the, Dartmouth Tuition and Fees webpage. Tuition $19,651 per term Tuition covers instruction and use of instructional facilities. Fees $3,988–5,802 per term Fees include health access/insurance, housing, student activities/services, class dues… etc. Total Cost $71,000–$77,000 per academic year The estimated total cost of a year—including tuition, books, room, board, and incidentals—not including meal plan options. Financial Aid Full-time students in the BE program are eligible for aid in the form of partial-tuition scholarships, hourly employment as teaching assistants or in other capacities, fellowships, and loans. Special and part-time students are not eligible for financial aid. BE students who accept partial-tuition scholarship awards will be required to serve as a paid hourly teaching assistant if called upon. The assessment of need is based on the CSS PROFILE application. Awards are made annually on an academic-year basis. Apply for financial aid The Mazilu Engineering Research Fellowship The Mazilu Engineering Research Fellowship is a competitive fellowship in support of a research experience for engineering sciences students under the direction of a faculty mentor. Partial Tuition Scholarships Grants applicable to tuition charges are awarded on the basis of need, as demonstrated by the PROFILE application. Scholarships are renewed each academic year contingent upon continued satisfactory academic progress. BE students who accept financial aid awards from Thayer School are required to serve as teaching assistants if called upon. Hourly Teaching Assistantships and Other Employment Teaching assistant positions may be available to well qualified students. A teaching assistant is paid hourly to assist with grading, problem sessions, and/or lab work. Assignments are made on a term-by-term basis. BE students who accept financial aid awards from Thayer School are required to serve as teaching assistants if called upon. Other limited hourly employment is also available to qualified students. Normally work is limited to no more than 12 hours per week during academic terms and 40 hours per week between terms and during off-terms. The 2019–2020 hourly rate of pay is $15. Hourly employment may not exceed a total of 40 hours per week from any and all College sources. Loans US BE students are eligible to apply for Federal Direct Stafford Loans, Federal Perkins Loans, and, in limited cases, DELC Loans through the Dartmouth Financial Aid Office. Educational loan applicants must complete and submit a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). This form may be completed at fafsa.ed.gov. Dartmouth's school code is 002573. Thayer has a loan program available to non-US-citizen BE candidates with high financial need. Contact Candace Potter for more information. Housing BE candidates are responsible for arranging their own housing off-campus. Information on local renting is available from the Dartmouth College Real Estate Office. Admissions Admission Requirements Students interested in pursuing the BE must be admitted first as a Dartmouth undergraduate or as a Dual-Degree student from our partner institutions. High School & Transfer students: Please apply directly to Dartmouth's Office of Undergraduate Admissions for admission to the undergraduate program. Dual-Degree Students: Students interested in the Dual-Degree Program should apply directly to Thayer School of Engineering. Current Dartmouth students: Current Dartmouth students pursuing a major or modified major in engineering sciences are automatically admitted to the BE program, but must first apply at least two terms prior to their intended enrollment. Post-Baccalaureate Math/Science Majors Qualified candidates with a bachelor's degree that is substantially equivalent to the Dartmouth AB in engineering sciences plus two upper-level electives in engineering, mathematics, or the natural sciences are eligible for admission. Students with minor deficiencies may be admitted but will be required to complete additional undergraduate coursework. Students who need no more than the equivalent of one term to satisfy prerequisites will be considered for admission as regular degree candidates. Students who need more than one full term (three courses) are required to enroll initially as a "special student." A typical student with an AB or BS in mathematics or science may earn the BE in approximately five academic terms—two as a special student without financial aid and, pending satisfactory progress, three more terms as an aid-eligible BE student. Special Student A student who does not meet the requirements for admission to the BE program may initially be admitted as a special student. Part-Time Student A local resident who has a BS in engineering or an appropriate math/science program and can meet basic academic requirements may pursue coursework on a part-time basis. Special and part-time students are ineligible for financial aid from Thayer School of Engineering at Dartmouth. Application Deadline Two terms prior to the beginning term of the BE program. The BE program plan is submitted to the BE Program Committee at the time of application. Application Process Current Dartmouth students and dual-degree students can apply electronically. All other students should contact the Admissions Office. Apply Online Admission Office Contact Undergraduate Programs Administrator Jenna Wheeler jenna.d.wheeler@dartmouth.edu +1 (603) 646-3677 Admission Office Address BE Admissions Thayer School of Engineering at Dartmouth 15 Thayer Drive Hanover, NH 03755 engineering.admissions@dartmouth.edu +1 (603) 646-2606 15 Thayer Drive, Hanover, NH 03755 +1 (603) 646-2230 Undergraduate Graduate Research Entrepreneurship Community About ThayerExpress Faculty Offices Visit Apply Give Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Flickr © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • A-Z Index • Privacy • Feedback