Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences > Admissions > Four in-demand cybersecurity jobs Four in-demand cybersecurity jobs June 9, 2021 Going into cybersecurity? Good timing. According to EMSI, a labor analytics company, U.S. employers have less than half the qualified cybersecurity candidates they need. When you minor in cybersecurity at The University of Tulsa, you’ll have your pick of cool jobs. Here are four you might find especially intriguing. Become an ethical hacker. When you think of a “hacker,” what comes to mind? You might imagine someone in a darkened lair, breaking into secure networks to steal data or wreak havoc. But now envision someone who uses their hacking skills for good. These “white hat” ethical hackers are employed by companies and the government to find weak spots in computer systems before their less-scrupulous counterparts hack their way in. (A subset of the field, known as penetration testing, simulates cyberattacks.) To thrive in this field, you’ll need knowledge of programming languages, networks and databases – not to mention an aptitude for solving problems and a passion for privacy and the public good. Protect the institutions that keep the country running. The federal government considers cybersecurity such a major threat that it’s hiring cybersecurity experts to work with public institutions in every state in the country. What’s at risk? Ransomware attacks that shut whole city agencies down. (There have been more than 2,400 ransomware complaints since the start of the pandemic, according to the FBI.) Email intrusions that expose confidential data. Threats to critical infrastructure that could affect the electrical grid, water treatment plants and other vital parts of daily life. If you’re looking for a way to combine your technical skills with a love of public service, TU’s cybersecurity programs can prepare you for that mission. Follow the demand. The rewards will follow. Today, the two most in-demand cybersecurity skills are application development security (+164%) and cloud security (+115%). According to an October 2020 report from Burning Glass Technologies, those careers carry a hefty salary premium, too — up to $15,000 over the going rate for cybersecurity experts. As a TU alum, you’ll have the skills to pivot to whatever the big threat of the day is. Our students have even been included on several cybersecurity patents, as a result of the work they’ve done to identify new threats. Become an entrepreneur. Build your own cybersecurity company. By the time you graduate from TU, you will have put your problem-solving skills to work in cyberdefense competitions, internships and research projects. These experiences give you a close-up view on real-world challenges. As a Center of Academic Excellence in Information Assurance and Cyber Defense Education for 20 years, we’re on the cutting edge of industry research. So it’s no surprise that many TU graduates have gone on to establish cybersecurity companies, putting their insights to work. Avansic provides digital forensic services to law firms. TRUE Digital helps organizations in health care, energy and other sectors where security is paramount guard against attacks and comply with regulations. TokenEX is a cloud-based data security company. In fact, our extensive alumni network means you’ll have a chance to meet some of these entrepreneurs and ask how they built their careers. Admissions, Computer Science, Cybersecurity, Engineering and Natural Sciences, News application development security, cloud security, cyberattacks, cyberdefense, databases, ethical hacker, hacker, networks, penetration testing, privacy, programming, ransomware 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT