2022 Thayer Investiture Undergraduate Graduate Research Entrepreneurship Community About ThayerExpress Faculty Offices Visit Apply Give Undergraduate Undergraduate Engineering at Dartmouth Bachelor's Degrees Bachelor of Arts Bachelor of Engineering Dual-Degree Program Undergraduate Experience Engineering Design Research & Entrepreneurship Opportunities Study Abroad Project Spaces & Labs Student Life & Housing Life After Dartmouth Quick Links AB – Engineering Majors AB – Engineering Minors AB+BE – Degree Program BE – Program Examples Undergraduate Courses Courses for Non-majors Schedules & Textbooks Academic Calendar Career Services Program Areas Biological / Chemical Biomedical Electrical / Computer Energy Materials Science Mechanical / Operations / Systems Graduate Graduate Engineering at Dartmouth Master's Degrees Master of Science Master of Engineering Master of Engineering Management Doctoral Degrees Doctor of Philosophy PhD Innovation Program PhD + Doctor of Medicine Graduate Experience Engineering Design Online Certificates Collaborative Programs Degree Outcomes Student Life & Housing Quick Links Graduate Courses Schedules & Textbooks Academic Calendar Grad Student Handbook Career Services Program Areas Biological / Chemical Biomedical Electrical / Computer Energy Materials Science Mechanical / Operations / Systems Research Engineering Research at Dartmouth Research by Program Area Biological / Chemical Biomedical Electrical / Computer Energy Materials Science Mechanical / Operations / Systems Research by Activity Research News Active Projects Laboratories Libraries Collaborative Programs Undergraduate Research Research Opportunities Entrepreneurship Engineering Entrepreneurship at Dartmouth Startups listed by Startup Names Faculty Founders Research Programs Patents listed by Patent Titles Faculty Inventors Research Programs Explore Resources Entrepreneurship News Entrepreneurship Education Magnuson Center for Entrepreneurship Dartmouth Regional Technology Center Technology Transfer Office Entrepreneurship & Technology Transfer Community Dartmouth Engineering Community Community Info Faculty Leadership Offices Student Groups Undergrad Life Graduate Life Alumni Giving Magazine News Events Academic Calendar Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Flickr About About Dartmouth Engineering About Us Visit Facts History Leadership Diversity Disability Financial Aid Scholarships Transcripts Enrollment Verification Employment COVID-19 ThayerExpress Faculty Offices Give Apply Visit Undergraduate Bachelor's Degrees Bachelor of Arts Bachelor of Engineering Dual-Degree Program Undergraduate Experience Engineering Design Research & Entrepreneurship Opportunities Study Abroad Project Spaces & Labs Student Life & Housing Life After Dartmouth Quick Links AB – Engineering Majors AB – Engineering Minors AB+BE – Degree Program BE – Program Examples Undergraduate Courses Courses for Non-majors Schedules & Textbooks Academic Calendar Career Services Program Areas Biological / Chemical Biomedical Electrical / Computer Energy Materials Science Mechanical / Operations / Systems Graduate Master's Degrees Master of Science Master of Engineering Master of Engineering Management Doctoral Degrees Doctor of Philosophy PhD Innovation Program PhD + Doctor of Medicine Graduate Experience Engineering Design Online Certificates Collaborative Programs Degree Outcomes Student Life & Housing Quick Links Graduate Courses Schedules & Textbooks Academic Calendar Grad Student Handbook Career Services Program Areas Biological / Chemical Biomedical Electrical / Computer Energy Materials Science Mechanical / Operations / Systems Research Research by Program Area Biological / Chemical Biomedical Electrical / Computer Energy Materials Science Mechanical / Operations / Systems Research by Activity Research News Active Projects Laboratories Libraries Collaborative Programs Undergraduate Research Research Opportunities Entrepreneurship Startups listed by Startup Names Faculty Founders Research Programs Patents listed by Patent Titles Faculty Inventors Research Programs Explore Resources Entrepreneurship News Entrepreneurship Education Magnuson Center for Entrepreneurship Dartmouth Regional Technology Center Technology Transfer Office Entrepreneurship & Technology Transfer Community Community Info Faculty Leadership Offices Student Groups Undergrad Life Graduate Life Alumni Giving Magazine News Events Academic Calendar Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Flickr About About Us Visit Facts History Leadership Diversity Disability Financial Aid Scholarships Transcripts Enrollment Verification Employment COVID-19 Menu Close Back Home  |  Community  |  Student Groups Student Groups & Councils On This Page Student Councils Student Groups Group/Club Recognition Student Councils Thayer Council The Thayer Council is a student-run umbrella organization for all Dartmouth engineering students. Its mission is to guide student social life, foster communication among different student groups, and promote equity and diversity. The council acts as the student voice in communications with faculty and administration. Fully committed to the "service" aspect of the Thayer School educational philosophy, the council promotes student involvement in campus service organizations that carry classroom learning out into the community. Contact: thayer.council@dartmouth.edu MEM Council The Master of Engineering Management Council (MEMC) focuses on addressing the professional, academic, and social needs of prospective and current MEM candidates, as well as graduates of the program. Contact: master.of.engineering.management.council@dartmouth.edu Graduate Student Council The Graduate Student Council (GSC) is the graduate student governing body that works to improve the quality of life for all graduate students at Dartmouth. The GSC sponsors social and content-driven events, provides financial support for student organizations, and supports college-wide initiatives that affect graduate students such as the Student Wellness Check-in program. The council consists of representatives from each graduate program/department of the Arts and Sciences, including Thayer School and The Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy and Clinical Practice. The GSC has many recognized student groups including Dartmouth Graduate Women in Science and Engineering (GWISE). The central purpose of GWISE is to develop a community of women from a variety of disciplines in science and engineering that will provide a place for women to both gain support during their graduate careers and to develop skills that will empower them in their professional occupations. The group's activities are geared toward professional development, outreach, and building a social network of women in the sciences at Dartmouth. Although the group is oriented toward supporting women, they welcome all graduate students. The advisor for the group is Professor Megan Romano. Contact: graduate.student.council@dartmouth.edu / GWISE@dartmouth.edu Student Groups American Indian Science and Engineering Society The American Indian Science and Engineering Society's (AISES) mission is to increase representation of American Indian and Alaskan Natives in engineering, science and related disciplines. AISES was founded in 1977 by American Indian scientists, engineers and educators. In view of the high dropout rates and low college enrollment and graduation rates of American Indians compared with all other ethnic groups in the US, and the severe under-representation of American Indians in the science and engineering fields, these Native professionals resolved to create an organization that would identify and remove the barriers to academic success for Native students. The Dartmouth chapter of AISES is on Facebook and on Instagram @dart.aises. Contact: hayden.a.campos.22@dartmouth.edu Advisor: Nicholas Reo, Associate Professor of Indigenous Environmental Studies Association of Medical Physics Students The Dartmouth Association of Medical Physics Students (AMPS) is a student-run organization for graduates enrolled in the CAMPEP-accredited Medical Physics Education Program. The group aims to help prepare students for professional certification exams, residency applications, and developing clinical exposure. Additionally, AMPS seeks to develop and maintain a social network of medical physics students and alumni in the broader Dartmouth community. Contact: amps@dartmouth.edu Dartmouth Aerospace Engineering Club The Dartmouth Aerospace Engineering Club seeks to empower students with the skills and knowledge necessary to improve life on Earth and beyond. We are currently developing a competitive sounding rocket, an autonomous farm computer, and an Arduino-powered RC aircraft. Contact: rockets@dartmouth.edu Dartmouth Formula Racing The student-run Dartmouth Formula Racing (DFR) team designs, builds, and tests a high performance hybrid or electric race car. The DFR team initiated the annual Formula Hybrid+Electric™ competition, which is run by Thayer School. The team receives advice and equipment from Thayer faculty and staff, but DFR members raise most of each year's budget from corporate sponsors and personal donations. DFR photos DFR videos Contact: dartmouth.formula.racing@dartmouth.edu Advisor: Raina White, Engineering Laboratory Instructor Dartmouth Humanitarian Engineering Dartmouth Humanitarian Engineering (DHE) — formerly Humanitarian Engineering Leadership Projects (HELP) — exists to organize and support service initiatives all over the world. DHE's goal is to improve a community's quality of life with solutions that are fully sustainable using local materials. Projects seek to provide clean water, improve sanitation, and reduce environmental impact through the implementation of appropriate technologies that are socially conscious, economically feasible, and fully sustainable. Current initiatives include improved cooking technologies and alternative fuels in Tanzania and hydropower sites for off-grid areas in Rwanda. DHE Facebook page Scientific American post: Fuel for Thought—Travels in Tanzania The Dartmouth Humanitarian Engineering collection on Flickr The Humanitarian Engineering playlist on YouTube Contact: dartmouth.humanitarian.engineering@dartmouth.edu Advisors: Professor Charles Sullivan and Holly Wilkinson, Assistant Dean for Academic and Student Affairs. Dartmouth Society of Engineers: Student Chapter Every engineering student is automatically a member of the student chapter of the Dartmouth Society of Engineers (DSE). The Student Chapter serves as a forum for matters pertaining to the welfare of engineering students at Dartmouth, as well as a liaison between the engineering student body and the DSE Parent Chapter, Thayer School faculty and staff, and Dartmouth. The Student Chapter also serves as a coordinating organization for social events and philanthropic initiatives. These include a weekly Friday gathering and the annual Steak and Champagne dinner. In addition, the DSE organizes a Graduation Reception that is open to students, faculty, staff, and the families of graduating students. The DSE Student Chapter also works with other Thayer organizations to plan and organize additional activities to enrich the lives of Thayer students. Co-Presidents: Ben Hogan Th'21 & Josie Nordrum '17 Th'17 '19 Advisor: Professor Solomon Diamond Graduates in Need of Decompression Graduates in Need of Decompression (GrIND) is a student-led group at Thayer that seeks to promote general health and wellness among all graduate students. Maneuvering through graduate school can be a difficult proposition—learning how to manage your time effectively, making new friends, getting along with your advisor, learning your way around a new area or culture, writing a thesis, finding time to exercise or spend time with your family, etc.—these can all be significant factors affecting your overall outlook on life and your academic performance. Through GrIND, we hope to provide students with a local network of peer-based moral support as well as a structured and healthy approach to managing day-to-day graduate school life. Contact: grind@thayer.dartmouth.edu Advisors: Jennifer St. Laurence and Jessica Widdicombe. Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) is a professional society of engineers and scientists whose mission is to promote "the engineering process of creating, developing, integrating, sharing, and applying knowledge about electro and information technologies and sciences for the benefit of humanity and the profession." The student chapter of IEEE at Dartmouth sponsors activities, guest lectures, competitions, and other events relevant to students in engineering and computer science. Advisor: Professor Paul Meaney National Society of Black Engineers The mission of the National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE) is to increase the number of culturally responsible black engineers who excel academically, succeed professionally, and positively impact the community. Dartmouth's NSBE chapter, comprised of 45 undergraduates, is open to all minority students and focuses on supporting academic work, professional development, and connecting students to available resources. Contact: national.society.of.black.engineers@dartmouth.edu Advisors: Professor Kofi Odame and Holly Wilkinson, Assistant Dean for Academic and Student Affairs Sigma Xi The Dartmouth Chapter of Sigma Xi, the Scientific Research Society, sponsors the Christopher Reed Science Competition for senior honors students, and supports other activities that recognize and honor the research achievements of Dartmouth students. President: Professor Dean Wilcox, Chemisty Department Society of Automotive Engineers The Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) is a professional engineering society that specializes in transportation technology. A multi-disciplinary group, it encompasses mechanical, electrical, and chemical engineering. See also Dartmouth Formula Racing. Advisor: Professor Laura Ray Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE) changes lives by empowering the Hispanic community to realize its fullest potential and to impact the world through STEM awareness, access, support and development. SHPE, including the Dartmouth chapter, seeks to create a world where LatinX individuals are highly valued and influential as leading innovators, scientists, mathematicians, and engineers. Contact: society.of.hispanic.professional.engineers@dartmouth.edu Advisors: Holly Wilkinson and Professor Petra Bonfert-Taylor Society of Women Engineers The Dartmouth chapter of the Society of Women Engineers (SWE) includes women and men, faculty, students, and staff. The group sponsors a variety of activities ranging from workshops for local schools to course advising sessions and luncheons with prominent women in a variety of fields of engineering. SWE students are often active in the Women in Science Project (WISP). Contact: swe@dartmouth.edu Advisor: Holly Wilkinson, Assistant Dean for Academic and Student Affairs SPIE Dartmouth Student Chapter The International Society of Optics and Photonics seeks to connect researchers, educators and industrialists to collaborate upon and advance optical light-based research and technologies. The Dartmouth student chapter aims to link these various disciplines of research amongst the faculty and students. In addition, our goals include outreach to the Upper Valley community, and to utilize the partnership between Dartmouth graduate and undergraduate students to create opportunities for younger students to appreciate how light is utilized both in our laboratories and in their own every day experiences. Tau Beta Pi The New Hampshire Beta chapter of Tau Beta Pi, the national engineering honor society, was installed in February 2002. Tau Beta Pi membership is open to top engineering students with distinguished scholarship (the top 12.5% of senior Engineering Sciences majors and the top 20% of B.E. students), exemplary character typified by integrity, a wide range of interests, adaptability, and interest in participating in community and volunteer activities. The national office of Tau Beta Pi offers student chapters a variety of programs including scholarships, fellowships, training projects, tools for career development, and support for chapter service projects. Initiation into Tau Beta Pi brings lifelong membership. Contact: tau.beta.pi@dartmouth.edu Advisor: Professor Douglas Van Citters Thayer Gear Thayer Gear is a student-run apparel store in which Thayer students can put theoretical knowledge to practical use by running a business and developing new products and strategies. Contact: thayer.gear@dartmouth.edu Group/Club Recognition If you are interested in obtaining official recognition of your group or club, please complete the "Petition for Club Recognition" form and submit it to Thayer Council for approval. Questions? Email holly.wilkinson@dartmouth.edu. All Thayer-recognized clubs will be granted a Dartmouth email address, have a presence on the Thayer website, and have the opportunity to apply for Thayer Council funding for events and programs. 15 Thayer Drive, Hanover, NH 03755 +1 (603) 646-2230 Undergraduate Graduate Research Entrepreneurship Community About ThayerExpress Faculty Offices Visit Apply Give Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Flickr © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • A-Z Index • Privacy • Feedback