Skip To Main Content Departments Info For Giving Contact Search Aerospace Biological & Agriculture Biomedical Chemical Civil & Environmental Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Technology & Industrial Distribution Industrial & Systems Materials Science & Engineering Mechanical Multidisciplinary Nuclear Ocean Petroleum Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Former Students Search Search Menu About Academics Admissions and Aid Student Life Research Partner With Us Search Search About Academics Admissions and Aid Student Life Research Partner With Us Giving Contact About About Us The Vice Chancellor and Dean Facts and Figures News Our Departments Contact Us Zachry Engineering Education Complex Explore all that our state-of-the-art Zachry building has to offer. Academics Academics Degree Programs Our Departments Engineering Academies Advising and Support Engineering Global Programs Labs Engineering Online Explore our online degree options. Through our Engineering Online program, you can study online to earn the same quality degree as you would in person. Admissions and Aid Admissions and Aid Visit with us Advising and Support Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Transfer Students How to Apply Get information on the application process and funding opportunities for undergraduate, graduate and transfer students. Student Life Student Life Find Your Community Get Creative Interact with Industry Solve Problems ENGR[X] Zachry Engineering Education Complex SuSu and Mark A. Fischer '72 Engineering Design Center Ingenium Our blog by students, for students Get inspired by experiences and opportunities shared by fellow engineering students. Research Research Seminars Undergraduate Research Autonomy and Robotics Education and Training Research Energy Systems and Services Research Health Care Research Infrastructure Research Materials and Manufacturing Research National Security and Safety Research Partner With Us Partner With Us Industry Donors PK-12 and Educators Researchers Volunteers Reach Our Divisions PK-12 Outreach Spark! Students and organizations can bring hands-on activities or design challenges to your location or just visit as guest speakers. Home Academics Engineering Academies Engineering Academies Engineering Academies Priority Application Deadline: April 1 Our Engineering Academy program is the first engineering transition program of its kind in the U.S. Unlike traditional transfer programs, students are Texas A&M University College of Engineering students from day one. Applications are due June 1 annually. However, you are encouraged to apply by the April 1 priority deadline. Start Your Application Today New Engineering Academy Announcing the newest Engineering Academy at Tarrant County College. Apply at Tarrant County College and prequalify today. Engineering Academy at Tarrant County College About the Engineering Academies Our Engineering Academy program students are coenrolled with Texas A&M University and one of our partner community colleges. They take mathematics, science and core curriculum courses through the community college while taking engineering courses from Texas A&M faculty on the community college campus. After one or two years, students transition to Texas A&M to complete their bachelor's degrees. Note: The Texas A&M University Office of Admissions selects students from the freshman applicant pool for the Texas A&M Engineering at Blinn in Bryan. Prospective students should follow all freshman application guidelines on the Office of Admissions website. Admitted students can find more enrollment information on the Texas A&M Engineering at Blinn website. Learn More Contact Us 2022 Information Sessions Helpful Resources Transition Questions Apply Today: Choose Your College Alamo Colleges District Austin Community College Blinn College District Dallas College Houston Community College Midland College Tarrant County College Get Inspired Texas A&M University College of Engineering, 3127 TAMU, College Station, TX 77843-3127 ( ZACH) easa@tamu.edu (979) 845-7200 Staff Directory Site Map Site Policies About this Site Employment Follow Us: Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube The College of Engineering is a member of Texas A&M University Texas A&M Engineering is a member of The Texas A&M University System Copyright © 2022, Texas A&M Engineering Communications, All Rights Reserved State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Open Records Risk, Fraud, & Misconduct Hotline Accommodations Statewide Search Texas CREWS Environmental Health, Safety, & Security