Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Give Now School of Engineering Brown University School of Engineering Brown University Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Search Search Menu ERC 205 Reservation Breadcrumb Home Room and Equipment Reservations Sub Navigation In This Section 85 Waterman 325 Reservation B&H 190 Reservation B&H 191 Reservation B&H 194 Reservation ERC 125 Reservation ERC 204 Reservation ERC 205 Reservation ERC 205 Calendar ERC 206 Reservation ERC 225 Reservation ERC 250 Reservation ERC 325 Reservation ERC 350 Reservation Hazeltine Commons Reservation Undergraduate Teaching Lab (ERC 101) Reservation The procedures for reserving and using the room, as well as the policies to be used in making scheduling decisions are described below. Capacity: 6 people Equipment: ERC 205 contains a whiteboard wall. Procedures: To request a reservation, confirm that the room is available at the time you are requesting and please fill in the information requested on the Reservation Form. Confirmation is subject to change based on the scheduling guidelines outlined below. Reservations for ERC 204 and 205 are not allowed more than one week ahead and must be non-recurring. There is a one-hour limit to reservations for ERC 204 and 205. If you have any questions, please email soe-reservations@brown.edu. Scheduling Guidelines: As a first step in minimizing scheduling conflicts, users are asked to book only for those times for which there is a very high likelihood that the planned activity will take place and to release the scheduled time as soon as it is known that a scheduled activity will not take place. Secondly, users reserving a space should also understand that there may be times when they will be asked to reschedule or relocate their activity because the space is needed for another activity that is regarded as having higher priority. If scheduling conflicts arise that cannot readily be resolved to the satisfaction of the users involved, then these conflicts will be referred to the Dean of Engineering who, in consultation with the chairs of the departments with competing claims, will make the final decision. Scheduling Policies: Groups of more than 20, who are having an event including food, must request event clean up support and furniture movement (as needed) from Facilities Management. All groups using the conference rooms are responsible for clean-up, putting chairs and tables back in their original position, turning off lights and monitors, and shutting and locking the door when done. Access to Conference Rooms (except ERC 204, ERC 205, and ERC 206) on the weekend and after hours (5 pm - 6 am) will require a faculty or staff host. Reservations for any space more than six months in advance will need to be reviewed before approval. Reservations made within 24 hours of an event cannot be guaranteed. Access to ERC: The exterior doors for the ERC are open 6:00 am - 7:00 pm M-F. Please do not prop open doors. Staff support hours for the ERC are 8:30AM - 5:00PM. Please email soefmop@brown.edu with any questions. All Brown students (per the Provost’s list) may access the ERC via card swipe from 7:00 pm to 11:00 pm. The engineering and physics community may access the ERC via card swipe from 7:00 pm to 6:00 am. Anyone with questions about reservations should email soe-reservations@brown.edu. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Reservations Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Flickr Instagram LinkedIn Twitter YouTube © Brown University School of Engineering Brown University For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search ERC 205 Reservation Open details for ERC 205 Reservation Bookmark this Page