Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Computer Science Undergraduate Programs Cyber-ready Victory at the OK High-Performance Computing Competition Research TU hosts worldwide Capture the Flag competition > Tandy School of Computer Science > Computer Science Undergraduate Programs https://youtu.be/3W_l4Ee7bcI COMPUTER SCIENCE Accreditation Computer Science Undergraduate Programs Computer Science Graduate Programs Computer Simulation & Gaming Research Faculty Facilities News Contact the Department Apply Find Admission Counselor Request Information A dynamic combination of creativity and technical knowledge, computer science is a highly valued commodity in today’s job market. The Tandy School of Computer Science at The University of Tulsa provides students with classroom experiences and research opportunities that lead to exciting careers in cybertechnology, computer gaming or information security as well as graduate studies. The bachelor of science degree in computer science is accredited by the Computing Accreditation Commission of ABET, Inc. Job placement is successful for more than 90 percent of computer science and information technology alumni within six months of graduation. Graduates accept positions at industry giants such as Google or Amazon, savvy independent startups and government security firms. The Tandy School of Computer Science offers three programs leading to the bachelor of science degree — computer science, information technology and computer simulation and gaming. The curriculum is designed to provide students with a useful background in theory, design and applications of digital computers and information processing. Class opportunities are also available for students interested in applying their skills through community outreach activities that share computer science and information technology with local elementary students. Many undergraduates also minor in computer science, and double majors are becoming increasingly common. Master of science and doctoral degrees are available. All students in computer science and information technology are introduced to the fundamental areas of computer science in the first two years of their degree: programming skills, computing ethics, data structures and comparative programming languages. Basic computer science is completed in the final two years and may include topics such as hardware and computer logic, computer graphics, theory of computation, compiler construction, operating systems, computer architecture, the design and implementation of data bases, software engineering, networks, artificial intelligence, computer security, game programming, web design, systems administration, robotics, bioinformatics and human web interfaces. Program Objectives Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Within a few years after graduation, our computer science graduates will: Meet the expectations of employers of computer scientists Pursue professional development, which might include advanced studies, if desired Degree Options Computer Science, B.S.C.S. Gain a foundation in mathematics and the sciences with core computer science courses. Computer Simulation and Gaming, Design Option, B.S.C.S.G. Design technologies such as advanced scientific simulators, virtual reality environments and computer games. Computer Simulation and Gaming, Development Option, B.S.C.S.G. Develop technologies such as advanced scientific simulators, virtual reality environments and computer games. Bioinformatics Minor Students from any discipline may minor in bioinformatics. Computational Sciences Minor Prepares students for graduate programs focused on computer modeling and simulation of technical and natural systems. Computer Science Minor Non-majors are welcome to minor in computer science within the Tandy School of Computer Science. Computer Simulation and Gaming Design Minor Students from other disciplines may minor in computer simulation and gaming design. Computer Simulation and Gaming Development Minor Students from other disciplines may minor in computer simulation and gaming development. Cybersecurity Minor Students from other disciplines may minor in cyber security. Data Science Minor A interdisciplinary minor designed as a flexible program for students majoring in math, computer science, and other STEM disciplines. High Performance Computing Minor Students from other disciplines may minor in high performance computing. Typical Four-Year Schedule FRESHMAN – FALL SEMESTER FRESHMAN – SPRING SEMESTER Introduction to Computer Science Calculus II Exposition and Argument General Physics I with Lab Science Elective with Lab Fundamentals of Algorithm & Computer Applications Calculus I General Elective Introduction to Programming and Problem Solving Block I - Aesthetic Inquiry and Creative Experience SOPHOMORE – FALL SEMESTER SOPHOMORE – SPRING SEMESTER Computing Ethics General Elective General Physics II with Lab Block II - Historical and Social Interpretation Data Structures Digital Systems Principles with Lab Computer Architecture, Organization & Assembler Operating Systems Block II - Historical and Social Interpretation Discrete Mathematics JUNIOR – FALL SEMESTER JUNIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Linear Algebra Writing for the Professions Statistical Methods for Scientists & Engineers Math Elective (Upper Division) Database Systems Computer Science Elective Comparative Programming Languages Advanced Science Elective Math Elective (Upper Division) General Elective SENIOR – FALL SEMESTER SENIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Senior Projects I Senior Projects II Compiler Construction Computer Science Elective Introduction to Numerical Methods Computer Science Elective Block II - Historical and Social Interpretation Block II - Historical and Social Interpretation General Elective Block I - Aesthetic Inquiry and Creative Experience * Introduction to College Writing or its equivalent may be a prerequisite in some cases. † The language requirement may be fulfilled with Spanish, German, French or Russian. †† Courses that fulfill Blocks I, II, and III are listed each semester in the advising center and in the university schedule of courses. Professional Opportunities Game developer Systems analyst Database analyst Software engineer Robotics engineer Secret Service agent 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT