Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Department of Mathematics Alumni Math = Love for alumna Sarah Carter 918-631-3674 Keplinger Hall, 3085 Map Email https://youtu.be/uvDvyfPdAiQ MATHEMATICS Mathematics Undergraduate Programs Mathematics Graduate Programs Research Faculty Facilities News Contact the Department TU’s mathematic programs prepare graduates to meet the demands of a modern global society where sophisticated, quantitative skills are required to solve challenging programs in science, engineering, business, education and government. Mathematicians are essential to the fields of computer science, engineering, bioinformatics, data mining, computer animation, medical imaging, finance, economics, epidemiology, ecology and climatology. The curriculum emphasizes theory and application of mathematics while applying modern tools of communication, modeling and computation necessary for interdisciplinary problem solving and research. Our faculty who specialize in applied analysis, numerical analysis and mathematical statistics, serve as close mentors to students who excel not only in the classroom but in national competitions. Many of our students choose to pair their mathematics plan of study with another major. In recent years, they have enjoyed notable success, winning Goldwater Scholarships, National Science Foundation Graduate Fellowships and membership invitations in Phi Beta Kappa. Alumni Mathematics graduates are in high demand among many fields including pharmaceuticals, financial services, internet security and bioinformatics. Our alumni advance to successful careers in finance, energy, software design, aerospace, medicine and medical research as well as academic careers in K-12 schools, colleges and universities. Applied mathematicians and computational scientists work in industry, business and government in statistician and scientific programming roles. Tulsa Math Teachers' Circle Hosted by the Department of Mathematics, the Tulsa Math Teachers’ Circle is an organization dedicated to increasing student achievement by enhancing problem-solving skills and encouraging mathematical discovery. Learn more … Tulsa Girls' Math Circle Established in 2014, this math circle is open to middle school girls interested in problem solving and mathematics who enjoy sharing their math enthusiasm with peers. Learn more … 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT