Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Create your STEM career Explore Programs Our engineering and science professors are world-class mentors, eager to share their industry insight and help students excel. Throughout each semester, students are encouraged to join their advisers and peers in groundbreaking research, serve the off-campus community and become well-rounded, sought-after employees. From the classroom to a career More than 90 percent of alumni from the College of Engineering and Natural Sciences obtain employment or begin graduate school within six months of graduation. Whether your goal is to work in cyber security at Google or serve as a plant pathologist at the United States Department of Agriculture, TU can make your dreams a reality. Research Majors News Student Life Alumni We cannot forget that as a nation we have not recovered from the 200+ years of the disease that is racism, which has transformed and infected our social structures. Read the full statement from TU’s Office of Diversity & Engagement , View More Events News All News Stories Engineering students design and build interactive space shuttle cockpit model Capping off their senior year, four electrical and computer engineering students unveiled their fully functional flight simulator at the Tulsa Air and Space Museum. Fulbright Scholar’s powerful Czech microscopy Associate Professor Erin Iski spent late winter and the first part of spring in Prague, deepening her research and enjoying a vibrant life abroad. Computer science major awarded Department of Defense scholarship Between a soft robot and a hard place TU biochemistry professor works to uncover the causes of a debilitating neurodevelopmental disorder TU alumnus and Forbes 30 Under 30 honoree at the leading edge of oncology research Chemical engineering professor honored for research quality and impact 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT