Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Electrical Engineering Graduate Programs Research Graduate student research tests aircraft piloting systems Empowered New lab to train next generation of power engineers > Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering > Electrical Engineering Graduate Programs ELECTRICAL & COMPUTER ENGINEERING Accreditation Electrical Engineering/Electrical and Computer Engineering Undergraduate Programs Computer Engineering Graduate Programs Electrical Engineering Graduate Programs Research Faculty Facilities News Contact the Department Apply Now Request Information Electrical and computer engineering involves researching, developing and testing electronic and computer components. Engineers study computing processes, circuit boards, memory devices, networks and routers while examining new frontiers in computer hardware. The electrical and computer engineering field is marked by its advancements in evolving areas of technology such as optics, electric power systems and microelectronics. Overview Students complete a core electrical engineering curriculum with an emphasis on computer science while allowing room for electives in TU’s reputable humanities-based programs. A strong background in mathematics and physics is required along with interests in bioengineering, electromagnetic fields and circuit systems. The master of engineering (M.E.) focuses on curriculum and coursework more than research and can be completed in less time than the M.S.E. option. The master of science in engineering (M.S.E.) in electrical engineering educates students in professional engineering and research. This graduate option is an opportunity for students to enhance their professional skills and abilities with continued study in the electrical systems that fuel our lives. A master’s degree qualifies professionals for additional responsibilities in the workplace and inspires new solutions for the world’s engineering challenges. This option is ideal for students who plan to eventually pursue a doctoral degree. Program Educational Objectives Master of Engineering The M.E. degree program in electrical engineering prepares students to: Demonstrate knowledge required to mathematically analyze, to evaluate, and to design systems with complex interaction between variables as well as electromagnetic field impacts on computers and electrical circuits. Demonstrate skills needed for studying an open-ended problem and be able to manage projects in the field of Electrical Engineering. Master of Science in Engineering The M.S.E. degree program in electrical engineering prepares students to: Demonstrate knowledge required to mathematically analyze, to evaluate and to design systems with complex interaction between variables as well as electromagnetic field impacts on computers and electrical circuits. Demonstrate skills needed for studying an open ended problem and be able to manage projects in the field of Electrical Engineering. Acquire and demonstrate technical and communication skills needed for conducting and disseminating independent research in the field of Electrical Engineering. Degree Options Electrical Engineering, M.E. Designed for students studying electrical engineering who wish to obtain additional technical skills in a specific area of the industry. Electrical Engineering, M.S.E. Prepares students for professional work in electrical engineering at an advanced level or for further study leading to the Ph.D. degree. Application Requirements To be considered for graduate admission, the following items must be submitted to the Graduate School: A completed Graduate School application Statement of Purpose (admission essay) 2 – 3 letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your academic potential. Official or unofficial transcripts from all universities attended GRE General Test results $60 application fee International students who studied at a university outside of the U.S. will also need to submit TOEFL or IELTS results 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT