Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences > Dual degree in International Engineering/Science and Language Dual degree in International Engineering/Science and Language https://youtu.be/W9jZxZgJIOI Get two degrees and study abroad TU School of Language and Literature Department of Biological Science Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering Department of Geosciences Department of Mathematics Department of Mechanical Engineering Department of Physics and Engineering Physics Russell School of Chemical Engineering Tandy School of Computer Science The University of Tulsa College of Engineering and Natural Sciences and the Kendall College of Arts and Sciences have partnered to create the International Engineering/Science and Language dual degree program that features a degree in an engineering or science discipline and a degree in a language offered by the School of Language and Literature in five years. Students must apply for the dual degree that features a study abroad experience during the fourth year: First semester – study engineering, science, language, culture and electives in the target language at a partner university Second semester – complete an internship abroad with an engineering firm in the target language Engineering and science tracks include: biochemistry, biology, biology pre-med, chemical engineering, chemistry, computer science, electrical engineering, electrical and computer engineering, engineering physics, geosciences, mathematics, mechanical engineering and physics. Others will be added soon. Language tracks include: French, German and Spanish. Eligibility Requirements Students can apply to the IEL/ISL program after they have been admitted to TU. Participants are required to take the Language Placement exam and meet with the program director each semester. Students should begin language courses as early as their first semester to stay on track with the program. Apply as a current student: Application for the IEL/ISL program Apply as a prospective student: Application for the IEL/ISL program Tuition Waiver The director of TU Student Financial Services works closely with program participants to ensure they receive financial aid and/or scholarship funding for five years. Students are responsible for nine semesters (10 semesters of credit). Those who study and intern abroad for one year and complete the two degrees will receive free tuition during their 10th and final semester. Hardesty Language Community Hardesty Language Community IEL/ISL students are encouraged to apply for residency in the Hardesty Language Community where they can interact with other program participants and practice their second language. The Hardesty Language Community, located on the third floor of Hardesty Hall, features international students as resident assistants and program leaders. Apply to live in the Hardesty Language Community. Educating the Global Engineer The purpose of IEL/ISL is to develop culturally experienced students who can communicate effectively in a second language and build successful careers. Meet current ISL student Alyssa Williams who conducted biology research in Germany. Learn about chemical engineering alumnus Matthew Baldwin who studied abroad in Germany. Contact For more information about the IEL/ISL program, contact Director David Tingey, chairman of the TU School of Language and Literature. Office: 918-631-2160 david-tingey@utulsa.edu 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT