Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search University of Notre Dame College of Engineering MENUMENU Departments & Programs Departments and Programs All Graduate Programs All Undergraduate Programs Study Abroad Integrated Engineering and Business Practices Program Grand Challenges Scholars Program Engineering Innovation Hub Departments Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering and Earth Sciences Computer Science and Engineering Electrical Engineering Interdisciplinary Programs Ph.D. in Bioengineering Graduate Minor in Computational Science and Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Research Research Overview Facilities and Resources for Engineers Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering and Cushing Hall Hessert Laboratory for Aerospace Research and Hessert at White Field McCourtney Hall of Molecular Sciences and Engineering Multidisciplinary Research Building Nieuwland Hall of Science and Stepan Hall Stinson-Remick Hall of Engineering Faculty Student Experience Student Experience Undergraduate Student Experience Graduate Student Experience News About About the College Dean’s Office and Department Chairs Facts and Figures Edison Lecture Series Diversity, Equity and Inclusion College Strategic Priorities Search for: Home Search Menu Search for: Home Faculty Tijana Milenkovic Tijana Milenkovic Frank M. Freimann Collegiate Professor of Engineering Contact Email tmilenko@nd.edu Phone 574-631-8975 Office 381 Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering Areas of Interest Prof. Milenkovic solves challenging problems in the fields of network science, graph algorithms, computational biology, health and well-being, and social networks. There is a flood of data about individuals, e.g., their molecular, social interaction, physical activity, behavioral, physiological, or electronic health record data. Prof. Milenkovic aims to develop novel computational approaches (algorithms) for modeling, integrating, and mining such data from a network perspective, and in interdisciplinary collaborations, to use the algorithms to give personalized feedback to individuals about improving their health. Importantly, the algorithms are applicable to many different questions and domains. Prof. Milenkovic is committed to equity, diversity, and inclusion activities intended to improve experience of gender, ethnic, and other minorities in the field of computing. Websites Prof. Tijana Milenkovic Education Ph.D., Computer Science, University of California Irvine, 2010. M.S., Computer Science, University of California Irvine, 2008. B.S., Electrical Engineering, University of Sarajevo, 2005. News Mar 03, 2021 Tijana Milenkovic honored with CRA-E award for mentoring undergrads in computing research Departments Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering and Earth Sciences Computer Science and Engineering Electrical Engineering College of Engineering 257 Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA Phone (574) 631-5530 engineer@nd.edu Twitter YouTube © 2022 University of Notre Dame Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn