Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Give Now School of Engineering Brown University School of Engineering Brown University Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Search Search Menu Hibbitt Fellows Breadcrumb Home Research Sub Navigation In This Section Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Hibbitt Fellows Brown Engineering is recruiting exceptionally talented researchers who have received their Ph.D. degree in engineering, or an engineering-related discipline, and who aspire to create independent research and pursue careers as leaders of innovation. Successful candidates will be selected based on an evaluation of their promise as future academic leaders. They will be expected to carry out independent and collaborative research with engineering faculty members. They will also be expected to teach one course per year in the School, to help connect innovations in the research environment to concepts taught in courses, and to ensure they develop strong teaching skills prior to launching their faculty careers. The Hibbitt Engineering Fellows will receive an annual salary plus benefits and an additional research and travel stipend. Initial appointment is for one year, with expected renewal for second year given satisfactory progress. Candidates must submit an application, CV, statement of research accomplishments, prospective research project summary, and three letters of reference. Prospective Fellows should also identify a Brown Engineering faculty member or a collaborating group of Engineering faculty to serve as mentor of the proposed research project. Please consult our research website for detailed information. Applications are now open in the following areas: Chemical and Environmental Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Fluid Mechanics Materials Science Solid Mechanics These Fellowships are provided by a generous gift from Susan and David Hibbitt. Brown University is committed to fostering a diverse and inclusive academic global community; as an EEO/AA employer, Brown considers applicants for employment without regard to, and does not discriminate on the basis of, gender, race, protected veteran status, disability, or any other legally protected status. Susan and David Hibbitt Basic research in engineering and biological science creates understanding and technology that can bring great benefit to us all. Susan and I believe that an effective way to help this happen is to provide support for those who are ready to start their careers in such endeavors at institutions that provide the environment where such work can flourish. Past and present Hibbitt Postdoctoral Fellows at Brown’s School of Engineering are testimony to how well this can succeed. - David Hibbitt Ph.D.'72 Impact Interviews Listen to what some of our former Hibbitt Postdoctoral Fellows have to say about their experience at Brown and how it helped them prepare for their careers. Jiaoyan Li Assistant Professor - University of Buffalo Close Jiaoyan Li Roya Sheybani Associate Director of Clinical Data Science, Cytovale Close Roya Sheybani Po-Yen Chen Assistant Professor, University of Maryland Close Po-Yen Chen I was truly honored to be chosen and work as a Hibbitt Postdoctoral Fellow at Brown with such a fantastic group of faculty members, staff, and colleagues for the 2018-2019 academic year. During my appointment period, I was able to refine my teaching and research skills and share my knowledge in interfacial flow. I was able to complete a series of experiments in the Harris Lab, and we published a study in Surface Engineering, “Robust Transferrable Superhydrophobic Surfaces.” In the end, the experiences I had at Brown had a positive influence to help me grow as a researcher, and move to the next institution as a faculty member in Korea. I would like to thank Susan and David Hibbitt for this fellowship. - Jeong-Hyun Kim, Assistant Professor, Seoul National University of Science and Technology The Hibbitt Postdoctoral Fellowship had a decisive impact on my career. It provided me with an exceptional opportunity to spend a year at Brown University to interact with leaders in the field of Solid Mechanics. The Fellowship also granted me the freedom to develop my own research program and to develop and teach a graduate course in my research field. Being a Hibbitt Postdoctoral Fellow was a very rich academic and personal experience and played an important role in my being hired as a tenure-track faculty member at Northwestern the following year. - Victor Lefevre, Assistant Professor, Northwestern University Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Reservations Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Flickr Instagram LinkedIn Twitter YouTube © Brown University School of Engineering Brown University For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Hibbitt Fellows Open details for Hibbitt Fellows Bookmark this Page