Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences > Centers, Institutes and Consortia Centers, Institutes and Consortia Dating back to the 1950s, TU faculty, students and staff have worked to forge strong industry partnerships for research and development. As the fields of science and technology continue to advance, the College of Engineering and Natural Sciences is creating new institutes that apply a cross-disciplinary approach for meaningful, innovative research. Our college is home to the following research collaborations. Applied Research Center for Cloud of Things Center for Boundary Integral Methods Coiled Tubing Mechanics Research Consortium (CTMRC) Computational Neuroscience and Adaptive Systems Lab (CNAS) Critical Infrastructure Protection Lab Cyber Corps Program Erosion Corrosion Research Center (ECRC) Hurricane Motor Works (HMW) Indoor Air Program In Silico Research Group Institute of Alternative Energy Institute for Biochemical and Psychological Study of Individual Differences Institute of Bioinformatics and Computational Biology Institute for Information Security (iSEC) Institute of Nanotechnology Institute for Software Research (TUISR) Materials Research Group MultiAgent SysTEms ReSearch Group (MASTERS) Oklahoma Photovoltaic Research Institute Security Economics Laboratory Software Engineering Architecture Team (SEAT) TU Artificial Lift Projects (TUALP) TU Center of Research Excellence (TUCoRE) TU Center for Reservoir Studies (TUCRS) TU Delayed Coking Project (TUDCP) TU Center for Reservoir Studies TU Drilling Research Projects (TUDRP) TU Fluid Flow Projects (TUFFP) TU High-Viscosity Oil Projects (TUHOP) TU Horizontal Well Artificial Lift Projects TU Hydrates Flow Projects (TUHFP) TU Paraffin Deposition Project (TUPDP) TU Petroleum Reservoir Exploitation Projects (TUPREP) TU Sand Management Projects (TUSMP) TU Separation Technology Projects (TUSTP) 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT