Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Prospective Undergraduate Students Current Undergraduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Employers Admissions» Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics» Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Online Learning Non-Degree & Special Programs Academic Policies Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Research» Faculty and Research Staff Institutes, Centers & Initiatives Department Research Research Areas Undergraduate Research Opportunities University and School Research Resources Innovation, Design & Entrepreneurship» Student Life» Undergraduate Student Life Graduate Student Life Living in New York City Commencement Student Profiles About» Dean of Columbia Engineering At A Glance Engineering for Humanity Mission & Vision Supporting the Vision History Plan A Visit Board of Visitors Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion People News Columbia Engineering Magazine Strategic Collaborations Get Involved Bulletin Make a Gift Contact Home Faculty Job Opportunities Columbia Engineering - The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science at Columbia University in New York City - invites applications for the below listed positions in the following departments: Applied Physics & Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Civil Engineering Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Successful candidates should contribute to the advancement of the school by developing a world-class externally funded research program, being a thought leader in the profession, enhancing the undergraduate and graduate educational mission of the School and providing active service to their profession. The School is especially interested in qualified candidates who can contribute, through their research, teaching, and/or service, to the diversity and excellence of the academic community. Applied Physics & Applied Mathematics Assistant Professor The Department of Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics (APAM) at Columbia University in the City of New York invites applications for a limited term Assistant Professor faculty position in the area of applied and computational mathematics. The position begins July 1, 2022 for a term of 3 years. Salary is competitive and teaching is relatively light. Basic responsibilities focus on teaching, research and service. A recent PhD and extraordinary promise in research are required. A broad array of research groups is active in the department, with current research encompassing applied and computational mathematics, and their application to many areas of physics, materials, biology, earth science, as well as imaging and data science. There is a strong cohort of activities on applied and computational mathematics within the Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Sciences and the affiliated Data Science Institute. The Department is especially interested in qualified candidates who can contribute, through their research, teaching, and/or service, to the diversity and excellence of the academic community. Applications must include: (a) curriculum vitae (b) statement of research, (c) statement of teaching, and (d) at least three letters of recommendation. In addition, candidates must also submit their application materials at: https://www.mathjobs.org/jobs/list/18051 Applications received by November 15, 2021 will be given full consideration. For questions concerning the position, please contact Dr. Kui Ren, Chair of the search committee at [email protected] Applicants are encouraged to consult http://appliedmath.apam.columbia.edu for more information about the applied mathematics program, and https://apam.columbia.edu/ for more information about the department. Columbia University is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer. Qualifications A recent PhD and extraordinary promise in research are required. A broad array of research groups is active in the department, with current research encompassing applied and computational mathematics, and their application to many areas of physics, materials, biology, earth science, as well as imaging and data science. Application Instructions Applications must include: (a) curriculum vitae (b) statement of research, (c) statement of teaching, and (d) at least three letters of recommendation. In addition, candidates must also submit their application materials at: https://www.mathjobs.org/jobs/list/18051 Biomedical Engineering Open Rank Faculty Position The Department of Biomedical Engineering in the Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science is pleased to invite applications for a tenure-track assistant professor faculty position at Columbia University in the City of New York. Extraordinary candidates at a tenure-track/tenured associate professor, or tenured professor are also invited to apply. Candidates are sought in the broad areas of Biomedical Imaging/AI, but exceptional candidates in other fields (not limited to): mechanomedicine, neuroengineering, orthopaedic bioengineering, regenerative medicine and tissue engineering, system and synthetic biology, biomaterials, functional biomedical engineering, system and synthetic biology, bioinformatics of cellular networks, and genomic engineering will be considered. The successful candidate is expected to advance their field by developing an original and leading externally funded research program, and contributing to the educational missions of the Department of Biomedical Engineering and, as appropriate, Columbia University Irving Medical Center. Columbia offers a rich environment for multidisciplinary research and encourages collaborations with additional academic departments and units across Columbia University. This position seeks candidates who would develop biomedical engineering research in crosscutting fields. The ability to teach undergraduate and graduate level biomedical engineering courses is a must. The Department is especially interested in qualified candidates who will contribute, through their research, teaching, and/or service, to the diversity and excellence of the academic community. Qualifications Candidates must have a Ph.D. or its professional equivalent in Biomedical Engineering or related field by the start date of the appointment. Postdoctoral experience is preferred but not required for the junior level appointment. Applicants for the tenure-track position must demonstrate the potential to do pioneering research and to teach effectively. Candidates to be considered at the senior level should have an outstanding leadership record in academic research and education. A joint appointment with Columbia University Irving Medical Center is also possible. Application Instructions Applications should be submitted electronically at https://academic.careers.columbia.edu/80936 and include the following: curriculum-vitae including a publication list, a description of research accomplishments including a statement of research and teaching interests and plans, a diversity statement, contact information for three experts who can provide letters of recommendation, and three selected pre/reprints of scholarly work. All applications received by November 15th, 2021 will receive full consideration. We encourage applicants to consult www.bme.columbia.edu for more information about the Department of Biomedical Engineering. To apply, please see http://apply.interfolio.com/93508 Columbia University is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action employer / Disability / Veteran Lecturer in Discipline Description The Department Biomedical Engineering at Columbia University in the City of New York invites applications for faculty at the rank of Lecturer in Discipline beginning in the 2021-2022 or 2022-2023 academic year. Lecturers in Discipline are full-time non-tenure-track faculty members whose primary responsibility is teaching. The Department of Biomedical Engineering is committed to hiring outstanding educators to support the growing needs of its exceptionally strong undergraduate program. Teaching responsibilities include leading biomedical engineering laboratory and biomedical engineering senior design courses as well as courses throughout the biomedical engineering curriculum, with a typical teaching load of two to three courses per semester. Qualifications This particular opportunity is to hire a lecturer with a broad expertise in biomedical engineering who can lead our undergraduate curriculum. Priority for candidates with experience teaching courses such as biomedical engineering laboratory and senior design courses. Candidates should also display a commitment to continuously improving education through the development of new instructional methods and courses and engaging in educational scholarship. Ideal candidates should also have experience or be familiar with the ABET evaluation process. Industry and/or private sector experience is welcomed but not required. Application Instructions Applications should be submitted electronically at https://academic.careers.columbia.edu/ and include the following: a cover letter, current CV, teaching statement, brief summary of research, and three letters of recommendation. At least two of the letters of recommendation must address teaching ability. Reviews of applications will begin on October 1st, 2021, and will continue until the position is filled. For additional information please see: https://academic.careers.columbia.edu/#/80008. All applications received by October 1st, 2021 will receive full consideration. We encourage applicants to consult www.bme.columbia.edu for more information about the Department of Biomedical Engineering. Columbia University is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action employer / Disability / Veteran Equal Employment Opportunity Statement Columbia University is an Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Computer Science Lecturer-In-Discipline The Department of Computer Science at Columbia University in the City of New York invites applications for faculty at the rank of Lecturer in Discipline beginning in the 2022-23 academic year. Lecturers in Discipline are full-time non-tenure-track faculty members whose primary responsibility is teaching. Lecturers in the department enjoy voting rights at faculty meetings, and serve on department committees. Senior lecturers earn a Dean’s Leave on a timeline similar to that of sabbatical for tenure-track faculty. The Department of Computer Science is committed to hiring outstanding teachers to support the growing needs of its exceptionally strong undergraduate and graduate programs. Teaching responsibilities for lecturers include courses throughout the computer science curriculum, from introductory to graduate level courses, with a typical teaching load of two courses per semester. Applications should be submitted electronically at: http://apply.interfolio.com/97065 and include the following: a cover letter, current CV, teaching statement, brief summary of research, and three letters of recommendation. At least two of the letters of recommendation must address teaching ability. Review of applications will begin on November 1st, 2021 and continue until the positions are filled. Qualifications Candidates must have a PhD or its professional equivalent by the starting date of the appointment. Equal Employment Opportunity Statement Columbia University is an Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Faculty (Open Rank) Description Columbia Engineering invites applications a for tenure-track faculty position in the Department of Computer Science at Columbia University in the City of New York at the all levels, to begin September 1, 2022. Applications are sought in all areas of systems in computer science. The successful candidate is expected to contribute to the advancement of their field and the department by developing an original and leading externally funded research program, and by contributing to the undergraduate and graduate educational mission of the Department. Qualifications Candidates must have a Ph.D. or its professional equivalent by the starting date of the appointment. Applicants for this position must demonstrate the potential to do pioneering research and to teach effectively. Application Instructions For additional information and to apply, please see: https://academic.careers.columbia.edu/#/84699. Applications should be submitted electronically and include the following: curriculum vitae including a publication list, a description of research accomplishments, statements of research and teaching interests and plans, a statement addressing contributions to diversity, contact information for three experts who can provide letters of recommendation, and up to three pre/reprints of scholarly work. All applications received by December 1st, 2021 will receive full consideration. Applicants can consult http://www.cs.columbia.edu for more information about the department. Equal Employment Opportunity Statement Columbia University is an Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Civil Engineering Tenure-Track Faculty Position - Smart Cities The Department of Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics at Columbia University in the City of New York invites applications for a tenure-track faculty position. Appointments at the assistant professor, associate professor or full professor levels will be considered. Applications are specifically sought in the general field of Smart Cities. Areas of emphasis include urban systems modeling and simulation and the future of urban transportation. Representative areas of interest for the urban systems modeling and simulation include: complex and interdependent dynamic networks (including infrastructure interdependencies); urban systems digital twin development based on sensor data informed by civil domain expertise; urban modeling at different scales from building systems modeling to regional systems; transportation, water and energy systems performance assessment and optimization; internet of things solutions to smart infrastructure management; future cities scenarios. Representative areas of interest for the future of urban transportation include: transportation modalities; information and simulation based coordination of different modes of transportation; adaptation of legacy public transportation infrastructure with emerging disruptive transportation modalities; transportation system management and resilience. Qualifications Candidates must have a Ph.D. or its professional equivalent by the starting date of the appointment, and have the potential to do pioneering research and to teach effectively. Application Instructions For additional information and to apply, please see: https://apply.interfolio.com/95426. Applications should be submitted electronically and include the following: curriculum-vitae including a publication list, a description of research accomplishments, a statement of research/teaching interests and plans, contact information for three people who can provide letters of recommendation, and up to three pre/reprints of scholarly work. All applications received by January 1, 2022 will receive full consideration. Equal Employment Opportunity Statement Columbia University is an Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Earth and Environmental Engineering Open Rank Faculty Position in the Department of Earth and Environmental Engineering Columbia Engineering is pleased to invite applications for a tenured or tenure track faculty position in the Department of Earth and Environmental Engineering at Columbia University in the City of New York. Applicants at all ranks will be considered. Candidates are sought in areas with a focus on Sustainable Minerals, Metals and Materials (S3M): from fundamental engineering and applied science developing a Mines-of-the-Future paradigm and Unconventional Resource Recovery including Urban Mining. This concept envisions such topics as: (i) novel and improved means for the extraction, recovery and management of critical elements from mineral resources and waste streams, aimed at achieving a circular economy; (ii) mineral separation methods requiring reduced/zero water or the use of low-quality water; (iii) mineral resource recovery engineered for reduced carbon emissions, minimizing waste and alleviating climate and environmental impact; (iv) safer and greener chemical approaches for same; and (v) application of sensors, chemometrics, data science, analytics and artificial intelligence to engineer better integration in the geology-to-mill-to-metal technologies. Successful candidates are expected to contribute to the advancement of both their field, as well as the department through an original and leading externally funded research program that contributes to the undergraduate and graduate educational and research missions of the Department. Columbia fosters multidisciplinary research and encourages collaborations with academic departments and units across the university. The Department places high value on qualified candidates who can contribute, through their research, teaching and/or service, to the diversity and excellence of the academic community. Qualifications Applicants must have a Ph.D. or its professional equivalent by the starting date of the appointment. Applicants should demonstrate the potential to conduct pioneering research, excellence in teaching, and to incorporate diverse perspectives into teaching and scholarship. Application Instructions To apply, please see https://academic.careers.columbia.edu/#/84282. Applications should be submitted electronically and include the following: curriculum-vitae including a publication list, a description of research accomplishments, a statement of research and teaching interests and plans, a DE&I (diversity, equity and inclusion) statement, contact information for three experts who can provide letters of recommendation, and up to three pre/reprints of scholarly work. All applications received by December 31, 2021 will receive full consideration. Inquiries should be directed to [email protected]. Applicants can consult eee.columbia.edu for more information about the department. Columbia University is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action employer -- Disability/Veteran Equal Employment Opportunity Statement Columbia University is an Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran Electrical Engineering Faculty (Open Rank) Columbia Engineering is pleased to invite applications for a faculty position in the Department of Electrical Engineering at Columbia University in the City of New York. Applications at all ranks will be considered. The Electrical Engineering department welcomes applications in all areas of electrical engineering. The successful candidate is expected to contribute to the advancement of their field and the department by developing an original and leading externally funded research program, and to contribute to the undergraduate and graduate educational mission of the Department. Columbia fosters multidisciplinary research and encourages collaborations with academic departments and units across Columbia University. The Department actively participates in the school-wide Engineering for Humanity initiatives that relate to engineering and medicine, autonomous systems, quantum computing and technology, and sustainability. Qualifications Candidates must have a Ph.D. or its professional equivalent by the starting date of the appointment. Applicants for this position must demonstrate the potential to do pioneering research and to teach effectively. The Department is especially interested in qualified candidates who can contribute, through their research, teaching, and/or service, to the diversity and excellence of the academic community. Application Instructions To apply, please see http://apply.interfolio.com/95100. Applications should be submitted electronically and include the following: curriculum vitae including a publication list, a description of research accomplishments, statements of research and teaching interests and plans, a statement addressing contributions to diversity, contact information for three experts who can provide letters of recommendation, and up to three pre/reprints of scholarly work. All applications received by December 1st, 2021 will receive full consideration. Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Professor of Professional Practice The Department of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research (IEOR) at Columbia Engineering invites applications for a Professor of Professional Practice starting in the 2022-2023 academic year or earlier. This position is open to candidates with professional and/or research interests in any aspect of operations research. Candidates with interests in data science and business analytics are especially encouraged to apply. Professors of Professional Practice are full-time non-tenure-track faculty members who have substantial professional experience. Qualifications The IEOR Department is looking for applicants with a recognizable reputation reflecting distinguished professional experience in operations research or related areas. Candidates for this position must hold a PhD in Operations Research or related disciplines. A successful candidate will be involved in all aspects of the educational mission of the Department, which includes developing curriculum and courses relevant to practice, executive programs for practitioners, and developing industry contacts for sponsored projects and project-based courses. In addition, we expect a successful candidate to help with all aspects of the MS programs in Management Science & Engineering, Business Analytics, and Operations Research, including admissions and student advising, helping to organize seminars and conferences, and recruiting industry affiliates. Application Instructions The Department is especially interested in qualified candidates who can contribute, through their research, teaching, and/or service, to the diversity and excellence of the academic community. For additional information and to apply, please see: https://apply.interfolio.com/99895. Applications should be submitted electronically and include the following: curriculum-vitae including a statement of teaching interests and plans, and contact information for three experts who can provide letters of recommendation. Candidates will be considered on a rolling basis. Applicants can consult ieor.columbia.edu for more information about the department. Columbia University is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action employer -- Disability/Veteran Open Rank Faculty Positions Columbia Engineering invites applications for two open-rank faculty positions in the Department of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research. One position is for candidates with research interests in financial engineering and related areas, including blockchain economics, information design, financial technology, financial econometrics, machine learning in finance, and energy finance. The second position is open to candidates with research interests in all areas of operations research, broadly defined, including optimization, applied probability, data/business analytics, high-dimensional statistics, and their applications. Candidates with research interests in data-driven decision-making, computational aspects of operations research, and FinTech are especially encouraged to apply. Appointments will be made at the rank of Assistant Professor, Associate Professor, or Professor, depending on the qualifications of the applicant. Candidates must have a Ph.D. or equivalent degree by the time of appointment. Successful candidates are expected to build a strong methodological research record and to contribute to the department’s educational programs. Columbia encourages multi-disciplinary research and collaborations across academic units on the campus. The Department is particularly interested in qualified candidates who can contribute to the diversity and excellence of the university community. The candidate will benefit from interactions with various faculty from the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, the Data Science Institute, the Columbia Business School, and the School of Arts and Science. To apply, please see apply.interfolio.com/94663. Applications should be submitted electronically and include the following: curriculum-vitae including a list of publications, a description of research accomplishments, a statement of research and teaching interests and plans, contact information for three experts who can provide letters of recommendation, and up to three pre/reprints of scholarly work. Applicants are encouraged to submit a statement that discusses their contributions to diversity initiatives. All applications received by November 19, 2021 will receive full consideration. Inquiries should be directed to [email protected]. Applicants can consult ieor.columbia.edu for more information about the department. Columbia University is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action employer -- Disability/Veteran Lecturer in Discipline The Department of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research at Columbia Engineering invites applications for a Lecturer in Discipline position in the fields of Business Analytics, FinTech, Machine Learning, Artificial Intelligence and Big Data in finance. We are especially interested in applicants who are interested in both fundamental problems in the aforementioned fields and applied topics including but not limited to market design, mechanism design, intelligent wealth management, risk management, blockchains, cryptocurrencies, peer-to-peer lending, and digital payment systems. The candidate is also expected to teach two courses a year, and assist in supervising Master students and PhD researchers. The position is part of a broader initiative at the Columbia Engineering and Applied Science to leverage academic research in emerging technologies for business and financial applications. Columbia fosters multidisciplinary research and encourages collaborations with academic departments and units across the university. The Department is especially interested in qualified candidates who can contribute, through their research, teaching, and/or service, to the diversity and excellence of the academic community. The candidates must hold a PhD degree in computer science, data science, scientific computing, applied mathematics, statistics, economics, financial econometrics or related areas. Successful candidates will have expertise in at least one of the following areas: game theory and mechanism design; machine learning; neural networks; financial engineering/mathematical finance; econometrics; or financial risk models. Candidates must have both a strong mathematical background and excellent programming skills (Python/R/C++/Java/Scala). Experience in the financial industry will be an advantage. For additional information and to apply, please see: apply.interfolio.com/93852. Applications should be submitted electronically and include the following: curriculum-vitae including a statement of teaching interests and plans, and contact information for three experts who can provide letters of recommendation. At least one of the letters of recommendation must address teaching ability. Candidates will be considered on a rolling basis. Candidates that are invited to interview will be required to give a 50-minute technical presentation. Applicants can consult ieor.columbia.edu for more information about the department. Columbia University is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action employer -- Disability/Veteran Mechanical Engineering Open Rank The Department of Mechanical Engineering welcomes applications for a faculty position at open rank. We are searching broadly in all areas of mechanical engineering, and encourage candidates with an interest in the school-wide initiatives that relate to autonomous systems, engineering and medicine, and sustainability. Areas of emphasis include, but are not limited to, autonomous and human integrative systems at the intersection of control, learning, and data-driven methods, with wide applicability in domains such as robotics, energy systems and sustainability, biomechanics, and more. Candidates must have a Ph.D. or its professional equivalent by the starting date of the appointment. Applicants for this position must demonstrate the potential to do pioneering research and to teach effectively. The Department is especially interested in candidates who can contribute, through their research, teaching, and/or service, to the excellence and diversity of the academic community. Qualifications Candidates must have a Ph.D. or its professional equivalent by the starting date of the appointment. Application Instructions To apply, please see apply.interfolio.com/96105 and include the following: Curriculum-vitae including a publication list Description of research accomplishments including a statement of research and teaching interests and plans Diversity statement Contact information for three experts who can provide letters of recommendation Three selected pre/reprints of scholarly work All applications received by December 15th, 2021 will receive full consideration. We encourage applicants to consult www.me.columbia.edu for more information about the Department of Mechanical Engineering. 500 W. 120th Street #510 New York, NY 10027 Tel (212) 854-2993 Google Maps Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University Privacy Policy Terms of Use Faculty Job Opportunities Make a Gift Contact