Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search University of Notre Dame College of Engineering MENUMENU Departments & Programs Departments and Programs All Graduate Programs All Undergraduate Programs Study Abroad Integrated Engineering and Business Practices Program Grand Challenges Scholars Program Engineering Innovation Hub Departments Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering and Earth Sciences Computer Science and Engineering Electrical Engineering Interdisciplinary Programs Ph.D. in Bioengineering Graduate Minor in Computational Science and Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Research Research Overview Facilities and Resources for Engineers Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering and Cushing Hall Hessert Laboratory for Aerospace Research and Hessert at White Field McCourtney Hall of Molecular Sciences and Engineering Multidisciplinary Research Building Nieuwland Hall of Science and Stepan Hall Stinson-Remick Hall of Engineering Faculty Student Experience Student Experience Undergraduate Student Experience Graduate Student Experience News About About the College Dean’s Office and Department Chairs Facts and Figures Edison Lecture Series Diversity, Equity and Inclusion College Strategic Priorities Search for: Home Search Menu Search for: (Re)charging into the future Prof. Jennifer Schaefer is exploring ways to create a better kind of battery — one that is lighter, smaller, safer, and made with sustainable materials. Read More What does humanity need? That’s the question we set out to answer every day. As engineers at Notre Dame, the solution isn’t one we find. It’s one we build. We’re humans building a more humane world. Explore Programs News All News Engineering faculty win NSF CAREER and Navy YIP awards for young investigators and innovators Read Nitesh Chawla and Vijay Gupta named 2022 IEEE Fellows Notre Dame engineering professors Nitesh Chawla and Vijay Gupta have been named 2022 Newly Elevated … Senior design airplanes take flight On April 26, seniors in the aerospace capstone course brought their remote-controlled planes to the South Bend Radio … Mechanical engineer Morgan La Sala selected as 2022 salutatorian Morgan La Sala, mechanical engineering major from Wayne, New Jersey, has been named salutatorian of the 2022 … Taking the classroom to new heights: Engineering students experience Chicago skyscraper under construction Notre Dame undergraduates in a construction management course and graduate students from the professional Master of … Find your area of interest Search our site to find the people and programs that are engineering a better world. Explore the College About the College Notre Dame Engineering educates skilled leaders and innovators and promotes transformational research focused on the greater good of humanity. Women in Engineering ND Women in Engineering brings together women at all levels — undergraduate, graduate, faculty, and alumni — to create a community of support and opportunities for women to thrive. Programs Find the graduate program in engineering, undergraduate program, or 5-year dual-degree program that best fits your interests and career and life goals. Student Experience You belong here! Whether you’re an undergraduate or a graduate student considering engineering, we welcome you. Here, you’ll be part of a large, diverse, and supportive community that will take a personal interest in your education, research, professional development, and formation as a person and an engineer/scholar. Departments Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering and Earth Sciences Computer Science and Engineering Electrical Engineering Spotlight on Research Fighting for the Dignity of Independence Inspired by his dad’s ALS diagnosis, electrical engineering major John Sexton is working to better equip people confined to a powerchair. Learn More Departments Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering and Earth Sciences Computer Science and Engineering Electrical Engineering College of Engineering 257 Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA Phone (574) 631-5530 engineer@nd.edu Twitter YouTube © 2022 University of Notre Dame Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn