Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Department of Physics and Engineering Physics Research High-efficiency solar cells 918-631-3029 Keplinger Hall, L113 Map Email PHYSICS & ENGINEERING PHYSICS Accreditation Physics Undergraduate Programs Engineering Physics Undergraduate Programs Research Faculty Facilities News Contact the Department Physics is the most fundamental of the sciences. From the large questions such as dark energy and the origin of the universe, to the science underlying solar cells, the GPS in the car, and that iPhone in your pocket, the importance of physics is readily apparent. Physics majors obtain a solid foundation in physics and mathematics in preparation for a technical or scientific career. Our students can study theoretical topics in fields such as astrophysics and general relativity, quantum mechanics, and condensed matter physics, as well as gain experimental experience in fields such as nanotechnology, optics, lasers or solid-state physics. Engineering Physics majors receive the professional, multidisciplinary, ABET-accredited, engineering education that is in strong demand by today’s industries. Instruction from both physicists and professional engineers incorporate engineering standards and realistic constraints to prepare our students for careers in industry, government, and higher education, while instilling a desire for lifelong learning. Students are encouraged to join TU’s local chapter of the Society of Physics Students, and those with outstanding academics are selected for membership in the organization’s honor society, Sigma Pi Sigma. Sigma Pi Sigma Student Organization Sigma Pi Sigma honors outstanding scholarship in physics, encourages interest in physics among students at all levels, promotes an attitude of service of its members toward their fellow students, colleagues, and the public, and provides a fellowship of students who have excelled in physics. Sigma Pi Sigma’s mission includes the four dimensions of honor, encouragement, service, and fellowship along with a permanent goal of professional achievement and career success. The Society of Physics Students was formed in 1968 with the union of Sigma Pi Sigma and the AIP Student Sections. Today, Sigma Pi Sigma is housed within the SPS. Founded in 1921, Sigma Pi Sigma is a member honor society of the Association of College Honor Societies. With 75,000 historical members, election to the organization is a lifetime membership. Membership Sigma Pi Sigma chapters are restricted to colleges and universities of recognized standing that offer a strong physics major. Membership involves undergraduate and graduate students, faculty members, and a few others in closely related fields. Students elected to membership must attain high standards of general scholarship and outstanding achievement in physics. Certain high numerical standards for admittance are established by chapter bylaws and the national constitution. Undergraduate candidates must be in the upper one-third of their class in general scholarship to meet the minimum standard that chapters may use. A higher minimum average is often established for physics courses. Undergraduate candidates must have completed at least three semesters of full-time college work and at least three semester courses in physics that can be credited toward a physics major. Graduate students and faculty members may be elected at any time. Students who are not physics majors can be elected, provided that they meet the standards and demonstrate an interest in physics. For more information, please contact: Scott Holmstrom Associate Professor of Physics Keplinger Hall L126 918-631-3031 scott-holmstrom@utulsa.edu Alumni Our physics and engineering physics graduates receive a strong foundation in their particular major but, just as importantly, they also learn how to think. This places them in high demand as flexible problem solvers. After earning their undergraduate degree, many alumni pursue advanced degrees in physics, engineering or multidisciplinary programs (such as nanotechnology or material science). The high acceptance rate into law and medical schools of physics graduates has led others to successful professional careers. Many of our students begin their careers at some of the country’s top companies including Google, Intel, Caterpillar, Lockheed and ConocoPhillips. Others choose positions in government such as the U.S. Armed Forces or Federal National Laboratories. Outreach Our department also has a long history of educational outreach to the public. Our faculty have conducted many state-funded workshops to train K-12 educators in teaching science and math and have hosted other events such as fun and educational physics shows. The TU Physics Journal Club, often cited as TU’s most successful outreach program, draws well over 100 physics aficionados monthly to discuss the latest progress in physics. Apply to the Summer Undergraduate Research Program in Physics (SURPP) SURPP is a formal program available to current undergraduate and entering freshman in physics and engineering physics. Under this program, students work with a faculty member in physics on a topic of research from the day after Memorial Day to the last Friday on July. Student currently not enrolled at TU are not eligible. Apply. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT