Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences > Centers, Institutes and Consortia > Institute of Bioinformatics and Computational Biology Institute of Bioinformatics and Computational Biology RESEARCH Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Research at TU The Institute of Bioinformatics and Computational Biology upholds a mission of excellence in education, research and service in the emerging fields of bioinformatics and computational biology. The institute’s curriculum prepares students for careers in 21st century medical research and entrepreneurship in biotechnology. Student and faculty researchers are challenged with three primary goals: 1) advance the fields of bioinformatics and computational biology, 2) catalyze innovation for biotechnology, and 3) support a novel learning environment that fosters applied research. These research projects regularly incorporate meaningful service initiatives that support transformative projects in health care and biosciences. Students and faculty strive to achieve research objectives that leave a permanenet, beneficial impact on the community while inspiring students to develop positive connections with clients in their chosen field. Institute of Bioinformatics and Computational Biology Principal Investigators John Hale Tandy Endowed Chair in Bioinformatics and Computational Biology, Tandy School of Computer Science 918-631-2745 john-hale@utulsa.edu Bill Coberly Associate Professor and Chair, Department of Mathematics 918-631-3119 coberly@utulsa.edu Richard Redner Professor, Department of Mathematics 918-631-2986 rredner@utulsa.edu Kenton Miller Associate Professor, Department of Biological Science 918-631-3065 kenton-miller@utulsa.edu 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT