Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Give Now School of Engineering Brown University School of Engineering Brown University Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Search Search Menu Computer FAQs Breadcrumb Home Information Technology Sub Navigation In This Section Airmedia in Engineering Rooms Computer FAQs Disk and Print Quotas Engineering Computing Policies Make a Room Reservation Undergraduate Instructional Computer Facility Computer FAQs Occasionally, one or both sides of BH191 are used for class instruction. The current schedule is the background of the login screen in the main lab, so that you can plan your work accordingly. Frequently Asked Questions How do I print to PawPrints? To print to the Brown PAWPrints queue: Open the document you wish to print. Preview first to make sure the page is set up correctly for printing and you print only what you need. Click Print. Select Print from the File menu. When the print dialog box appears, customize your print options (if needed) and click Print. Your print job will appear in the print queue, viewable on your desktop. Releasing your print job to a Printer: To release your pages to a printer, go to the print release station and follow the print release instructions below. Print release stations are located adjacent to the cluster printers. Login with your Brown username and password, and then SWIPE your Brown ID when prompted. Select the print job(s) from the PAWPrint queue that you wish to release to the printer. From the list of pending print requests, click on one. The number of sheets, associated cost, and your remaining balance will be displayed for your review. Selecting your print job enables the "Print" and "Delete" buttons. Use the delete button to remove a selected job from the PAWPrint queue. Select the jobs you wish to print and click on the Print button. A fee of $.07 per single-sided page and $.10 per double-sided page will be deducted from your card. Go directly to the printer to collect your output, as it will not have a banner page. Note that any job held in the queue for more than 24 hours is automatically deleted. Please note: The remaining PawPrints or Bear Bucks balance must be sufficient to cover the cost of the selected job or it will not print. Take care when deleting. You will not be offered a confirmation step. Once deleted, it is permanently removed. Duplex printing using Windows: Select PAWPrints from your Printers and Faxes control panel (Start..Printers and Faxes) Right-click on PAWPrints and select Properties from the quick menu. Click on the Printing Preferences button. Under the Layout tab in the Print on Both Sides section, select Flip on long edge. Click Apply to confirm your duplex print setting. Click OK to close the PAWPrints Properties dialog box. NOTE: Duplex printing will be your default print setting. Remember to select None in the Print on Both Sides section of the print properties dialog box when you want to print single-sided pages. Reimbursement Policy: CIS and the Library will reprint a document if the reason it did not print, or was smudged during printing, was due to a mechanical problem with the printer or a problem with the PAW Prints software. Reprints will not be issued to users who print the wrong document or have their document incorrectly formatted. Users must include the print output with any request for a reprint or reimbursement due to unacceptable print quality. To obtain a reprint or reimbursement, either: Approach a CIS lab consultant or Reference Librarian with your output and request a free reprint. If a CIS lab consultant or Reference Librarian is not available, take your output to the CIS Help Desk in the CIT and complete a reimbursement request form for a reprint/refund. NOTE: Cluster printers are configured to cease printing if the toner levels are too low to produce an acceptable print image. How much can I print to PAWPrints? Under Pawprints, undergraduates and graduate students receive a $30 credit for printing at the beginning of each academic year. This will cover 600 pages of duplex printing. Until you exceed this credit, printing does not cost you money, as it is covered by this yearly credit. (It does cost the University money, however, so please conserve where you can.) Once you exceed that credit, either by printing in excess of 600 duplex pages or by printing some combination of color and black & white, you will need to use Bear Bucks to print. Printing costs are 7 cents per single sided print, 10 cents for duplex in black and white; 25 cents per single sided print, 40 cents for duplex in color. My profile was reset – what do I do to recover? Restoring Desktop Move all items from U:\Previous Desktop to your Desktop. After moving these items delete the Previous Desktop folder. Restoring Firefox Bookmarks With Firefox running, click on Bookmarks/Manage Bookmarks... A new window opens, click File/import... Navigate to U: \bookmarkbackups folder and choose the date you want to restore. Restoring IE Favorite Copy U:\Favorites to D:\Users\\Favorites. Select "Yes" to overwrite current settings. Emptying Recycle Bin Also, you should empty your recycle bin; this can cause space issues as well. Please let us know if this solved the problem. I'm new to Engineering, what's my username and password? Your CIS/Banner login will allow you to log onto the systems if you are authorized for access. Only students registered for engineering courses have access to the computing facilities. I've forgotten my password, how can I reset it? CIS accounts are used to login to the engineering lab systems, so please refer to the CIS Password Reset Article. I need to change my password, what are the password requirements? CIS accounts are used to login to the engineering lab systems, so please refer to the CIS Password Criteria Article. How long is the data in my account preserved? Your CIS Network Home Folder is integrated into the Engineering lab systems, so please refer to the CIS Network Home Folder Article. Where is the Lost and Found? Items left in the lab will be brought to the 3rd floor. Please see John Lee for assistance. What software is running in the lab? Abaqus (Main Lab, MM Lab, remoteApp) ActivePerl Adobe FlashPlayer (All Labs) Adobe Reader (All Labs) Adobe Acrobat (All Labs) Adobe AfterEffects (MM Lab) Adobe Dreamweaver (MM Lab) Adobe Illustrator (All Labs) Adobe InDesign (All Labs) Adobe Lightroom (MM Lab) Adobe Photoshop (All Labs) Adobe Premiere Pro (MM Lab) Aldec (Electrical Lab, Studio Lab) Altera (Electrical Lab, Studio Lab) Anaconda (RDP Server) ARMSim (Electrical Lab, Studio Lab) Aspen (RDP Server) Autodesk AutoCAD (MM Lab) Autodesk AutoCAD Architecture (MM Lab) Autodesk AutoCAD MEP (MM Lab) Autodesk AutoCAD Raster Design (MM Lab) Autodesk Backburner (MM Lab) Autodesk Civil View for 3ds Max (MM Lab) Autodesk DWG TrueView (MM Lab) Autodesk Inventor (MM Lab) Autodesk NavisWorks (MM Lab) Autodesk ReCap (MM Lab) Autodesk Revit (MM Lab) Autodesk Robot Structureal Analysis (MM Lab) Autodesk Workdflows (MM Lab) Big IP Edge Client (All Labs) Chrome (All Labs) Code Composer Studio (Electrical Lab, Studio Lab) COMSOL (Main Lab, MM lab, remoteApp) Restricted Access. Any non-instructional use, including academic research, is expressly prohibited. For research use, please fill out the software request form. For any other questions, please email engin-help at brown.edu Digilent Waveforms (Electrical Lab, Studio Lab) ETABS (MM Lab) Factsage (MM Lab) FastX (Main Lab) FFDShow (All Labs) Filemaker Pro (all labs) Firefox esr (All Labs) InstaCal (Electrical Lab, Studio Lab) Java 8 (All Labs) LTSPice (Electrical Lab, Studio Lab) Maple (All Labs) Matlab (All Labs) Mathematica (All Labs) Mentor Graphics PADS (Electrical Lab, Studio Lab) Mentor Graphics ModelSim Mentor Graphics LP Wizard Microchip MPlab (Electrical Lab, Studio Lab) Microsoft Office (All Labs) Microsoft Project (All Labs) Microsoft Visio (All Labs) Microsoft Visual Studio (Electrical Lab, Studio Lab) Notepad++ (All Labs) Pandat 8.1 (Main Lab, MM Lab) Pandat 2014 (Main Lab) Pandat 2016 (MM Lab) PCSWMM (RDP Server) PCTex (RDP Server) Pentalogix Viewmate (Electrical Lab, Studio Lab) Putty (All Labs) Python 2.7 (All Labs) SAP 2000 (MM Lab) SolidWorks (Main Lab, MM lab, remoteApp) Restricted Access. For research use, please fill out the software request form. For any other questions, please email engin-help at brown.edu SSH (putty) (All Labs) Tecplot (RDP Server via start menu item) VLC Player (All Labs) VNC RealVNC Viewer (Main Lab, Electrical Lab, Studio Lab) VNC CCV java app (Main Lab, Electrical Lab, Studio Lab) WinSCP (All Labs) Windows Media Player (All Labs) Xilinx (Electrical Lab, Studio Lab) Xming (Main Lab, Electrical Lab, Studio Lab) Xwin32 (Electrical Lab, Studio Lab, MM Lab) Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Reservations Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Flickr Instagram LinkedIn Twitter YouTube © Brown University School of Engineering Brown University For You Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Parents & Families Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Undergraduate ABET Accreditation Admissions Concentrations Contacts and Resources Courses Internships, Jobs, and Grad School New Student Information Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Courses Programs and Deadlines Programs Guide Graduate Student Organizations Student Awards Entrepreneurship People Faculty Staff Advisory Boards Graduate Students Research Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Hibbitt Fellows Hope Street Fellows Industry Engagement Laboratories NIST PREP Research Interests Undergraduate Research Get Involved Alumni and Friends - Ways to Connect Contact Us Employment Make a Gift Prospective Employers Social Media Visit Us Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events News For You Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Computer FAQs Open details for Computer FAQs Bookmark this Page