Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences > School of Cyber Studies > Faculty Faculty CYBER STUDIES Cyber Educational Programs Online M.S. in Cyber Security Ph.D. in Cyber Studies Co-Curricular Activities Faculty Institute for Information Security (iSec) Cyber at TU TU Cyber News Faculty in the News Apply Now Request Information School of Cyber Studies Faculty Sal Aurigemma, PhD, CDR USN (Ret) Associate Professor of Computer Information Systems and J. Bradley Oxley Chair of Business AdministrationBio Bradley Brummel, Ph.D. Director of Industrial/Organizational Psychology, Associate Professor of PsychologyBio Rose Gamble, D.Sc. Tandy Professor of Computer Science and EngineeringBio John Hale, Ph.D. Tandy Professor of Bioinformatics and Computational BiologyBio Peter Hawrylak, PhD Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer EngineeringBio Tyler Moore, Ph.D. Chair of Cyber Studies, Tandy Professor of Cyber SecurityBio Mauricio Papa, Ph.D. Brock Associate Professor of Computer ScienceBio Ben Peters, Ph.D. Department Chairperson of Media Studies Hazel Rogers, Associate Professor of Media StudiesBio Jonathan Codi West Instructor & Director of Co-Curricular ActivitiesBio Eric Olson, PhD Department Chairperson of and School of Finance and Operations Management and Chapman Associate Professor of FinanceBio × Sal Aurigemma, PhD, CDR USN (Ret) Associate Professor of Computer Information Systems and J. Bradley Oxley Chair of Business Administration Sal Aurigemma teaches Enterprise Networks & Security, Information Security, and Emerging Technical Skills for the Collins College of Business School of Accounting and Computer Information Systems. A Navy veteran of 20+ years and with over a decade of experience in the Information Technology field, his research explores employee information security policy compliance, improving end-user and small business information security practices, and end-user computing focusing on business spreadsheet error detection . He has published in JAIS, Computers & Security, Information and Computer Security, Decision Support Systems, the Journal of Organizational and End User Computing, the Journal of Information Systems Security, and was awarded the Collins College of Business Mayo Teaching Excellence Award for 2015-2016. Full Faculty Profile Close Window × Bradley Brummel, Ph.D. Director of Industrial/Organizational Psychology, Associate Professor of Psychology Bradley Brummel is an Associate Professor of Psychology at The University of Tulsa. His research interests include employee engagement, personality in the workplace and sexual harassment and occupational intimidation. Brummel has a PhD in Industrial/Organizational Psychology from the University of Illinois. Full Faculty Profile Close Window × Rose Gamble, D.Sc. Tandy Professor of Computer Science and Engineering Dr. Rose Gamble (R. F. Gamble) is the Associate Dean for Research and Academic Affairs and Director of the Software Design Laboratory, which supports a wide-range of software engineering research and development projects. Her current research projects focus on security and functional assurance for autonomous and self-adaptive systems, funded by two contracts with the Air Force Research Laboratory. In the most recent award, Dr. Gamble oversees the effort involving collaboration with faculty from Michigan State University. Dr. Gamble also directs the Applied Research Center for Cloud of Things, which engages with industry to create experimental testbeds for developing, securing, and analyzing the impact of internet enabled devices on the business. Big data analytics, network security assessment, and algorithm analyses are involved in a currently funded project from an industry partner headquartered in Tulsa, OK. In 2015, Dr. Gamble and Robert Baird, (PhD ’11) were awarded a patent on a Multi-claim Auditable Security Token (U.S. Patent 9,038,155) that gathers service identity and message transmission data to perform web service and cloud security forensics. Please visit www.seat.utulsa.edu for up-to-date project and publication information. Full Faculty Profile Close Window × John Hale, Ph.D. Tandy Professor of Bioinformatics and Computational Biology John Hale is a founding member of the TU Institute of Bioinformatics and Computational Biology (IBCB), and a faculty research scholar in the Institute for Information Security (iSec). His research has been funded by the US Air Force, the National Science Foundation (NSF), the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), the National Security Agency (NSA), and the National Institute of Justice (NIJ). These projects include research in the fields of information assurance and bioinformatics. He has testified before Congress on three separate occasions as an information security expert, and in 2004 was awarded a patent on technology he co-developed to thwart digital piracy on file sharing networks. In 2000, Hale earned a prestigious NSF CAREER award for his educational and research contributions to the field of information assurance. Full Faculty Profile Close Window × Peter Hawrylak, PhD Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering Peter J. Hawrylak, Ph.D. received the B.S. degree in computer engineering, the M.S. degree in electrical engineering, and the Ph.D. in electrical engineering from the University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA, in 2002, 2004, and 2006 respectively. He is an Associate Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, with a joint appointment in the Tandy School for Computer Science, at The University of Tulsa, Tulsa, OK, USA. He has published more than 40 publications and holds 14 patents in the radio frequency identification (RFID), energy harvesting, and cyber-security areas. His research interests include RFID (radio frequency identification), security for low-power wireless devices, Internet of Things (IoT) applications, and digital design. Full Faculty Profile Close Window × Tyler Moore, Ph.D. Chair of Cyber Studies, Tandy Professor of Cyber Security Tyler Moore is the Tandy Professor of Cyber Security and Information Assurance in the Tandy School of Computer Science at the University of Tulsa (TU). His research focuses on security economics, cybercrime measurement, and cybersecurity policy. He is a founding Editor in Chief of the Journal of Cybersecurity, a new interdisciplinary journal published by Oxford University Press. He was a 2016-17 New America Cybersecurity Fellow. Prior to joining TU, he was a postdoctoral fellow at the Center for Research on Computation and Society (CRCS) at Harvard University, the Hess Visiting Assistant Professor of Computer Science at Wellesley College, and an assistant professor at Southern Methodist University. A British Marshall Scholar, Prof. Moore completed his PhD at the University of Cambridge, while he holds BS degrees in Computer Science and Applied Mathematics from the University of Tulsa. Full Faculty Profile Close Window × Mauricio Papa, Ph.D. Brock Associate Professor of Computer Science Mauricio Papa is an associate professor of computer science and the director of the Institute for Information Security (iSec) at The University of Tulsa. His primary research area is critical infrastructure protection. Papa has worked on cybersecurity solutions of relevance to the electric power and oil & gas sectors. Current research efforts involve nuclear reactor control systems, bridging the gap between process engineers and IT security professionals, the Internet of Things, wireless mesh networks, and the use of predictive analytics in SCADA security. Papa holds a PhD in computer science and an M.S. in electrical engineering from the University of Tulsa. He earned his B.S. degree in electrical engineering from Universidad Central de Venezuela. Full Faculty Profile Close Window × Ben Peters, Ph.D. Department Chairperson of Media Studies Hazel Rogers, Associate Professor of Media Studies Benjamin Peters is an author, editor, and media scholar. Raised in the Midwest, educated on both coasts, and trained in Russian, he speaks and writes publicly about media from the big bang to big data. Full Faculty Profile Close Window × Jonathan Codi West Instructor & Director of Co-Curricular Activities Full Faculty Profile Close Window × Eric Olson, PhD Department Chairperson of and School of Finance and Operations Management and Chapman Associate Professor of Finance Full Faculty Profile Close Window 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT