Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Accreditation Office of the Dean College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Hall of Fame Magazines eNewsletter Signup Student Organizations & Industry Societies Academics Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Pre-Med Program Dual Degree International Engineering/Science & Language STEM Initiatives Continuing Education Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Biological Science Chemical Engineering Chemistry & Biochemistry Computer Science Cyber Studies Electrical & Computer Engineering Geosciences Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Physics & Engineering Physics Facilities Faculty Research Research Undergraduate Research Research Grants Awarded Centers, Institutes & Consortia Quick Links Events Maps Library News Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Famiilies Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Engineering & Natural Sciences School of Cyber Studies Careers Four in-demand cybersecurity jobs 918-631-3232 Rayzor Hall, second floor Map Email CYBER STUDIES Cyber Educational Programs Online M.S. in Cyber Security Ph.D. in Cyber Studies Co-Curricular Activities Faculty Institute for Information Security (iSec) Cyber at TU TU Cyber News Faculty in the News Apply Now Request Information The University of Tulsa is building on its long history of excellence in computer science and cyber security by establishing a School of Cyber Studies to house undergraduate and graduate programs in this rapidly evolving field. The School of Cyber Studies is unique in that it is primarily comprised of faculty from multiple disciplines jointly appointed. The founding chair is Tyler Moore, Tandy Professor of Cyber Security. Degree Offerings The School of Cyber Studies administers the undergraduate minor in cyber security, as well as the master’s degree in cyber security. The school also offers two new degrees: a bachelor of science in cyber security and a doctorate in cyber studies. Courses in the new B.S. degree are designed to be hands-on and project-based, emphasizing experiential learning and partnerships with employers. In addition to computer science, the program draws on faculty expertise from engineering, business and the social sciences to cultivate broader perspectives that match how cyber pervades modern life. As such, the curriculum emphasizes both technical and nontechnical skills required for today’s cyber workforce. The M.S. in cyber security curriculum takes a similar approach while letting students pursue a more focused and advanced course of study. Students can pursue the master’s degree in person or online. The online M.S. in cyber security has been designed for working professionals to gain the skills and expertise necessary to advance and thrive in this growing field. TU’s cyber program is certified by the NSA and U.S. Department of Homeland Security as a Center of Excellence in Information Assurance Education, Research and Cyber Operations. We will seek accreditation for the B.S. in Cyber Security from ABET, the accreditor who certifies TU’s bachelor’s degrees in engineering and computer science. The B.S. and M.S. degrees in cyber security also align with NIST’s National Initiative for Cybersecurity Education (NICE), which articulates cyber workforce competencies. The interdisciplinary Ph.D. in cyber studies draws on faculty expertise across TU to conduct cutting-edge research at the interface between cyber and many disciplines. A wide range of disciplinary perspectives is valuable when researching cyber topics. The doctorate in cyber studies is designed to accommodate many such perspectives while ensuring that students acquire core knowledge from relevant disciplines to become effective, independent researchers in cyber-related domains. What does cyber studies mean? The word cyber has its origins in the word cybernetics, a term used to describe the study of control systems and communications between humans and machines. We now use the word cyber as an adjective associated with activities that involve computers and computer networks. In that sense, cyber studies refers to the broader study of the Internet and its impact on society in many different fields: health, science, engineering, business, law, public policy, technology, privacy, computer security, cyber-physical systems and many others. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT