Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Department of English and Comparative Literature Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Faculty Courses Events Headlines Why English? Undergraduate Advising Undergraduate Major Requirements Undergraduate Concentration Requirements B.A./M.A. Program for Columbia Undergraduates Study Abroad Opportunities The Senior Essay Honors and Prizes Independent Study Columbia Journal of Literary Criticism Title IX Resources Master Programs M.A. Programs B.A./M.A. Program for Columbia Undergraduates Ph.D. Program Ph.D. Program The Dissertation Prospectus The Dissertation Graduate English Doctoral Alumni Ph.D. Student Profiles Academic Career Advising Recent Career Search Results Graduate Advising Graduate Colloquia Graduate Fellowships Graduate Awards and Grants Career Advising Graduate Library Carrel Policy Graduate Leaves of Absence Graduate Admissions MA Access Program Title IX Resources Faculty Profiles Research Interests In Memoriam Undergraduate Course Listings Graduate Course Listings Summer Course Listings Course Listings The Department of English and Comparative Literature You are here: Home News Farah Jasmine Griffin Presented a Society of Columbia Graduates 2020 Great Teacher Award Farah Jasmine Griffin Presented a Society of Columbia Graduates 2020 Great Teacher Award October 02, 2020 Farah Jasmine Griffin, Chair of the Department of African American and African Diaspora Studies and the William B. Ransford Professor of English and Comparative Literature and African American Studies, is the Columbia College faculty recipient of one of two Society of Columbia Graduates 2020 Great Teacher Awards. Established in 1949, the award is given annually to a Columbia College and a Columbia Engineering professor based on their abilities to challenge and inspire undergraduates; demonstrated interest in students and ability to relate positively to students outside the classroom; and recognized standing in their respective academic disciplines. Article can be found here. News February 25, 2022 Farah Jasmine Griffin Named Winner of the 2022 PROSE Award in Literature December 17, 2021 Spielberg tried to save ‘West Side Story.’ But its history makes it unsalvageable December 17, 2021 Roosevelt Montás Makes His Case for the Importance of the Humanities December 15, 2021 Ph.D. Student Akua Banful Featured in the LA Review of Books December 14, 2021 Arden Hegele Releases New Book, Romantic Autopsy: Literary Form and Medical Reading The Department of English And Comparative Literature602 Philosophy Hall, MC4927 1150 Amsterdam Ave · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212.854.3215 Follow Us Twitter Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close