Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Humanities and Social Sciences Department of English, Comparative Literature, and Linguistics Main Navigation ACADEMICS FACULTY & OFFICE HOURS STUDENTS ALUMNI WRITING CENTER PUBLICATIONS CAREERS ADVISING CONTACT US FORMS Support Our Department Newsletter Scholarships Current Events Event Archives Support Our Department Office: Gordon Hall 322 Hours of Operation: Monday - Friday 8AM-5PM Phone#: (657) 278-3163 Fax: (657) 278-5954 Chair: Stephen J. Mexal, Ph.D. Addr.: Department of English, Comparative Literature, and Linguistics Cal State Fullerton 800 State College Blvd. Fullerton, CA 92831 Email: email Welcome to English, Comparative Literature, and Linguistics As an English major at Cal State Fullerton, you enter a community of researchers and educators who care intensely about the study of literature and writing and who value the learning that happens in the classroom and in the hallways and walkways between classrooms. At Cal State Fullerton, you will have the opportunity to take classes from faculty who have completed advanced study in literature from a variety of cultural and historical traditions, including literary studies, literary theory, creative writing, rhetorical studies, and English education. You will also have the chance to develop leadership skills in English service organizations and academic programs and to hone advanced research and communication techniques through collaborative research with your fellow students and with faculty. Our major program emphasizes the production of academic, professional, and creative writing and the study of the literatures of England and America, and intersecting countries across the globe. Faculty will ask you to examine the diverse ways in which writing and literature let us see the past, understand advanced rhetorical and linguistic techniques, and make sense of the world through narrative. The major in English at Cal State Fullerton is suitable for students interested in any of the wide-range of professions that expect excellence in reading and writing—including education, creative and professional writing, public service and preparation for further study in literature, law, medicine, or business. The major may be combined with preparation for elementary and secondary school teaching. In addition, it can provide a foundation for students who intend to pursue advanced degrees in preparation for teaching at the college level. Stephen J. Mexal, Department Chair California State University, Fullerton Gordon Hall 322 Fullerton, California 92831 Voice: (657) 278-3163 Fax: (657) 278-5954 This site is maintained by Department of English, Comparative Literature, and Linguistics. Last Published 2/22/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact cpope@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.1 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.