Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth English and Creative Writing Department of English and Creative Writing "The limits of my language are the limits of my world" (Wittgenstein) Contact Us English.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail more Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major, Minor, and Modified Major Major Minor Modified Major Transfer Credit Creative Writing Concentration Honors Courses Course Group I Course Group II Course Group III Course Group IV Courses (No Group) Creative Writing Courses Courses (No Major Credit) Foreign Study Courses Independent Study and Honors The Historical Philosophy of W.E.B. Du Bois Prizes Creative Writing Prizes Department Prizes Alumni Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview London Foreign Study Program Back to Top Nav Research News & Events News & Events Conferences Black Nature Conference Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Top Stories Previous Next A Statement from the English and Creative Writing Faculty The faculty of the Department of English and Creative Writing stands in solidarity with colleagues in the Program in African and African American Studies. 2022 Creative Writing Prize Winners The Creative Writing Prizes Ceremony will be held on Thursday, June 2, at 4 p.m. in Sanborn Library, featuring readings from prize winners and this year's judge, Chris Abani. May 19: Poetry & Prose with Emily Bernard and Nicholas Regiacorte Please join the English and Creative Writing Department on Thursday, May 19 for the Cleopatra Mathis Poetry and Prose Series with readings from Emily Bernard and Nicholas Regiacorte. The event will start at 6:30 p.m. at Sanborn Library. May 10 and 11: Black Nature Conference Please join the Department of English and Creative Writing for the Black Nature Conference, a celebration of Camille Dungy's book "Black Nature: Four Centuries of African American Nature Poetry." 2022 William W. Cook Lecture "Black Graphics: Coloring Outside the Lines" by Evie Shockley Evie Shockley will deliver the 2022 William W. Cook Lecture on May 3, 2022 at 4:30 pm in Moore Hall Room B03. Podcast with Professor Orner - The Lonely Voice: 'No Place For You, My Love' by Eudora Welty Professor Peter Orner, the director of creative writing, discusses Eudora Welty's short story "No Place for You, My Love" in The Lonely Voice podcast from Texas Public Radio. Living and Learning 'In the Wake of the Plague' A far-reaching symposium will shed light on current crises from many perspectives. April 19: "Earth is the right place for love": A Robert Frost Celebration Join the Department of English and Creative Writing and the Crossroads Academy 7th grade for a celebration of Robert Frost on April 19, 2022 at 4 p.m. An Evening with Nikole Hannah-Jones and the 1619 Project Today Nikole Hannah-Jones is the Pulitzer Prize-winning creator of the 1619 Project and a staff writer at The New York Times Magazine. She has spent her career investigating racial inequality and injustice, and her reporting has earned her numerous awards. Submit to the 2022 Creative Writing Prizes! Submissions are due by Monday, April 18, 2022, at 4PM ET. Recent Publications view all The Ruse of Repair: US Neoliberal Empire and the Turn from Critique Patricia Rachael Stuelke Duke University Press, 2021 Owed Joshua Brandon Bennett Penguin Books, 2020 "Milton and the Literary Workhouse" Matthew Ritger Milton Studies (vol. 63 no. 2) Barbara, Detroit, 1966 Peter M. Orner The New Yorker, 2021 Events view all Jun 02 4:00PM Creative Writing Prizes Ceremony Sanborn Library The English and Creative Writing Department invites you to the 2022 Creative Writing Prizes Ceremony. Related DepartmentClassicsRelated DepartmentFilm and Media Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of English and Creative Writing Undergraduate Overview Major, Minor, and Modified Major Major Minor Modified Major Transfer Credit Creative Writing Concentration Honors Courses Course Group I Course Group II Course Group III Course Group IV Courses (No Group) Creative Writing Courses Courses (No Major Credit) Foreign Study Courses Independent Study and Honors The Historical Philosophy of W.E.B. Du Bois Prizes Creative Writing Prizes Department Prizes Alumni Foreign Study Overview London Foreign Study Program Research News & Events News & Events Conferences Black Nature Conference People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback