Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Department of English and Comparative Literature Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Faculty Courses Events Headlines Why English? Undergraduate Advising Undergraduate Major Requirements Undergraduate Concentration Requirements B.A./M.A. Program for Columbia Undergraduates Study Abroad Opportunities The Senior Essay Honors and Prizes Independent Study Columbia Journal of Literary Criticism Title IX Resources Master Programs M.A. Programs B.A./M.A. Program for Columbia Undergraduates Ph.D. Program Ph.D. Program The Dissertation Prospectus The Dissertation Graduate English Doctoral Alumni Ph.D. Student Profiles Academic Career Advising Recent Career Search Results Graduate Advising Graduate Colloquia Graduate Fellowships Graduate Awards and Grants Career Advising Graduate Library Carrel Policy Graduate Leaves of Absence Graduate Admissions MA Access Program Title IX Resources Faculty Profiles Research Interests In Memoriam Undergraduate Course Listings Graduate Course Listings Summer Course Listings Course Listings The Department of English and Comparative Literature You are here: Home Amy E. Hungerford Amy E. Hungerford Amy E. Hungerford Executive Vice President for Arts and Sciences and Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences; Ruth Fulton Benedict Professor of English and Comparative Literature My Contact Info 208 Low Library, Mail Code: 4315, United States +1 212 854 8296 [email protected] Amy E. Hungerford Biography Amy Hungerford, the Ruth Fulton Benedict Professor of English and Comparative Literature, currently serves as Executive Vice President of Arts and Sciences and Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences. A scholar of American literature, her first two monographs explore literary engagements with genocide and with religion in the 20th century. Her most recent book, Making Literature Now, examines how social networks—both virtual and traditional—shape contemporary writers’ creative choices and the choices we make about reading. Her current research and writing is about the sociable qualities of solitude. Ongoing work as co-editor of the post-1945 volume of the Norton Anthology of American Literature serves students around the country for whom it is a central course text; her popular, and free, online course, “The American Novel Since 1945,” is enjoyed worldwide. In the early 2000’s Prof. Hungerford was part of the founding collective for Post45, one of the first professional associations for scholars working in post-45 literary and cultural studies. She co-founded and was site editor of post45.org, an open-access journal publishing peer reviewed and general interest work in the field. As a graduate teacher, she has mentored a generation of scholars of 20th and 21st century American literature now serving in higher education, publishing, and secondary school teaching in the U.S. and U.K. Prof. Hungerford joined Columbia after twenty years at Yale, where she headed a residential college and was most recently the Bird White Housum Professor of English and Dean of Humanities. In five years as Dean of Humanities she oversaw significant hiring across the division and led planning for a renovated Humanities building at the center of campus. Selected Publications Making Literature Now Amy Hungerford The Holocaust of Texts: Genocide, Literature, and Personification Amy Hungerford Postmodern Belief: American Literature and Religion since 1960 Amy Hungerford The Department of English And Comparative Literature602 Philosophy Hall, MC4927 1150 Amsterdam Ave · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212.854.3215 Follow Us Twitter Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close