Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth English and Creative Writing Department of English and Creative Writing Contact Us English.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major, Minor, and Modified Major Major Minor Modified Major Transfer Credit Creative Writing Concentration Honors Courses Course Group I Course Group II Course Group III Course Group IV Courses (No Group) Creative Writing Courses Courses (No Major Credit) Foreign Study Courses Independent Study and Honors The Historical Philosophy of W.E.B. Du Bois Prizes Creative Writing Prizes Department Prizes Alumni Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview London Foreign Study Program Back to Top Nav Research News & Events News & Events Conferences Black Nature Conference Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search People Filter by: - Any -facultyfellowsstaffemeritivisiting facultystudents Apply Reset faculty Ingrid Becker Lecturer, Department of English and Creative Writing view profile Jessica C. Beckman Assistant Professor, Department of English and Creative Writing view profile Joshua Brandon Bennett Professor of English and Creative Writing view profile Colleen Glenney Boggs Parents Distinguished Research Professor in the Humanities Professor of English view profile Kimberly Juanita Brown Associate Professor view profile Eugenie Carabatsos view profile Michael A. Chaney Edward Hyde Cox Professor of English and American Literature Vice Chair, African and African American Studies Program view profile Alexander Chee view profile Rebecca B. Clark view profile William M. Craig Lecturer view profile Katherine A. Crouch view profile Carolyn Dever Professor of English view profile James E. Dobson Director, Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Assistant Professor, Department of English and Creative Writing view profile George Edmondson Associate Professor of English view profile Aden Evens Associate Professor, Department of English & Creative Writing Affiliated Faculty, Program in Digital Musics view profile Vievee Elaure Francis view profile Alysia Garrison Assistant Professor of English view profile Reuven Goldberg view profile Alexandra Halasz Associate Professor of English view profile Christie Harner Assistant Dean of Faculty for Fellowship Advising Senior Lecturer in English view profile Alexis Jetter Lecturer view profile Azeen A. Khan view profile Thomas H. Luxon Professor of English view profile Andrew L. McCann Henry Winkley Professor of Anglo-Saxon and English Language and Literature Chair of the Department of English and Creative Writing view profile Sam Moodie view profile Thomas O'Malley Associate Professor of English & Creative Writing view profile Matthew S. Olzmann view profile Peter M. Orner Dartmouth Professorship in English and Creative Writing Director of Creative Writing view profile Monika C. Otter Associate Professor of English view profile Donald E. Pease Professor of English Comparative Literature view profile Matthew Ritger Assistant Professor, Department of English and Creative Writing view profile Emi Sawada Lecturer view profile Ivy Schweitzer Professor of English and Creative Writing Women's, Gender and Sexuality Program view profile Jeff Sharlet Frederick Sessions Beebe '35 Professor in the Art of Writing Director of Creative Writing view profile Patricia Rachael Stuelke Assistant Professor of English view profile Nirvana Tanoukhi Department of English and Creative Writing view profile Melanie B. Taylor Professor of English & Native American Studies House Professor, North Park House view profile Barbara Will Vice Provost for Academic Initiatives A. and R. Newbury Professor of English view profile Melissa F. Zeiger Associate Professor of English view profile fellows James A. Godley Postdoctoral Fellow, Society of Fellows view profile Nicholas T. Rinehart Postdoctoral Fellow, Society of Fellows view profile staff Chelsea D'Aprile Administrative Assistant view profile Katherine Gibbel Department Administrator view profile emeriti Peter A. Bien, Ph.D Professor English and Comparative Literature, Emeritus view profile Lynda E. Boose Professor of English view profile Jonathan V. Crewe Professor of English and Comparative Literature, Emeritus Leon D. Black Professor in Shakespearean Studies view profile Ernest Hebert Professor of English, Emeritus view profile James Heffernan Professor of English, Emeritus and Frederick Sessions Beebe Professor in the Art of Writing Emeritus view profile Cynthia Huntington Professor of English and Creative Writing view profile Cleopatra Mathis Professor of English, Emerita Frederick Sessions Beebe '35 Professorship in the Art of Writing view profile Patricia McKee Professor of English, Emerita Edward Hyde Cox Professorship, Emerita view profile Louis A. Renza Professor Emeritus of English view profile Peter C. Saccio Leon Black Professor of Shakespearean Studies and Professor of English, Emeritus view profile Brenda R. Silver Mary Brinsmead Wheelock Professor, Emerita view profile William Charles Spengemann Patricia F. and William B. Hale '44 Professor in Arts and Sciences and Professor of English, Emeritus view profile Peter W. Travis Professor of English, Emeritus view profile Related DepartmentClassicsRelated DepartmentFilm and Media Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of English and Creative Writing Undergraduate Overview Major, Minor, and Modified Major Major Minor Modified Major Transfer Credit Creative Writing Concentration Honors Courses Course Group I Course Group II Course Group III Course Group IV Courses (No Group) Creative Writing Courses Courses (No Major Credit) Foreign Study Courses Independent Study and Honors The Historical Philosophy of W.E.B. Du Bois Prizes Creative Writing Prizes Department Prizes Alumni Foreign Study Overview London Foreign Study Program Research News & Events News & Events Conferences Black Nature Conference People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback