Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Department of English myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link Contact Diversity Academics Select to follow link Courses Undergraduate Select to follow link B.A./B.G.S., Minor Graduate Select to follow link Degrees Select to follow link M.A. Accelerated M.A. M.F.A. Ph.D. Creative Writing Ph.D. Literature Ph.D. Rhetoric Composition Graduate Directory Preparation and Placement Graduate Summer Institutes First and Second Year English (FSE) Department Honors and Awards Admission Select to follow link Graduate Admission International Applicants Non-Degree Applicants Undergraduate Admission People Select to follow link Faculty Administrative/Staff Graduate Students Emeritus Faculty Resources Select to follow link Graduate Resources Undergraduate Resources Affiliated Programs Select to follow link Ad-hoc African/Americanists and Affiliates (AHAA) Project on the History of Black Writing Gunn Center for the Study of SF Cottonwood Why English? Info for Prospective Undergraduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Current Students Alumni myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Department of English Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search KU Department of English In English, we seek to challenge the minds and to engage the imaginations of our students. We teach them to think both critically and creatively through the craft of writing and the analysis of their own and others’ language. We explore the past, consider the present, and imagine the future with the understanding that reading and writing shape the world. Why English? We teach our students life-long skills, so that they learn to read carefully and write clearly, creatively, and effectively—discovering themselves even as they lay a solid foundation for professional success.  Stories from our Alumni Important Information for Students For questions regarding first-year English, please email firstyearenglish@ku.edu. Explore Courses First Year English Student Resources Faculty Degrees COVID Updates Study Abroad The KU Department of English has three study abroad programs: the British Summer Institute, The London Review, and Pura Vida: Costa Rica & Travel Writing. We also facilitate study abroad through semester- and year-long programs. Explore our Programs Diversity We value diversity in all its forms and seeks to build cultural understanding while fostering an inclusive environment for every one of its members: part-time and full-time undergraduates, graduate students, lecturers, faculty, and staff. Statement of Diversity Interested? Learn more about our Undergraduate and Graduate programs and schedule a meeting with an advisor. Degrees Degrees Courses Courses Meet With an Advisor Meet With an Advisor Schedule a Visit Give to KU English Upcoming Events Wescoe Hall 1445 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 english@ku.edu 785-864-4520 facebook instagram twitter Degrees Faculty COVID Updates Careers Give to KU English Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.