Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Humanities and Social Sciences Department of English About People Contact Us Undergraduate Majors Minors Advising Course Sampler First-Year Writing Professional Writing Certificate in Professional Writing Internships English Club Honors Sigma Tau Delta Study Abroad Scholarships Graduate Prospective Students Current Student Information MA in English MFA in Creative Writing MS in Technical Communication Accelerated Bachelor's-Master's Program Certificate in Digital Humanities PhD in Communication, Rhetoric, and Digital Media Contact the Graduate Program Alumni and Friends Giving Career Resources Research and Engagement Give Now About Undergraduate Graduate Alumni and Friends Research and Engagement Full Site Navigation About People Contact Us Administration Program Coordinators How to Find Us Undergraduate Majors Creative Writing Film More About Film Studies Faculty Courses Film Screenings and Events Undergraduate Programs Graduate Program Alumni Spotlight Student Groups Film Studies Collection Local Film Scene Internships FAQ Rhetoric and Professional Writing Linguistics Literature Teacher Education Minors Advising Freshmen Transfers Student Responsibilities and Resources Course Sampler Fall 2022 First-Year Writing Program Administration Program Placement Course Descriptions Learning Environments Transfer Credit Non-Native Speakers Program Policies Writing Resources Contact Us Professional Writing Enrollment Transfer Credit ENG 331 ENG 332 ENG 333 Certificate in Professional Writing Eligibility Enrollment Requirements & Course Content Frequently Asked Questions Internships For Students Student Resources Intern Scholarship For Organizational Partners For Faculty Recommenders FAQ Contact English Club Honors Student Testimonials FAQs Contact Sigma Tau Delta Study Abroad Scholarships Graduate Prospective Students How to Apply Course Samplers International Students Cost and Financial Assistance Teaching Assistantships Internships Current Student Information Essential Information for New Graduate Students Essential Information for New Teaching Assistants Advising Apply to Graduate Capstone Process Costs and Financial Assistance Graduate Plan of Work (GPOW) Graduate Student Associations Guest Teaching Program Independent Study (Directed Readings) Inter-Institutional Programs Internship Peer Mentoring Program Policies and Graduate School Regulations Professional Development Resources Registration Residency University Student Services Writing Resources for Graduate Students MA in English MFA in Creative Writing MS in Technical Communication Accelerated Bachelor's-Master's Program Certificate in Digital Humanities PhD in Communication, Rhetoric, and Digital Media Contact the Graduate Program Alumni and Friends Giving Career Resources Words and the World What do you do with words? Language generates stories, voices, personalities, events, and more. Words not only reflect but also create our understanding of the world we live in every day. They span historical eras. They help us understand who and where we are, as well as what life meant to our ancestors. They help us empathize with other people and cultures. They make us human. The Power of Words: Aesthetics, Persuasion, and Innovation Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Departmental Directory Your future may hold a career in a field directly related to the study of English – work as a writer, editor, teacher, journalist, filmmaker, game producer, technical or corporate communicator, or CEO. Degrees in English can prepare students for law or medical school, as well as for work in the nonprofit sector. As an English major or minor, you will learn to think critically and expansively, to understand the strong links between the humanities and contemporary digital technologies, and to express yourself clearly – and powerfully. NC State was an ideal graduate school experience for me. Many of my professors were passionate and attentive. I credit two in particular for giving me the foundation I needed to be where I am now: a full-time writer with multiple New York Times and internationally bestselling novels. Melissa Marr (M.A., English, 1997) best-selling author of the Wicked Lovely series and other books for young readers, teens and adults Latest News More Stories Featured News More Landmark Exhibit Unearths History In "When MLK and the KKK Met in Raleigh," English professor Jason Miller reveals never-before-published photos from Martin Luther King Jr.'s historic 1966 visit to Raleigh. Learn More‌ Poetry Collection Reflects On Raleigh, City Life Jon Thompson’s fourth book of poetry, Notebook of Last Things, reflects at length on an unnamed city; its growth, its constant reinvention, and how its citizens interact with it. While the city is not named in any of the poems, it is Raleigh. Learn More‌ Bestselling Author Stirs Coffee, Conversation Her debut novel now a bestseller, English alumna Etaf Rum is sharing her love of writing at her new coffee shop in Rocky Mount. Learn More‌ Walt Wolfram Accepted Into American Academy of Arts and Sciences Walt Wolfram, William C. Friday Distinguished University Professor, linguist, and director of the Language and Life Project at NC State, has been inducted into the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, which brings together leaders across fields and disciplines. Learn More‌ Events Submit an Event‌‌‌‌‌ English Events‌‌‌‌‌ NC State Academic Calendar‌‌‌‌‌ Humanities and Social Sciences English 2211 Hillsborough Street Campus Box 8105 Raleigh, NC 27695-8105 919.515.3866 Academic Calendar Cashier's Office Study Abroad Office Humanities and Social Sciences NC State Accessibility Resources for Faculty and Staff Main Campus Map © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.