Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth English and Creative Writing Department of English and Creative Writing Contact Us English.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major, Minor, and Modified Major Major Minor Modified Major Transfer Credit Creative Writing Concentration Honors Courses Course Group I Course Group II Course Group III Course Group IV Courses (No Group) Creative Writing Courses Courses (No Major Credit) Foreign Study Courses Independent Study and Honors The Historical Philosophy of W.E.B. Du Bois Prizes Creative Writing Prizes Department Prizes Alumni Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview London Foreign Study Program Back to Top Nav Research News & Events News & Events Conferences Black Nature Conference Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Major, Minor, and Modified Major Major Minor Modified Major Transfer Credit Creative Writing Concentration Honors Courses Prizes Alumni ORC Major/Minor Declaration and Planner Share Major, Minor, and Modified Major Overview The English major requires the successful completion of eleven major courses. Major courses are, unless otherwise stated, all courses with either the ENGL (English) or CRWT (Creative Writing) course code. To become an English major, students consult with a faculty member who will act as their major advisor to plan their courses. The Department of English and Creative Writing does not assign major advisors to students. Instead, prospective majors should set up a meeting with a faculty member whose research and teaching align with their interests. Students may also contact the vice chair of the department for major advising. Students formally elect the major in English by submitting a proposed plan of courses through their DartWorks Planner and meeting with one of the English and creative writing faculty to get approval. At the time of faculty approval the student must also submit a completed and signed major worksheet to the department administrator in Sanborn 202 (you can send your completed worksheet via email). Students must meet with their major advisor a second time in the last term of the junior year or the first term of the senior year in order to review their major plan. Students electing a concentration in Creative Writing must pass a prerequisite course, CRWT 10 (formerly ENGL 80), CRWT 11 (formerly ENGL 81), or CRWT 12 (formerly ENGL 82) prior to enrolling in any other Creative Writing course. The concentration consists of four courses taken as part of the eleven course major plan. The modified major requires the successful completion of eleven major courses including four courses from the modifying department. Students may propose a modified major in English by designing a special program of study in consultation with a faculty advisor in the department. The minor in English requires the successful completion of six major courses. No substitutions and no more than one transfer credit will be permitted. Committee on Departmental Curriculum The CDC (Committee on Departmental Curriculum) is a faculty committee that oversees curricular matters. It approves honors proposals and considers petitions from students in relation to the major. At least four department faculty make up the CDC; the Vice Chair of the department chairs the committee. The rest of the membership changes from year to year. Student petitions for the CDC should be given to the department administrator. Related DepartmentClassicsRelated DepartmentFilm and Media Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of English and Creative Writing Undergraduate Overview Major, Minor, and Modified Major Major Minor Modified Major Transfer Credit Creative Writing Concentration Honors Courses Course Group I Course Group II Course Group III Course Group IV Courses (No Group) Creative Writing Courses Courses (No Major Credit) Foreign Study Courses Independent Study and Honors The Historical Philosophy of W.E.B. Du Bois Prizes Creative Writing Prizes Department Prizes Alumni Foreign Study Overview London Foreign Study Program Research News & Events News & Events Conferences Black Nature Conference People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback