Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth English and Creative Writing Department of English and Creative Writing Contact Us English.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major, Minor, and Modified Major Major Minor Modified Major Transfer Credit Creative Writing Concentration Honors Courses Course Group I Course Group II Course Group III Course Group IV Courses (No Group) Creative Writing Courses Courses (No Major Credit) Foreign Study Courses Independent Study and Honors The Historical Philosophy of W.E.B. Du Bois Prizes Creative Writing Prizes Department Prizes Alumni Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview London Foreign Study Program Back to Top Nav Research News & Events News & Events Conferences Black Nature Conference Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Matthew Ritger |Assistant Professor Academic Appointments Assistant Professor, Department of English and Creative Writing I specialize in English literature and culture of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. I am particularly interested in connections between historical literature and its wider world, especially moments when renaissance poetry and drama helped to articulate alternative political ideas. I am currently working on a book about what writers such as Thomas More, William Shakespeare and John Milton had to say about England’s houses of correction, which were some of the early modern period’s first reformist prisons. My publications speak to some of my broader interests, from queer theory to the history of books and reading. My article in English Literary History has to do with the sexual politics of seventeenth-century poetry. My article about Utopia in Renaissance Quarterly focuses on the text’s famous ideas about penal reform, but also examines how early readers responded to those ideas in the margins of their books. Reviews and other writings have appeared in The Los Angeles Review of Books and elsewhere. I received my Ph.D. from Princeton University in 2020, where my dissertation research was supported by several grants, including the Porter Ogden Jacobus Fellowship, Princeton’s highest honor for a graduate student. While at Princeton I also lived and worked in the undergraduate colleges as a residential fellow. Prior to the Ph.D., I taught as a lecturer at Cornell University, where I earned an MFA in poetry. + View more Contact Matthew.Paul.Ritger@Dartmouth.edu 14 Sanborn House Education Ph.D. Princeton University M.A. Princeton University M.F.A. Cornell University B.A. Dartmouth College Areas of Expertise English Literature and Drama of the 16th and 17th Centuries /Shakespeare /Milton /More /Marvell /Poetry and Poetics /Carceral Studies /History of Sexuality /Material Texts Selected Publications "Milton and the Literary Workhouse." Milton Studies, vol. 63 no. 2 (2021). “Time in The Tempest: Shakespeare, The Mock-Tempest, and Early Modern Carceral Labor.” Shakespeare Studies, Issue 49 (2021). “Reading Utopia in the Reformation of Punishment.” Renaissance Quarterly, 72.4, Winter 2019-2020. “Marvell’s double negatives: Oliver Cromwell and ‘An Horatian Ode.'” English Literary History, 85.3, Fall 2018. “Invisible Shakespeare.” (Review essay). The Los Angeles Review of Books Online, 2016. + View more Works In Progress Book Project Making Correction: Literary Humanism and Carceral Institutions in Early Modern England Beginning in the 1550s, institutions called houses of correction opened a new era in England's efforts to not only punish but reform the country's poorest and most criminalized subjects, centuries in advance of the penitentiary. Although houses of correction were often seen as cruel failures, nevertheless the ideas, arguments and stories they promoted about labor as a means of changing human behavior — what I call in this study the rhetoric of correction — proved an enduring success. By examining how writers including More, Shakespeare and Milton engaged with these institutions and their ideas, Making Correction constructs a cultural history of the humanist prison and workhouse over two early but crucial centuries. At the same time, the project revives "correction" as a third term for renaissance literary theory, as one of the period's most important but least studied means of literary justification, beyond the familiar commonplaces of instruction and delight. Courses ENGL 15: Shakespeare WRIT5: Poetry of the Archive ENGL 61.03: 61.03 Early Modern Literature and the History of Sexuality ENGL 75.03: Premodern Carceral Studies: Beyond the Prison Related DepartmentClassicsRelated DepartmentFilm and Media Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of English and Creative Writing Undergraduate Overview Major, Minor, and Modified Major Major Minor Modified Major Transfer Credit Creative Writing Concentration Honors Courses Course Group I Course Group II Course Group III Course Group IV Courses (No Group) Creative Writing Courses Courses (No Major Credit) Foreign Study Courses Independent Study and Honors The Historical Philosophy of W.E.B. Du Bois Prizes Creative Writing Prizes Department Prizes Alumni Foreign Study Overview London Foreign Study Program Research News & Events News & Events Conferences Black Nature Conference People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback