Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Department of English PEOPLE UNDERGRADUATE Concentrator Guide, Class of '23 & Beyond Concentrator Guide, Class of '21 & '22 Declare English Advising Creative Writing Secondary Field Alumni Features and Careers Prizes and Fellowships Research, Resources, and Forms GRADUATE Guidelines for Admission Program Description Teaching Fellows COGS Graduate Colloquia Fellowships Graduate Prizes Resources for Grad Students Dissertation Plans & Pandemic English PhD Alumni Network & Placement Information COURSES Fall Term Spring Term Summer Term Course Information LITERARY LIFE LitLab Literary Careers DEPARTMENT RESOURCES Department Sharepoint Calendar; Meetings, Events, Deadlines Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging Remote Teaching Resources Resources for Anti-Racist Pedagogy & Scholarship Forms Search Search Welcome to the Harvard English Department Take a look at this year's course offerings. Learn more Join the English Department Looking to change your concentration? Learn more Creative Writing Workshops Workshop applications for Spring 2022 are due by 11:59pm EST on Saturday, January 15. Learn more We, as a department, as scholars, teachers, students, and staff, are committed to holding up our community, past and present, to the light of recent events, specifically the movement for racial justice. We will take what immediate actions we can, as we also consider the courses, colloquia, and public talks and reading the Department is running now or planning for the future. In addition, we shall reassess our hiring and admissions practices, our scholarship and pedagogy, our advising of students, and our relationships with the wider community. BLACK LIVES MATTER Undergraduates Learn more Graduate Students Learn more Creative Writing The English Department is proud to house Harvard’s creative writing program. The vital presence of creative writing in the department is reflected by our many distinguished authors who offer small, intensive workshops each term in fiction, poetry, nonfiction, screenwriting, playwriting, and television writing. Concentrators may also apply to work on a year-long creative senior thesis with our faculty. Read More Latest News Spring Course Showcase Friday, January 14, 2022 Laura van den Berg awarded 2022 NEA Creative Writing Fellowship in Prose Wednesday, January 12, 2022 Ellis Jaewon Yeo '20 publishes essay in Yale Review Wednesday, December 1, 2021 ALL NEWS Featured Faculty Glenda Carpio Chair of the Department of English Harvard College Professor Professor of English and of African and African American Studies Education: B.A., Vassar (1991) Ph.D., University of California at Berkeley (2002) Interests: The Literature, History and Culture of... Read more about Glenda Carpio Click here to schedule office hours Barker 162 carpio@fas.harvard.edu p: 617-495-7868 Office Hours: Wednesdays 2-4pm on Zoom. Jill Abramson Senior Lecturer Education: A.B., Harvard University (1976) Jill Abramson is a journalist who spent the last 17 years in the most senior editorial positions at... Read more about Jill Abramson Office: Lamont Library 404 abramson@fas.harvard.edu p: 617-495-9862 Office Hours: TBA, Schedule via email. Jorie Graham Boylston Professor of Oratory and Rhetoric (on leave 2021-22) Education: B.A., New York University (1973) M.F.A., University of Iowa (1978) Interests: English Poetry; American Poetry; Contemporary... Read more about Jorie Graham Faculty Website Office: Barker 263 p: 617-495-2533 Office Hours: (on leave Fall 2020) By appointment. Schedule via email. All faculty Arts and Humanities Division The Division seeks to optimize both the ability of its faculty to pursue knowledge through the study of the arts and humanities and the opportunity of its students to share in that pursuit. Visit the Website Child Memorial Library Named for Francis James Child, Harvard's first Professor of English, Child Memorial Library is the English Department research library. Visit the Website Faculty Bookshelf Explore our faculty's publications and discover their many research interests and creative works. Visit the Bookshelf Department of English Barker Center 12 Quincy Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Hours: M-F 9:00 am-5:00 pm Phone: 617-495-2533 Fax: 617-496-8737 Follow Us https://www.facebook.com/HarvardEnglishDept/ https://twitter.com/english_harvard https://www.instagram.com/harvardenglish/ https://www.youtube.com/user/EnglishAtHarvard/ Undergraduate Concentrator Guide, Class of '23 & Beyond Concentrator Guide, Class of '21 & '22 Declare English Advising Creative Writing Secondary Field Alumni Features and Careers Prizes and Fellowships Research, Resources, Forms For Faculty & Staff Department SharePoint Forms Remote Teaching Resources Graduate Guidelines for Admission Program Description Teaching Fellows Fellowships Graduate Prizes Job Placement Resources for Grad Students People Faculty Graduate Students Emeriti Administration Courses Fall Term Spring Term Course Information Intellectual Life Faculty Bookshelf Readings Visiting Scholars Program 69089d5caf9dbcd0a0334e23d72be43f js Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement