Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University The Department of English and Comparative Literature Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Faculty Courses Events Headlines Why English? Undergraduate Advising Undergraduate Major Requirements Undergraduate Concentration Requirements B.A./M.A. Program for Columbia Undergraduates Study Abroad Opportunities The Senior Essay Honors and Prizes Independent Study Columbia Journal of Literary Criticism Title IX Resources Master Programs M.A. Programs B.A./M.A. Program for Columbia Undergraduates Ph.D. Program Ph.D. Program The Dissertation Prospectus The Dissertation Graduate English Doctoral Alumni Ph.D. Student Profiles Academic Career Advising Recent Career Search Results Graduate Advising Graduate Colloquia Graduate Fellowships Graduate Awards and Grants Career Advising Graduate Library Carrel Policy Graduate Leaves of Absence Graduate Admissions MA Access Program Title IX Resources Faculty Profiles Research Interests In Memoriam Undergraduate Course Listings Graduate Course Listings Summer Course Listings Course Listings The Department of English and Comparative Literature Home Department of English and Comparative Literature Columbia's Department of English and Comparative Literature has played a significant role in the history of literary study in the United States and abroad since its inception. With a large faculty of renowned scholars and dedicated teachers, our department offers a wide range of courses, recognizing traditional values in the discipline yet reflecting its changing shape. Discover the Site mortar-board icon Undergraduate Programs university icon Graduate Programs wpforms icon Forms Upcoming Events There are no upcoming events. Recent Headlines February 25, 2022 Farah Jasmine Griffin Named Winner of the 2022 PROSE Award in Literature December 17, 2021 Spielberg tried to save ‘West Side Story.’ But its history makes it unsalvageable December 17, 2021 Roosevelt Montás Makes His Case for the Importance of the Humanities Google Map Location The Department of English And Comparative Literature602 Philosophy Hall, MC4927 1150 Amsterdam Ave · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212.854.3215 Follow Us Twitter Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close