Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | The English Department Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services People Faculty Staff Teaching Assistants Programs Creative Writing Literature, Media, and Culture Rhetoric and Composition Editing, Writing, and Media History of Text Technologies Certificate Undergraduate Undergraduate Advising Undergraduate Courses Undergraduate FAQ Undergraduate Handbook Internship Information Writing Awards English Career Information Graduate For Prospective Students Graduate Courses Graduate Student Handbook FSU Graduate School Grants and Funding Resources Graduate Placement News Publications Faculty Publications The Southeast Review The Kudzu Review Resources College Composition Reading-Writing Center The Digital Studios Contact Us Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU The English Department Toggle navigation People Faculty Staff Teaching Assistants Programs Creative Writing Literature, Media, and Culture Rhetoric and Composition Editing, Writing, and Media History of Text Technologies Certificate Undergraduate Undergraduate Advising Undergraduate Courses Undergraduate FAQ Undergraduate Handbook Internship Information Writing Awards English Career Information Graduate For Prospective Students Graduate Courses Graduate Student Handbook FSU Graduate School Grants and Funding Resources Graduate Placement News Publications Faculty Publications The Southeast Review The Kudzu Review Resources College Composition Reading-Writing Center The Digital Studios Contact Us Welcome to FSU's Department of English. Internationally recognized for their cutting-edge research and publications, our faculty offer a wide range of courses in literary fields, genres, and media. We equip our ambitious, multi-talented undergraduate and graduate students to venture out into every corner of the new creative economies: from academia to artistic entrepreneurialism, from publishing to social media marketing. We are located in the Williams Building, which houses classrooms and the Augusta Conradi Theatre. We invite you to explore our program offerings and to meet our dedicated faculty, students, and staff. Message from the Chair | Support the Department | Inclusion, Diversity, Equity, Anti-racism—IDEA Resources Creative Writing Consistently ranked among the top writing programs in the country, the Creative Writing program offers a thriving community to writers who are looking to strengthen their craft while building life-long relationships in writing. Learn More Literature, Media, and Culture The Literature, Media, and Culture program exposes students to provocative questions that spark scholarly engagement and creativity, helping them discuss the social and political impact of literature. Learn More Rhetoric and Composition The graduate program in Rhetoric and Composition focuses on rhetorical and social practices and theories of composition, particularly emphasizing the relationships between texts, technologies, language, and literacies. Learn More Editing, Writing, and Media The undergraduate Editing, Writing, and Media track emphasizes the production, analysis, and interpretation of historic, contemporary, academic, and everyday texts. Learn More The English Department at Florida State University Department News Maxine Montgomery named Robert O. Lawton Distinguished Professor A professor in the English Department since 1988, she has earned the highest honor FSU’s faculty can bestow on a colleague. Ravi Howard's 'The Good Thief' finds a home in 2021 anthology His 2020 short story is included in The Best American Mystery and Suspense 2021 anthology. The story is set on Alabama's death row. FSU's national literary magazine makes powerful local impact Southeast Review editors recently visited Gadsden Correctional Facility for the incarcerated person poetry workshop initiative. See All Department News... Events View the full Department of English calendar English Department Florida State University 405 Williams Building Tallahassee, Florida 32306-1580 Phone: (850) 644-4230 Program Contacts english-undergrad@fsu.edu english-grad@fsu.edu Follow the English Department Facebook Instagram Twitter © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media