Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth English and Creative Writing Department of English and Creative Writing Contact Us English.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major, Minor, and Modified Major Major Minor Modified Major Transfer Credit Creative Writing Concentration Honors Courses Course Group I Course Group II Course Group III Course Group IV Courses (No Group) Creative Writing Courses Courses (No Major Credit) Foreign Study Courses Independent Study and Honors The Historical Philosophy of W.E.B. Du Bois Prizes Creative Writing Prizes Department Prizes Alumni Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview London Foreign Study Program Back to Top Nav Research News & Events News & Events Conferences Black Nature Conference Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Major, Minor, and Modified Major Creative Writing Concentration Honors Courses Prizes Creative Writing Prizes Department Prizes Alumni Share Creative Writing Prizes PreviousNext Creative Writing Prizes for Undergraduates These prizes are awarded at the annual Creative Writing Awards ceremony each May. Please see the next section for submission details. The Sidney Cox Memorial Prize: The Sidney Cox Memorial Prize is offered annually for that piece of undergraduate writing which most nearly meets those high standards of originality and integrity which Sidney Cox set for himself and for his students in his teaching and in his book, Indirections for Those Who Want to Write. Any kind of undergraduate writing in English may be submitted; there is no limit to the amount or variety of the material that any individual may submit; and the award is not limited to students majoring or minoring in English. Academy of American Poets Prize: The Academy of American Poets Prize is offered for the best poem or group of poems. Jacobson-Laing Award in Poetry: The Alexander Laing Memorial Writing Award will be given to an undergraduate for the "best manuscript of original poems." Lockwood Prize: Competition for the Lockwood Prize is open to undergraduates classified as Junior. Any form of writing except plays may be submitted. A group of short poems may be considered as one manuscript. Grimes Prize: Competition for the Grimes Prize is open to undergraduates classified as Senior. Any form of writing except plays may be submitted. A group of short poems may be considered as one manuscript. The William C. Spengemann Award in Writing: The William C. Spengemann Award in Writing is given for a work of prose or poetry distinguished by its formal precision, as well as its original, innovative, or iconoclastic approach to its subject matter. The Mecklin Prize: The Mecklin Prize is for the best student writing in creative nonfiction or journalism. The Erskine Caldwell Prize: The Erskine Caldwell prize is awarded to a student(s) whose written work in the short story is most outstanding. 2022 Creative Writing Prizes SUBMISSION DETAILS The deadline for submissions is Monday, April 18, 2022 at 4:00 PM ET (Eastern Time). You will need to complete an online survey to submit your work for consideration. If you have any questions while completing the survey, please email english.department@dartmouth.edu. Please use a cover sheet to indicate your name, your entry titles, and the prizes for which you would like your work considered. Please save your work as a PDF. Please save your PDF as lastname_firstname_2022.pdf (e.g., Shakespeare_William_2022.pdf) Please uplaod the PDF to the online survey. Fiction and creative nonfiction submissions are limited to one short story, or one nonfiction piece, or one chapter of a book length manuscript not to exceed 20 double-spaced typewritten pages along with a one-page synopsis of the book. This writing contest is open to all Dartmouth undergraduate students. The prize winners will be announced in May 2022, with a reading to take place on Thursday, June 2nd at 4:00pm in Sanborn Library. This year's judge is Chris Abani. Chris Abani's books of fiction include The Secret History of Las Vegas, Song For Night, The Virgin of Flames, Becoming Abigail, Graceland, and Masters of the Board. His poetry collections are Sanctificum, There Are No Names for Red, Feed Me The Sun: Collected Long Poems, Hands Washing Water, Dog Woman, Daphne's Lot, and Kalakuta Republic. He is the recipient of a Guggenheim Fellowship, the PEN/Hemingway Award, the PEN Beyond the Margins Award, the Hurston Wright Award, and a Lannan Literary Fellowship, among many honors. His work has been translated into French, Italian, Spanish, German, Swedish, Romanian, Hebrew, Macedonian, Ukrainian, Portuguese, Dutch, Bosnian, and Serbian. 2021 Creative Writing Prize Winners Asako Serizawa was the judge of this year's prizes. For the Sidney Cox Memorial Prize Julia Robitaille '23, The New Abolition The Academy of American Poets Prize Jordan McDonald '21, "Dementia" Honorable Mention: James King '21, "Self Portrait as No. 34 Bus from Dublin to County Meath" Matthew Nolan '21, "Encyclopedia" Jacobson-Laing Award in Poetry Tom Bosworth '22, The CVS at the End of the World Karen Zheng '22, The Tail of Smoke The Mecklin Prize Alisya Reza '22, "Deep Cassie Blue" Honorable Mention: Maria Amador '24, "9 to 5" Elizabeth Janowski '21, "Why Aren't They Behaving" Eva Legge '22, "The Salamanders at the End of the World" Frances Mize '22, "Gatsby Days" Laurel Lee Pitts '24, "Elsewhere and Here" The Grimes Prize Cynthia Lucas '21, "Bonefish" The Lockwood Prize Mariana Peñaloza Morales '22, "A Week of Presidents" William C. Spengemann Award in Writing Annika Bowman '21, You Made It Honorable Mention: Migwi S. Mwangi '23, "I WAIT FOR NO GOD" Nate Stockmal '21, Meta//Narrative Erskine Caldwell Prize Valentina Jaramillo '21, "Love Letter to Beelzebub" Honorable Mention: Shaphnah McKenzie '23, "A New, Old Home" Mia Nelson '22, "The Un-Virgin, Un-Suicides" 2020 Creative Writing Prize Awards Carlos Andrés Gómez was the 2020 creative writing prizes judge. For more information, please visit: https://carloslive.com/. Sidney Cox Memorial Prize in Creative Writing: CC Lucas '21 Academy of American Poets Prize: James King '21 Honorable Mentions: Kira Householder '23 Mia Nelson '22 Jacobson-Laing Award in Poetry: Karen Zheng '22 Honorable Mention: Julia O'Sullivan '20 Lockwood English Prize: CC Lucas '21 Grimes English Prize: Julia O'Sullivan '20 The William C. Spengemann Award in Writing: Raena Roman '19 The Mecklin Prize in Creative Nonfiction: Kai Chen '19 Honorable Mention: Maeve Fairbanks '22 Shaphnah McKenzie '23 The Erskine Caldwell Memorial Prize: Jordan McDonald '21 Honorable Mention: Betty Kim '20 2019 Creative Writing Prize Awards Professor Inara Verzemnieks was the 2019 creative writing prizes judge. For more information about Professor Verzemnieks, please visit: http://inaraverzemnieks.com/. Sidney Cox Memorial Prize in Creative Writing: Rebecca Flowers '19 Academy of American Poets Prize: Julia O'Sullivan '20 Jacobson-Laing Award in Poetry: Michael Sun '19 Lockwood English Prize: Sofía Carbonell Realme '20 Grimes English Prize: Saleha Irfan '19 Yegene Joyce Lee '19 The William C. Spengemann Award in Writing: Maanav Jalan '19 The Mecklin Prize in Creative Nonfiction: Kai Chen '19 Jordan McDonald '21 Rebecca Flowers '19 The Erskine Caldwell Memorial Prize: Isabelle Blank '19 Betty Kim '20 The Thomas Henry Ralston IV English 80 Prize: Chibuzo Chiwike '22 2018 Creative Writing Prize Awards Joshua Bennett was the 2018 creative writing prizes judge. For more information about Professor Joshua Bennett, please visit: https://www.drjoshuabennett.com/. Sidney Cox Memorial Prize for Best Creative Writing Honors Thesis: Stephen Banks '18, High Honors Thesis in Fiction Liza Wemakor '18, High Honors Thesis in Fiction and Poetry Sidney Cox Memorial Prize in Creative Writing: Hannah Matheson '18 Academy of American Poets Prize: Courtney Niamh McKee '21 Jacobson-Laing Award in Poetry: Sarah Lehan '20 Lockwood English Prize: Emma Hobday '19 Grimes English Prize: Hannah Matheson '18 The William C. Spengemann Award in Writing: Celeste Jennings '18 The Mecklin Prize in Creative Nonfiction: Ben Szuhaj '19 The Erskine Caldwell Memorial Prize: Emma Sklarin '18 The Thomas Henry Ralston IV English 80 Prize: Kaijing Janice Chen '19 Hye Young Kim Sofía Carbonell Realme '20 Neelufar Raja '21 2017 Creative Writing Prize Awards Aimee Phan was the 2017 creative writing prizes judge. For more information, please visit: https://us.macmillan.com/author/aimeephan/. Sidney Cox Memorial Prize for Best Creative Writing Honors Thesis: Jennifer Evans '17, High Honors Thesis in Fiction Sarah Khatry '17, Honors Thesis in Creative Non-fiction Sidney Cox Memorial Prize in Creative Writing: Abbey Cahill '18 Andrew Joubert '20, Honorable Mention Academy of American Poets Prize: Abby Starr '19 Jacobson-Laing Award in Poetry: Michael Sun '19 Lockwood English Prize: Ho-chun Herbert Chang '18 Hannah Matheson '18 Grimes English Prize: John "Mac" Emery '17 Sarah Khatry '17 The William C. Spengemann Award in Writing: Parker Richards '18 Frederikke Strobech Furst, Honorable Mention The Mecklin Prize in Creative Nonfiction: Eliza McDonough '18 Raul Rodriguez '19 Alexa Sonnenfeld '17 The Erskine Caldwell Memorial Prize: Kylee Sibilia '20 Elise Wien '17 The Thomas Henry Ralston IV English 80 Prize: Saleha Irfan '19 Isabel Parks '20 Jaclyn Verzuh '19 2016 Creative Writing Prize Awards Peter Manseau was the 2016 creative writing prizes judge. For more information, please visit: http://www.petermanseau.com/. Sidney Cox Memorial Prize: Queenie Sukhadia '16 Gabrielle Pacia '16 Georgianna Anderson '16 Academy of American Poets Prize: Kelsey Sipple '16 Jacobson-Laing Award in Poetry: Margaret Lacey Jones '16 Lockwood English Prize: Treeman Baker '17 Grimes English Prize: Charlotte Gross '16 Robbie Herbst '16 The William C. Spengemann Award in Writing: William Peters '16 The Mecklin Prize in Creative Nonfiction: Max Gibson '16 The Erskine Caldwell Memorial Prize: Cherrie Kandie '18 James Sachar '16 The Thomas Henry Ralston IV English 80 Prize: Ho Chun Herbert Chang '18 2015 Creative Writing Prizes Awards Meg Kearney was the 2015 creative writing prizes judge. For more information, please visit: http://megkearney.com/. Sidney Cox Memorial Prize: Sara Khatry '17 Haider Ghiasuddin '15 Madison Pauly '15 Kelsey Stimson '15 Jeremy Whitaker '15 Academy of American Poets Prize: Margaret Lacey Jones '16 Jacobson-Laing Award in Poetry: Andrew Lohse '12 Lockwood English Prize: Tailour Garbutt '16 Grimes English Prize: Jenna van de Ruit '15 The William C. Spengemann Award in Writing: Joshua D. Koenig '16 The Mecklin Prize in Creative Nonfiction: Kelsey Anne Stimson '15 The Erskine Caldwell Memorial Prize: Robbie Herbst '16 The Thomas Henry Ralston IV English 80 Prize: Kevin M. Patterson '17 2014 Creative Writing Prize Awards Emily Raboteau was the 2014 creative writing prizes judge. For more information, please visit: https://www.emilyraboteau.com/. Sidney Cox Memorial Prize: In Fiction Cassandra Hartt '14 In Poetry Mitchell Jacobs '14 Second Prize Kirklun Davis '16 Academy of American Poets Prize: Geanette Foster '14 Rebecca Rothfeld '14, Honorable Mention Jacobson-Laing Award in Poetry: Mitchell Jacobs '14 Lockwood English Prize: Eva Petzinger '15 Grimes English Prize: Amelia Acosta '14 The William C. Spengemann Award in Writing: Suado Sheikh-Hassan '14 Autumn White Eyes '14, Honorable Mention The Mecklin Prize in Creative Nonfiction: Claire Groden '14 Runners Up Max Gibson '16 Madison Pauly '15 The Erskine Caldwell Memorial Prize: Henry Russell '15 The Thomas Henry Ralston IV English 80 Prize: Georgianna Anderson '16 Dondei Dean '17 Related DepartmentClassicsRelated DepartmentFilm and Media Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of English and Creative Writing Undergraduate Overview Major, Minor, and Modified Major Major Minor Modified Major Transfer Credit Creative Writing Concentration Honors Courses Course Group I Course Group II Course Group III Course Group IV Courses (No Group) Creative Writing Courses Courses (No Major Credit) Foreign Study Courses Independent Study and Honors The Historical Philosophy of W.E.B. Du Bois Prizes Creative Writing Prizes Department Prizes Alumni Foreign Study Overview London Foreign Study Program Research News & Events News & Events Conferences Black Nature Conference People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback