Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Humanities and Social Sciences Department of English, Comparative Literature, and Linguistics Main Navigation ACADEMICS FACULTY & OFFICE HOURS STUDENTS ALUMNI WRITING CENTER PUBLICATIONS CAREERS ADVISING CONTACT US FORMS About Linguistics Graduate Program Applying Program Requirements Linguistics Graduate Program Linguistics is the scientific study of language. It seeks to answer questions such as: What is the structure of human language? How much can languages vary from another? How can children acquire language so easily when language learning is so difficult for adults? How and why do languages change over time? Linguists are also concerned with the social and cultural aspects of language, investigating issues such as in what way our social identities are encoded in our languages and how social and economic power relations are encoded and reproduced in language. Finally, linguistics plays a role in developing human/computer interface systems that tech companies employ in natural language processing, including text to speech processing and natural language understanding. The navigation link titled "Program Requirements" describes the master's program and the possible concentrations. Dr. Franz Mueller Linguistics Graduate Advisor T: 657-278-7004 E: fmueller@fullerton.edu Office: GH-421 This site is maintained by Department of English, Comparative Literature, and Linguistics. Last Published 1/7/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact cpope@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.1 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.