Skip to main content Enter your keywords Search Menu Secondary Menu Events News English Department About Us Duke English Administration Learning Objectives Resources for Faculty Undergraduate Why Study English? Major & Minors Frequently Asked Questions Student Spotlight Global Education Thesis & Distinction Contests & Awards Resources & Forms 2021-2022 English Department Ambassadors Undergraduate Alumni Graduate Collective Standards of Conduct and Values Ph.D. Program Graduate Courses Frequently Asked Questions How to Apply Living in Durham Graduate Placements Pedagogy Professional Development Resources & Forms Student Handbook Ph.D. Alumni Courses All Courses Gateway Courses Area I: Medieval & Early Modern Area II: 18th & 19th Century Area III: Modern & Contemporary Criticism, Theory or Methodology Courses Creative Writing Courses People Primary Faculty Joint Faculty Secondary Faculty Instructors and Affiliated Faculty Emeritus Scholars Graduate Students Staff Research David L. Paletz Creative Writing Guest Series Faculty Books Faculty Works-in-Progress Series Novel Dialogue Podcast The Wellian Magazine Alumni Undergraduate Alumni Ph.D. Alumni Master of English Alumni J.D./M.A. Alumni All Alumni Profiles For Current Students For Our Alumni Photograph of Duke English class of 2022 graduates Duke English Class of 2022 Click to watch video of ceremony "Plays That Change the World" Class on Chapel Steps Fall ’21, “Plays that Change the World” Class Spring ’22, “Bob Dylan” class field trip Spring ’22, “Bob Dylan” Class Field Trip Previous Next Major & Minors Ph.D. Requirements Ph.D. Enrollment Our Faculty About Us The Duke English Department has long occupied a vital and distinctive place both in the discipline and in the university, where it has served as one of the defining spaces of thought, conversation, teaching, and inquiry. We have played a crucial role in defining the history, present, and future practices of reading and interpretation and the paradigms of research, pedagogy, and critique common to and distributed across the humanities as a whole at Duke. Our research and pedagogy encompass the study of English language, the range of representational forms which find expression in manuscripts, novels, poetry, drama, film and other genres and media, and the social and cultural fields within which such expressive practices take form and which they help to shape. Expertise in the department ranges in time, from the earliest Medieval written manuscripts to the most recent 21st century literature, and in universality, across several continents including literature from Africa, the Americas, Asia, Europe, and India. We offer a rich curriculum for both undergraduates and graduate students through BA or PhD programs, and a minor in Creative Writing. News Princeton University Humanities: Council Announces 2022-23 Long-Term and Short-Term Visitors Mesha Maren on Music, Memory, and the Topographies of Writing Anya Lewis-Meeks, English Ph.D. Candidate is Honored with Teaching Award From Ancient Rome to Small-Town Mississippi, New Books by Duke Authors Capture the Imagination This Spring See All News Events Jun Jun 15 15 Rudolph William Rosati Creative Writing Award 8:00 am 11:59 pm Jun Jun 29 29 Questionable Research Practices in Research 8:30 am 10:00 am Duke.zoom.us See All Events Our Major & Minors Duke's English Department offers a major and minor in English, and a minor in creative writing. Our program is designed to: convey broad historical knowledge of English, American, and other Anglophone literatures, cultivate a sophisticated habit of critically engaging literary and cultural texts, create a shared understanding of major problems, trends, and methods of literary and cultural analysis, and develop your ability to pose questions and organize knowledge in productive and original ways. We encourage students to pursue undergraduate research and graduation with distinction. Read More Featured Courses ENGLISH 278S Transformative Ideas: Power, Theater, and Politics What is power? Must violence create and maintain it, or can culture alone do some of that work? We will explore how cultural formations have understood and even shaped the relationship between power… read more about Transformative Ideas: Power, Theater, and Politics » ENGLISH 290-7 Special Topics in Language and Literature All of us routinely make use of a whole range of moral categories in our everyday lives. But do we really have a clear conception of, say, friendship, justice, or sin? If pressed, can we tell the… read more about Special Topics in Language and Literature » Previous Next See All Courses Doctoral Program Known for its innovative and influential approaches to the study of literature, our doctoral program is dynamic and challenging within a collegial atmosphere of intellectual exchange. Students are encouraged to read broadly across English and American literatures including four-nations British, Anglophone and comparative postcolonial, the Black Atlantic, Irish and other diasporas, multilingual North America, and pan-Pacific. Students investigate literary and cultural history as forms of knowledge production and social action; to develop the specific linguistic, philosophical, and historical skills relevant to their chosen field and intervention; and to think and articulate with clarity, subtlety, and imagination. Read More Featured Books Incomprehensible Certainty: Metaphysics and Hermeneutics of the Image Thomas Pfau Perpetual West Mesha Maren Black Ephemera: The Crisis and Challenge of the Musical Archive Mark Anthony Neal Infectious Liberty: Biopolitics between Romanticism and Liberalism Robert Mitchell Crossing Back: Books, Family, and Memory without Pain Marianna De Marco Torgovnick Writing at the Origin of Capitalism: Literary Circulation and Social Change in Early Modern England Julianne Werlin Double Trio Nathaniel Mackey Nathaniel Mackey, Destination Out: Essays on His Work Jeanne Heuving (editor), Joseph Donahue (contributor) Transgression & Redemption in American Fiction Thomas J. Ferraro Versions of Election: From Langland and Aquinas to Calvin and Milton David Aers Peopling the World: Representing Human Mobility from Milton to Malthus Charlotte Sussman The Palgrave Handbook of Twentieth and Twenty-First Century Literature and Science Priscilla Wald, Aarthi Vadde (editors) and others in Triangle Collective Wyoming JP Gritton Sugar Run: A Novel Mesha Maren Mother Tongues: Poems Tsitsi Ella Jaji Previous Next See All Selected Books English 303 Allen Building Campus Box 90015 Durham, NC 27708 (919) 684-2741 Undergraduate Students Majors & Minors Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Students Degree Programs How to Apply Student Handbook Frequently Asked Questions Our Department Learning Objectives Books by Faculty Faculty Resources Stay Connected Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube NetID Login About Us Duke English Administration Learning Objectives Resources for Faculty Undergraduate Why Study English? Viewbook Major & Minors Bachelor of Arts Best Practices English Minor Creative Writing Minor Frequently Asked Questions Student Spotlight Global Education Thesis & Distinction Contests & Awards Creative Writing Contest Critical Essay Contest Scholarships & Awards Recent Award Winners Past Writing Contest Winners Resources & Forms 2021-2022 English Department Ambassadors Duke English: Shelter in Poetry Undergraduate Alumni Graduate Collective Standards of Conduct and Values Ph.D. Program Requirements Timeline and Deadlines Statement of Expectations for Advising Best Practices Exams & Reading Lists Graduate Courses Frequently Asked Questions How to Apply Living in Durham Graduate Placements Pedagogy Stephen Horne Award for Excellence in Teaching Professional Development Resources & Forms Student Handbook Ph.D. Alumni Courses All Courses 2020-21 Courses and Requirement Gateway Courses Area I: Medieval & Early Modern Area II: 18th & 19th Century Area III: Modern & Contemporary Criticism, Theory or Methodology Courses Creative Writing Courses People Primary Faculty Joint Faculty Secondary Faculty Instructors and Affiliated Faculty Emeritus Scholars Graduate Students Staff Research David L. Paletz Creative Writing Guest Series Faculty Books Faculty Works-in-Progress Series Novel Dialogue Podcast The Wellian Magazine Alumni Undergraduate Alumni Ph.D. Alumni Master of English Alumni J.D./M.A. Alumni All Alumni Profiles For Current Students Alumni Profiles For Our Alumni Alumni Profiles Assisting Duke Students Contribute Events News