Jump to navigation Contact Us Search form Search Department ofEnglish Events News Meetings Colloquia English Outreach People Faculty Graduate Administration Alumni Undergraduate Why English? Program Courses Study Abroad Graduate Program Courses Applying Futures Research Faculty Bookshelf Ph.D. Bookshelf Collaborations Undergraduate Congratulations to our 2022 Graduates! Congratulations to the Class of 2022! Professor Anne Cheng recognized for outstanding teaching Congratulations to Professor Anne Cheng on receiving the Presisdent's Award for Distinguished Teaching at Commencement ceremonies Tuesday, May 24. Jacqueline Campbell wins Graduate School Teaching Award Congratulations to Jacqueline Campbell, a 5th Year PhD student in the Department of English, has won the Princeton Graduate School’s 2022 Teaching Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching and has been further recognized as the best Assistant in Instruction in the Division of the Humanities. Arts in the Invisible City This team-taught course was led by D. Vance Smith, professor of English, and Nyssa Chow, an oral historian and lecturer in theater in the Lewis Center for the Arts and the Humanities Council. It was supported by the David A. Gardner ’69 Magic Project in the Humanities Council. Cross-listed in English, humanistic studies, theater and urban studies, the course is also part of the Program for Community-Engaged Scholarship (ProCES). Prof. Anne Cheng's ENG 571: The Human Ornament visits Art Museum Study Room Study Room “ENG 571: The Human Ornament,” which is interested in the confusion between persons and things, was able to go to the Art Museum’s off-site Study Room where they studied and were able to be in the same room with original artworks from contemporary artists such as Lorna Simpson, Hannah Wilke, Dennis Oppenheim, and Yeesookyung. Prof. Josh Kotin's "Special Studies in Modernism: 1922" explore Princeton Library's Special Collections Joshua Kotin, associate professor in the Department of English, offers his class, “Special Studies in Modernism: 1922,” a chance to explore James Joyce’s work as well as contemporary publications from T.S. Eliot, Virginia Woolf, and Claude McKay in consideration of their influence 100 years later. Upcoming Events Aug 15 Final Public Oral Exam--Isabel M. Lockhart TBD 1: 00 PM Sep 26 Songwriting: Theory of Medieval Song TBD 4: 30 PM to 6: 00 PM Apr 29 It Was the Best Of Times: A conference for Deborah Nord TBD 8: 00 AM More Events Department of English 22 McCosh Hall Princeton, NJ 08544 (609) 258-4061 english@princeton.edu Statement on Anti-Racism Poetry at Princeton Follow Us on Facebook Follow Us on Instagram © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton University