Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth English and Creative Writing Department of English and Creative Writing Contact Us English.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major, Minor, and Modified Major Major Minor Modified Major Transfer Credit Creative Writing Concentration Honors Courses Course Group I Course Group II Course Group III Course Group IV Courses (No Group) Creative Writing Courses Courses (No Major Credit) Foreign Study Courses Independent Study and Honors The Historical Philosophy of W.E.B. Du Bois Prizes Creative Writing Prizes Department Prizes Alumni Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview London Foreign Study Program Back to Top Nav Research News & Events News & Events Conferences Black Nature Conference Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Patricia Rachael Stuelke Academic Appointments Assistant Professor of English I teach and write about 20th and 21st century hemispheric literature, photography, and popular culture, particularly in relation to histories of US imperialism, racial capitalism, gender and sexuality, and US and Latin American social movements. My first book, The Ruse of Repair, offers a history of the contemporary valorization of reparative politics and modes of interpretation, tracing them back to the practices and aesthetics of US empire and transnational solidarity movements during the transition to neoliberalism in the Americas. Contact Patricia.R.Stuelke@Dartmouth.edu Sanborn 2 HB 6032 Education A.B. Harvard University PhD Boston University Areas of Expertise transnational and hemispheric American studies /culture of US imperialism and neoliberalism /social movement literature and aesthetics /20th and 21st century American literature and popular culture /gender and sexuality studies Selected Publications Book The Ruse of Repair: US Neoliberal Empire and the Turn from Critique (Durham: Duke UP, 2021.) Essays “Writing Refugee Crisis in the Age of Amazon: Lost Children Archive’s Reenactment Play.” Genre 54.1 (April 2021): 43-66. "Infrastructural-Innovation Realism in An Age of Collapse." (with M Geidel) American Literary History 33.1 (Spring 2021): 103-132. "'Sympathy with the Swamp: Reading Hurston in the Trumpocene," The Scholar & Feminist Online 16.2 (2020). “Horror and the Arts of Feminist Assembly,” Contemporaries at Post-45. April 2019. "Trayvon Martin, Topdog/Underdog, and the Tragedy Trap. American Literary History (2017). “Loving in the Iraq War Years.” College Literature 43.1 (Winter 2016): 121-144. “The Queer Optimism of Jessie Tarbox Beals’s Greenwich Village Postcards.” Photography and Culture 7.3 (November 2014): 285-302. “The Reparative Politics of Central America Solidarity Movement Culture.” American Quarterly 66.3 (September 2014): 767-790. “‘Times When Greater Disciplines Are Born’: The Zora Neale Hurston Revival and the Neoliberal Transformation of the Caribbean.” American Literature 86.1 (March 2014): 117-145. “Finding Haiti, Finding History in Zora Neale Hurston’s Their Eyes Were Watching God.” Modernism/modernity 19.4 (November 2012): 755-774. + View more Related DepartmentClassicsRelated DepartmentFilm and Media Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of English and Creative Writing Undergraduate Overview Major, Minor, and Modified Major Major Minor Modified Major Transfer Credit Creative Writing Concentration Honors Courses Course Group I Course Group II Course Group III Course Group IV Courses (No Group) Creative Writing Courses Courses (No Major Credit) Foreign Study Courses Independent Study and Honors The Historical Philosophy of W.E.B. Du Bois Prizes Creative Writing Prizes Department Prizes Alumni Foreign Study Overview London Foreign Study Program Research News & Events News & Events Conferences Black Nature Conference People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback