Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth English and Creative Writing Department of English and Creative Writing Contact Us English.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major, Minor, and Modified Major Major Minor Modified Major Transfer Credit Creative Writing Concentration Honors Courses Course Group I Course Group II Course Group III Course Group IV Courses (No Group) Creative Writing Courses Courses (No Major Credit) Foreign Study Courses Independent Study and Honors The Historical Philosophy of W.E.B. Du Bois Prizes Creative Writing Prizes Department Prizes Alumni Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview London Foreign Study Program Back to Top Nav Research News & Events News & Events Conferences Black Nature Conference Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Major, Minor, and Modified Major Creative Writing Concentration Honors Courses Prizes Creative Writing Prizes Department Prizes Alumni Share Department Prizes Annual Department Prizes for Undergraduates These prizes are by faculty nomination, voted on by the entire faculty at the end of the academic year. The Feinstein Prize This prize is awarded to the student in the English Honors Program whose honors thesis and overall work demonstrate the most effective exploration of feelings through language. The Hochman Prize This prize is awarded annually to a graduating senior who majored in English and who demonstrated by his or her course work both academic excellence and particular dedication to the field of American literature. The Perkins Prize This prize is awarded to that undergraduate Dartmouth student who shall show the most promise in Greek or Latin, or in English literature. The Stanley Prizes in English Graduate School: This prize is intended to help a promising senior or recent graduate who is going on to graduate school. Most Innovative Paper: The Stanley Prize for an exceptionally innovative paper is awarded to the best undergraduate paper that makes innovative use of an existing theoretical or critical paradigm, or makes particularly creative use of an emerging theoretical paradigm, or that successfully undertakes a striking formal innovation. Service to the Department: This prize is designed to honor that student who has done unusual service within the department and the major. 2021 Prizes Arthur Feinstein 1955 Memorial English Honors Award: Leah Casey ' 21 Honorable Mention: Sarah Alpert '21 Cece Zugel '21 B. William Hochman 1955 Memorial Prize in American Literature: Ethan Weinstein '21 Honorable Mention: Habib Sabet '21 Ben Shapiro '21 Eugene H. Kohn '60 Award in English and Creative Writing: Estelle Stedman '23 Shaphnah McKenzie '23 Edwin R. Perkins Literature Prize: James King '21 Leah Casey '21 Habib Sabet '21 Sarah Alpert '21 Paul Jeon '21 Decker Wentz '21 Cece Zugel '21 Ethan Weinstein '21 The Stanley Prize in English: Kamren Khan '23 (service to the department) Ethan Weinstein '21 (service to the department) Leah Casey '21 (student attending graduate school in English) Betty Kim '20 (student attending graduate school in English) Kaya Çolakoğlu '23 Sidney Cox Memorial Prize for Best Creative Writing Honors Thesis: Carolyn Silverstein '21 Emily Zurcher '21 2020 Prize Awards Arthur Feinstein 1955 Memorial English Honors Award: Katherine Carithers '20 B. William Hochman 1955 Memorial Prize in American Literature: Nicole Salet '20 Eugene H. Kohn '60 Award in English and Creative Writing: Ethan Weinstein '21 Edwin R. Perkins Literature Prize: Sofia Carbonell Realme '20 Arunav Jain '20 Betty Kim '20 Cameron Pfaffle '20 The Stanley Prize in English: Arunav Jain '20 (service to the department) Sofía Carbonell Realme '20 (service to the department) Emma Alter '20 (service to the department) Sophie Huang '20 (service to the department) Selena Alicia Martinez '21 (service to the department) Jordan McDonald '21 (service to the department) Cameron Pfaffle '20 (service to the department) Carlos Polanco '21 (service to the department) Kendall Christensen '19 (student attending graduate school in English) Angela Noppenberger '17 (student attending graduate school in English) Alec (Eugene) Linden '20 (most innovative critical paper) Sidney Cox Memorial Prize for Best Creative Writing Honors Thesis: Amanda Johnson '20 (fiction) 2019 Prize Awards Arthur Feinstein 1955 Memorial English Honors Award: Kendall Christensen '19 B. William Hochman 1955 Memorial Prize in American Literature: Victoria Corwin '19 Samuel Stockton '19 Eugene H. Kohn '60 Award in English and Creative Writing: Paul Jeon '21 Edwin R. Perkins Literature Prize: Isabelle Blank '19 Audrey Bransfield '19 Clara Chin '19 Rebecca Flowers '19 The Stanley Prize in English: Arunav Jain '20 (most innovative paper) Sofía Carbonell Realme '20 (service to the department) Arunav Jain '20 (service to the department) Maanav Jalan '19 (student attending graduate school in English) Sidney Cox Memorial Prize for Best Creative Writing Honors Thesis: Rebecca Flowers '19, High Honors Thesis in Creative Nonfiction Isabelle Blank '19, High Honors Thesis in Fiction Anna Staropoli '19, High Honors Thesis in Fiction Michael Sun '19, High Honors Thesis in Poetry 2018 Prize Awards B. William Hochman 1955 Memorial Prize in American Literature: Patrick Gregory '18 Patrick Kang '17 Edwin R. Perkins Literature Prize: Hannah Matheson '18 The Stanley Prize in English: Isabelle Blank '19 (most innovative paper) Clara Chin '19 (service to the department) May Mansour '18 (student attending graduate school in English) Sidney Cox Memorial Prize for Best Creative Writing Honors Thesis: Stephen Banks '18, High Honors Thesis in Fiction Liza Wemakor '18, High Honors Thesis in Fiction and Poetry 2017 Prize Awards Arthur Feinstein 1955 Memorial English Honors Award: Keva Xuan-duy Bui '17 B. William Hochman 1955 Memorial Prize in American Literature: Winifred Danielle Jones '17 Kevin M. Patterson '17 Edwin R. Perkins Literature Prize: Sarah Khatry '17 Nicholas Thyr '17 The Stanley Prize in English: Keva Xuan-duy Bui '17, Graduate School Kate Rome Dumanian '18, Most Innovative Paper Yi He '17, Service to the Department and the Major Winifred Danielle Jones '17, Graduate School Parker Richards '18, Most Innovative Paper Nicholas Thyr '17, Graduate School Sidney Cox Memorial Prize for Best Creative Writing Honors Thesis: Jennifer Evans '17, High Honors Thesis in Fiction Sarah Khatry '17, Honors Thesis in Creative Non-fiction 2016 Prize Awards Arthur Feinstein 1955 Memorial English Honors Award: Margaret Lacey Jones '16 B. William Hochman 1955 Memorial Prize in American Literature: Ellen Baker '16 Katherine R. McKay '16 Edwin R. Perkins Literature Prize: Sarah Waltcher '16 Margaret Lacey Jones '16 The Stanley Prize in English: Alice Wang '16 Sarah A. Waltcher '16 Margaret Lacey Jones '16 Sara J. Holston '17 Brownwyn A. Lloyd '17 Margaret Lacey Jones '16 2015 Prize Awards Arthur Feinstein 1955 Memorial English Honors Award: Emma Moley '15 B. William Hochman 1955 Memorial Prize in American Literature: Noah Smith '15 Edwin R. Perkins Literature Prize: William Callan '15 Erin O'Neil '15 The Stanley Prize in English: Haider Ghiasuddin '15 - Graduate School Mitchell Jacobs '14 - Graduate School Caela Murphy '15 - Innovative Critical Paper Michael Riordan '15- Innovative Critical Paper Joshua Elwood '16 - Service to English Department Margaret Lacey Jones '16 - Service to English Department 2014 Prize Awards Arthur Feinstein 1955 Memorial English Honors Award: Jayne Caron '14 B. William Hochman 1955 Memorial Prize in American Literature: Abigail Macias '14 Edwin R. Perkins Literature Prize: Mitchell Jacobs '14 Katherine Kilkenny '14 The Stanley Prize in English: Madeline Lesser '13 Rebecca Rothfeld '14 Maura Riley '13 Related DepartmentClassicsRelated DepartmentFilm and Media Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of English and Creative Writing Undergraduate Overview Major, Minor, and Modified Major Major Minor Modified Major Transfer Credit Creative Writing Concentration Honors Courses Course Group I Course Group II Course Group III Course Group IV Courses (No Group) Creative Writing Courses Courses (No Major Credit) Foreign Study Courses Independent Study and Honors The Historical Philosophy of W.E.B. Du Bois Prizes Creative Writing Prizes Department Prizes Alumni Foreign Study Overview London Foreign Study Program Research News & Events News & Events Conferences Black Nature Conference People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback