Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth English and Creative Writing Department of English and Creative Writing Contact Us English.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major, Minor, and Modified Major Major Minor Modified Major Transfer Credit Creative Writing Concentration Honors Courses Course Group I Course Group II Course Group III Course Group IV Courses (No Group) Creative Writing Courses Courses (No Major Credit) Foreign Study Courses Independent Study and Honors The Historical Philosophy of W.E.B. Du Bois Prizes Creative Writing Prizes Department Prizes Alumni Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview London Foreign Study Program Back to Top Nav Research News & Events News & Events Conferences Black Nature Conference Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Major, Minor, and Modified Major Creative Writing Concentration Honors Courses Prizes Alumni Share The Creative Writing Concentration The Creative Writing Program's sequential course of study and small workshops allow students to pursue and develop their craft from the introductory level to the advanced. The creative writing experience at Dartmouth combines intensive writing workshops with the study of literature from a writer's perspective. Major Concentration in Creative Writing The Concentration in Creative Writing does not change graduating requirements for students majoring in English, but is a prerequisite for honors with a focus in creative writing. For students prior to and including the Class of 2022, the Concentration consists of four courses taken as part of an English major plan of study as follows: Students must pass one prerequisite course, CRWT 10 (formerly ENGL 80), CRWT 11 (formerly ENGL 81, or CRWT 12 (formerly ENGL 82). Students then enroll in one intermediate course, CRWT 20 (formerly ENGL 83), CRWT 21 (formerly ENGL 84), or CRWT 22 (formerly ENGL 85). The third course can be chosen from any Creative Writing course numbered between CRWT 10 and 89 (formerly ENGL 80-ENGL 89); (substitute courses from other departments will be considered). The fourth course can be in any genre of contemporary literature or another course numbered between CRWT 10 and 89 (formerly ENGL 80-ENGL 89); (again, substitute courses from other departments will be considered). Students who elect to do Honors in Creative Writing can use CRWT 98 (or ENGL 98 for class years up to 2018) for either the third or fourth course in the concentration. For students in the Class of 2023 and beyond, the Concentration consists of four courses taken as part of an English major plan of study as follows: One introductory course, CRWT 10, CRWT 11, or CRWT 12. (Only one introductory creative writing course may count toward the Concentration in Creative Writing.) One intermediate course, CRWT 20, CRWT 21, or CRWT 22. One course from the range of creative writing special topics seminars, CRWT 40 and CRWT 41. (Substitute courses with a focus on creative writing from other departments may be considered. Please consult with the Director of Creative Writing.) One advanced workshop, CRWT 60, CRWT 61, or CRWT 62. The advanced workshop is a requirement for the completion of the Concentration in Creative Writing. Introductory Creative Writing Courses These courses offer workshops in fiction, poetry and literary nonfiction. They are designed for students who have little or no previous experience in creative writing. Students are introduced to each genre via a range of technical and imaginative exercises, extensive readings of contemporary literature, and lively class discussions. Students eventually produce their own writing for class critique. CRWT 10 (formerly ENGL 80). Writing and Reading Fiction An introductory workshop and reading course in fiction, designed to allow students to work in all fictive modes. Each week students will consider different aspects of writing, and the various elements integral to the genre. Seminar-sized classes meet for discussion and include individual conferences. Dist: ART. CRWT 11 (formerly ENGL 81). Writing and Reading Creative Nonfiction An introductory workshop and reading course in creative nonfiction— a hybrid genre of journalism, memoir, and fictional and poetic techniques, also known as the art of fact. Each week students will consider different aspects of writing, and the various elements integral to the genre. Seminar-sized classes meet for discussion and include individual conferences. Dist: ART. CRWT 12 (formerly ENGL 82). Writing and Reading Poetry An introductory workshop and reading course in poetry. Each week students will consider different aspects of writing, and the various elements integral to the genre. Seminar-sized classes meet for discussion, and include individual conferences. Dist: ART. Intermediate Creative Writing Courses Students who wish to enroll in an intermediate creative writing course must complete the appropriate "How to Apply to CRWT 20, 21, or 22 (formerly English 83, 84 or 85)" form, available here and in the English and Creative Writing Department office. They should also submit a five to eight page writing sample, as stated in each of the course descriptions below. Materials should be submitted, electronically, to the instructor. Deadline for equal consideration for admittance is the last day of classes in the term preceding the course. Late applications will be accepted, but held until the add/drop period and reviewed if vacancies occur. Students should then register for three other courses, not including the Creative Writing course. Students accepted into Creative Writing 20, 21, or 22 will be notified before the first day of class. To secure their spot in the class, students must be present at the first meeting. CRWT 20 (formerly 83). Intermediate Workshop in Fiction Continued work in the writing of fiction. The class proceeds by means of group workshops, individual conferences with the instructor, and reading across the genre. Students will read with the eye of a writer to explore how a work is constructed and how the elements of craft come together to create a successful whole. The process of revision is emphasized. Permission of the instructor is required. Students must submit a 5-8 page writing sample along with their application by the LAST DAY OF CLASSES of the previous term (last day of spring term for fall term). These materials should be submitted electronically to the instructor. Dist: ART. How to Apply to CRWT 20, 21, or 22 CRWT 21 (formerly 84). Intermediate Workshop in Creative Nonfiction Continued work in the writing of creative nonfiction, including literary journalism, investigative memoir, the lyric essay, and documentary. The class proceeds by means of group workshops, individual conferences with the instructor, and reading across the genre. Students will read with the eye of a writer to explore how a work is constructed and how the elements of craft come together to create a successful whole. The processes of research and revision are emphasized. Permission of the instructor is required. Students must submit a 5-8 page writing sample along with their application by the LAST DAY OF CLASSES of the previous term (last day of spring term for fall term). These materials should be submitted electronically to the instructor. Dist: ART. How to Apply to CRWT 20, 21, or 22 CRWT 22 (formerly 85). Intermediate Workshop in Poetry Continued work in the writing of poetry, focusing on the development of craft, image and voice. The class proceeds by means of group workshops on student writing, individual conferences with the instructor and reading across the genre. Students will read with the eye of a writer to explore how a work is constructed and how the elements of craft come together to create a successful whole. The process of revision is emphasized. Permission of the instructor is required. Students must submit a 5-8 page writing sample along with their application by the LAST DAY OF CLASSES of the previous term (last day of spring term for fall term). These materials should be submitted electronically to the instructor. Dist: ART. How to Apply to CRWT 20, 21, or 22 Advanced Creative Writing Courses CRWT 60, 61, and 62 (formerly 86). Senior Workshops in Creative Writing (Fiction, Creative Nonfiction, and Poetry) An advanced workshop for seniors who wish to undertake a manuscript of fiction, creative nonfiction or poetry. Students must submit an 8-12 page writing sample to the instructor by the LAST DAY OF CLASSES of the term preceding the term in which they wish to enroll (last day of spring term for fall term). Please include your name, class year, and major. Prerequisite: CRWT 20, 21, or 22 (formerly English 83, 84 or 85) depending on the genre of the workshop offered. Dist: ART. Application CRWT 40, 41 (formerly ENGL 87). Special Topics Courses in Creative Writing These courses are offered periodically, concentrating on particular issues in one or more of the fields of fiction, creative nonfiction, and poetry. Courses may require creative and critical papers and include workshops. Enrollment is limited to 18. Dist: ART. CRWT 89 (formerly ENGL 89) Creative Writing Independent Project A tutorial course to be designed by the student with the assistance of a faculty supervisor. This course is intended for the purpose of producing a manuscript of fiction, creative nonfiction or poetry during the student's senior year. Prerequisite: normally reserved for seniors who have completed at least two workshops in the designated genre of their project. Dist: ART. Students should submit their completed application along with a writing sample (15-20 pages of fiction/creative nonfiction; 6-8 poems) to the Department Administrator by Monday, October 24, 2022 if they intend to do an independent project during the winter or spring terms of the 2022-23 academic year. The writing sample should speak to student's intended project. CRWT 98/99 Honors in Creative Writing Please refer to the Honors website for more information. Creative Writing Course Applications How to Apply to CRWT 20, 21, or 22 How to Apply to CRWT 60, 61, or 62 Related DepartmentClassicsRelated DepartmentFilm and Media Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of English and Creative Writing Undergraduate Overview Major, Minor, and Modified Major Major Minor Modified Major Transfer Credit Creative Writing Concentration Honors Courses Course Group I Course Group II Course Group III Course Group IV Courses (No Group) Creative Writing Courses Courses (No Major Credit) Foreign Study Courses Independent Study and Honors The Historical Philosophy of W.E.B. Du Bois Prizes Creative Writing Prizes Department Prizes Alumni Foreign Study Overview London Foreign Study Program Research News & Events News & Events Conferences Black Nature Conference People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback