Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth English and Creative Writing Department of English and Creative Writing Contact Us English.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major, Minor, and Modified Major Major Minor Modified Major Transfer Credit Creative Writing Concentration Honors Courses Course Group I Course Group II Course Group III Course Group IV Courses (No Group) Creative Writing Courses Courses (No Major Credit) Foreign Study Courses Independent Study and Honors The Historical Philosophy of W.E.B. Du Bois Prizes Creative Writing Prizes Department Prizes Alumni Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview London Foreign Study Program Back to Top Nav Research News & Events News & Events Conferences Black Nature Conference Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Major, Minor, and Modified Major Major Minor Modified Major Transfer Credit Creative Writing Concentration Honors Courses Prizes Alumni Share The English Major In order to officially file for a major in English, students are required to: •meet with an English and Creative Writing Department faculty advisor to discuss the major plan and to fill out a major worksheet, •enter a major plan into DartWorks, •submit a DartWorks major plan for online approval through DartWorks dashboard, and •turn in a major worksheet signed by a faculty advisor to the English and Creative Writing department administrator in Sanborn 202 or via email Requirements The Major in English requires the successful completion of eleven major courses. Major courses are, unless otherwise stated, all courses with either the ENGL (English) or CRWT (Creative Writing) course code. The courses must satisfy the following distribution requirements according to the Course Groups, listed below: at least 2 courses from Group I; at least 2 courses from Group II; at least 1 course from Group III; at least 1 course from Group IV. Two courses must be selected from the Literary Histories (ENGL 1, 2, 3). Each of these courses may be used to satisfy one of the Course Group requirements. One course must be a Junior Colloquium (ENGL 61-65). This course may also satisfy one of the Course Group requirements. One course must be a Senior Seminar (ENGL 71-75, CRWT 60-62). This course can also be used to satisfy one of the Course Group requirements. One course must be designated as satisfying the Culminating Experience Requirement. This may be a Senior Seminar (ENGL 71-75, CRWT 60-62) or, in the case of students seeking a degree with Honors, ENGL 98 or CRWT 98. The Culminating Experience course must be taken and completed after the sophomore-junior summer term. Worksheets Worksheet for the Major in English for Classes 2017 and Beyond Worksheet for the Major in English for Classes 2006 through 2016 Concentration in Creative Writing The Concentration in Creative Writing does not change graduating requirements for students majoring in English, but is a prerequisite for honors with a focus in creative writing. For students prior to and including the Class of 2022, the Concentration consists of four courses taken as part of an English major plan of study as follows: Students must pass one prerequisite course, CRWT 10 (formerly ENGL 80), CRWT 11 (formerly ENGL 81, or CRWT 12 (formerly ENGL 82). Students then enroll in one intermediate course, CRWT 20 (formerly ENGL 83), CRWT 21 (formerly ENGL 84), or CRWT 22 (formerly ENGL 85). The third course can be chosen from any Creative Writing course numbered between CRWT 10 and 89 (formerly ENGL 80-ENGL 89); (substitute courses from other departments will be considered). The fourth course can be in any genre of contemporary literature or another course numbered between CRWT 10 and 89 (formerly ENGL 80-ENGL 89); (again, substitute courses from other departments will be considered). Students who elect to do Honors in Creative Writing can use CRWT 98 (or ENGL 98 for class years up to 2018) for either the third or fourth course in the concentration. For students in the Class of 2023 and beyond, the Concentration consists of four courses taken as part of an English major plan of study as follows: One introductory course, CRWT 10, CRWT 11, or CRWT 12. One intermediate course, CRWT 20, CRWT 21, or CRWT 22. One course from the range of creative writing special topics seminars, CRWT 40 and CRWT 41. (Substitute courses with a focus on creative writing from other departments may be considered. Please consult with the Director of Creative Writing.) One advanced workshop, CRWT 60, CRWT 61, or CRWT 62. The advanced workshop is a requirement for the completion of the Concentration in Creative Writing. Things to remember Students electing the major in English should bear in mind the following: Transfer credits normally cannot be used in the major. Students wishing to be granted an exception must petition the CDC (Committee on Departmental Curriculum). If approval is granted, transfer courses are subject to the rules that apply to substitute courses. Two substitute courses (appropriate major courses from other departments at Dartmouth) are permitted within the major. Normally, substitute courses cannot satisfy the Course Group requirements. No substitute courses may satisfy the Culminating Experience requirement. Related DepartmentClassicsRelated DepartmentFilm and Media Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of English and Creative Writing Undergraduate Overview Major, Minor, and Modified Major Major Minor Modified Major Transfer Credit Creative Writing Concentration Honors Courses Course Group I Course Group II Course Group III Course Group IV Courses (No Group) Creative Writing Courses Courses (No Major Credit) Foreign Study Courses Independent Study and Honors The Historical Philosophy of W.E.B. Du Bois Prizes Creative Writing Prizes Department Prizes Alumni Foreign Study Overview London Foreign Study Program Research News & Events News & Events Conferences Black Nature Conference People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback