/ Jump to main navigation Jump to section navigation Jump to main content Cornell University Department Homepage Department Homepage Academics Undergraduate Study Graduate Study Courses Prize Competitions People Faculty Graduate Field Faculty Graduate Students & Lecturers Retired Faculty Administration & Staff Current Semester Office Hours Creative Writing EPOCH Literary Magazine Zalaznick Reading Series Study in Rome About Us History of the Department Recent Faculty Books In Memory of M.H. Abrams Affiliated Departments & Programs Resources Courses Resources for Faculty Resources for Graduate Students Current Semester Office Hours The College of Arts & Sciences Open search Open nav Search for: A history of critical and methodological openness Department of Literatures in English The Cornell Department of Literatures in English has a long history of critical and methodological openness. From the early 20th century, it has embraced new approaches to literary study, while maintaining traditional strengths. Supported by a series of libraries and collections that are world-renowned in many fields, Cornell English is the largest humanities department at Cornell University. Literatures in English Events All Events Recent Highlights from the Department Department of Literatures in English Announces Student Award Winners The Department of Literatures in English is host to many gifted student writers and teachers. Thanks to the generosity of various donors, annual prizes are awarded for outstanding work in poetry, fiction, research, critical writing, and instruction. We are pleased to announce our 2021 - 2022 student... Read More Grateful to be together: Meet the extraordinary class of 2022 Hear about the Cornell experiences of some of the amazing students in our graduating class. Read More Migrations grants fund worldwide interdisciplinary projects Cornell faculty and their community partners will tell the stories of local migrant farmworkers, use documentary film to better understand climate change and dispossession, learn how migratory birds are affected by drug trafficking and more. Read More Arts and Sciences faculty honored for teaching, advising excellence "These faculty members and graduate teaching assistants have made tremendous contributions for the benefit of our students, guiding their educational paths and molding their experiences." Read More Travel Grants Help Graduate Students Conduct Research Across the Globe The Graduate School awarded over 100 Research Travel Grants totaling $204,196 in 2021-22, the largest group of grants awarded since the pandemic began interrupting travel. Read More 'I learned to ask questions from curiosity rather than a need to be right' Kathryn Stamm is a Literatures in English and American Studies major. Read More 'My project taught me why public history matters' Claire Deng is a Literatures in English major. Read More 'I've learned to have more faith in myself and my abilities' Ramneek Sanghera is majoring in government and Literatures in English. Read More See more news from Literatures in English Popular Links Creative Writing Undergraduate Study Graduate Study Faculty Land Acknowledgment Cornell University is located on the traditional homelands of the Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' (the Cayuga Nation). The Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' are members of the Haudenosaunee Confederacy, an alliance of six sovereign Nations with a historic and contemporary presence on this land. The Confederacy precedes the establishment of Cornell University, New York state, and the United States of America. We acknowledge the painful history of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' dispossession, and honor the ongoing connection of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' people, past and present, to these lands and waters. This land acknowledgment has been reviewed and approved by the traditional Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' leadership. Statement from the Department of Literatures in English We, the faculty and staff of the Cornell Literatures in English department, pledge to support and do our utmost to protect members of our community who are discriminated against, unjustly treated, or otherwise targeted because of race, religion, gender identification, sexuality, immigration status, ability, and other forms of difference. Recognizing that words and symbols can be manipulated into violence, we renew our commitment to direct the force of language toward large and small acts of learning, alliance, imagination, and justice. Recent Books by Department of Literatures in English Faculty Department faculty continually publish important works of criticism, fiction, poetry, and essays. Visit Literatures in English Faculty: Recent Books to learn more. Literatures in English Event Videos: Reading by poet & memoirist Carolyn Forché Reading by novelist & National Book Award winner Susan Choi Triangle Breathing: A Conversation with Hortense Spillers & Alexis Pauline Gumbs, moderated by Lyrae Van Clief-Stefanon Writers & Poets Creative Writing Faculty Reading Series The Paul Gottschalk Memorial Lecture by Richard Rambuss Click here to browse the archive of Department of Literatures in English events. 250 Goldwin Smith Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 United States Email Literatures in English 607-255-6800 Twitter Instagram Facebook Cornell University The College of Arts & Sciences Website Accessibility Privacy Policy Equal Education & Employment Emergency Information Land Acknowledgment © 2022 College of Arts & Sciences Top