Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content ENMED School of Engineering Medicine | Texas A&M University About EnMed Student Life EnMed Faculty & Staff ENMED Curriculum Model Collaborate Research Blog In the News Contact Apply Now FAQ E2ENMED Early Assurance Program Converging Engineering and Medicine… Become a PHYSICIANEER. About Us Apply Today Play/Pause About EnMed EnMed is a tripartite collaboration between Texas A&M’s College of Engineering, College of Medicine and the state’s top-ranked Houston Methodist Hospital established to transform healthcare through translational interdisciplinary research, the development of medical technologies, and the development and training of “Physicianeers.” The EnMed Physicianeer is a new kind of problem-solving doctor uniquely qualified to address some of healthcare’s greatest challenges. These graduates receive a medical doctorate and master of engineering degree focused on the design and implementation of medical technologies in the same four years through a revolutionary integrated curriculum. Learn More about the EnMED Medical School program ENMED is led by Dean Dr. Roderic I. Pettigrew, founding Director of the National Institute for Biomedical Imaging and Bioengineering. Meet Roderic I. Pettigrew, MD, PhD In a prophetic video recorded in 2018, prior to the COVID pandemic, Dr. Pettigrew highlights the benefit of converging engineering and medicine from the decade of research by bioengineer Mark R. Prausnitz and his medical colleagues. (Georgia Tech/Emory) Learn more about this technology EnMed News and Events Texas A&M College of Engineering: Texas A&M-Houston Methodist Visionary EnMed Program off to Stellar Start To celebrate the launch of Texas A&M University’s EnMed program that will train students jointly in medicine and engineering, a symposium was held at the Houston Methodist Hospital on Oct. 28. The attendees included current EnMed students and faculty, donors, and many distinguished guests from inside and outside academia. Texas Medical Center News: Houston Methodist and Texas A&M Celebrate Inaugural Class of “Physicianeers” The new Engineering Medicine program at Texas A&M University and its first students received an official welcome this week with “EnMed: From Vision to Reality” — a joint inaugural symposium. The event, hosted by Houston Methodist Hospital and Texas A&M, celebrated the program’s launch and debut class of physician-engineers. Texas A&M Foundation Spirit Magazine: Supporting ‘Physicianeers’ Traditionally, medicine and engineering have been separate disciplines. Because of this divide, physicians and engineers increasingly have had to learn to work together as transformational technologies such as minimally invasive biomedical technologies, wearable devices and digital health continue to emerge. More EnMed News and Events Accessibility State Links and Policies Privacy Notice Texas A&M University Copyright © 2022 · Texas A&M University College of Engineering · All Rights Reserved