University of Texas at Austin University of Texas at Austin logo Protect Texas. Stay informed. News Contact Give MENUMENU Enrollment Management and Student Success About Us Offices Resources Diversity and Inclusion Contact News Give About Us Offices Resources Diversity and Inclusion Search Our Mission We boldly and innovatively champion success for all students at all stages of their educational journey, and that begins with recruitment of high school students and ends with our students becoming connected Texas Exes, championing the many benefits of a degree from UT. Our Philosophy Our values guide how we operate and how we make decisions about our work every day. We are collaborative, student-centered, service-driven, outcomes-oriented, and committed to cultural inclusivity, effective use of data, and staff excellence. Our Vision We aim for an educational environment that fosters community and provides all the support students need to graduate on time, achieve lifelong success, and become the next generation of leaders. Providing a Foundation for Academic Success The University of Texas at Austin is home to world-class faculty and high-caliber students. Enrollment Management works hard to empower and engage our students through innovative services and initiatives that advance knowledge and provide the very best educational environment. Collaborating closely across multiple units and offices, we strive to recruit and admit the best students, employ advanced algorithms and predictive modeling to inform policy decisions, deliver financial aid that puts students in a position to succeed, ensure our undergraduate students have the classes they need to graduate on time, and pursue innovations in teaching, learning, and online environments. Inclusion Statement Fostering inclusion and diversity is among our highest priorities and essential to our success. The diversity of our staff strengthens our work and enhances our ability to accomplish our mission. The diversity of the student body enriches the holistic educational experience of all students, and it prepares our graduates to thrive and lead in an increasingly global society. Our Offices and Units We aim to be a cohesive team that seamlessly supports the innovation, creativity, and talent necessary to lead higher education in access and student success. Learn More Contact Us SVP-EM@austin.utexas.edu 512-475-7347 110 Inner Campus Dr. (M5570) Austin, TX 78712 UT Austin Home Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Emergency Information Policies Code of Conduct © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 X