Skip to main content Google Tag Manager SEARCH: Limit search to: Entomology Cornell Department of Entomology Back to top menu About Contact Us Facilities Comstock Room Reservations Cornell University Insect Collection Giving Pollinator Health Research Fund Cornell University Insect Collection Fund Lost Ladybug Project Fund Graduate Studies Why study at Cornell? Cornell Graduate Field System Funding for graduate studies Research foci Ecology, Evolution, Systematics, and Behavior Managed Systems Entomology Physiology, Molecular Biology, Genetics and Genomics Grad Field Faculty Current Students Resources for Students Contact Northeast Regional Center for Excellence in Vector Borne Diseases Collaborative Team Co-Investigators Program Information for MS in Entomology Vector Biology Program Application Process Academic Statement of Purpose (ASOP) Curriculum vitae (CV) How to contact a faculty member Letters of recommendation Personal Statement Apply! Undergraduate Studies Application Process Arranging a Visit Contacts Courses and Requirements Major in Entomology Minor in Entomology Biological Sciences Concentration in Insect Biology Faculty Advising Learning Goals and Objectives Opportunities Internship Opportunities Research Honors Program Summer Scholars Program Undergraduate Club People Faculty Adjunct Professors Emeriti Faculty Administrative Staff Graduate Students Postdoctoral and Academic Staff Undergraduate Students Technical Staff Extension & Public Outreach Engaged Entomology Extension & Outreach Assistants Field Crops Entomology Floriculture and Greenhouse Horticulture Entomology Fruit Entomology Berry Crops Grapes Home Fruit Plantings Tree Fruit Insect Diagnostic Lab Integrated Pest Management Program (IPM) Pollinator Network Medical Entomology Naturalist Outreach Pesticide Application Technology Pesticide Management Education Program (PMEP) Soil and Turf Entomology Spider Outreach Vegetable Entomology Wild Pollinators Ground nesting bees in your backyard! News & Events News News Archive Graduation 2022 M.S and Ph.D Undergraduate Insectapalooza Entomology Seminar Series Awards and Honors 2019-2020 2018 - 2019 2017 - 2018 2016 - 2017 2015 - 2016 2014 - 2015 2013 - 2014 2012 - 2013 2011 - 2012 2010 - 2009 Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Abby Davis '21 studies bees in the Department of Entomology. Matthew Boucher (graduate student) shows a walking stick to a young boy, Jiashu Cao. Credit: Justin James Muir Corrie Moreau, professor in the Department of Entomology working in her lab. Credit: Allison Usavage Stephen Hessler (research support specialist) preparing to plant strawberries at Robbins Farm. Credit: Justin James Muir Specimens in the Cornell University Insect Collection. Credit: Justin James Muir Specimens in the Cornell University Insect Collection. Credit: Justin James Muir Specimens in the Cornell University Insect Collection. Credit: Justin James Muir Members of Dyce Lab Beekeeping Credit: Sasha Israel (CALS) Back to top Welcome to the Department of Entomology For more than 125 years, our faculty members, staff and students have been working to advance the field of insect biology and apply that knowledge to solve problems and improve lives. As one of the top-ranked entomology programs in the country, our work spans the globe and impacts human lives on many levels, influencing a broad range of disciplines including human and veterinary medicine, farming, biodiversity and genomics. Entomology News Bugged out! Exhibit displays insect diversity and importance Apr 7, 2022 "I’d want this exhibit to reduce the number of people that pass by an insect and say, ‘that’s just a bug’. I’d want them to be able to associate a story to that, to see how important that insect is." Jason Dombroskie, CUIC manager and coordinator of the Insect Diagnostic Lab The Tangled Lives of Social Spiders with Dr. Linda Rayor -> Monday, November 1, 2021, 4:00 p.m. – 5:00 p.m. EDT Oct 28, 2021 Join Dr. Linda Rayor of the CALS Department of Entomology as she discusses the social lives of spiders, in particular the social huntsman spiders, which live a dramatic life of cooperation and conflict. What do these social spiders get out of living with tens to hundreds of their closest of kin? Find out as Dr. Rayor discusses her research on large, gorgeous social huntsman spiders and different aspects of the behavior of spiders. This is the oldest fossil evidence of spider moms taking care of their young Sep 28, 2021 A 99-million-year-old spider trapped in amber sheds light on ancient arachnid parenting Dr. Harrington's Vector Bio e-Cornell course Aug 17, 2021 Interested in learning about the biology & behavior of mosquitoes, ticks, and other arthropods that affect human health? Enroll in a new certificate course from @ecornell_online! Next offering starts Sept 1. Enroll by August 31 with code INTRO50 to save. https://bit.ly/ArthroBioCourse View More News Pollinator Network Pollinators are essential for maintaining floral diversity and for producing many important agricultural crops that feed residents of New York and other areas of the world. Cornell University has a robust network of pollinator research and extension program related to all aspects of pollinator life: Ecology, Evolution, Biodiversity, Behavior, Pesticides, Pests, parasites, and disease, Pollinator management. Explore the Cornell Pollinator website for information on bee research taking place at Cornell, news and upcoming events, and for a variety of extension materials related to pollinators and beekeeping. Biocontrol Nematodes: A Future in Sustainable Pest Control Follow Us with Social Media Engaged Entomology The Naturalist Outreach group has been visiting local classrooms and community groups to talk about the natural history, ecology, and behavior of animals and plants. They have also created a series of videos teaching the public about an array of issues from pollination to bats to aquatic insects and more. This group is not only teaching but trying to inspire and engage more people into science. Insectapalooza is a one day insect fair held annually by the department bringing in families from as far as Michigan each year. This event reaches thousands of visitors who get hands on experience learning about many different arthropods, their importance and benefits to our community. Emprire Farm Days and the New York State Fair are two other annual events attended by the Department of Entomology where large groups of people are reached. Congratulations Class of 2022! Diana Obregon I am very grateful to Cornell and the entomology department for opening the doors of science for me. As a first-generation foreign student, I always have felt incredibly supported and welcomed. For my next step, I will start a post-doc position at the University of Davis California with Dr. Elina Niño and Dr. Neal Williams. Graduation 2022 Fruit Fly Trap Ever wonder how to get rid of those pesky fruit flies in your home? Pollinator Health Research Fund Your donation to the Pollinator Health Research Fund will support the continuation and growth of new pollinator health research projects, and will also help us raise awareness about pollinator health through public outreach, speaking engagements, workshops, and other extension avenues. Something Bugging You? Do you have an insect, or photo of one, and want to know what it is? Check out The Insect Diagnostic Lab where you can have a scientist identify insects and related organisms or try your own research using available photos and information to help solve your question. Centers and Institutes Colony Management A beginner's guide to walk-away splits © 2022 Cornell University Secondary menu Web Accessibility Assistance Privacy Policy Contact Us Log in