Skip to main content Google Tag Manager SEARCH: Limit search to: Entomology Cornell Department of Entomology Back to top menu About Contact Us Facilities Comstock Room Reservations Cornell University Insect Collection Giving Pollinator Health Research Fund Cornell University Insect Collection Fund Lost Ladybug Project Fund Graduate Studies Why study at Cornell? Cornell Graduate Field System Funding for graduate studies Research foci Ecology, Evolution, Systematics, and Behavior Managed Systems Entomology Physiology, Molecular Biology, Genetics and Genomics Grad Field Faculty Current Students Resources for Students Contact Northeast Regional Center for Excellence in Vector Borne Diseases Collaborative Team Co-Investigators Program Information for MS in Entomology Vector Biology Program Application Process Academic Statement of Purpose (ASOP) Curriculum vitae (CV) How to contact a faculty member Letters of recommendation Personal Statement Apply! Undergraduate Studies Application Process Arranging a Visit Contacts Courses and Requirements Major in Entomology Minor in Entomology Biological Sciences Concentration in Insect Biology Faculty Advising Learning Goals and Objectives Opportunities Internship Opportunities Research Honors Program Summer Scholars Program Undergraduate Club People Faculty Adjunct Professors Emeriti Faculty Administrative Staff Graduate Students Postdoctoral and Academic Staff Undergraduate Students Technical Staff Extension & Public Outreach Engaged Entomology Extension & Outreach Assistants Field Crops Entomology Floriculture and Greenhouse Horticulture Entomology Fruit Entomology Berry Crops Grapes Home Fruit Plantings Tree Fruit Insect Diagnostic Lab Integrated Pest Management Program (IPM) Pollinator Network Medical Entomology Naturalist Outreach Pesticide Application Technology Pesticide Management Education Program (PMEP) Soil and Turf Entomology Spider Outreach Vegetable Entomology Wild Pollinators Ground nesting bees in your backyard! News & Events News News Archive Graduation 2022 M.S and Ph.D Undergraduate Insectapalooza Entomology Seminar Series Awards and Honors 2019-2020 2018 - 2019 2017 - 2018 2016 - 2017 2015 - 2016 2014 - 2015 2013 - 2014 2012 - 2013 2011 - 2012 2010 - 2009 Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Undergraduate Studies in Entomology Back to top Home Undergraduate Studies Home to the first Entomology Department in the country, Cornell's College of Agriculture and Life Sciences (CALS) undergraduate entomology major offers innumerable opportunities to study the basic and applied aspects of entomology within the framework of a broad education in the biological and environmental sciences. Serving as excellent preparation for future endeavors, alumni of the program have gone on to medical school, veterinary school, graduate school, and work in government, agriculture and Integrated Pest Management (IPM). Whether your interest is systematics, genomics, medical entomology, IPM or physiology, we have opportunities for you! Undergraduate students can pursue studies in Entomology at Cornell in three ways: Major in Entomology: An excellent option for those who are sure they would like to pursue graduate studies or a career involving insect biology. This is a small major, which increases the interactions between students and faculty and their graduate students. Students study broadly across biology and other natural sciences, such as chemistry and physics, and deeply within the biology of insects. Biological Sciences Concentration in Insect Biology: Students must complete all the requirements for the Biological Sciences major, plus specialize in Entomology. Minor in Entomology: A good option for students in other CALS majors who have a casual interest in Entomology. Finally, students with a very serious interest in pursuing Entomological research should consider fulfilling the requirements for Distinction in Research Honors in Entomology. In this case, students work directly with a faculty member to complete an independent research project and submit an honors thesis by the end of their senior year. Why Entomology at Cornell? Cornell is a mid- to large-size university (relative to universities in New York). However, Entomology courses are typically small (15-35 students). This creates a highly personal environment that allows students and faculty to get to know each other well, and facilitates opportunities for all students to excel. Not only do students get hands-on experience in lab courses utilizing Cornell's vast array of specimens and the latest scientific equipment, but numerous opportunities exist for research with faculty members during the academic year and summer. Insectapalooza The annual, one-day insect fair hosted by the faculty, staff and students of the Department of Entomology at Cornell University. Insectapalooza is an interactive, hands-on experience that features hundreds of live insects, spiders, and other fascinating arthropods. Undergraduate Studies Application Process Arranging a Visit Contacts Courses and Requirements Faculty Advising Learning Goals and Objectives Opportunities Internship Opportunities Research Honors Program Summer Scholars Program Undergraduate Club Snodgrass and Wigglesworth Snodgrass and Wigglesworth has become the largest and longest-lasting undergrad entomology club in Cornell history, and we are going stronger than ever! We have many more fun, insectious plans for the future and we hope that you will join us! Contact Sabrina Celis , Snodwiggs President, at slc277@cornell.edu or http://orgsync.rso.cornell.edu/org/snodwiggs/home © 2022 Cornell University Secondary menu Web Accessibility Assistance Privacy Policy Contact Us Log in