What We Do Startup Directory Calendar Newsroom Resources Quick Links Startup Lab Design Studio Annual Report StartupColumbia Festival Columbia Venture Competition DFSI About Us Columbia Entrepreneurship, Innovation, and Design (“Columbia Entrepreneurship”) was founded in the summer of 2013 at the direction of University President Lee C. Bollinger and the University Board of Trustees to support, invigorate, accelerate, and motivate the Columbia community’s programs and culture around innovation, creativity, and entrepreneurship. The ecosystem around entrepreneurship at Columbia is vibrant, brilliant, and cutting edge, and Columbia Entrepreneurship gives you the 360-degree view. At the very heart of Columbia Entrepreneurship’s mandate is to 1) connect and empower the innovation hubs that exist through each of Columbia’s schools, and 2) find new opportunities for cross-disciplinary innovation resources, programs, and classes for students, faculty, and alumni of the University. You will see this in our work at Columbia Startup Lab in SoHo, where young alumni founders can incubate their early stage companies; at the #StartupColumbia Festival, which brings together hundreds of our entrepreneurship community members each year; at the Columbia Venture Competition, which features $250,000 in cash prizes for Columbia entrepreneurs; in our work at the Design Studio, which teaches problem-solving through empathy and design thinking; and in the Collaboratory, where we work with faculty to create interdisciplinary data literacy classes. In recognition that innovation is best when fueled by diverse backgrounds and disciplines, we also assist Columbia’s schools in cross-listing courses to help open up these classes to students across the University. You can learn more about our programs here. We are grateful for the extraordinary encouragement from the President’s and Provost’s offices, the leadership from our University Trustees, the guidance from our Advisory Council, and the partnerships we’ve formed with School Deans and faculties, our extraordinary alumni, and our amazing students. To contact Columbia Entrepreneurship write to us at entrepreneurship@columbia.edu, and keep up with the latest opportunities to join the community by signing up for our mailing list or following us on social media @ColumbiaEship. Our Team Richard Witten '75CC Sarah Holloway Dave Lerner Chris McGarry Yvette Miller Daniella Raposo Adam Royalty Denise López Southwood AJ Taylor Zoe Wright Our Advisory Council Donnel Baird '13BUS, Founder, BlocPower Jolyne Caruso-FitzGerald '81 Barnard, Divisional Vice Chairman at UBS Kesha Cash ’10BUS, Founder of Impact America Fund Jesse Coors-Blankenship '10GSAPP, Founder of Frustum Inc Shawn Edwards, CTO, Bloomberg Lew Frankfort '69BUS, Co-Founder, Benvolio Group Ben Fried '88CC, CIO, Google Jared Hecht '09CC, Serial Entrepreneur Sarah Holloway '03SIPA, Serial Entrepreneur and Professor, SIPA Deborah Jackson '80BUS, Founder and CEO, Plum Alley Cyrus Massoumi '03BUS, Founder, ZocDoc Alan Patricof '57BUS, Founder, Greycroft Dr. Amol Sarva '98CC, CEO & Co-Founder, Knotel and Professor Columbia College Phillip Satow '63CC, Chairman of the Board of Directors of JDS Therapeutics Sree Sreenivasan '93JRN Martin Varsavsky '84SIPA, '85BUS, Serial Entrepreneur Liz Wilkes '13BUS, Founder & CEO Exubrancy George D. Yancopoulos '80CC, '86GF, '87CUMC, Co-founder, President, and Chief Scientific Officer of Regeneron Subscribe to Mailing List First Name* Last Name* Email* Columbia Affiliation (if any, optional) This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. Learn more here. About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University | Sitemap | Disclaimer | Site by Barrel Subscribe to Mailing List First Name* Last Name* Email* Columbia Affiliation (if any, optional) This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. Learn more here.