ABOUT DIRECTOR’S WELCOME MISSION D & I Diverse Founders & Resources OVERVIEW NELSON @ 5 PEOPLE Our Team Advisory Council ENTREPRENEUR IN RESIDENCE PROGRAM NEWS@NELSON News Student Stories Alumni Stories Share Your Story/Resource OUR BUILDING E-NEWS SIGN UP CONTACT US ACADEMICS ENTREPRENEURSHIP CERTIFICATE COURSES RESEARCH Faculty Graduate Research Fellowship RESEARCH CONFERENCE 2021 PRIME, MASTER’S PROGRAM VC INCLUSION LAB BUILD YOUR VENTURE MENTORSHIP Entrepreneur in Residence Peer Entrepreneurs Mentoring Resources Volunteer & Black Mentor Drive Forms Hazeltine Mentoring Award FUNDING Explore & Expand Anti-Black & Systemic Racism Venture Grants Climate Change Grants Hazeltine Grants COMMUNITY LAB B-LAB About the Program 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 BROWN VENTURE PRIZE About the Prize 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 STUDENT INCUBATORS Health Hatch (Spring) Innovation Dojo (Fall/Spring) DIGITAL HEALTH $25K PITCH PRIZE NELSON TECHNOLOGY FELLOWS VAN WICKLE VENTURES TECH VENTURES OFFICE GET INVOLVED EVENTS INTERNSHIPS STARTUP SYNAPSES STUDENT CLUBS Brown EP Women’s Entrepreneurship Innovation Dojo EP Dive In Podcast Young Entrepreneurs of Providence Innovation for Health/Hatch Health Incubator Brown Healthcare Investment Group RESOURCES Navigating Startup Resources on Campus Looking to join a venture? Brown Startup Database Startup Registration Form FOR ALUMNI Volunteer & Black Mentor Drive Forms Mentoring Resources Make a Gift Other Groups/Resources Brown Alumni Entrepreneurship Group Brown Angel Group SLATER TECH FUND JOIN OUR EMAIL LIST MAKE A GIFT Select Page RESEARCH Entrepreneurship research gives students a deeper understanding of the challenges they are addressing, provides knowledge to inform their ideas, and assists in thinking through the social, political, and economic impacts of their interventions. Explore the diversity of research in entrepreneurship produced by Brown faculty, a community of researchers committed to interdisciplinary, creative thought and practice. RESEARCHERS AT BROWN Explore the interdisciplinary range of entrepreneurial research produced by Brown faculty from engineering, public health, sociology, economics, and other disciplines. We encourage students to critically engage in scholarly discussions on entrepreneurship within different contexts and examine its processes, activities and impact. Below you can find faculty from different disciplines that provide a spectrum of theoretical and empirical articles. Our open curriculum sets the stage for students to examine and study entrepreneurship from various disciplines, from humanities to neuroscience. Research can provide students with critical perspectives that can assist them in producing ambitious solutions to challenging problems as well as inspire further research questions on entrepreneurship. Angus Kingon Barrett Hazeltine University Professor of Entrepreneurship and Organizational Studies, Professor of Engineering Angus Kingon is a Professor in the School of Engineering and the Barrett Hazeltine University Professor of Entrepreneurship and Organizational Studies. He is a physical chemist, engineer, materials scientist, inventor, management professor, and entrepreneur. He is co-director of the Engineering Master’s in Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship. He has been instrumental in launching the IE Brown Executive MBA program. His background in both materials technology and business management. Bridging the Valley of Death: Lessons Learned From 14 Years of Commercialization of Technology Education Rafael La Porta Robert J. and Nancy D. Carney University Professor of Economics Rafael La Porta is the Robert J. and Nancy D. Carney University Professor of Economics at Brown where he teaches venture capital and finance. Rafael’s research has focused on issues of investor protection and corporate governance across the world, an area known as “law and finance.” He is an expert on cross-country differences in laws and practice pertaining to investor protection and how those differences cause economies, stock markets, and firms’ financing practices to vary. Here is one of his seminal articles, Law and Finance. Pat McHugh Professor of the Practice of Engineering Pat McHugh is a Professor of the Practice in the School of Engineering. He has over 25 years of industry experience with technology companies, including executive roles at three venture-backed firms selling data security solutions. Experienced teacher, researcher and academic administrator leveraging an award winning twenty seven year technology industry career focused on intrapreneurial and entrepreneurial endeavors. Highly rated teacher of entrepreneurship and strategy at the undergraduate, graduate and executive levels. Research interests focus on legitimacy and network theory in the context of social media, decision making, issue management, innovation funding, innovation management and governance. Accelerating time: The effects of social pressures and regulation on board gender diversity post-IPO Jennifer Nazareno Assistant Professor of Public Health and Entrepreneurship Jennifer Nazareno is an Assistant Professor at the School of Public Health, Department of Behavioral and Social Sciences and at the Jonathan M. Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship. Jennifer’s research interests include the the structural and social determinants of health/health inequalities; political economy and the organization of long-term care; women’s migration, labor and entrepreneurship. Global dynamics of immigrant entrepreneurship: Changing trends, ethnonational variations, and reconceptualizations Banu Özkazanç-Pan Professor of Practice, School of Engineering, and Academic Director of the IE Brown EMBA Program Banu Özkazanç-Pan is Professor of Practice at the School of Engineering and Academic Director of the IE Brown EMBA program. She is also the Founder and Director of the Venture Capital Inclusion Lab at the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship. The Lab was started in 2018 with funds from her $260,000 Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation grant examining the decision-making and network behaviors of VCs. The Lab focuses on understanding and solving funding inequities in the VC industry through data-driven research, education and advocacy. Banu’s research interests are mainly in the areas of diversity and inclusion in organizations and in entrepreneurial ecosystems. Previously in 2016, she was the recipient of a research grant from the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation for her research studying the opportunities and challenges for women entrepreneurs in St. Louis, MO and Boston, MA. The findings from this research led to her working with the City of Boston Women Entrepreneurs initiative, start-ups, and entrepreneur support organizations in order to make Boston an inclusive city for all entrepreneurs. Recently, Banu contributed her expertise on gender and inclusion to the 2018 UN Report on “Gender Lens to the U.N. Guiding Principles on Business and Rights” (see RMIT 1, 2 and 3 reports). Her research has been covered in CBS Boston, NPR All Things Considered, NBC News, and Boston Magazine among other media outlets. Her piece in The Conversation, focusing on the intersections of gender, inclusion and tech, has over 23,000 reads and offers ideas and steps that are necessary for the tech sector to become inclusive. She was an invited expert speaker for Women Business Owner’s Day on April 30th at the Connecticut State House. In June this year, Banu was invited to testify at the U.S. Senate Committee on Small Business & Entrepreneurship hearing to re-authorize the SBIC program to speak about the importance of women and minorities as investors and as entrepreneurs for the economy. Banu is currently Joint Editor in Chief of Gender, Work & Organization and the author of Transnational Migration and the New Subjects of Work: Transmigrants, Hybrids and Cosmopolitans. She has two forthcoming books with Cambridge University Press titled Entrepreneurial Ecosystems: A Critical Gender Perspective (2020) and A Transnational Approach to Entrepreneurial Ecosystems (2021). A Gender Integrative Conceptualization of Entrepreneurship Bobby Pakzad-Hurson Jonathan M. Nelson Assistant Professor of Economics and Entrepreneurship Bobby Pakzad-Hurson is an assistant professor in the Economics Department and affiliated with the Jonathan M. Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship. Bobby conducts research in market design, combining theoretical, experimental, and empirical analyses to study internet marketplaces research is focused on market design, a branch of theoretical economics applied to improve specific, real-world marketplaces. Equilibrium Effects of Pay Transparency in a Simple Labor Market Linda Scott Visiting Scholar and Professor Emeritus, DP World Chair of Entrepreneurship and Innovation, University of Oxford Linda Scott is Professor Emeritus, DP World Chair of Entrepreneurship and Innovation, University of Oxford. After a long and distinguished academic career, Scott now works with multinational corporations, international agencies, national governments, and global NGOs designing and testing programs to better include women in the world economy, especially through entrepreneurship. Enterprise and Inequality: A Study of Avon in South Africa Mark Suchman Professor of Sociology Mark Suchman is a Professor of Sociology and his research interests including sociology of organizations; sociology of law; economic sociology; innovation and entrepreneurship; professions and healthcare. He is currently writing a book on the role of law firms in Silicon Valley, and he is midway through a multi-year project on the organizational, professional, and legal challenges surrounding new information technologies in health care. One of his earlier published articles on this topic is found in the book titled ,“The Entrepreneurship Dynamic: The Origins of Entrepreneurship and Its Role in Industry Evolution.” published by Stanford University Press. RESEARCH GUIDE FOR ENTREPRENEURSHIP Discover some of the most relevant and important resources available to entrepreneurs at Brown in this guide to Entrepreneurship research. Find curated resource lists for market and industry information; business, economic, and social data; news; patent research; and guidance and tools for using information ethically. ENTREPRENEURSHIP LIBRARIAN Emily Ferrier Emily supports research in Entrepreneurship and across the Social Sciences at Brown University. She connects researchers to scholarly literature, market and industry data, company and business news, and more. Email or call her with any questions, to schedule a research consultation, inquire about available resources, or to chat about all things library over a cup of tea. EMAIL EMILY ENTREPRENEURSHIP LIBRARY PAGE Need to search for articles, reports or other materials related to entrepreneurship? Explore our library page for the latest market and industry research reports and most cited articles from some top entrepreneurship journals. You can also find links to company background information, useful tools for starting a business and filing a patent. This page was created to provide a centralized location for resources and services to enrich your research, catch up on what’s new and save you time. ENTREPRENEURSHIP LIBRARY PAGE PITCHBOOK ACCESS FOR BROWN The Library and the Nelson Center offer current Brown faculty, staff, and students access to Pitchbook. To access it, register for an account using your “@brown.edu” email address while on the Brown network. Pitchbook is the latest resource we’ve provided to help those researching startups/VC/PE. Questions? Reach out or schedule an appointment with Emily Ferrier, Entrepreneurship Librarian, at emily_ferrier@brown.edu. PITCHBOOK ACCESS Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2017 Brown University Connect with us: Facebook Youtube Instagram Twitter Copyright 2018 Brown University