What We Do Startup Directory Calendar Newsroom Resources Quick Links Startup Lab Design Studio Annual Report StartupColumbia Festival Columbia Venture Competition DFSI Event Recaps Dive into Design with Harry West By Columbia Entrepreneurship | October 21, 2020 We’re catching up with leaders in our community, and in this episode, we welcome Designer and Columbia Professor in Practice Harry West in conversation with our Designer in Residence Adam Royalty. West is currently a Principal at Invisible Design, and has served as CEO of frog and Continuum. Learn about the role of Design in building a product; how Designers should (but don’t always) recognize their responsibility to humanity; and how Design and empathy in the free market economy can drive positive change. Listen here: LINK ColumbiaEship · Dive into Design with Harry West Dive into the details with these timestamps: 3:44 – What is Design and Design Thinking? 5:58 – How harnessing Design to improve customer experience can help grow your business. 8:00 – How can design help students thoughtfully approach challenges that they’re curious about in a way that makes a real difference. 11:07 – Designing to solve a problem: opting in versus opting out. 14:48 – How diversity in design creates bigger and better ideas. 16:08 – What does school instruction look like for the coming year, and how can empathy play a role in making it a positive experience? 26:15 – Craft or methodology? Continuing the democratization of Design while not losing sight of the artistry and talent involved. 30:35 – Acknowledging the role that design has in the overconsumption and inequality that exists in this world – and how the shock of 2020 can hopefully spur real, positive change. 34:48 – Learning to use Design as a weapon to protect the world rather than one to destroy it. Share Now Trending News2022 Columbia Venture Competition Winners - Columbia Engineering Technology Challenge PressColumbia Founder Nina Tandon on Day One: Making Sci-Fi a Reality NewsComing Up in Entrepreneurship - April & May 2022 NewsEntrepreneur of the Year 2022: Ryan Petersen '08CBS News2022 Columbia Venture Competition - Tournament of Champions + Full List of Winners More Categories Innovator Stories News Press Lab Dispatches Event Recaps Related Posts Event Recaps Making an Impact with Kesha Cash January 22, 2021 Event Recaps Innovating Higher Ed with Ann Kirschner July 10, 2020 Event Recaps COVID and Tech in NYC with Julie Samuels June 25, 2020 Event Recaps The State of Startup Life with Steve Blank May 20, 2020 Event Recaps State Of PropTech with Zach Aarons of MetaProp NYC May 14, 2020 Event Recaps Demystifying the World of Impact Investing March 6, 2020 Now Trending News2022 Columbia Venture Competition Winners - Columbia-CareOne Healthcare All-Stars Challenge NewsComing Up in Entrepreneurship - April & May 2022 News2022 #CoachingColumbia Awards - Jeremy Kagan PressColumbia Founder Nina Tandon on Day One: Making Sci-Fi a Reality News2022 #CoachingColumbia Awards - Stacy Tarver Patterson More Categories Innovator Stories News Press Lab Dispatches Event Recaps Subscribe to Mailing List First Name* Last Name* Email* Columbia Affiliation (if any, optional) This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. Learn more here. About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University | Sitemap | Disclaimer | Site by Barrel Subscribe to Mailing List First Name* Last Name* Email* Columbia Affiliation (if any, optional) This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. Learn more here.