ABOUT DIRECTOR’S WELCOME MISSION D & I Diverse Founders & Resources OVERVIEW NELSON @ 5 PEOPLE Our Team Advisory Council ENTREPRENEUR IN RESIDENCE PROGRAM NEWS@NELSON News Student Stories Alumni Stories Share Your Story/Resource OUR BUILDING E-NEWS SIGN UP CONTACT US ACADEMICS ENTREPRENEURSHIP CERTIFICATE COURSES RESEARCH Faculty Graduate Research Fellowship RESEARCH CONFERENCE 2021 PRIME, MASTER’S PROGRAM VC INCLUSION LAB BUILD YOUR VENTURE MENTORSHIP Entrepreneur in Residence Peer Entrepreneurs Mentoring Resources Volunteer & Black Mentor Drive Forms Hazeltine Mentoring Award FUNDING Explore & Expand Anti-Black & Systemic Racism Venture Grants Climate Change Grants Hazeltine Grants COMMUNITY LAB B-LAB About the Program 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 BROWN VENTURE PRIZE About the Prize 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 STUDENT INCUBATORS Health Hatch (Spring) Innovation Dojo (Fall/Spring) DIGITAL HEALTH $25K PITCH PRIZE NELSON TECHNOLOGY FELLOWS VAN WICKLE VENTURES TECH VENTURES OFFICE GET INVOLVED EVENTS INTERNSHIPS STARTUP SYNAPSES STUDENT CLUBS Brown EP Women’s Entrepreneurship Innovation Dojo EP Dive In Podcast Young Entrepreneurs of Providence Innovation for Health/Hatch Health Incubator Brown Healthcare Investment Group RESOURCES Navigating Startup Resources on Campus Looking to join a venture? Brown Startup Database Startup Registration Form FOR ALUMNI Volunteer & Black Mentor Drive Forms Mentoring Resources Make a Gift Other Groups/Resources Brown Alumni Entrepreneurship Group Brown Angel Group SLATER TECH FUND JOIN OUR EMAIL LIST MAKE A GIFT Select Page B-Lab 2015 Brown University’s Breakthrough Lab (B-Lab) is an intensive 8-week accelerator program that supports student entrepreneurs developing high-impact ventures. Each venture receives sector-specific mentoring, a peer cohort of dedicated founders, and access to co-working space. We welcomed 16 student ventures to the 2015 program. Founders came from all across the Brown and RISD landscape, bringing diverse perspectives, strengths, and interests to the cohort. They are bound together by their passion for creating meaningful solutions to important global challenges, and they represent some of the most advanced ventures in the Brown entrepreneurial ecosystem. CHORUS Chorus is an iPhone/iPad app that aims to resolve current limitations to songwriting: that it must be done in person by people who live close to each other. Chorus circumvents this obstacle by globalizing the creative process, widening the pool of accessible musicians to include anyone in the world. The goal? To contribute to the creation of more and better music by connecting musicians who might otherwise be unable to collaborate. Matthew Cooper Brown '18, Computer Science Anthony Martin Sean University '15, Communications Max Sternlicht Brown '18, Graphic Design ECOOL SYSTEMS The recent movement of data storage and processing from multiple platforms to consolidated data centers has required the deployment of servers with ever increasing levels of computational and processing speeds. Server performance has increased 75 times in the past 8 years, but the ability to cool these chips has remained stagnant. Data centers are approaching the point where current cooling technologies are going to be unable to meet the growing needs of the data center industry. ECOol provides a green solution that reduces electrical overhead, mitigates implementation costs, increases server density, and improves technological reliability. Peter McHugh Brown '17, Mechanical Engineering Anshul Rathi Brown '15, PRIME FORWARDGEN A new initiative dedicated to identifying the best policies and practices to support first-generation college students. Building off of the success of 1vyG, an inter-Ivy League network of first-generation students, ForwardGen aims to coach administrators, researchers, and policy makers in the creation of systematized support for first-generation college students. The initiative also aims to improve the experiences of first-generation students by creating a series of benchmarks that universities will be accountable for to ultimately increase “college success rates” among first-generation students. Jessica Brown Brown '16, BEO Merone Tadesse Brown '16, Sociology & Development Studies GEODEX We design and enhance visitor experiences by delivering up-to-date, hyperlocal content through a system of rugged low-cost bluetooth beacons. For users, we make activities like visiting a new city, exploring a national park, or touring a college campus fun, engaging, and sharable. For managers of public spaces, we provide a rich understanding of visitor behavior, movement and retention. Our products create durable direct-to-customer marketing channels that offer and a simple platform for proximity marketing, loyalty programs and special offers. Iain MacKenzie Brown '15, PRIME Ian Thomas Brown '15, PRIME HEALTHY ROOTS Healthy Roots is a company that makes dolls and storybooks to combat internalized racism and colorism among young girls. They will offer 4 dolls, each with a different skin tone and hair texture– including African American, Haitian, Nigerian and Pacific Island/Afro-Brazilian–and will teach natural haircare for young girls of color. They aim to go above and beyond filling the diversity quota. Healthy Roots has an ambition to begin an impactful social movement. Nitashia Johnson RISD '15, Arts Education & Graphic Design Yelitsa Jean-Charles RISD '16, Illustration Ingrid Nelson RISD '17, Graphic Design Anisa Holmes Brown '16, Economics & Development Studies LEADING EDGE Leading Edge will build on and update the ongoing Leading Edge tidal energy device project within Brown’s School of Engineering. The device harnesses tidal energy in rivers and oceans using a water-catching hydrofoil system. While the larger project is device that will produce potentially up to 100 kW of power and contribute to the electrical grid, the goal of the team working in the B-Lab is to create a smaller-scale version of the technology to serve an alternative market. The team will investigate the market potential of a scaled down model of the larger hydrofoil device. Michael Miller Brown PhD, Fluid Mechanics Eva Junquera Brown '17, Mechanical Engineering Cesar Loera Brown '17, Engineering NGS IMAGING NGS Imaging seeks to improve the medical x-ray imaging market by redesigning a scintillator that provides high-resolution x-ray images, allowing physicians to make more nuanced and accurate diagnoses while reducing patient exposure to harmful radiation. Linghan Xing Brown '15, PRIME Matthew Donahue Brown '15, PRIME Shashank Boddupalli Brown '15, PRIME OPUS Opus is creating a touch-based interface that allows users to learn musical theory and hear how music on a staff sounds. This will enable musicians with a narrower range of knowledge on written theory to express themselves artistically in a quick way. Samuel Dooman Brown '16 Computer Science & MEME Nicholas DeMarco Brown '17, Computer Science & MEME Peter Bowden Brown '16, Computer Science & MEME PODIA Podia is a mobile app for location based Q&A that will allow communities to share, and debate, their knowledge. Through engaging users with the Podia platform, the application will enable local experts to answer questions related to their community. Amory Bennett Brown '16, Political Science Nikos Melanchrinos Brown '15, Economics RIPPLE Ripple is a mobile app that uses in-store sensors to transform the moment of a purchase into the seamless activation of a small donation from the businesses’ corporate social giving reserves to a user’s preferred cause. Through the creation of an app that is beautiful and effortless to use, Ripple seeks to empower consumers to contribute to issues they care about on a basis that fits within their lifestyles, all while cultivating brand loyalty for their socially responsible partners. More broadly, Ripple hopes to leverage an already pervasive technological infrastructure to transform every transaction into an opportunity for collaborative social impact generation between well-intentioned customers and resource-capable businesses. Viveka Hulyalkar Brown '15, Political Science Neel Yalamarthy Brown '15.5, Political Science SHAPE FROM BROKEN PIECES Shape from Broken Pieces is building an advanced system to 3D scan fragmented objects and automatically assemble individual components to output complete 3D models of the original, unbroken object. These models can then be used to recreate the original object using a 3D printer or CNC. In essence, this system aims to assemble fragments where manual reassembly is impossible. Kilho Son Brown PhD, Engineering Daniel Moreno Brown PhD, Engineering SUMA Suma is a fashion brand that partners with artists and creatives to design its products. Each product developed is co-branded between Suma and the artist, so the tag reads Suma + {Artist Name}. They are the first high-end fashion brand to create its identity around collaboration and crowdsourcing design ideas. They hope to add to the already-rich dialogue surrounding art and design by expanding the community’s bounds to include more amateurs and professionals. Ingrid Zippe RISD '17, Apparel Matteo Mobilio Brown '16, History UNSYNC UnSync’s 3DS desktop system brings 3D scanning technology to its next stage of evolution by reducing the cost of high performance scanning. This will make the technology more affordable to a wider range of users. By eliminating the need for expensive high-speed hardware, UnSync will make 3D scanning technology accessible to many, many more people. Xiaochuan Liu Brown '15, PRIME Meixing Dong Brown '15, PRIME THE UPRISING The Uprising is a socially conscious hip-hop initiative that hosts events which exclusively feature socially responsible artists, vendors and sponsors. This initiative uses hip-hop and the arts as a tool to fight against violence, sexism, and homophobia. Erin Cohee Brown '16, Sociology Leadz Dorcé Brown '16, Visual Arts VITAE INDUSTRIES, INC. Vitae Industries is a mobile application that can determine your Vitamin D levels and suggest treatment for possible deficiencies. With this information in mind, it personalizes supplement doses to cater to your individual needs. In the near future, Vitae hopes to expand its services to recommend a wide range of vitamins and supplements. Daniel DeCiccio Brown '15, Chemistry & Engineering Jeanine Sinanan-Singh Harvard '13, Computer Science ZENCARE Zencare is an application that pairs providers and patients for cognitive therapy. People struggling to navigate modern mental health services often experience difficulty seeking out care. Zencare will eliminate this barrier by launching a software and service that addresses this need by creating a clearer patient-care connection system. Nicholas Lemme Brown '18, MD Benjamin R. Johnston Brown '18, MD Yuri Tomikawa Brown '12, International Relations & East Asian Studies Debbie Lai Brown '12, East Asian Studies & Economics Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2017 Brown University Connect with us: Facebook Youtube Instagram Twitter Copyright 2018 Brown University