ABOUT DIRECTOR’S WELCOME MISSION D & I Diverse Founders & Resources OVERVIEW NELSON @ 5 PEOPLE Our Team Advisory Council ENTREPRENEUR IN RESIDENCE PROGRAM NEWS@NELSON News Student Stories Alumni Stories Share Your Story/Resource OUR BUILDING E-NEWS SIGN UP CONTACT US ACADEMICS ENTREPRENEURSHIP CERTIFICATE COURSES RESEARCH Faculty Graduate Research Fellowship RESEARCH CONFERENCE 2021 PRIME, MASTER’S PROGRAM VC INCLUSION LAB BUILD YOUR VENTURE MENTORSHIP Entrepreneur in Residence Peer Entrepreneurs Mentoring Resources Volunteer & Black Mentor Drive Forms Hazeltine Mentoring Award FUNDING Explore & Expand Anti-Black & Systemic Racism Venture Grants Climate Change Grants Hazeltine Grants COMMUNITY LAB B-LAB About the Program 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 BROWN VENTURE PRIZE About the Prize 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 STUDENT INCUBATORS Health Hatch (Spring) Innovation Dojo (Fall/Spring) DIGITAL HEALTH $25K PITCH PRIZE NELSON TECHNOLOGY FELLOWS VAN WICKLE VENTURES TECH VENTURES OFFICE GET INVOLVED EVENTS INTERNSHIPS STARTUP SYNAPSES STUDENT CLUBS Brown EP Women’s Entrepreneurship Innovation Dojo EP Dive In Podcast Young Entrepreneurs of Providence Innovation for Health/Hatch Health Incubator Brown Healthcare Investment Group RESOURCES Navigating Startup Resources on Campus Looking to join a venture? Brown Startup Database Startup Registration Form FOR ALUMNI Volunteer & Black Mentor Drive Forms Mentoring Resources Make a Gift Other Groups/Resources Brown Alumni Entrepreneurship Group Brown Angel Group SLATER TECH FUND JOIN OUR EMAIL LIST MAKE A GIFT Select Page B-Lab 2022 B-Lab is an intensive 8-week accelerator program that supports student entrepreneurs developing high-impact ventures. We are welcoming 14 ventures that address unmet needs in a wide range of market sectors: improving medication adherence, a platform aimed at simplifying the client-lawyer matching process, e-commerce for handmade beauty products, and many others. The venture founders from Brown University and RISD bring diverse perspectives, strengths, and interests to the cohort. They are bound together by their passion for creating meaningful solutions to important challenges in exciting markets, and they represent some of the most advanced ventures in the Brown entrepreneurial ecosystem. Learn more about the program and its impact on our students through this short video! Briefcase Briefcase is a platform which aims to simplify and personalize the client-lawyer matching process. This platform helps both the client and the lawyer; clients seeking legal help often face inaccessibilities to the law including language and transportation barriers, and lawyers are overwhelmed with the time-sink of conducting pre-screening interviews with potential clients, where many are turned away. Briefcase’s goal is to make this presently difficult process efficient by custom-matching clients with their ideal lawyers based on case experience while accommodating for legal barriers, democratizing access to the law. David Vojtaskovic '24 Business Economics david_vojtaskovic@brown.edu Cinemates Cinemates saves viewers time spent looking for movies and shows, serving as a trusted community-based recommendation service. Tatiana Mandis '23 History of Art and Architecture tatiana_mandis@brown.edu Codified Health Codified Health strives to help doctors focus on patients, not paperwork by using AI to streamline the medical billing process. We offer a medical code recommendation system, documentation verification tool, and interoperable software that engages with all existing EHR platforms. In this way, we can ensure that claims are submitted promptly with faster payments, consistent compliance, and billing data transparency. Sophia Ghauri '24 Design Engineering of Healthcare Systems sophia_ghauri@brown.edu Hailey Chen '24 Public Health & Business Economics hailey_chen@brown.edu Cindy Zheng '24 Applied Mathematics - Biology cindy_zheng@brown.edu COmmunity ADherence COAD improves medication adherence by utilizing a revolutionary smart pillbox and a user-friendly mobile application that work together to remind, record, and notify users to take their medication. Rose Engler '22 Public Health rose_engler@brown.edu Loan Anh Tran '22 Computer Science - Economics loan_anh_tran@brown.edu Dream!n Dream!n is a user generated content game platform that consists of a non-coding game engine and the platform to share games and socialize. Yifei Wang '23 Computer Science & Economics yifei_wang2@brown.edu Yuhan Zhang '24 Behavioral Decision Sciences yuhan_zhang@brown.edu FollowUp FollowUp aims to better connect individuals with Parkinson’s disease, their caregivers, and their healthcare providers. We are developing an app to provide more complete information on a patient’s symptoms and day-to-day experiences to inform adjustments in medication and treatment timelines. This increased communication makes space for more directed and efficient healthcare that can best support individuals with Parkinson’s disease. Abigail Perelman '22 Cognitive Neuroscience abigail_perelman@brown.edu Suraj Zaveri '23 Applied Mathematics & Computer Science suraj_zaveri@brown.edu Shailen Sampath '20 Biomedical Engineering shailen_sampath@alumni.brown.edu FRUITfull There are tens of thousands of wonderful organizations that aim to solve some of the biggest issues with our food system, from food insecurity to food waste to degenerative agricultural practices. The trouble is that most of these nonprofits, especially the smaller ones, have a tough time obtaining and maintaining recurring funding. While young professionals in the US are motivated by social causes and express interest in helping solve the problems above, they are often undereducated on the impact these issues have, lack awareness of these organizations aiming to solve them, and are overwhelmed by the barrage of requests for donations from organizations that they don’t know if they can trust. FRUITfull breaks down these barriers for donors in order to increase the volume and longevity of donations for small to mid-size food nonprofits. Through user-centered design, engaging impact visualization, and AI-driven experiences, our platform provides a novel, customized, and trustworthy service to donors. Maddie Jacks '22 Masters of Design Engineering madeleine_jacks@brown.edu Mark Araujo Hos-fit-all Hos-fit-all is the innovative design of a mobile modular negative pressure isolation room that serves as a timely response to the challenges of healthcare infrastructure. The modular design is built using prefabrication construction methods allows for the unit to be dismantled and individual modules recommissioned as clinics in remote and under-resourced communities that may not have access to adequate healthcare facilities. With a simple change of room settings and furniture, Hos-fit-all can be converted to food banks to address food insecurity, classrooms to address educational hardships resulting from remote learning, libraries to bridge the digital divide, and temporary housing units as a response to homelessness. The negative pressure technology is consistent across all programmatic functions, creating a healthy interior environment. Muram Bacare '22 Architecture and Fine Art mbacare@risd.edu RideRx Targeting missed appointments and transportation barriers, RideRx aims to provide an accessible, subsidized rideshare service to healthcare appointments and medication pick-up for substance use patients in Rhode Island. We hope to pilot an on-call, door-to-door, shared “shuttle” system based on geographic proximity. We aim to center community members and stakeholders first and foremost in the design and implementation of services, in order to promote a welcoming environment of companionship and judgement-free zone for passengers. Maddy Noh '22 Public Health & Anthropology madeline_noh@brown.edu Otto Olafsson '23 Public Health otto_olafsson@brown.edu Zoie Carter '22 Public Health zoie_carter@brown.edu Rocky’s Root Care Rocky’s Root Care is a lifestyle and ecommerce brand that harnesses the magic of plants to heal your skin, uplift your home, and nourish your soul. Whether you want to smell good, feel soft, or add a touch of nature to your home—Rocky’s Root Care seeks to help you make mindful tenderness a daily grounding ritual. We do this through sharing handmade beauty products that are filled with plant extracts, home decor made from preserved moss, spiritual self-care zines, and more. Rocky Douglas '25 Sociology rockysrootcare@gmail.com Sift Sift is a browser extension that automatically generates second-hand alternatives to clothes that consumers are interested in buying online. As users browse websites and view clothing items, Sift automatically scans the images and keywords on the page to find second-hand alternatives which are the most visually or aesthetically similar. David Chu '24 Computer Science - Economics & Philosophy david_chu1@brown.edu StatusPost Cardiovascular health insights shouldn’t be limited to intermittent visits. Using wearables and AI, we can monitor patients remotely, analyze their heart rhythm in real-time and bring them to the hospital only when needed. Take your cardiologist with you wherever you go! Andrei Petrus '23 Biomedical Engineering andrei_petrus@brown.edu Strictly Facts: A Guide to Caribbean History and Culture Strictly Facts: A Guide to Caribbean History and Culture is a digital platform that aims to educate and celebrate Caribbean history by connecting history, politics, and activism to our rich, contemporary music and popular culture. Our mission maintains the importance of using our voices to document our history. Discover Caribbean history like never before through our podcast, blog, and upcoming educational content! Alexandria Miller '24 Africana alexandria_miller@brown.edu XTP A new generation of citizens demands digitized toolkits that create learning and participation environments that seamlessly integrate with visual and sharing economies. XThePeople maximizes interaction and immersion for civic education and historical learning.  A multi-channel digital solution that serves a wide range of digitally fluent voting – aged adults with a platform that focuses on providing a universal history and civic education that is also immersive, passive, and shareable. Iman Serag '18 iserag@alumni.risd.edu Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2017 Brown University Connect with us: Facebook Youtube Instagram Twitter Copyright 2018 Brown University