Skip to main content Entrepreneurship Menu Close About Annual Report Connect With Us Give to NC State Entrepreneurship Our Team Results Students Academics Ambassador Program Andrews Launch Accelerator Entrepreneurship Scholarships Experiential Learning Funding Getting Started with Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program Miller Fellowship Trips Community Alumni Entrepreneurship Alliance Entrepreneurship Partners Program Giving Mentorship Program NC State Founders’ Pledge Spaces Albright Entrepreneurs Village Entrepreneurship Garage Entrepreneurship Clinic Garage Classroom NCSU Libraries Makerspaces Events Calendar Entrepalooza Entrepreneurship Competitions Global Entrepreneurship Week eGames Give Now About About Annual Report Connect With Us Give to NC State Entrepreneurship Our Team Results Students Students Academics Ambassador Program Andrews Launch Accelerator Entrepreneurship Scholarships Experiential Learning Funding Getting Started with Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program Miller Fellowship Trips Community Community Alumni Entrepreneurship Alliance Entrepreneurship Partners Program Giving Mentorship Program NC State Founders’ Pledge Spaces Spaces Albright Entrepreneurs Village Entrepreneurship Garage Entrepreneurship Clinic Garage Classroom NCSU Libraries Makerspaces Events Events Calendar Entrepalooza Entrepreneurship Competitions Global Entrepreneurship Week eGames Give Now Entrepreneurship Scholarships NC State Entrepreneurship Scholarships are awarded to deserving NC State students who have outstanding achievements in or involvement with entrepreneurship activities. e5x Entrepreneurship Scholarship JiNan Glasgow George The e5x Entrepreneurship Scholarship was established through a generous donation from JiNan Glasgow George to support NC State student entrepreneurs who have demonstrated initiative, determination, a “Think and Do” attitude and a commitment to entrepreneurial excellence in their daily lives. The concept behind the name of the scholarship is that by supporting students now, there will be a 5x return on investment in future impact. JiNan, the founder of the e5x Entrepreneurship Scholarship, is a NC State Textiles Engineering alumna who went on to earn a law degree from UNC and a theology degree from Duke University. JiNan is now globally recognized for her expertise in intellectual property as well as her innovative approach to IP management and predictive analysis for growth ventures. Learn more about the e5x Scholarship Our first official undergraduate scholarship that is specific to entrepreneurship. Learn More The Alagu Periyannan and Theivanai Palaniappan Entrepreneurship Scholarship Alagu Periyannan, M.S. Computer Science ’92, is Chief Technology Officer of BlueJeans by Verizon NC State Entrepreneurship is pleased to announce a new merit-and-need-based scholarship focused on enhancing diversity in entrepreneurship and technical fields. The Alagu Periyannan and Theivanai Palaniappan Entrepreneurship Scholarship will benefit students with outstanding achievements in or involvement with entrepreneurship activities. Both Periyannan and Palaniappan strongly believe in the importance of diversity in entrepreneurship and STEM professions. “There is a limited presence of women entrepreneurs and technologists in the world today and we believe change is needed,” said the donors. New Scholarship Supports Diversity in Entrepreneurship New merit-and-need-based scholarship focused on enhancing diversity in entrepreneurship and technical fields. Learn More Frank J. Newlands, M.D. Entrepreneurship Scholarship Frank J. Newlands Frank J. Newlands (Biology, Pre-Med ’92) is an experienced physician, healthcare executive and entrepreneur. After graduation, Frank attended medical school in the Caribbean and in London. He completed his residency in Internal Medicine before he started practicing as a Hospitalist in Charlotte, North Carolina. The Frank J. Newlands, M.D. Entrepreneurship Scholarship was established through a generous donation from Dr. Newlands to support outstanding entrepreneurial efforts among NC State’s undergraduate student population. With a strong history of entrepreneurship throughout his own career, Dr. Newlands is excited to support the next generation of NC State entrepreneurs. Announcing the First Frank J. Newlands, M.D. Entrepreneurship Scholars Learn about the latest addition to the robust group of entrepreneurship scholarships – The Frank J. Newlands, M.D. Entrepreneurship Scholarship. Meet the scholars Sameer Murarka Entrepreneurship Scholarship Sameer Murarka The Sameer Murarka Entrepreneurship Scholarship was established in 2019 by Ragini and Ishwar Murarka to honor the memory and entrepreneurial spirit of their son, Sameer. Sameer displayed the traits of an entrepreneur from a young age: the ability to observe, identify needs and develop creative solutions. After graduating from California State University at Long Beach with a Hospitality degree, Sameer enjoyed a career in the hospitality industry, opening new restaurants and later working in quality assurance for Sodexho Corporation. Sameer had dreams of starting innovative hospitality ventures to provide gathering places for guests with ambiance and unique experiences. Ragini and Ishwar Murarka, Sameer’s parents and the donors to this scholarship, wish to support emerging, ethical entrepreneurs who think beyond boundaries to give people what they never thought possible, just like Sameer did. Ragini earned her master’s of science degree in Physics from NC State in 1972. Learn More About the Sameer Murarka Entrepreneurship Scholarship The latest chapter in the story of Sameer Murarka as an entrepreneur unfolds through a memorial fund at NC State. Learn More Sameer Murarka NC State Entrepreneurship Scholarship NC State Entrepreneurship Scholarships are funded through philanthropic contributions of alumni and friends. NC State Entrepreneurship Scholarships are awarded to deserving NC State students who have outstanding achievements in or involvements with entrepreneurship activities. John and Linda Leazar Award in Entrepreneurship With a passion for outside-the-box thinking that translates into solving society’s greatest problems, John and Linda Leazar committed an endowed gift to NC State in support of awards for future generations of entrepreneurs and innovative leaders. How to Apply To apply for NC State Entrepreneurship scholarships, please visit PackAssist. We review applications in early February. Apply Here Meet our 2021 Scholars Each year we select a group of entrepreneurship scholars that outstanding achievements in or involvement with entrepreneurship activities. View individual student profiles Questions? If you have additional questions regarding scholarships, please email jennifer_capps@ncsu.edu. Interested in partnering with us? Contact Todd Marrs, Director of Development for NC State Entrepreneurship at todd_marrs@ncsu.edu. Entrepreneurship Home 1017 Main Campus Drive, Suite 1650 Raleigh, NC 27606 entrepreneurship@ncsu.edu 919.513.3676 Campus Map <span class=nowrap>aria-hidden="false"> Entrepreneurship Home About NC State Entrepreneurship Staff Resources Contact Us Alliance Resources News Event Calendar Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.