Skip to main content Entrepreneurship Menu Close About Annual Report Connect With Us Give to NC State Entrepreneurship Our Team Results Students Academics Ambassador Program Andrews Launch Accelerator Entrepreneurship Scholarships Experiential Learning Funding Getting Started with Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program Miller Fellowship Trips Community Alumni Entrepreneurship Alliance Entrepreneurship Partners Program Giving Mentorship Program NC State Founders’ Pledge Spaces Albright Entrepreneurs Village Entrepreneurship Garage Entrepreneurship Clinic Garage Classroom NCSU Libraries Makerspaces Events Calendar Entrepalooza Entrepreneurship Competitions Global Entrepreneurship Week eGames Give Now About About Annual Report Connect With Us Give to NC State Entrepreneurship Our Team Results Students Students Academics Ambassador Program Andrews Launch Accelerator Entrepreneurship Scholarships Experiential Learning Funding Getting Started with Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program Miller Fellowship Trips Community Community Alumni Entrepreneurship Alliance Entrepreneurship Partners Program Giving Mentorship Program NC State Founders’ Pledge Spaces Spaces Albright Entrepreneurs Village Entrepreneurship Garage Entrepreneurship Clinic Garage Classroom NCSU Libraries Makerspaces Events Events Calendar Entrepalooza Entrepreneurship Competitions Global Entrepreneurship Week eGames Give Now Students At NC State, you’ll have the opportunities, resources and guidance to help you grow a big concept into an exciting reality. Bright Ideas Spur Bold Innovation Be the First to Know Subscribe to our weekly newsletter and have exciting updates, featured blogs and important deadlines delivered straight to your inbox. Email Address* Phone This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Δ The entrepreneurial spirit is contagious at NC State. Our student entrepreneurs benefit from a supportive network that includes driven peers, faculty experts, invested alumni and engaged community members. Through a wide range of clubs, academic programs and events dedicated to business development and growth, you can make valuable connections and gain access to the resources necessary to get your startup venture off the ground. Whether you’re a prospective student visiting campus for the first time or a current student with an innovative concept, let us help you find the programs, places and people to bring your ideas to life. GET IN TOUCH Entrepreneurship Scholarships NC State Entrepreneurship Scholarships are awarded to deserving NC State students who have outstanding achievements in or involvements with entrepreneurship activities. Learn More About Our Scholarships Programs for Student Entrepreneurs Academics Building an entrepreneurial-mindset begins in the classroom. Students across all academic disciplines have the opportunity to explore entrepreneurship through NC State’s many programs, majors and minors. Learn more Experiential Learning NC State’s co-curricular programs are designed to complement the learning taking place in the classroom. A packed schedule connects students, alumni and industrious community across generations. Learn more Entrepreneurship Programs Our comprehensive program combines award-winning coursework and experiential opportunities, equipping student entrepreneurs to turn ideas into action. Learn more Entrepreneurship is Everywhere at NC State Spaces From the Albright Entrepreneurs Village and the Garage to the downtown Entrepreneurship Clinic, NC State students make big things happen on campus and in the community. Find your place Events A packed calendar of networking opportunities and interactive events keeps entrepreneurs busy — especially at our annual Entrepalooza festival and Lulu eGames competition. Attend a function The Alliance The NC State Entrepreneurship Alliance supports, promotes and advances a culture of entrepreneurship throughout the university’s many communities. Explore the Alliance A Path for Any Pursuit Our vibrant community of entrepreneurial minds encourages ambition and nurtures innovation. Through the groups featured here — along with an ever-growing list of additional clubs — our students build relationships with like-minded peers, engaged faculty members and experienced industry mentors as they develop their own startups. At NC State, there’s an organization for every type of entrepreneur. CREATE Program NC State students who want to be program liaisons and mentors to high school students can apply to be a CREATE Mentor. Learn More About the CREATE Program Funding The right investment might be what you need to get your venture up and running. The Andrews Launch Accelerator helps current students and recent graduates cover startup-related expenses, while the Entrepreneurship Fellowship provides a stipend for recent graduates as they continue work on a developing startup. Learn more Trips Expand your worldview and discover new applications for a big idea. A select group of student entrepreneurs are invited to travel to New York or Silicon Valley to meet with visionary entrepreneurs, leading executives and successful NC State alumni at cutting-edge startups and established companies. Due to the ongoing concern of COVID-19 and its impact on travel, all university travel is currently on hold. Have an adventure Living and Learning in the AEV Located on Centennial Campus, the Albright Entrepreneurs Village is NC State’s living and learning community for student entrepreneurs. The Village provides sophomores and above the opportunity to experience entrepreneurship on and off campus. See what it’s like to live and learn in the AEV Prototyping Equipment The Entrepreneurship Garage offers our members on-site prototyping equipment to assist with their entrepreneurial projects. Make a Reservation Mentorship Program The goal of the Entrepreneurship Mentors Program is to accelerate the growth of our students through connections to a tribe of mentors that volunteer their valuable time to help our entrepreneurs succeed. Learn More Upcoming Events Full Calendar Jun 01 Wednesday9:00 AM FemTech Summit 2022 – Hybrid Event Jul 02 Saturday9:00 AM FemTech Summit 2022 – Hybrid Event Entrepreneurship Home 1017 Main Campus Drive, Suite 1650 Raleigh, NC 27606 entrepreneurship@ncsu.edu 919.513.3676 Campus Map <span class=nowrap>aria-hidden="false"> Entrepreneurship Home About NC State Entrepreneurship Staff Resources Contact Us Alliance Resources News Event Calendar Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.