Skip to main content Entrepreneurship Menu Close About Annual Report Connect With Us Give to NC State Entrepreneurship Our Team Results Students Academics Ambassador Program Andrews Launch Accelerator Entrepreneurship Scholarships Experiential Learning Funding Getting Started with Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program Miller Fellowship Trips Community Alumni Entrepreneurship Alliance Entrepreneurship Partners Program Giving Mentorship Program NC State Founders’ Pledge Spaces Albright Entrepreneurs Village Entrepreneurship Garage Entrepreneurship Clinic Garage Classroom NCSU Libraries Makerspaces Events Calendar Entrepalooza Entrepreneurship Competitions Global Entrepreneurship Week eGames Give Now About About Annual Report Connect With Us Give to NC State Entrepreneurship Our Team Results Students Students Academics Ambassador Program Andrews Launch Accelerator Entrepreneurship Scholarships Experiential Learning Funding Getting Started with Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program Miller Fellowship Trips Community Community Alumni Entrepreneurship Alliance Entrepreneurship Partners Program Giving Mentorship Program NC State Founders’ Pledge Spaces Spaces Albright Entrepreneurs Village Entrepreneurship Garage Entrepreneurship Clinic Garage Classroom NCSU Libraries Makerspaces Events Events Calendar Entrepalooza Entrepreneurship Competitions Global Entrepreneurship Week eGames Give Now Albright Entrepreneurs Village Where students turn ideas into reality. The Albright Entrepreneurs Village (AEV), located on Centennial Campus, is NC State’s living and learning community for student entrepreneurs. AEV provides sophomores and above the opportunity to experience entrepreneurship on and off-campus. Residents have the opportunity to explore their interests in a supportive community. Specialized programming includes mentorship and networking events, trips and tours, and regular meetings with alumni and startup founders. Villagers also benefit from joining like-minded peers, and peer mentors, and having access to competitions and social events all designed to expand your entrepreneurial skills and mindset in a fun environment. Village Benefits EI 100 VILLAGE COURSE The Village offers a 1-credit class during the fall semester of your first year at AEV that brings in speakers and focuses on identifying entrepreneurial opportunities and skill-building to maximize your time in the AEV. VILLAGE TRADITIONS The village also hosts year-round community socials, has a private Slack channel to communicate, and has been known to throw an awesome end-of-year BBQ, among other traditions! HANDS-ON EXPERIENCE The Village promotes entrepreneurial thinking and leadership development through “hands-on” activities and community speakers to gain valuable knowledge. The Village also offers design simulations and competitions with prizes to support students building ventures and encourages skill development across all disciplines and career pathways. PEER AND PROFFESSIONAL MENTORS The Village provides professional and peer mentorship opportunities for our students to promote venture and professional skills growth for aspiring entrepreneurs. This includes eConnect, our digital advice-seeking platform featuring mentors from many different industries. TRIPS AND TOURS Village residents have the opportunity to attend multiple local startup tours throughout the year and an annual trip to a new city. Past annual trips have included Washington D.C. and Chicago. In addition, many Village residents take part in the fall break trip to New York City and the spring break trip to Silicon Valley offered by NC State Entrepreneurship. LIVE IN WOLF RIDGE The Albright Entrepreneurs Village is located in Innovation Hall in Wolf Ridge Apartments on Centennial Campus. Wolf Ridge and Innovation Hall include many wonderful amenities listed below. Multiple washers and dryers on every floor Dishwashers in each apartment On-site dining at On The Oval Culinary Creations On-site fitness center with free weights and cardio equipment Full-size beach volleyball court, ping pong table, and VR equipment Dedicated resident parking and a WolfLine bus stop right behind the building I find it fascinating to learn about new things and innovative ideas, and I feel that the people in AEV very much have this mindset! Katie Nelson Albright Entrepreneurship Villager How to Join Applications for the Albright Entrepreneurs Village open in early spring during housing selection for fall move-in. Schedule a meeting with us to learn more about the Village experience, tour a sample apartment or discuss availability options. ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS FOR ADMISSION Currently have and maintain at least a 2.0 GPA Have no active or pending conduct or academic integrity cases Be eligible to live in Wolf Ridge Apartments (Transfer, Sophomore, Junior, Senior, Graduate) Applications for Wolf Ridge Apartments and the Village may be accessed through MyPack Portal. Spots fill up quickly so be sure to apply or make contact with the village director as soon as possible! Field Experiences at AEV Villagers learn about entrepreneurship outside of the classroom as a part of our regular field experiences. We visit social enterprise startups, tech startups, arts ventures and alumni-owned businesses of all kinds. Previous Image1 of 5 Next Image History of the AEV Andy Albright, the co-founder and president/CEO of National Agents Alliance (NAA), and his wife Jane made a $5,000,000 gift to establish the Albright Entrepreneurs Village on Centennial Campus for student entrepreneurs. The Albright’s gift marks the first-named living and learning village at the university. Read more Village Happenings on the “Gram” Keep up with the Village on social media using the hashtag #AlbrightVillage. Get In Touch Whether you want to learn more about the village, ask questions about the application process or want to chat about partnerships – we’re here for you! HH Haley Huie Director of Experiential Learning and Albright Entrepreneurship Village ncstateent The Andrews Launch Accelerator helps NC State ... Open There is no doubt the Albright Entrepreneurs ... Open The strength of the wolf is the pack... 🐺 ... Open "My name is Juliana Bohland and I am a ... Open Mark your calendars! 📆 The next ... Open Pro-Series: Make It, Snap It, Sell It gives ... Open A weekend FULL of all-out innovation. Students ... Open NC State Entrepreneurship serves as a unifying hub... Open Katie Lawson (@katie_lawson10) came to @ncstate ... Open We are so thankful to have had such an amazing ... Open Five student teams battled it out in front of the ... Open 🚨Entrepreneurship Student Takeover🚨 ... Open Back in 2016, Andy Albright (@andysalbright) and ... Open "When I committed to my study abroad semester... Open It seems fitting that the last #MentorshipMeetup ... Open #DidYouKnow that @ncstatehousing applications for ... Open There is no doubt that taking the dive into ... Open "When I came to NC State I knew what I wanted... Open Celebrate #WomenInEntrepreneurship Week with us at... Open Are you planning your spring schedule? Have you ... Open Entrepreneurship Home 1017 Main Campus Drive, Suite 1650 Raleigh, NC 27606 entrepreneurship@ncsu.edu 919.513.3676 Campus Map <span class=nowrap>aria-hidden="false"> Entrepreneurship Home About NC State Entrepreneurship Staff Resources Contact Us Alliance Resources News Event Calendar Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.