Skip to main content Entrepreneurship Menu Close About Annual Report Connect With Us Give to NC State Entrepreneurship Our Team Results Students Academics Ambassador Program Andrews Launch Accelerator Entrepreneurship Scholarships Experiential Learning Funding Getting Started with Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program Miller Fellowship Trips Community Alumni Entrepreneurship Alliance Entrepreneurship Partners Program Giving Mentorship Program NC State Founders’ Pledge Spaces Albright Entrepreneurs Village Entrepreneurship Garage Entrepreneurship Clinic Garage Classroom NCSU Libraries Makerspaces Events Calendar Entrepalooza Entrepreneurship Competitions Global Entrepreneurship Week eGames Give Now About About Annual Report Connect With Us Give to NC State Entrepreneurship Our Team Results Students Students Academics Ambassador Program Andrews Launch Accelerator Entrepreneurship Scholarships Experiential Learning Funding Getting Started with Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program Miller Fellowship Trips Community Community Alumni Entrepreneurship Alliance Entrepreneurship Partners Program Giving Mentorship Program NC State Founders’ Pledge Spaces Spaces Albright Entrepreneurs Village Entrepreneurship Garage Entrepreneurship Clinic Garage Classroom NCSU Libraries Makerspaces Events Events Calendar Entrepalooza Entrepreneurship Competitions Global Entrepreneurship Week eGames Give Now Andrews Launch Accelerator Now accepting applications! Apply by March 30, 2022. Apply Now The Andrews Launch Accelerator helps NC State founders turn their visions into reality. The NC State Acceleration Fund is the product of a $1,000,000 donation from Lyn and Chip Andrews. Through the fund, we allocate equity-free seed capital to startups that complete the Andrews Launch Accelerator. The purpose of the Accelerator is to give NC State founders the opportunity to jumpstart their entrepreneurial journey. We provide founders with funding, resources, and guidance to take their startup to the next level. During our 14-weeks summer program, NC State startup founders get to work on their concepts and build their companies. The program is structured with learning modules that steer companies in the right direction. Each module covers key entrepreneurial topics such as customer discovery, product development and fundraising. The modules end with our Demo Day where companies get to pitch to the top investors in the Raleigh-Durham area. 20+ companies Have participated in the Andrews Launch Accelerator Over 2 MM in revenue Generated by ALA companies in 2021 despite the pandemic Up to $50,000 Participating startups can receive between $5,000 and $50,000 in equity-free grants Program Details and FAQs How much funding is offered to participants? Startups can receive between $5,000 and $50,000 in equity-free grants. The amount awarded will be determined by the Accelerator committee on a case-by-case basis. What is the 14-week program like? This year’s program will kick off in May 2022. The meetings vary between dedicated team meetings, where subject matters experts decompose critical subjects and strategies that companies can leverage and one-on-one development sessions. Additionally, the Accelerator brings accomplished entrepreneurs and investors every week that will share their take on how our startups can achieve success. The program concludes with “Demo Day,” in which the cohort pitch their company in front of the Raleigh community and investors in late August. Take a look at 2020’s demo day pitches. Are there additional program perks in addition to the funding? In addition to non-dilutive capital, grant recipients may receive the following: $10,000 in Amazon Web Services credits $3,000 in Google Cloud credits Pro bono legal services (corporate structure & documentation) Pro bono accounting services (corporate accounting setup) Access to banking relationships Access to angel investment & venture capitalist networks Mentorship Talent acquisition/recruiting services Access to the NC State Entrepreneurship Clinic space Who Qualifies? Any team with an NC State team member qualifies for funding and participation. At least one team member must be an NC State undergraduate (junior/senior) or graduate student, or a recent alumnus (up to 5 years from graduation) from any NC State program. The CEO of every team needs to commit to attending in person all the Accelerator Modules. What is the timeline from start to finish? Apply Now! Applications for the 2022 cohort are now open! The applications will close on March 30, 2022, at midnight. Please email hehuie@ncsu.edu if you have any questions. Apply Now Andrews Launch Accelerator now accepting applications With summer just around the corner, applications have just opened for the Andrews Launch Accelerator (ALA). Learn More Meet Our Entrepreneurs Explore four start-up companies chosen to complete the Andrews Launch Accelerator summer program. Meet the 2021 Cohort Accelerator News Sani Sani, a clothing brand offering South Asian inspired fashion for a new generation, is a true family affair with co-founding sisters Niki and Ritika Shamdasani running the show Learn more about Sani Vetletics At the beginning of her veterinary school career, Irina Perdew was struck with an idea: a pneumatic compression device designed specifically for horses. Her vision – now a reality – is the flagship device for Vetletics. Learn more about Vetletics Sol Language is powerful. It’s that realization that led Poole College graduate Jeyashree Haridoss, to found Sol, a platform that instantly connects immigrants and refugees with interpreters. Learn more about Sol Simpliworks Recent Poole College graduate Malik McCray applied his previous experience working as an Amazon reseller for manufacturers when founding Simpliworks, a company that aims to make effective online advertising accessible to businesses of all kinds and sizes. Learn More About Simpliworks Entrepreneurship Home 1017 Main Campus Drive, Suite 1650 Raleigh, NC 27606 entrepreneurship@ncsu.edu 919.513.3676 Campus Map <span class=nowrap>aria-hidden="false"> Entrepreneurship Home About NC State Entrepreneurship Staff Resources Contact Us Alliance Resources News Event Calendar Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.