Skip to main content Entrepreneurship News Menu Close Students Alumni Faculty and Staff Thought Leadership News facebook twitter linked in email Students Alumni Faculty and Staff Thought Leadership News Published on November 16, 2021 NC State Ranked No. 1 Entrepreneurship Program in the Southeast NC State continues to earn national recognition as one of the nation’s best undergraduate and graduate entrepreneurship programs in the nation by the Princeton Review and Entrepreneur magazine. We ranked No. 1 in the Southeast for both undergraduate… How Your Support Helps our Pack Announcing the First Frank J. Newlands, M.D. Entrepreneurship Scholars Scholarship support enables greater success in college by allowing students to have more time to focus on their studies. Learn more about the latest addition to the robust group of entrepreneurship scholarships – The Frank J. Newlands, M.D. Entrepreneurship Scholarship. 2021 Entrepreneurship Scholars Announced NC State Entrepreneurship Scholarships are awarded to hardworking NC State students who have outstanding achievements in or involvements with entrepreneurship activities. Michael Evans – Co-Founder and CFO, Park Scholar, 2x Statistics Graduate and Miller Fellow Michael Evans knew a Statistics major would give him highly sought-after transferable skills, but little did he know it would also open a door to the world of entrepreneurship. Alumni The entreprenuerial spirit of NC State alumni generates positive impacts around the world. More stories 2022 eGames Winners Announced Meet Rachel Harris — Entrepreneurship Ambassador, Engineer and Singer Equestrian Student Entrepreneur Excels at NC State Tran Nguyen, Winner of the February Design Challenge Series Thought Leadership April 6, 2022 Tran Nguyen, Winner of the February Design Challenge Series April 4, 2022 Getting Started with Entrepreneurship: Recommendations from Eren Hebert March 23, 2022 Getting Started with Entrepreneurship: Recommendations from Beryl Pittman Be the First to Know Subscribe to our weekly newsletter and have exciting updates, featured blogs and important deadlines delivered straight to your inbox. Email Address* Name This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Δ Connect with us on social Facebook Facebook Twitter Twitter Instagram Instagram LinkedIn LinkedIn Alliance The Entrepreneurship Alliance unites thier efforts and work together to create a powerful entrepreneurial ecosystem at NC State. More stories 2022 eGames Winners Announced Tran Nguyen, Winner of the February Design Challenge Series Getting Started with Entrepreneurship: Recommendations from Eren Hebert EEP Team Represents NC State at the 2022 ACC InVenture Prize Entrepreneurship Competition Upcoming Events All Events Jun 01 Wednesday9:00 AM FemTech Summit 2022 – Hybrid Event Jul 02 Saturday9:00 AM FemTech Summit 2022 – Hybrid Event Entrepreneurship Home 1017 Main Campus Drive, Suite 1650 Raleigh, NC 27606 entrepreneurship@ncsu.edu 919.513.3676 Campus Map <span class=nowrap>aria-hidden="false"> Entrepreneurship Home About NC State Entrepreneurship Staff Resources Contact Us Alliance Resources News Event Calendar Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.