What We Do Startup Directory Calendar Newsroom Resources Quick Links Startup Lab Design Studio Annual Report StartupColumbia Festival Columbia Venture Competition DFSI The nexus of entrepreneurship, innovation, and design thinking at Columbia University. Under the Office of the President. What We Do The ecosystem around innovation at Columbia is vibrant, brilliant, and cutting edge. No two startup journeys are the same, so the University is ready to catch you wherever you are in your journey: from idea to launch and beyond. Resources $15.3B Money raised by Columbia startups in the past 12 months $6.4M Awards granted annually to Columbia startups by Columbia University $99B Reported acquisitions of Columbia startups in the last 5 years 3K+ Columbia startups created in the last decade Ready For Success? Here are all the tools you need to get started The Startup Journey Here are external resources for getting your idea off the ground, as well as a comprehensive list of all the places around the University that can help you start up. 01 Legal Startup Resources What you need to make it official and incorporate your startup. Learn More 02 Pitching and Fundraising Sample templates and advice to get you started on raising money for your startup. Learn More 03 Your Startup Toolkit External resources for the fundamentals of entrepreneurship, building your business model, networking, and getting inspiration. Learn More 04 Campus Centers Columbia has entrepreneurship hubs across the University and dedicated teams at each school! Get to know the resources that can help you on your entrepreneurship journey. Learn More Meet The Pride Meet our Advisory Council and influential Columbia voices in  the entrepreneurship ecosystem. Donnel Baird'13BUS Donnel Baird '13BUS Donnel Baird is the founder of BlocPower, a startup that markets, finances and installs solar and energy efficiency technology to help houses of worship, non-profits, small businesses and multifamily projects to slash their energy costs. Read More Jolyne Caruso-Fitzgerald’81 Barnard Jolyne Caruso-Fitzgerald ’81 Barnard Jolyne is a Divisional Vice Chairman at UBS in the firm’s Ultra High Net Worth (UHNW) division within the Global Wealth Management business. Read More Kesha Cash’10BUS Kesha Cash ’10BUS Dubbed a “Top Five Gamechanger” by Forbes and a “Power Investor” by Essence, Kesha Cash founded Impact America Fund (IAF) to harness market opportunities overlooked by traditional investors. Read More Steve Blank Steve Blank Blank, credited with starting the Lean Startup movement, is Columbia’s Senior Fellow for Entrepreneurship. He is the author of The Four Steps to the Epiphany, The Startup Owner’s Manual and his May 2013 Harvard Business Review cover story defined the Lean Startup movement. Read More Jesse Coors-Blankenship'10GSAPP Jesse Coors-Blankenship '10GSAPP Formerly the founder of integrated design optimization platform Frustum (acquired), Blankenship is now the Founder & Managing Partner at Parkway Venture Capital. Read More Shawn Edwards Shawn Edwards Shawn Edwards is Bloomberg’s Chief Technology Officer. Read More Lew Frankfurt'69CBS Lew Frankfurt '69CBS Lew Frankfort is a co-founder of Benvolio Group, an investment firm that focuses on direct investing in early stage disruptive consumer-facing brands. Read More Ben Fried'88CC Ben Fried '88CC Ben Fried is Google’s Chief Information Officer, overseeing the technologies that make Googlers go. Read More Jared Hecht’09CC Jared Hecht ’09CC Jared Hecht is a co-founder and the CEO at Fundera, an online marketplace for small business financial solutions. Read More Sarah Holloway’03SIPA Sarah Holloway ’03SIPA Sarah Holloway is a member of the faculty at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs (SIPA) where she teaches social entrepreneurship and nonprofit management. Read More Ben Horowitz'88CC Ben Horowitz '88CC Ben Horowitz is a cofounder and general partner of the leading venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz and The New York Times bestselling author of The Hard Thing About Hard Things, which is now available in over 16 languages. Read More Deborah Jackson'80BUS Deborah Jackson '80BUS Deborah Jackson is a founder and entrepreneur, early-stage investor and former investment banker. She is the Founder and CEO of Plum Alley Investments. Read More Cyrus Massoumi'03BUS Cyrus Massoumi '03BUS Cyrus Massoumi is Managing Partner and Founder of humbition, an early stage venture firm focused on NYC startups. Prior to this, he served as the Founder and CEO of ZocDoc. Read More Alan Patricof'57 BUS Alan Patricof '57 BUS Alan Patricof is a legendary venture capitalist and one of the field’s early pioneers. He is Co-Founder and Chairman Emeritus at Greycroft and Founding Partner and Chairman at Primetime Partners. Read More Mark Redman'95LAW Mark Redman '95LAW Mark C. Redman is a vice president and co-general counsel of Hearst, a leading global, diversified media, information and services company. Read More Dr. Amol Sarva’98CC Dr. Amol Sarva ’98CC Dr. Amol Sarva is a technology entrepreneur who co-founded Knotel, Halo Neuroscience, Knotable, Peek and Virgin Mobile. Read More Phillip Satow’63CC Phillip Satow ’63CC Phillip M. Satow is currently Chairman of the Board of Directors of JDS Therapeutics, an innovative health care company and parent company of Nutrition 21, LLC, and a leader in the nutritional supplement industry. Read More Martin Varsavsky'83SIPA | '85BUS Martin Varsavsky '83SIPA | '85BUS Entrepreneur and philanthropist Martín Varsavsky, ’83SIPA, ’85BUS, was called “Young, Reach, and Restless” by Forbes Magazine for obvious reasons: in 1984, while still in school, Varsavsky founded one of the early developers of loft apartments in New York City, Urban Capital Corporation. Read More Liz Wilkes’13BUS Liz Wilkes ’13BUS Liz Wilkes is the founder and CEO of Exubrancy (Acquired), a leading workplace wellness company. Read More George D. Yancopoulos’80CC | '86GF | ’87CUMC George D. Yancopoulos ’80CC | '86GF | ’87CUMC George D. Yancopoulos, M.D./Ph.D., is Regeneron’s co-Founder, President, and Chief Scientific Officer. Read More Upcoming Events Jun 01 Summer 2022 Open Studio Hours – By Appointment Recurring Event Wednesday, June 1 12:00AM – 11:59PM View All COLUMBIA STARTUP LAB (CSL) A 5,100 sq. ft. co-working space home to over 70 Columbia alumni entrepreneurs Visit CSL CSL - Morningside The 4th floor of Riverside Church has facilities dedicated to current Columbia students interested in entrepreneurship and human-centered design Visit CSL-Morningside In The Newsroom Entrepreneur of the Year 2022: Ryan Petersen '08CBS May 13, 2022 News Entrepreneur of the Year 2022: Nthabiseng Mosia '16SIPA May 11, 2022 News View All Twitter Feeds @columbiaeship View All Subscribe to Mailing List First Name* Last Name* Email* Columbia Affiliation (if any, optional) This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. Learn more here. About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University | Sitemap | Disclaimer | Site by Barrel Subscribe to Mailing List First Name* Last Name* Email* Columbia Affiliation (if any, optional) This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. Learn more here.