Skip to main content Entrepreneurship Menu Close About Annual Report Connect With Us Give to NC State Entrepreneurship Our Team Results Students Academics Ambassador Program Andrews Launch Accelerator Entrepreneurship Scholarships Experiential Learning Funding Getting Started with Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program Miller Fellowship Trips Community Alumni Entrepreneurship Alliance Entrepreneurship Partners Program Giving Mentorship Program NC State Founders’ Pledge Spaces Albright Entrepreneurs Village Entrepreneurship Garage Entrepreneurship Clinic Garage Classroom NCSU Libraries Makerspaces Events Calendar Entrepalooza Entrepreneurship Competitions Global Entrepreneurship Week eGames Give Now About About Annual Report Connect With Us Give to NC State Entrepreneurship Our Team Results Students Students Academics Ambassador Program Andrews Launch Accelerator Entrepreneurship Scholarships Experiential Learning Funding Getting Started with Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program Miller Fellowship Trips Community Community Alumni Entrepreneurship Alliance Entrepreneurship Partners Program Giving Mentorship Program NC State Founders’ Pledge Spaces Spaces Albright Entrepreneurs Village Entrepreneurship Garage Entrepreneurship Clinic Garage Classroom NCSU Libraries Makerspaces Events Events Calendar Entrepalooza Entrepreneurship Competitions Global Entrepreneurship Week eGames Give Now NC State Founders’ Pledge Paving the way for future entrepreneurs Make the Pledge Pledge now. Connect early. Give when you’re ready. As NC State alumni, friends and entrepreneurs, you know what it means to think and do the extraordinary better than most. Now, you can help student start-up creators follow in your visionary footsteps and raise the visibility of NC State by taking the Founders’ Pledge. The Founders’ Pledge is a personal and nonbinding commitment to make a gift back to NC State at some point in the future: when you have an exit, IPO, or stream of steady revenue. Your pledge can be made for any amount, can be paid at any time, and you can choose how your gift is designated at the university. You don’t have to decide your Pledge amount now. Your promise of future support signifies your commitment to NC State and helps us empower the next generation of NC State entrepreneurs and future-focused individuals. Here at NC State, we know that the strength of the wolf is the Pack. Take the Founders’ Pledge today and help us further our mission of creating economic, societal, and intellectual prosperity for all. Take the Founders’ Pledge. Fuel the dreams of tomorrow’s graduates. Join a cohort of proud NC State donors. Support the Pack. Have Questions? TM Todd Marrs Director of Development 919-515-9080 todd_marrs@ncsu.edu Take the Founders’ Pledge It’s simple Join the Pack of Founders’ Pledge donors See who’s done it Fuel the dreams of tomorrow’s graduates View Stories FAQ What is the NC State Founders’ Pledge? NC State’s Founders’ Pledge program is designed to raise the visibility of NC State Entrepreneurship and inspire future philanthropic support of the university. Through the Founders’ Pledge, alumni and friends make a nonbinding promise to make a gift back to NC State when they achieve a level of success, such as an exit, IPO or steady stream of revenue. Founders’ Pledges do not require a gift now. They are considered “good faith” pledges that will be fulfilled at some point in the future. Those who make a Founders’ Pledge can decide when to fulfill their respective pledges, the amount of their gifts and how their gifts will be designated at the university, e.g. a specific program, department or initiative. How does it work? Just complete the simple Pledge Form to get started. When the timing is right for you – after an acquisition, IPO or steady period of growth – our team will help you fulfill your Founders’ Pledge by making a gift to the university in the way that is most advantageous for you. Who can make a Founders’ Pledge? Company founders, principal investors and stakeholders are invited to make a Founders’ Pledge to NC State. Many of the individuals who make a Founders’ Pledge will have formed a legal entity, company or nonprofit, but this is not a requirement for making a Founders’ Pledge. Why should I take the Pledge? When you take the Founders’ Pledge you will join an exclusive cohort of leaders who have committed to supporting NC State. You will gain insider access to NC State Entrepreneurship’s network of thought leaders and mentors, and your Pledge will motivate and inspire future generations of entrepreneurs. Do I have to decide my Pledge amount now? No. You can decide your Pledge amount later. All that’s needed today is your promise of future support. Is there a minimum Pledge amount? No. You can decide the amount of your gift when you are ready. A Founders’ Pledge is intended to be a “stretch” gift marking an accomplishment or milestone of success in your entrepreneurial journey. As a result, Founders’ Pledges can be made for any amount. What are the tax ramifications of making a Founders’ Pledge? There are no tax ramifications for making a Founders’ Pledge. Tax considerations come into play when fulfilling the Pledge, just as they would with any other charitable contribution. Gifts to NC State University are tax-deductible to the fullest extent of the law. How can I learn more about the Founders’ Pledge? Alumni and friends can easily signal their desire to make a Founders’ Pledge through a form on the NC State Entrepreneurship website or by contacting program staff at 919-513-3676 or entrepreneurship@ncsu.edu. When the time is right to fulfill a Founders’ Pledge, members of NC State’s University Development team can help arrange the transfer of the gift to the university in a way that is most advantageous to the Founders’ Pledge Donor. Can I fulfill my Founders’ Pledge by gifting shares of my startup company to NC State? Yes, this is one of several ways you can fulfill your Founders’ Pledge. If you’re considering gifting shares of a startup company, please contact us early to learn about the process. How can I learn more about the Founders’ Pledge? You can easily signal your desire to make a Founders’ Pledge using this simple Pledge Form or by contacting Todd Marrs at 919-515-9080 or todd_marrs@ncsu.edu. When you are ready to fulfill your Founders’ Pledge, members of NC State’s University Development team can help arrange the transfer of the gift to the university in a way that is most advantageous to you. Pave the Way Interested in making the NC State Founders’ Pledge? Complete the form below and our team will contact you. Make the Pledge Entrepreneurship Home 1017 Main Campus Drive, Suite 1650 Raleigh, NC 27606 entrepreneurship@ncsu.edu 919.513.3676 Campus Map <span class=nowrap>aria-hidden="false"> Entrepreneurship Home About NC State Entrepreneurship Staff Resources Contact Us Alliance Resources News Event Calendar Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.