Skip to main content Entrepreneurship News Menu Close Students Alumni Faculty and Staff Thought Leadership 2022 eGames Winners Announced facebook twitter linked in email Students Alumni Faculty and Staff Thought Leadership Alliance 2022 eGames Winners Announced See who won NC State’s largest entrepreneurship competition awarding over $100,000! April 22, 2022 Jaclyn McVey Travis McKay of Spir Medical accepts 1st place with Mr. and Mrs. Wuf on stage On Monday, April 18, the NC State entrepreneurship community gathered in person to watch the 2022 eGames Award Ceremony emceed by NC State alumni and Fox Sports reporter, Amanda Busick. Originating in 2009, the eGames is NC State’s largest annual startup competition awarding over $100,000 in cash prizes to NC State entrepreneurs. There are two tracks for the competition — the student track and the Daugherty Endowment Track for officially registered startup companies that have licensed NC State intellectual property in the past three years. Student teams compete in two categories — “Think” and “Do.” The “Think” category is for teams in the early stages of their venture, as early as just an idea. The “Do” category is for students with an established startup that is looking to grow or scale, and may have existing customers, products, or investment. All participating student teams — including finalists and non-finalists — were also able to compete for Extraordinary Impact Awards in Social and Environmental Impact, Design and Prototype, Arts, and Built on Cloud. Officially registered startup companies who have licensed NC State intellectual property in the past three years were allowed to compete in the Daugherty Endowment track, offering $50,000 in prize money to winners of this track. Team Cervu takes the stage as the first live elevator pitch of the evening I love seeing the creative energy that flows from the teams presenting at the eGames. This year was no exception. With students being back on campus and eager to show off the ventures they’ve been working on, there was a large turnout of applicants for this year’s eGames. 49 student teams applied, however, only 10 student teams could make it to the final round after preliminary judging by judges across the country. The competition culminates in the Awards Ceremony, where after pitching to the live audience and taking home cash prizes, student teams got to showcase their businesses at the expo event co-hosted by the NC State Alumni Entrepreneurs Network. “I love seeing the creative energy that flows from the teams presenting at the eGames. This year was no exception. The energy and excitement carried over into the expo, as well. You know it’s been a successful event when people are still deeply engaged in conversations at the end of the evening,” said Dr. Tom Miller, Senior Vice Provost Entrepreneurship and McPherson Family Distinguished Professor. eGames judge Chisa Brookes meets with Audience Choice winners Straight Shot Below is a recap of all the 2022 eGames winners. We thank all the contestants for their enthusiastic participation and their creative efforts to improve their communities and the lives of many people with the innovation and entrepreneurial spirit the Wolfpack is known for! IMPACT AWARDS These awards are given to teams showing exceptional promise or impact in four particular areas: the Arts, Social and Environmental Impact, Design and Prototype, and Built on Cloud. $2,000 Arts Impact Award Winners Brought to you by the NC State Department of Music’s Arts Entrepreneurship program Pack Illustrator Pack Illustrator is creating sustainable, unique packaging for handmade soaps. Team Members: Tran Nguyen | College of Engineering Sierra Gnecco | College of Engineering Lumanote Lumanote uses colored-lights that illuminate piano keys to assist in learning the instrument, or to add visual flair. Team Members: David Glymph | College of Engineering $2,000 Social and Environmental Impact Award Brought to you by Larry Spera Spir Medical Spir Medical is creating a bag valve mask resuscitation device. Team Members: Travis McKay | College of Engineering EduNormal EduNormal is developing easily-presented, reliable resources on challenges faced by transgender, Spanish-speaking persons. Team Members: Wendy Rivero Pena | College of Agriculture and Life Sciences $2,000 Design and Prototype Award Spir Medical Spir Medical is creating a bag valve mask resuscitation device. Team Members: Travis McKay | College of Engineering MachOne Printing MachOne Printing is creating more options for entry-level RC plane building. Team Members: Kaleb Estridge | College of Engineering + College of Natural Resources $2,000 Built on Cloud Award Brought to you by IBM Wolfpack Medical Wolfpack Medical is working on the Sawyer Junctional Tourniquet, an emergency trauma tourniquet. Team Members: James White | College of Engineering Alan Rosenbaum | College of Engineering Robin Brocato | College of Engineering Kelsey Ling | College of Engineering Danielle Zenner | Poole College of Management Spir Medical Spir Medical is creating a bag valve mask resuscitation device. Team Members: Travis McKay | College of Engineering DAUGHERTY ENDOWMENT AWARDS The Daugherty Endowment awards ventures that have licensed NC State technology in the past three years. This category is made possible through The Richard and Marlene Daugherty Entrepreneurialism Endowment and the Kenan Institute for Engineering, Technology and Sciences and is held in partnership with NC State’s Centennial Campus’ Office of Partnerships and Economic Development and the Office of Research Commercialization. $25,000 First Place: Vizma Vizma Life Sciences is developing next-generation, low-cost molecular imaging as an alternative to existing medical imaging technologies to deliver unprecedented diagnostic power that is safer and more convenient. Team Members: Thomas Theis Patrick TomHon Carlos Dedesma $15,000 Second Place: Mammae Mammae Biosciences is working to commercialize a cost-effective and scalable method for producing LacNAc, a key probiotic and beneficial, health-promoting human milk oligosaccharide (HMO), to meet the growing consumer demand for foods containing HMOs. Team Members: José M. Bruno-Bárcena $10,000 Third Place: DNAli DNAli Data Technologies is developing an end-to-end DNA data storage platform to enable long lasting and eternally relevant data storage that is also sustainable and environmentally friendly. Team Members: Kyle Tomek Albert Keung James Tuck STUDENT AWARDS: “THINK” Teams in the “Think” category are in the early stages of startup development. These teams may just have an idea or are currently seeking customers or further business validation. $9,000 First Place: Spir Medical Spir Medical is creating a bag valve mask resuscitation device. Team Members: Travis McKay | College of Engineering $7,000 Second Place: Rampart Crop Defense Rampart Crop Defense is combating crop death by mildew prevention. Team Members: Samuel Brown | Poole College of Management Ramya Vijapurapu | College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Taylor Vickers | College of Engineering Austin Ladner | College of Engineering $4,000 Third Place: Cervu Cervu is seeking to improve access to care and the effectiveness of PFPT to result in better outcomes. Team Members: Abigail Scheer | College of Design Alan Rosenbaum | College of Engineering STUDENT AWARDS: “DO” The “Do” category represents student teams that are looking to grow or scale their venture. These teams may have investment, customers or working product they are looking to bring to market at scale. $10,000 First Place: Wolfpack Medical Wolfpack Medical is working on the Sawyer Junctional Tourniquet, an emergency trauma tourniquet. Team Members: James White | College of Engineering Alan Rosenbaum | College of Engineering Robin Brocato | College of Engineering Kelsey Ling | College of Engineering Danielle Zenner | Poole College of Management $8,500 Second Place: Dyelation Dyelation creates sustainable, proprietary thermoglow ink for apparel. Team Members: Arissa Wheeler | College of Design $6,500 Third Place: ByteSize Learning BytzeSize Learning has developed fun and engaging learning courses for elementary through high school students. Team Members: Ayden Hochstein | College of Sciences Thanks to Our Sponsors The eGames is made possible thanks to the financial support of IBM, Carimus, Eastman Chemicals, The Variable, SDE Software Development Europe, NC State Arts and the Daugherty Endowment with funding partnership from the Kenan Institute for Engineering, Technology & Science and collaboration with the NC State Office of Partnerships and Office of Research Commercialization. In addition to this we would like to thank our in-kind sponsors Holly Jean Jackson, Business Builder Accelerator, Patent Hacks and Raleigh Founded for their support of student entrepreneurs. We also thank our wonderful judges who volunteered their time to make the eGames judging possible. To learn more about the eGames visit go.ncsu.edu/e-games. Categories: Alliance Alumni Faculty/Staff Newswire Students Tags: nc state college of agriculture and life sciences nc state college of design nc state college of natural resources nc state college of sciences nc state engineering NC State Entrepreneurship nc state poole college of management View Comments 0 total responses Leave a Response Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. All fields are required. Comment * Name * Email * Δ More Entrepreneurship News Tran Nguyen, Winner of the February Design Challenge Series Getting Started with Entrepreneurship: Recommendations from Eren Hebert EEP Team Represents NC State at the 2022 ACC InVenture Prize Entrepreneurship Competition Entrepreneurship Home 1017 Main Campus Drive, Suite 1650 Raleigh, NC 27606 entrepreneurship@ncsu.edu 919.513.3676 Campus Map <span class=nowrap>aria-hidden="false"> Entrepreneurship Home About NC State Entrepreneurship Staff Resources Contact Us Alliance Resources News Event Calendar Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.