Skip to main content Entrepreneurship Menu Close About Annual Report Connect With Us Give to NC State Entrepreneurship Our Team Results Students Academics Ambassador Program Andrews Launch Accelerator Entrepreneurship Scholarships Experiential Learning Funding Getting Started with Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program Miller Fellowship Trips Community Alumni Entrepreneurship Alliance Entrepreneurship Partners Program Giving Mentorship Program NC State Founders’ Pledge Spaces Albright Entrepreneurs Village Entrepreneurship Garage Entrepreneurship Clinic Garage Classroom NCSU Libraries Makerspaces Events Calendar Entrepalooza Entrepreneurship Competitions Global Entrepreneurship Week eGames Give Now About About Annual Report Connect With Us Give to NC State Entrepreneurship Our Team Results Students Students Academics Ambassador Program Andrews Launch Accelerator Entrepreneurship Scholarships Experiential Learning Funding Getting Started with Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program Miller Fellowship Trips Community Community Alumni Entrepreneurship Alliance Entrepreneurship Partners Program Giving Mentorship Program NC State Founders’ Pledge Spaces Spaces Albright Entrepreneurs Village Entrepreneurship Garage Entrepreneurship Clinic Garage Classroom NCSU Libraries Makerspaces Events Events Calendar Entrepalooza Entrepreneurship Competitions Global Entrepreneurship Week eGames Give Now Alumni NC State entrepreneurs don’t lose touch once they leave campus. Our alumni come back, collaborate and share their insights with the next generation. Enterprising for Life Grow Our Network Membership of the NC State Alumni Association is open to past and present students and to friends of the university. Join today NC State’s commitment to its budding entrepreneurs doesn’t end when they graduate. Many of the entrepreneurship resources available to students are also available to alumni — and those alumni form a powerful network of like-minded thinkers and doers. Long after they leave here, our graduates can connect with the other alumni entrepreneurs; attend one of our dedicated events; seek help from the Small Business Technical Development Center, collaborate with companies that sprang from our campus through the Wolfpack Investor Network; and take advantage of the many services we offer to startup companies and other partners. At NC State, we foster serial entrepreneurs and lifelong learners. We’re proud of our Wolfpack alumni, their big ideas and all that they achieve in the wider world. Stay connected with the Wolfpack Alumni Entrepreneurs Network The NC State Alumni Entrepreneurs Network is a hundreds-strong organization for current entrepreneurs, future startup founders and the wider university community. Get involved Wolfpack Investor Network The Wolfpack Investor Network is an exclusive alliance for investors seeking to team up with game-changing companies that share a connection to NC State. Become a member Mentors Program Are you an alumni entrepreneur? Help mentor the next generation of entrepreneurs through the NC State Entrepreneurship Mentors Program. Become a mentor Pack Proud NC State alumni are everywhere in the world of entrepreneurship. They include the founders of multinational companies like analytics software developer SAS and electronics giant Cree. But they’re also urban beekeepers, craft brewers, medical device manufacturers, award-winning chefs and everything in between. Many of our graduates maintain close ties to NC State, returning to lend their insights and expertise — as well as their resources — to the university’s broader entrepreneurship effort. From supporting NC State’s campaign to Think and Do the Extraordinary to just meeting with enterprising students and giving them guidance, our alumni are a key element of the university’s entrepreneurial mindset. Alumni Resources Andrews Accelerator The Andrews Launch Accelerator helps current students and recent graduates (up to five years) cover startup-related expenses and get the help they need to move their venture forward. Events Entrepreneurship takes place all year round at NC State, and we want our alumni here with us. From large-scale signature events to regular networking opportunities with student entrepreneurs, there are lots of ways you can stay connected with the Wolfpack. Miller Fellowship The Dr. Thomas Kenan Miller III program bridges the gap between graduation and pursuing a startup full time by providing a short-term salary and other resources for the first six months after graduation. Our alumni in action Entrepreneurs Flexing with the Times Emily Neville and her company, Reborn Clothing Co, is not letting a global pandemic stop the growth of her textiles company. In fact, they are hiring. Read more Poole Alumni Create Website to Pledge Stimulus Checks NC State alumni Kevin Miller and Ryan O’Donnell build Pledge My Check website, encouraging others to pledge a portion of their stimulus check payments to those impacted by COVID-19. Read more Alumni Co-Owned Startup Allows Contractors to Monitor Job Sites Remotely It started as a conversation between two friends; a chat about a pain-point in the construction industry that led to the launch of a new venture – Bedrock Wireless, a company aimed to bring data-forward solutions to construction sites. Read more Entrepreneurship Home 1017 Main Campus Drive, Suite 1650 Raleigh, NC 27606 entrepreneurship@ncsu.edu 919.513.3676 Campus Map <span class=nowrap>aria-hidden="false"> Entrepreneurship Home About NC State Entrepreneurship Staff Resources Contact Us Alliance Resources News Event Calendar Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.