What We Do Startup Directory Calendar Newsroom Resources Quick Links Startup Lab Design Studio Annual Report StartupColumbia Festival Columbia Venture Competition DFSI About Us Richard Witten ’75CC Richard serves as the Special Advisor to the President of Columbia University, a position he assumed after retiring as the Vice Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the University. He is the Founder of Columbia Entrepreneurship, Innovation and Design and a member of the Columbia University Medical Center Board of Advisors, where he chairs the Cancer Advisory Council. Richard is also the Founder and Senior Managing Director of The Orienta Group, an investment and advisory firm, and is a retired General Partner of Goldman Sachs & Co, where he had a senior management role in the firm’s fixed income, currencies, and commodities businesses. Richard is the Co-Chairman of the Board of New York City Center, and a member of the Board of the Harlem Children’s Zone. He also chairs the Board of Advisors of the Ragon Institute, a health research partnership between the Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard University and MIT. Mr. Witten was graduated from Columbia College in the City of New York in 1975, and from Harvard Law School in 1978 (both cum laude). His first novel, Divided Loyalties, was published in 2006. Subscribe to Mailing List First Name* Last Name* Email* Columbia Affiliation (if any, optional) This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. Learn more here. About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University | Sitemap | Disclaimer | Site by Barrel Subscribe to Mailing List First Name* Last Name* Email* Columbia Affiliation (if any, optional) This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. Learn more here.