What We Do Startup Directory Calendar Newsroom Resources Quick Links Startup Lab Design Studio Annual Report StartupColumbia Festival Columbia Venture Competition DFSI News 2022 Columbia Venture Competition Winners – Columbia Journalism Challenge By Columbia Entrepreneurship | May 12, 2022 Every Spring, the Columbia Venture Competition gives out $350,000 dollars in cash prizes to the next generation of Columbia entrepreneurs. Alumni judges from Brooklyn to Bordeaux to Beijing evaluate and advise competitors until three winners are chosen for each challenge track, which this year includes: the BlocPower Columbia Climate Challenge; Columbia-CareOne Healthcare All-Stars Challenge; Brown Institute Innovation Challenge in Journalism, Media, and Technology; the StartupColumbia Challenge; the SIPA Dean’s Public Policy Challenge Grant; the Technology Challenge; and the Undergraduate Challenge. Congratulations to the winners of the Columbia Venture Competition – Columbia Journalism Challenge, sponsored by the Brown Institute for Media Innovation! First Place, $15,000 prize and an internship in the Brown Institute Summer Program Sourceable Sourceable, is an online platform and mobile application that empowers, supports, and connects citizen journalists in conflict and crises zones. Founder: Lena Arkawi ’22SIPA Second Place, $10,000 prize and an internship in the Brown Institute Summer Program CollabWORK CollabWORK is a transparent gig marketplace to help creators and media brands find short-term work and workers to collaborate and tell great stories. Founder: Summer Delaney ’22CBS Third Place, $5,000 prize and an internship in the Brown Institute Summer Program Indian Data Explorer Indian Data Explorer is an organization that liberates Indian public datasets by taking the responsibility of ensuring that any data released by the government is cleaned up, readied and made available freely for the general public. Founder: Sriharsha Devulapalli ’22JRN Honorable Mention, internship in the Brown Institute Summer Program Radical Radical is a web platform where users can have live-audio conversations and share high-definition connection-quality-resistant recordings after talking. Founder: Eugene Joseph ’20JRN The Brown Institute Innovation Challenge in Journalism, Media, and Technology aims to support ventures creating new kinds of content, designing new forms of participation, contributing to our understanding of media and society, or experimenting with entirely new ways to communicate. Successful projects can be either for-profit or non-profit ventures — The Brown Institute is as concerned with business successes as with sustainable social impacts. Brown encourages proposals for new tech-based or tech-enabled forms of media — these might make novel uses of computer vision, AI, NLP, machine learning, data visualization or even VR/AR to create, communicate, and interpret content. Eligible ventures can also be topically aligned, building custom platforms to explore complex issues in new ways. The Brown Institute is housed at Columbia Journalism School and its Innovation Challenge extends a special welcome to ventures that focus on the practice of journalism — developing tools to aid investigations, say, or designing new visualization platforms to experience stories. Projects might also address the business of journalism, perhaps proposing new models for local media or sustainable approaches to delivering content to underserved communities. Share Now Trending NewsStarting Up PressColumbia Founder Nina Tandon on Day One: Making Sci-Fi a Reality News2022 Columbia Venture Competition Winners - Columbia-CareOne Healthcare All-Stars Challenge Lab DispatchesJeremy Yao '20SEAS of Changing Room is Shaking Up the Fashion Industry NewsComing Up in Entrepreneurship - January & February 2022 More Categories Innovator Stories News Press Lab Dispatches Event Recaps Related Posts News 2022 #CoachingColumbia Awards – Stacy Tarver Patterson May 23, 2022 News 2022 #CoachingColumbia Awards – Jeremy Kagan May 23, 2022 News Entrepreneur of the Year 2022: Ryan Petersen ’08CBS May 13, 2022 News 2022 Columbia Venture Competition – Tournament of Champions + Full Li... May 12, 2022 News 2022 Columbia Venture Competition Winners – Columbia-CareOne Healthca... May 12, 2022 News 2022 Columbia Venture Competition Winners – Undergraduate Challenge May 12, 2022 Now Trending PressHow CSL Alum CoinOut Actually Pays You for Your Data News2022 #CoachingColumbia Awards - Jeremy Kagan News2022 Columbia Venture Competition Winners – Undergraduate Challenge PressColumbia Founder Founder Ryan Petersen on the Cover of Forbes NewsEntrepreneur of the Year 2022: Nthabiseng Mosia '16SIPA More Categories Innovator Stories News Press Lab Dispatches Event Recaps Subscribe to Mailing List First Name* Last Name* Email* Columbia Affiliation (if any, optional) This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. Learn more here. About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University | Sitemap | Disclaimer | Site by Barrel Subscribe to Mailing List First Name* Last Name* Email* Columbia Affiliation (if any, optional) This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. Learn more here.