Skip to main content Entrepreneurship Menu Close About Annual Report Connect With Us Give to NC State Entrepreneurship Our Team Results Students Academics Ambassador Program Andrews Launch Accelerator Entrepreneurship Scholarships Experiential Learning Funding Getting Started with Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program Miller Fellowship Trips Community Alumni Entrepreneurship Alliance Entrepreneurship Partners Program Giving Mentorship Program NC State Founders’ Pledge Spaces Albright Entrepreneurs Village Entrepreneurship Garage Entrepreneurship Clinic Garage Classroom NCSU Libraries Makerspaces Events Calendar Entrepalooza Entrepreneurship Competitions Global Entrepreneurship Week eGames Give Now About About Annual Report Connect With Us Give to NC State Entrepreneurship Our Team Results Students Students Academics Ambassador Program Andrews Launch Accelerator Entrepreneurship Scholarships Experiential Learning Funding Getting Started with Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program Miller Fellowship Trips Community Community Alumni Entrepreneurship Alliance Entrepreneurship Partners Program Giving Mentorship Program NC State Founders’ Pledge Spaces Spaces Albright Entrepreneurs Village Entrepreneurship Garage Entrepreneurship Clinic Garage Classroom NCSU Libraries Makerspaces Events Events Calendar Entrepalooza Entrepreneurship Competitions Global Entrepreneurship Week eGames Give Now Entrepreneurship Clinic eClinic Newsletter Stay in the know about eClinic and Andrews Accelerator announcements. Sign Up Embed, Engage, Execute Inspired by the university teaching hospital model, the NC State Entrepreneurship Clinic integrates research, teaching and real world experience by providing a place where faculty, students, entrepreneurs and service providers go to teach, learn and build the next generation of businesses in Raleigh. Housed in Raleigh Founded, one of the Triangle’s largest co-working hubs, the Entrepreneurship Clinic immerses students in an entrepreneurial ecosystem. Much like a medical student observing and learning from a surgeon in an operating room, clinicians observe and learn from startup founders. The Clinic’s mission is to produce the highest quality, entrepreneurially-minded students with the skills to make a big impact. eClinic Team Assists with Wells Fargo Digital Innovation Concept Learn about our wold-class partnerships Read More Engage with the eClinic The Entrepreneurship Clinic is composed of student clinicians from multiple disciplines and majors across campus. The students take the course for credit and with the guidance of their professors, work with clients – from startups to corporations – to help the clients validate their solutions and identify next steps. Students Students graduating with experience in the NC State Entrepreneurship Clinic will leave with an expansive network, hands-on experience and skill development, and better concepts – ultimately making them better entrepreneurs, team-members on startups, or employees for entrepreneurial-minded companies. Currently, the easiest way to engage is through one of our classes. You can email the Program Manager at entrepreneurshipclinic@ncsu.edu to see what classes are available in a given semester. Partner Companies Partner companies, from early stage startups to scaling businesses, apply to the Clinic with specific business issues and needs. Student teams meet with company applicants, evaluate their weaknesses, and develop and execute a strategic action plan to help them solve a specific business need. Apply Now Additional eClinic Resources Our eClinic programs expand beyond the classroom. Learn about additional ways students, alumni and community members can participate in programming via the opportunities below. Andrews Launch Accelerator Accelerates economic development by providing up to $50,000 and pro bono support services to entrepreneurs. Learn More Mentorship Meetups In partnership with NC State Entrepreneurship, the eClinic hosts monthly mentorship meetups that aim to build student entrepreneurs’ network with mentors from a wide variety of industries. Apply to the program Entrepreneurship Home 1017 Main Campus Drive, Suite 1650 Raleigh, NC 27606 entrepreneurship@ncsu.edu 919.513.3676 Campus Map <span class=nowrap>aria-hidden="false"> Entrepreneurship Home About NC State Entrepreneurship Staff Resources Contact Us Alliance Resources News Event Calendar Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.