Skip to main content Entrepreneurship Menu Close About Annual Report Connect With Us Give to NC State Entrepreneurship Our Team Results Students Academics Ambassador Program Andrews Launch Accelerator Entrepreneurship Scholarships Experiential Learning Funding Getting Started with Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program Miller Fellowship Trips Community Alumni Entrepreneurship Alliance Entrepreneurship Partners Program Giving Mentorship Program NC State Founders’ Pledge Spaces Albright Entrepreneurs Village Entrepreneurship Garage Entrepreneurship Clinic Garage Classroom NCSU Libraries Makerspaces Events Calendar Entrepalooza Entrepreneurship Competitions Global Entrepreneurship Week eGames Give Now About About Annual Report Connect With Us Give to NC State Entrepreneurship Our Team Results Students Students Academics Ambassador Program Andrews Launch Accelerator Entrepreneurship Scholarships Experiential Learning Funding Getting Started with Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program Miller Fellowship Trips Community Community Alumni Entrepreneurship Alliance Entrepreneurship Partners Program Giving Mentorship Program NC State Founders’ Pledge Spaces Spaces Albright Entrepreneurs Village Entrepreneurship Garage Entrepreneurship Clinic Garage Classroom NCSU Libraries Makerspaces Events Events Calendar Entrepalooza Entrepreneurship Competitions Global Entrepreneurship Week eGames Give Now Spaces At NC State, big ideas have room to grow. Our student entrepreneurs connect with like-minded innovators and access vital resources in designated spaces across campus and around Raleigh. Open for Business Entrepreneurship is a fundamental priority at NC State. That’s why the university has invested in spaces that facilitate collaboration and innovation among students, faculty, alumni and emerging area startups. These dedicated locations give enterprising students access to valuable resources and seasoned mentors as they develop their entrepreneurial skills and grow their ventures. NC State has a unique physical footprint for entrepreneurship. We’ve created unconventional spaces that allow for the necessary trial and error in building a business. Locations across campus spark imagination and make the latest tools and technology available in support of a forward-thinking approach to enterprise. And along with our abundant physical spaces and cutting-edge equipment, a connected community of driven innovators keeps NC State at the forefront of university startup culture. Whether you’re an aspiring entrepreneur or a startup veteran, you’ll find the room, resources and contacts to support your goals. WHERE WE WORK Entrepreneurship Clinic Inspired by the teaching hospital model, this dynamic learning environment brings faculty, students and local startups together at a thriving co-working space in downtown Raleigh. Discover the Clinic Entrepreneurship Garage at Raleigh Founded Work alongside real-world founders and startup leaders in the open coworking spaces, or learn technical skills in our prototyping space. Explore the Garage Hill Library Makerspace A place to explore the emerging technologies of making, including 3D printers, 3D scanners, electronics prototyping kits, sewing machines, a laser cutter, and more. Check out the Hill Library Makerspace Albright Entrepreneurs Village Residents of this living and learning community develop their entrepreneurial concepts in a neighborhood environment that fosters creativity and encourages innovation. Visit the Village Media & Technology Resource Center (MTRC) Makerspace The NC State College of Education METRC makerspace provides equipment and materials for College of Education students, faculty and staff to learn with hands-on materials and innovative technology. Check out the MTRC Makerspace Engineering Village Design Studio The Engineering Village Design Studio is a space meant to expose students to a variety of different technologies across engineering disciplines and provide hands-on experience. Location, Location, Location NC State is an entrepreneurial university embedded within an entrepreneurial city and region. The capital of North Carolina, Raleigh has emerged as a nationally-recognized hotspot for enterprise, innovation and investment. The city is an especially supportive environment for new businesses, with more than 500 startups and over 140,000 square feet of co-working space. Further, Raleigh joins Durham and Chapel Hill to form the Research Triangle — one of the country’s largest hubs for research and economic development. Centennial Campus further cements NC State as a pioneering research university with an overarching entrepreneurial vision. Our public-private research campus is home to more than 70 corporate, government and nonprofit partners. And the James B. Hunt Jr. Library is one of the most technologically advanced learning and collaboration spaces in the world. Get the Latest Sign up for our newsletter to receive recent updates and upcoming opportunities each week. Email Address* Δ Take a Virtual Tour of Our Spaces Entrepreneurship Garage at Raleigh Founded NC State Entrepreneurship Co-working Area High Bay Entrepreneurship Garage Classroom Entrepreneurship Garage Prototyping Space Prototyping Space Entrance Tools Wall and Wood Working Workshop Woodworking Space Events Our year-round schedule of educational programs and networking functions gives student entrepreneurs regular opportunities to build relationships with future collaborators, experienced mentors and prospective investors. See what’s coming up Entrepreneurship Home 1017 Main Campus Drive, Suite 1650 Raleigh, NC 27606 entrepreneurship@ncsu.edu 919.513.3676 Campus Map <span class=nowrap>aria-hidden="false"> Entrepreneurship Home About NC State Entrepreneurship Staff Resources Contact Us Alliance Resources News Event Calendar Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.