What We Do Startup Directory Calendar Newsroom Resources Quick Links Startup Lab Design Studio Annual Report StartupColumbia Festival Columbia Venture Competition DFSI News 2022 #CoachingColumbia Awards – Stacy Tarver Patterson By Columbia Entrepreneurship | May 23, 2022 Inspired by the incredible example of mentorship and generosity provided by our friend and former Columbia Trustee, Bill “Coach” Campbell ’62CC, ’64TC, we honor and recognize members of our startup community who give their personal time to Columbia founders in the throes of their journey with the #CoachingColumbia Awards. Congratulations to Stacy Tarver Patterson ’16CBS #CoachingColumbia Honoree and CMO in Residence at the Columbia Startup Lab Stacy is a marketing executive-turned-entrepreneur with 15 years experience leading global consumer brand teams. Stacy started her career building automated tracking and analytics tools in Bear Stearns’ Financial Analytics and Structured Transactions Group, before moving into marketing, planning, and strategy roles first at YMCA and then Nike. Stacy spent a decade at Nike, including time spent leading the marketing teams in Beijing and DTC digital marketing for Greater China, two of Nike’s largest growth areas. Stacy traded the corporate world for VC world when she became Managing Director at West, a venture studio at the intersection of brand marketing, creative, strategic consulting, and venture capital. She then fulfilled a longtime dream when she left West to co-found COR, a West portfolio company also backed by Khosla Ventures and Founders Fund, where she is currently the CMO. She is a vocal believer in the combined art and science of marketing, and remains adamant that these disciplines should not be separated into silos. She connects her affinity for such blending to her multiracial identity and lifetime of refusal to just ‘select one box.’ Stacy earned her bachelor’s degree in Marketing, Management and Organizational Behavior from NYU Stern and her MBA from Columbia Business School, where she was selected as a prestigious Columbia Fellow. A lifelong learner to her core, she has also studied Web Design and Interaction at the Portland Art Institute, Chinese at Peking University, and Data Science in the Berkeley MIDS program. She credits her best leadership traits to her early life as an athlete: she holds the NYU Track & Field school record in the Long Jump. Outside of work, Stacy enjoys running (slowly), having completed 20+ marathons including three of the six World Marathon Majors. Share Now Trending NewsEntrepreneur of the Year 2022: Ryan Petersen '08CBS News2022 Columbia Venture Competition Winners - StartupColumbia Challenge NewsComing Up in Entrepreneurship - January & February 2022 NewsEntrepreneur of the Year 2022: Nthabiseng Mosia '16SIPA News2022 Columbia Venture Competition Winners - Columbia-CareOne Healthcare All-Stars Challenge More Categories Innovator Stories News Press Lab Dispatches Event Recaps Related Posts News 2022 #CoachingColumbia Awards – Jeremy Kagan May 23, 2022 News Entrepreneur of the Year 2022: Ryan Petersen ’08CBS May 13, 2022 News 2022 Columbia Venture Competition – Tournament of Champions + Full Li... May 12, 2022 News 2022 Columbia Venture Competition Winners – Columbia-CareOne Healthca... May 12, 2022 News 2022 Columbia Venture Competition Winners – Undergraduate Challenge May 12, 2022 News 2022 Columbia Venture Competition Winners – Columbia Journalism Chall... May 12, 2022 Now Trending NewsComing Up in Entrepreneurship - January & February 2022 News2022 Columbia Venture Competition Winners – Undergraduate Challenge PressColumbia Founder Nina Tandon on Day One: Making Sci-Fi a Reality NewsEntrepreneur of the Year 2022: Nthabiseng Mosia '16SIPA NewsStarting Up More Categories Innovator Stories News Press Lab Dispatches Event Recaps Subscribe to Mailing List First Name* Last Name* Email* Columbia Affiliation (if any, optional) This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. Learn more here. About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University | Sitemap | Disclaimer | Site by Barrel Subscribe to Mailing List First Name* Last Name* Email* Columbia Affiliation (if any, optional) This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. Learn more here.