What We Do Startup Directory Calendar Newsroom Resources Quick Links Startup Lab Design Studio Annual Report StartupColumbia Festival Columbia Venture Competition DFSI A project-based initiative and course aimed at solving complex global problems through design Design for Social Innovation is a project-based initiative and course where Columbia University students work in teams to solve real-world problems on behalf of social sector clients including nonprofits, social enterprises, and government agencies. Sandra Hoffen ‘87CC and Howard Hoffen ‘85SEAS, have generously underwritten the inaugural two years of Design for Social Innovation where the students work as “intrapreneurs” (entrepreneurs within organizations) on innovation projects, looking at their clients’ organizational or programmatic challenges through the lens of human-centered design. Design For Social Innovation (DFSI) is a semester-long course where Columbia University students and faculty support social enterprises, nonprofit organizations, and the public sector to address complex, ambiguous global problems through human centered design. The course is open to students from Columbia’s 20 undergraduate and graduate schools via an application and interview process. The 3.0 credit course is a collaboration between the Columbia Entrepreneurship Design Studio and the Columbia School of International and Public Affairs (SIPA). Spring 2022 welcomes students from Columbia College, Columbia Engineering, General Studies, Barnard, the Climate School, SIPA, Columbia Business School, Mailman School of Public Health, Teachers College, the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, and the School of Professional Studies. Sign up for our newsletter to find out when this will be offered next. Where are Columbians making an impact? Dive into our past project work. DFSI: Making the Changemakers of Tomorrow, Leaders Today Learn More 2020 DFSI Global Learn More 2018 EdTech in Brazil Learn More Our Leadership Team Adam Royalty Sarah Holloway Dave Lerner Join the Columbia Design Studio mailing list today Subscribe Now Become a smarter entrepreneur. Join our mailing list today. First Name* Last Name* Email Columbia Affiliation (if any, optional) This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. Learn more here. Subscribe to Mailing List First Name* Last Name* Email* Columbia Affiliation (if any, optional) This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. Learn more here. About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University | Sitemap | Disclaimer | Site by Barrel Subscribe to Mailing List First Name* Last Name* Email* Columbia Affiliation (if any, optional) This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. Learn more here.