What We Do Startup Directory Calendar Newsroom Resources Quick Links Startup Lab Design Studio Annual Report StartupColumbia Festival Columbia Venture Competition DFSI Data science for better health outcomes: A nursing perspective Maxim Topaz, Ph.D., RN Elizabeth Standish Gill Associate Professor of Nursing at CUMC Kathleen Mullen, DNP, RN, CNE, Assistant Professor of Nursing at CUMC ABSTRACT Nurses constitute the largest sector of healthcare professionals worldwide. In the U.S., despite more than 4 million nurses, the demand for nurses keeps rising due to aging of the population and improved longevity of patients with chronic conditions. Like many other professions today, nursing is on the cusp of technological change. Omnipresent health information technology (such as electronic health records) requires nurses to think differently about data and to collect increasingly complex data about their patients in order to make informed patient-centered clinical decisions. A new cadre of nurses with robust understanding of emerging data science technologies is urgently needed. The proposed pioneering course will expose nursing students at the Columbia University School of Nursing to the fascinating world of data science. Tailored to nursing, course topics will employ interactive flipped classroom learning of fundamental data science technologies (e.g., machine learning and text mining), discussion of ethical aspects of data science, and a hands-on data science project in collaboration with Columbia University Data Science Institute students. Subscribe to Mailing List First Name* Last Name* Email* Columbia Affiliation (if any, optional) This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. Learn more here. About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University | Sitemap | Disclaimer | Site by Barrel Subscribe to Mailing List First Name* Last Name* Email* Columbia Affiliation (if any, optional) This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. Learn more here.