What We Do Startup Directory Calendar Newsroom Resources Quick Links Startup Lab Design Studio Annual Report StartupColumbia Festival Columbia Venture Competition DFSI The Columbia Startup Lab Applications for the 2022-2023 Cohort of the Columbia Startup Lab are now closed. The Columbia Startup Lab (CSL) opened in June of 2014 and is a landmark of Columbia University’s longstanding spirit of innovation, collaboration, and entrepreneurship. Meet the latest cohort below! 69 Charlton Street has been home to the Columbia Startup Lab since it launched in 2014, and headquarters to over 329 startups and 448 Columbia alumni entrepreneurs that have raised over $94.1M in funding and $115M in acquisitions. In 2021, Tishman Speyer took over the space and reopened it as its proprietary Studio flex space. Now, at Studio, the Lab and its 71 entrepreneurs are kicking off another year of launching, mentoring, and growing in its sophisticated space with access to Tishman Speyer’s amenities and workspace experience platform ZO. “As an alum of Columbia College, Rob Speyer, President and Chief Executive Officer of Tishman Speyer, has always been a supportive friend of the University,” said Richard Witten, Founder of Columbia Entrepreneurship, Innovation, and Design, and Special Advisor to Columbia University President Lee C. Bollinger. “Now, we’re thrilled to be able to expand that collaboration and to work with a fellow Lion to take the Columbia Startup Lab into the future.” Rob Speyer, President and Chief Executive Officer of Tishman Speyer said: “The Columbia Startup Lab has produced exceptional results and inspired countless entrepreneurs. We are excited to provide a home for this new cohort at Studio, which we have designed for bold creators and innovators.” “The Columbia Startup Lab is a hub of innovation, home to some of Columbia’s brightest and boldest entrepreneurs. Working with Studio by Tishman Speyer, with its professional services, positive culture, and premium facilities, will help us and our entrepreneurs elevate our game,” said Lab Director Daniella Raposo. The CSL’s COVID Response is available here. Resident Ventures '21-'22 Cohort Columbia Startup Lab Alumni 1Vibe Learn More AceSpace Learn More Range Learn More Alexandria Learn More Alinea Learn More Aspire360 Learn More BlackOakTV Learn More Changing Room Learn More CheckPoint Health Learn More Coast Learn More Coinapoly Learn More CShell Health Learn More Dendwell Learn More echoAR Learn More Folio Learn More Food Origin Learn More Gen E Learn More Hang5 Learn More iXopp Learn More The Journey Exchange Learn More KIP101 Learn More Millie Learn More MIX’T Snacks Learn More Nab New, Inc. Learn More OMAO Learn More Plan A Learn More Playbook Learn More Quantime Learn More Redkart Learn More RentCity Learn More Resonantia Diagnostics Learn More Sharper Sense Learn More Spectre Learn More StayFi Learn More Terra Learn More Tooler Learn More Toscana USA Learn More TwinFlows Learn More Workhorse Learn More Xaalis Learn More NEOVEL Technologies Learn More Terranga Learn More Flip Learn More Alfredo Learn More StopLight Learn More Pairprep Learn More Ivia Learn More ToastBack Learn More Wordseye Learn More Power 7 Learn More Pixm Learn More Charlie! Learn More Boomi Environmental Learn More Sunrise Learn More Flextra Power Learn More One Line Partners Learn More Cohort 2 - Bundle Organics, Founded by John Mascari '08CC Learn More SensorKit Learn More Scopio Learn More Paper Me Press Learn More Tastd Learn More Cartful Solutions LLC Learn More MphRx Learn More Western Ridge Partners Learn More Preconceive Learn More DeansList Learn More Anathema Capital LLC Learn More Opportunity Network Learn More Sailo Learn More Exubrancy Learn More Frustum Learn More Augary Learn More Archibald Optics Learn More Drop Global Learn More Closet Collective Learn More deCervo Learn More Perk.la Learn More Shareswell Learn More ObsidianMD Learn More PLY Learn More Cohort 1 - CoinOut, Founded by Jeff Witten, '10CC, '15LAW, '15BUS Learn More Recovery Hub Learn More Univate Learn More Chouxbox Learn More EvoLux Learn More Seamless Semiconductors Learn More ExecCoach.Me Learn More Kwoller Learn More Cache Learn More Southfork Learn More Good Zing! Learn More BoardRounds Learn More RAWR DENIM Learn More OnTarget Learn More Rulo Learn More Kinnos Learn More Vidrovr Learn More Block Party Suites Learn More Shray Learn More Pillo Learn More SheetKraft Learn More TalkSession Learn More Tuition.io Learn More Seecure Learn More PiperWai Learn More Dearest Learn More Pathspark Learn More Trek Medics Learn More DinersCode Learn More SQWAD Learn More Sundays Learn More Shray Learn More Dagny Scout Learn More Mission: Restore Learn More Bluenumber Learn More Bokksu Learn More Concurrent Wireless Learn More Daily Harvest Learn More FollowUp Health Inc Learn More FUR Learn More Gift Wellness, LLC Learn More Global A.I. Corporation Learn More Mångata Learn More Mode Maison Learn More Orsden Learn More Pepper Learn More qLogix Learn More Reut USA Learn More The Clear Cut Learn More Truedime Learn More Unbound Learn More Visit.org Learn More Yank Technologies Learn More Cohort 4 - Eat Offbeat, Founded by Manal Kahi '15SIPA Learn More Wandering Bear Learn More The Drop Learn More Cohort 3 - Text IQ, Founded by Apoorv Agarwal '16SEAS Learn More Retail Experts Learn More Bite Learn More Dear Mittens Learn More Onehot Labs Learn More Parsegon Learn More Player Share Learn More Ravn Learn More Wheeli Learn More autoCEQR Learn More AVEC Learn More avoMD Learn More BilimSource Learn More Crédito Social Learn More Curina Learn More Dragon Seats Learn More Equip Learn More Forestry ML Learn More InoArmour Learn More Link Strollers Learn More LiveRoom Learn More Marco Sweets & Spices Learn More Mesken Learn More Morayo Learn More Project Well Learn More RE:DIST Learn More SiteRx Learn More SmartNext Learn More The Suites Learn More Tâm Journey Learn More Vuebox Learn More Whiterock AI Learn More Mentors Daniella Raposo, Director of CSL AJ Taylor, Associate Director of CSL Houtan Fanisalek, CTO In Residence Leslie Gittess, Digital Strategist Jonté Harrell, CFO in Residence Madison Hawkinson, Data Scientist in Residence Sarah Holloway, Social Entrepreneurship Jeremy Kagan, Mentor in Residence Manal Kahi, Social Entrepreneur in Residence Elizabeth Leahy, Pitch Coach In Residence Dave Lerner, Mentor in Residence Yvette Miller, CCO in Residence Bill O'Farrell, Mentor in Residence Dick Talens, Growth Hacker in Residence Stacy Tarver Patterson, CMO in Residence Liz Wilkes, Bootstrapper in Residence Become part of something great. Join us at Columbia Startup Lab. Why CSL? Space: CSL members enjoy subsidized office space, at a cut cost that makes office space affordable for early startups. Programming: CSL programming is developed with the specific asks and needs of each cohort, and includes: Workshops on the basics of running a business, such as accounting, legal, HR, and digital marketing. Guest speakers and AMAs with vanguards of the venture capital and the NYC startup scene. Access to the CSL Mentors in Residence ranging from entrepreneurship experts to professors across Columbia University Regular opportunities for feedback, such as pitching practice, Product Jams, and problem-solution sessions. Community: Building a business is easier with the support of others who understand the life of an entrepreneur. At CSL, you get the benefit of being around peers who are taking the same risks, struggling with the same setbacks, celebrating the same wins, and asking the same questions. Eligibility Teams must have at least one founding member who has graduated from Columbia University before the team’s move in date. CSL is open to recent alumni from across the University (including Barnard and Teachers College) who are committed to working on their venture full-time. Only submit one application per team, but include all Columbia affiliations in your application. Quick Facts After acceptance, admitted teams may spend up to one year in the space. To be considered for another year, the team must reapply. Columbia University affiliated tenants are required to commit to a four-month term in the space at a rate of $250 per month/per seat. Non-Columbia University team members will be required to make a contribution of $400 per month/per seat. The space is administered by Studio by Tishman Speyer and includes: furnishings (desk & chair), WiFi, printing, meeting spaces, phone booths, water/coffee, beer, cleaning/maintenance and access to common facilities across the global Studio network. CSL provides ongoing workshops, office hours, networking events, and community building activities to help resident ventures advance their businesses. All CSL teams are encouraged to participate. CSL does not provide funding or take equity in any company. Subscribe to Mailing List First Name* Last Name* Email* Columbia Affiliation (if any, optional) This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. Learn more here. About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University | Sitemap | Disclaimer | Site by Barrel Subscribe to Mailing List First Name* Last Name* Email* Columbia Affiliation (if any, optional) This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. Learn more here.