Skip to main content Entrepreneurship Menu Close About Annual Report Connect With Us Give to NC State Entrepreneurship Our Team Results Students Academics Ambassador Program Andrews Launch Accelerator Entrepreneurship Scholarships Experiential Learning Funding Getting Started with Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program Miller Fellowship Trips Community Alumni Entrepreneurship Alliance Entrepreneurship Partners Program Giving Mentorship Program NC State Founders’ Pledge Spaces Albright Entrepreneurs Village Entrepreneurship Garage Entrepreneurship Clinic Garage Classroom NCSU Libraries Makerspaces Events Calendar Entrepalooza Entrepreneurship Competitions Global Entrepreneurship Week eGames Give Now About About Annual Report Connect With Us Give to NC State Entrepreneurship Our Team Results Students Students Academics Ambassador Program Andrews Launch Accelerator Entrepreneurship Scholarships Experiential Learning Funding Getting Started with Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program Miller Fellowship Trips Community Community Alumni Entrepreneurship Alliance Entrepreneurship Partners Program Giving Mentorship Program NC State Founders’ Pledge Spaces Spaces Albright Entrepreneurs Village Entrepreneurship Garage Entrepreneurship Clinic Garage Classroom NCSU Libraries Makerspaces Events Events Calendar Entrepalooza Entrepreneurship Competitions Global Entrepreneurship Week eGames Give Now Design Challenge Series Presented by the Entrepreneurship Garage & Albright Entrepreneurs Village We’ll be posting the April Challenge soon! Information Previous Image1 of 6 Next Image We challenge you to show us your amazing ideas! The Design Challenge Series is a team based event where participants will take on exciting design prompts to design and develop creative solutions. Every month you or your team will have one month to design a solution to the given design challenge. During that time, you will have access to Entrepreneurship mentors who will be available to assist and guide you through the process. Challenges will be specific and will change every month. Winners will be chosen by a group of judges at the conclusion of each monthly session. Winners will receive a special Entrepreneurship gift package, and will be showcased on the website and at the Garage. All participants must be members of the Entrepreneurship Garage. To become a member visit our homepage. Timeline March: No Challenge Monthly Challenge Dates 1st day of the month: Challenge begins Throughout the month: Work on your designs and build prototypes (digital or physical) End of the month: All submissions are due. First week of the following month: Winners Announced More Info You can join the monthly challenge at any time, just submit before the judging deadline Compete alone or form a team, your choice. What you make is up to you. Physical prototypes Digital prototypes App concepts (storyboards, UI, UX) Winners receive special gifts, web shout-outs and are showcased at the Garage. Reach out to Garage Staff for design assistance. Visit the Garage Moodle page to get certified on equipment. Have questions or need design assistance? email us: ncstate-ent-garage@ncsu.edu Student Spotlight: Allison Nagy, Winner of the Design Challenge Series Allison Nagy took home the win for October’s competition where students develop solutions to real-world problems at the Garage. Read More equipment Highlights Make prototypes with our 3D Printers 3D filament is always free! Engrave and cut flat materials with our Laser equipment Engrave and cut materials like wood, acrylic and glass with our Laser Cutters/Engravers. Sew anything on our industrial sewing machine Interested in making a saddle, you can on our walking-foot sewing machine. Entrepreneurship Home 1017 Main Campus Drive, Suite 1650 Raleigh, NC 27606 entrepreneurship@ncsu.edu 919.513.3676 Campus Map <span class=nowrap>aria-hidden="false"> Entrepreneurship Home About NC State Entrepreneurship Staff Resources Contact Us Alliance Resources News Event Calendar Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.