Skip to main content Entrepreneurship Menu Close About Annual Report Connect With Us Give to NC State Entrepreneurship Our Team Results Students Academics Ambassador Program Andrews Launch Accelerator Entrepreneurship Scholarships Experiential Learning Funding Getting Started with Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program Miller Fellowship Trips Community Alumni Entrepreneurship Alliance Entrepreneurship Partners Program Giving Mentorship Program NC State Founders’ Pledge Spaces Albright Entrepreneurs Village Entrepreneurship Garage Entrepreneurship Clinic Garage Classroom NCSU Libraries Makerspaces Events Calendar Entrepalooza Entrepreneurship Competitions Global Entrepreneurship Week eGames Give Now About About Annual Report Connect With Us Give to NC State Entrepreneurship Our Team Results Students Students Academics Ambassador Program Andrews Launch Accelerator Entrepreneurship Scholarships Experiential Learning Funding Getting Started with Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program Miller Fellowship Trips Community Community Alumni Entrepreneurship Alliance Entrepreneurship Partners Program Giving Mentorship Program NC State Founders’ Pledge Spaces Spaces Albright Entrepreneurs Village Entrepreneurship Garage Entrepreneurship Clinic Garage Classroom NCSU Libraries Makerspaces Events Events Calendar Entrepalooza Entrepreneurship Competitions Global Entrepreneurship Week eGames Give Now Events When enterprising NC State students, alumni and community members come together, bright ideas shine and bold concepts win out in the end. Meetings of the Minds Entrepreneurship happens every day at NC State. Through a year-round calendar of events, we help student entrepreneurs build relationships with future collaborators, experienced mentors and prospective investors. And regular educational programs and networking functions encourage our self-starters to explore the potential profits and social impacts of their fledgling businesses. With campuswide resources and expert guidance, NC State entrepreneurs have ample support to grow their ambitious plans into exciting opportunities. It’s a packed schedule that connects entrepreneurial students, invested alumni and industrious members of the community — all with a clear focus on developing innovative concepts into promising startups. Attend an event Signature Events Entrepalooza Our fall festival is open to the public and features hands-on makerspaces, interactive demonstrations of the latest technology and a 60-second business pitch competition. Explore the festival eGames Every spring, our student entrepreneurs vie for prize money to move their proposed startups forward by presenting new product ideas and business plans to a panel of judges. Discover the eGames Global Entrepreneurship Week Global Entrepreneurship Week (GEW) is a celebration of the innovators and job creators who launch startups that bring ideas to life, drive economic growth and expand human welfare. During one week each November, GEW inspires people everywhere through local, national and global activities designed to help them explore their potential as self-starters and innovators. Be Part of GEW Mentorship Events One of the most critical aspects to foster engaged and embedded entrepreneurial students is a well-organized mentorship network. The goal of the Entrepreneurship Mentors Program is to accelerate the growth of our students through connections to a tribe of mentors. Learn About the Mentorship Program Entrepreneurship Competitions Students from all academic departments can participate in entrepreneurship competitions and have access to events, workshops, mentoring that enable them to test and refine their founder skills. Learn More Spaces The entrepreneurship community at NC State comes together in a diverse variety of locations designed to support innovation and creation. Across campus and around Raleigh, budding entrepreneurs can turn their big ideas into brand-new businesses. See where it all happens Entrepreneurship Home 1017 Main Campus Drive, Suite 1650 Raleigh, NC 27606 entrepreneurship@ncsu.edu 919.513.3676 Campus Map <span class=nowrap>aria-hidden="false"> Entrepreneurship Home About NC State Entrepreneurship Staff Resources Contact Us Alliance Resources News Event Calendar Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.