Skip to main content Entrepreneurship Menu Close About Annual Report Connect With Us Give to NC State Entrepreneurship Our Team Results Students Academics Ambassador Program Andrews Launch Accelerator Entrepreneurship Scholarships Experiential Learning Funding Getting Started with Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program Miller Fellowship Trips Community Alumni Entrepreneurship Alliance Entrepreneurship Partners Program Giving Mentorship Program NC State Founders’ Pledge Spaces Albright Entrepreneurs Village Entrepreneurship Garage Entrepreneurship Clinic Garage Classroom NCSU Libraries Makerspaces Events Calendar Entrepalooza Entrepreneurship Competitions Global Entrepreneurship Week eGames Give Now About About Annual Report Connect With Us Give to NC State Entrepreneurship Our Team Results Students Students Academics Ambassador Program Andrews Launch Accelerator Entrepreneurship Scholarships Experiential Learning Funding Getting Started with Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program Miller Fellowship Trips Community Community Alumni Entrepreneurship Alliance Entrepreneurship Partners Program Giving Mentorship Program NC State Founders’ Pledge Spaces Spaces Albright Entrepreneurs Village Entrepreneurship Garage Entrepreneurship Clinic Garage Classroom NCSU Libraries Makerspaces Events Events Calendar Entrepalooza Entrepreneurship Competitions Global Entrepreneurship Week eGames Give Now Entrepalooza September 30 | 5:30 pm - 7:00 pm Entrepalooza is NC State's annual festival celebrating entrepreneurship and innovation. Get Your Free Ticket Entrepalooza, NC State’s annual entrepreneurship and innovation festival, is every September! This event is open to all students, staff, faculty, and the community! Details on Entrepalooza 2022 will be coming near the beginning of the Fall 2022 semester! Last year’s Highlights Entrepreneurship Showcase | Experience entrepreneurship at NC State through over two-dozen interactive demos, activities, and conversations hosted by student/alumni-led ventures and campus partners. Located on Stafford Commons, guests can visit over 20 booths and immerse themselves in the entrepreneurial ecosystem at NC State! $4,500 Minute to Pitch It Competition | Hear pitches from NC State student entrepreneurs in the Minute to Pitch It competition; students have ONE minute to convince the audience their idea is worthy of the $2,250 audience choice award, and the judge’s $2,250 judge’s choice award! Free Food & Drinks | Exploring entrepreneurship at NC State can make a wolf hungry! We’re offering free Chick-Fil-A, cookies from The Cookie People, chips and ice cold bottled water to keep the wolf pack fed and cooled off while having fun! We’re offering free Chick-Fil-A, cookies from The Cookie People, and ice cold bottled water to keep you fed and hydrated! Giveaways | Don’t leave empty-handed! We’ll be raffling off NC State Entrepreneurship giveaways all evening or you can stop by our NC State Entrepreneurship booth for free swag! Swing by the NC State Entrepreneurship for free swag! Thanks to our Volunteers! Entrepalooza is a big event and we couldn’t do it without some help! If you’re interested in joining our volunteer team, sign up below. From Entrepalooza 2021 We sure know how to throw an entrepreneurship festival! Take a look at the previous year’s activities to get a feel of what to expect at Entrepalooza. NC State Entrepreneurship NC State Entrepreneurship NC State Entrepreneurship NC State Entrepreneurship NC State Entrepreneurship NC State Entrepreneurship NC State Entrepreneurship NC State Entrepreneurship NC State Entrepreneurship NC State Entrepreneurship NC State Entrepreneurship NC State Entrepreneurship Previous Image1 of 12 Next Image NC State Entrepreneurship 2021 Entrepreneurs Showcase Exhibitors 321 Coffee – 321 Coffee is a coffee shop with a mission of blending communities by employing special needs individuals and helping these members of the community realize their potential. Learn more. 700 Rivers – 700 Rivers creates conscious fashion in a luxury style using 100% natural fibers and an ethical supply chain. Learn more. Advancement of Women Entrepreneurs – As a resource for women in all stages of entrepreneurship, they provide a network of support through educational programming, social engagement activities and professional development opportunities. Learn more. Albright Entrepreneurs Village – Located on Centennial Campus, AEV is NC State’s living and learning community for student entrepreneurs. The Village provides sophomores and above the opportunity to experience entrepreneurship on and off-campus. Learn more. Arin’s Good Girl Dog Treats – Through an all-natural delicious dog treat business, Arin’s Good Girl Dog Treats is a nonprofit creating meaningful career opportunities for differently-abled individuals. Learn more. Arts Entrepreneurship – The Arts Entrepreneurship Minor is a 15 credit-hour curriculum designed to help student arts entrepreneurs leverage a broad knowledge base to create successful arts ventures. Learn more. Current Wellness – Current Wellness is an integrative wellness center in Downtown Raleigh, offering fitness and yoga classes, food education, mental health counseling, massage, personal training, and other wellness services and programs. Learn more. Engineering Career Fair – One of the largest career fairs in the country held specifically for engineering students. Learn More. Engineering Entrepreneurs Program – This program provides a transformational entrepreneurship education experience for students through its fully immersive, multi-disciplinary, simulation-like learning environment. Learn more. Global Training Initiative – Creating training and VR tools to read minds across cultures at NC State. Learn more. Hempsmith – Hempsmith is a fashion brand helping create and inspire a more sustainable world through the use of hemp clothing. Learn more. Home Office Solutions LLC – At Home Office Solutions, we will provide customers with a turn-key backyard office space that is climate-controlled, well lighted, totally customizable, and quiet to conduct your work from home duties. Learn more. Kyrah’s Kustoms – Hand-painted, no stencils, made-to-order shoes! Learn more. NC State Blue Economy Group – NC State University’s Blue Economy Group was formed in August 2020 to explore ways to create entrepreneurial opportunities for NC State students, staff, and faculty in support of sustainable development and economic growth in coastal communities. Learn more. NC State Entrepreneurship – NC State Entrepreneurship supports, promotes, and advances a culture of entrepreneurship throughout the university community by providing resources, fostering collaboration and enhancing communication in support of NC State students, faculty, staff and alumni. Learn more. Paradigm Innovation – Paradigm Innovation designs scalable products, brands, & businesses that result in sustainable, accelerated growth. Learn more. Phloat – From classmates to community all at your fingertips. Learn more. Raleigh Founded– Raleigh’s largest co-working community, focuses on helping entrepreneurially-minded innovators start and grow their businesses and works to enhance the social and economic advancement in our local area. Learn more. Reborn Clothing Co. – Reborn takes unused clothing items and turns them into upcycled new products for sale. Founder Emily Neville and her team have partnered with major universities system to reduce textile waste found at universities locally and nationally. Learn more. Retrieving Hearts – Our mission is to improve the physical and psychological health and well-being of people, young and old by providing animal-assisted therapy services using volunteers and certified therapy dogs. Learn more. Social Entrepreneurship & Innovation – We believe that NC State will become a vibrant teaching-learning-living laboratory for social entrepreneurship. Learn more. The Cookie People – The Cookie People has been treating Raleigh to gourmet homemade cookies in their signature clear cookie jars for nine years and counting. Learn more. Tour Warrenton – Tour Warrenton was established September 2020 during the global pandemic to connect people to Historic Warren County North Carolina founded in 1779 through rural volunteerism, entrepreneurship, and restoration via food tours, markets tours, and special events. Learn more. Vetletics – Vetletics is an innovative company dedicated to raising the industry standards for animal health and performance. Our flagship product, EQ Press is the first and only dynamic compression lymphatic drainage device for veterinary use. Learn more. Wolfe Cravings – Tiramisu and ice cream sandwiches that happen to be naturally gluten-free. Learn more. Entrepalooza Promo Toolkit If you’re a vendor at Entrepalooza, a student ambassador or an Alliance member and would like to help us spread the word about Entrepalooza, we created a promo toolkit for you! It includes graphics, a promo video, an article, social media posts and more! A Special Thanks To all of our Entrepreneurship Champion Partners! View Page We Also Thank Our Entrepreneurship Advocate Partners! Entrepreneurship Home 1017 Main Campus Drive, Suite 1650 Raleigh, NC 27606 entrepreneurship@ncsu.edu 919.513.3676 Campus Map <span class=nowrap>aria-hidden="false"> Entrepreneurship Home About NC State Entrepreneurship Staff Resources Contact Us Alliance Resources News Event Calendar Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.