What We Do Startup Directory Calendar Newsroom Resources Quick Links Startup Lab Design Studio Annual Report StartupColumbia Festival Columbia Venture Competition DFSI Event Recaps Making an Impact with Kesha Cash By Columbia Entrepreneurship | January 22, 2021 We’re catching up with leaders in our community, so grab some time in your day to listen to the state of entrepreneurship and venture capital! In this recording, Special Advisor to President Bollinger and Columbia Entrepreneurship founder Richard Witten is in conversation with Kesha Cash. Cash, a CBS grad and Columbia Entrepreneurship Advisory Council Member, is the Founder and General Partner at Impact America Fund, a venture capital firm that makes early-stage investments in tech-driven businesses that create new frameworks of ownership and opportunity within marginalized communities. IAF closed out 2020 raising a second fund of $55 M, announcing this largest fund ever raised by a sole Black female general partner with a reiteration of their commitment to “building toward a future where every person of color in the US can participate in the economy fully and on their own terms.” Dive into this conversation, which takes a look at what impact investing means for IAF; how Cash’s work in Wall Street and Main Street has shaped her mission-driven vision; and how IAF is using the rigors of business to invest in overlooked and underserved communities in a way that creates long lasting, sustainable growth for those communities. Listen to the full conversation here, or check out the highlights in the timestamps below: ColumbiaEship · Making an Impact with Kesha Cash 2:24 – IAF’s thesis around impact investing has been forged over the years, starting from what Cash describes as growing up low-income in Orange County, California and being able to see “the best of both sides of the railroad tracks.” 4:50 – Cash explains how IAF looks at “inherent impact” investing, and more specifically, impact that is focused on low- and moderate-income communities in America and is intentionally inclusive of people of color. 6:45 – The tricky gray area between seed funding and a Series A fundraise can make all the difference in preparing founders for a valuation that is fair to them and puts them in a position of power. Hear how IAF invests in this bridge phase. 11:15 – Learn about the impact investing deal flow curve and how IAF is focusing on companies that use technology to disrupt systems that keep Black, brown, women, and veteran founders from getting a bigger share of the pie. 14:26 – IAF’s early investment, Mayvenn, offers a compelling look at how technological solutions can empower a community and how the right investment can provide more equitable ownership of an overlooked, under-the-radar market opportunity worth billions. 21:40 – Cash talks about IAF’s second fundraise – accomplished during a pandemic – and what is exciting about having a higher AUM, bigger budget, and new partners who are dedicated to the IAF mission. 25:35 – A look at the evolving and expanding momentum around diversity and the full picture of what it really means to invest in women and people of color. 34:00 – How IAF finds investments, how investments find them, and the role that University connections play in the process. Share Now Trending News2022 Columbia Venture Competition Winners - StartupColumbia Challenge PressColumbia Founder Founder Ryan Petersen on the Cover of Forbes News2022 Columbia Venture Competition Winners - Columbia-CareOne Healthcare All-Stars Challenge PressColumbia Founder Nina Tandon on Day One: Making Sci-Fi a Reality NewsComing Up in Entrepreneurship - April & May 2022 More Categories Innovator Stories News Press Lab Dispatches Event Recaps Related Posts Event Recaps Dive into Design with Harry West October 21, 2020 Event Recaps Innovating Higher Ed with Ann Kirschner July 10, 2020 Event Recaps COVID and Tech in NYC with Julie Samuels June 25, 2020 Event Recaps The State of Startup Life with Steve Blank May 20, 2020 Event Recaps State Of PropTech with Zach Aarons of MetaProp NYC May 14, 2020 Event Recaps Demystifying the World of Impact Investing March 6, 2020 Now Trending NewsEntrepreneur of the Year 2022: Nthabiseng Mosia '16SIPA News2022 #CoachingColumbia Awards - Jeremy Kagan News2022 Columbia Venture Competition Winners - Columbia Engineering Technology Challenge PressColumbia Featured in Impact Entrepreneurship Magazine NewsEntrepreneur of the Year 2022: Ryan Petersen '08CBS More Categories Innovator Stories News Press Lab Dispatches Event Recaps Subscribe to Mailing List First Name* Last Name* Email* Columbia Affiliation (if any, optional) This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. Learn more here. About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University | Sitemap | Disclaimer | Site by Barrel Subscribe to Mailing List First Name* Last Name* Email* Columbia Affiliation (if any, optional) This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. Learn more here.