What We Do Startup Directory Calendar Newsroom Resources Quick Links Startup Lab Design Studio Annual Report StartupColumbia Festival Columbia Venture Competition DFSI About Us Jonathan Stark Jonathan has over ten years of professional experience working in higher education. As the Institute’s Director of Operations, he has oversight of the Institute’s financial management, human resources, and day-to-day operations. Prior to joining the Institute in 2013, he served as the Assistant Dean of Graduate Student and Postdoctoral Affairs (2011-2013) and Student Affairs Officer (2005-2011) for the Office of Graduate Student Affairs for the Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science. His expertise includes academic administration, student development and advising, conflict resolution, university admissions, event planning and management. Preceding his appointments within Columbia University, his previous positions included: Assistant Director of Housing Operations at Marymount College of Fordham University, Adjunct Music Instructor: Woodwinds for Marymount College of Fordham University; and numerous graduate internships in university residential programs, human resources, and judicial affairs for Fairfield University. He holds a Bachelor of Arts in Psychology from Western CT State University, a Master of Arts in Applied Industrial-Organizational Psychology from Fairfield University, and a Master of Arts in Higher and Postsecondary Education and Administration from Teachers College of Columbia University. For fun, as a freelance bassoonist and clarinetist, he performs with the American Chamber Orchestra in CT, and the Hudson Valley Wind Ensemble in Sleepy Hollow, NY. Subscribe to Mailing List First Name* Last Name* Email* Columbia Affiliation (if any, optional) This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. Learn more here. About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University | Sitemap | Disclaimer | Site by Barrel Subscribe to Mailing List First Name* Last Name* Email* Columbia Affiliation (if any, optional) This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. Learn more here.