Skip to main content University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Log In Search Search Form Search Submit Close Entrepreneurship At Nebraska Menu Search Log In Home By The Numbers Fellows Get Started Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Nebraska Entrepreneurship At Nebraska Welcome Launch your ideas Entrepreneurship at Nebraska Welcome to Nebraska's Entrepreneurial Ecosystem. Here, you can find the college or department to help you turn a good idea into a great business. Read more below and start exploring your resources today. Learn More Explore our Entrepreneurship Resources Not sure where to start? The Nebraska Center for Entrepreneurship can help you discover which resource is right for you. Click to learn more about all of the resources the Center provides at the University of Nebraska, and explore any of the programs below. Nebraska Center for Entrepreneurship College of Engineering Department of Computer Science & Engineering Department of Textiles, Merchandising & Fashion Design Engler Agribusiness Entrepreneurship Program Glenn Korff School of Music International Business Program Jacht Jeffrey S. Raikes School of Computer Science and Management Johnny Carson Center for Emerging Media Arts Nebraska Business Development Center Nebraska Extension Nebraska Innovation Campus Nebraska Innovation Studio NUTech Ventures Rural Futures Institute Weibling Entrepreneurship Legal Clinic (E-Clinic) Nebraska Center for Entrepreneurship The Center for Entrepreneurship at the University of Nebraska provides five core services to the university and greater community: teaching, coworking, mentorship, competition and research. Its goal is to connect students, faculty and community members with the resources they need to create and manage successful businesses. Center for Entrepreneurship website Contact: Brent Martin, Entrepreneurship Center Coordinator, brent.martin@unl.edu Resources Mentorship from the Center for Entrepreneurship's faculty for all stages of business development Network of local business leaders, founders and investors Four competitions each year to help with ideation and business plan development Membership for physical space at FUSE coworking Entrepreneurship library Professional photography and videography equipment, Surface Studio, introductory programming tools College of Engineering The College of Engineering enthusiastically embraces its unique role as the singular intellectual and cultural resource for engineering instruction, research and outreach within the state. It provides the people of Nebraska with comprehensive engineering academic programs to fulfill their highest aspirations and ambitions. Students are provided with professors with national and international expertise in their fields, the latest technology, quality facilities, a vast network of successful alumni and friends of the college and caring staff. This research addresses problems that vex the world and have a grounding of impact on the people, places and institutions of the state of Nebraska. We study complex problems, develop foundational advances, and generate practical solutions to problems. College of Engineering website Contact: Philip Carter, External/Community Relations Coordinator, pcarter2@unl.edu Resources Grand Challenge Scholars Program, for entrepreneurial engineering honors students Discover Engineering Days, for prospective students The Complete Engineer Conference, for current students Senior Design Capstone and Showcase, for current students Project Lead the Way (PLTW) State Conference, for alumni and friends 45+ Student Organizations N-E Ride, shuttle service between UNL and UNO for engineering students Department of Computer Science & Engineering The Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) department is a collection of groundbreaking curriculum, renowned faculty members and plentiful student resources designed to prepare students for the most challenging, innovative and fastest-growing careers of the 21st Century. Faculty and students alike are very actively engaged in research programs. The Design Studio capstone provides undergraduate students an exclusive opportunity to experience real-world system development by creating innovative software and software+hardware solutions to practical problems. Department of Computer Science & Engineering website Contact: Victoria Grdina, Outreach and Communications Associate, victoria.grdina@unl.edu Resources Student Resource Center offers mentoring and homework help 50 hours per week CSE Ambassadors, student organization to give back to the Lincoln community Association for Computing Machinery chapter, student organization Computing for All, student organization to advocate for diversity in technology OS2G (Operating Systems and Open Source Group), student organization to promote the use and development of open source and free software Game Developers Club, student organization SWE (Society of Women Engineers), student organization to stimulate women to achieve full potential in careers as engineers and leaders Programming competitions and hackathons Face-to-face advising Department of Textiles, Merchandising & Fashion Design The Department of Textiles, Merchandising & Fashion Design (TMFD) actively engages with constituents and colleagues in Nebraska, across the nation and overseas, and is fully connected to the pulse of the textiles and apparel industries and professions. TMFD is committed to assisting apparel and textile-based entrepreneurs. The department has expertise to share with entrepreneurs in all phases of soft goods-based ventures. Department of Textiles, Merchandising & Fashion Design website Contact: Andrew Zimbroff, Assistant Professor and Extension Specialist - Textiles and Apparel Entrepreneurship, zimbroff@unl.edu Resources Assistance through all phases of soft goods-based ventures: Product Design Customer Identification Business Research Product Validation Manufacturing and Distribution Engler Agribusiness Entrepreneurship Program The Engler Agribusiness Entrepreneurship Program exists to empower enterprise builders. The program equips its student with the skills, mindset and know-how to build and launch a successful enterprise that aligns with their passion and purpose. Students receive assistance in exploring entrepreneurship and then in growing their businesses, should they choose entrepreneurship as their path. Students from across UNL as well as entrepreneurs from the community are welcome. Engler Agribusiness Program website Contact: Brennan Costello, Chief Business Relations Officer, bcostello3@unl.edu Resources Three Engler Agribusiness Entrepreneurship Minor Programs Entrepreneurship library Big Idea Blog "The Engler Open" Quickpitch Competition Engler Startup Experience, a hands-on campus workshop teaching entrepreneurial skills Student podcast series Glenn Korff School of Music The Glenn Korff School of Music offers both a Masters of Music (MM) and a Doctor of Musical Arts degree in performance. To enhance these two degree programs, the Glenn Korff School of Music and College of Business offer a Music Entrepreneurship Graduate Certificate. This program adds to existing degrees by helping students explore the wide range of employment opportunities in the industry and to learn how to learn how to market their musical skills and teaching abilities. Some may want to market themselves as soloists or chamber musicians. Others may want to learn how to begin their own teaching studios. Regardless of the specific venture, students will learn how to plan, implement and successfully launch a new business venture. Glenn Korff School of Music website Contact: Coming soon Resources Music Entrepreneurship Graduate Certificate, which provides continued education for individuals as well as development of new or unique services or opportunities in the arts Entrepreneurship curriculum with musical arts focus International Business Program The International Business program's goal is to graduate students who will change the world. They champion this effort by promoting language study, international experience and academic studies. The International Business program leads 16 Global Immersion Experiences. These programs focus on various topics within entrepreneurship, including: Sustainable Entrepreneurship, Leadership, Ethics, Entrepreneurship and Design (LEED), International Entrepreneurship and Tourism in Africa and Eco-Tourism, Community and Sustainable Development. International Business Program website Contact: Amy Lester, International Business Program Coordinator, amy.lester@unl.edu Resources 16 Global Immersion Programs: Business Program Study Abroad International Business Major / Curriculum Global Leadership Minor International Business Medallion Program Husker International Business Club Jacht At Jacht, students learn the ins and outs of running an advertising agency by handling the accounts of a variety of real-life clients. Jacht offers many creative services including: strategic branding, integrated marketing communications, campaign concepts, videography, photography, social media strategy, print design and public relations. Jacht website Resources Jacht offers the following services: Branding and Social Media Campaign Concepts Integrated Marketing Communications Photography and Videography Print Design Public Relations Jeffrey S. Raikes School of Computer Science and Management The Jeffrey S. Raikes School of Computer Science & Management is an honors program that combines business and computer science to produce interdisciplinary leaders. The Raikes School offers a project-oriented curriculum that helps students develop deep understanding of both disciplines. Innovation happens here in Nebraska. Prospective UNL students can apply to be a member of the Raikes School, and industry partners can engage students through the Design Studio capstone program. Raikes School website Contact: Anna Pressler, Director of Recruitment & Student Success, anna.pressler@unl.edu Resources Design Studio, for companies in need of software solutions Ecosystem of alumni, students, faculty and staff with a shared passion for change Four year honors program for accepted students Johnny Carson Center for Emerging Media Arts The Johnny Carson Center for Emerging Media Arts is currently under development. It will be an internationally distinct program in film and emerging media that explores the boundaries of where cinematic narrative and storytelling intersects with science, the humanities, computer science, engineering, music, fine arts and other disciplines. Courses and curriculum will be available starting fall 2019. Carson School website Contact: Megan Elliott, Director, Johnny Carson Center for Emerging Media Arts, megan.elliott@unl.edu Nebraska Business Development Center The Nebraska Business Development Center (NBDC) is a university-based business consulting program that provides professional level consulting assistance to small businesses in rural Nebraska. The NBDC for Lincoln and Southeast Nebraska is located in the Nebraska Center for Entrepreneurship office. Nebraska Business Development Center website Contact: Umeda Islamova, Lincoln Center Director, umeda@unl.edu Bradley Cain, Lincoln Center Graduate Assistant, bcain4@unl.edu Resources Business plan advice for securing funding through loans, grants and venture capital Financial projections assistance Small business assistance Nebraska Extension Nebraska Extension leads entrepreneurship and innovation programs across Nebraska, promoting the embrace of an entrepreneurial mindset and skills to create new businesses. Nebraska Extension launches new leaders through entrepreneurship programming for all age groups. Nebraska Extension website Contact: Dagen Valentine, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Assistant Extension Educator, entrepreneurshipoutreach@unl.edu Resources Programs for K-12 LEAP into Careers, TEC Box, INVENTURE Day, Entrepreneurship Investigation (ESI), BluePrint Adult Programs Crafting Culture Workshop Series Latino Small Business Program Nebraska Innovation Campus NIC is a research campus designed to facilitate new and in-depth partnerships between the University of Nebraska and private sector businesses. NIC is connecting the talents of experts, companies and the university to create a unique culture of innovation. The campus promotes positive energy and fosters interaction and stimulate ideas, collaboration, sustainability and innovation. Nebraska Innovation Campus website Contact: Brooke Goedert, Administrative Coordinator, bgoedert2@unl.edu Resources Office space, wet/dry lab space, pilot plant space and greenhouse space available for lease NIC Conference Center Nebraska Innovation Studio, the UNL makerspace Nebraska Innovation Studio Nebraska Innovation Studio — the UNL makerspace — is the creative and collaborative hub of Nebraska Innovation Campus, where makers and builders team up to conceptualize, prototype and iterate projects that solve problems, influence change and comment on our society. NIS is open to anyone in the Lincoln community. You don't need to be affiliated with UNL to join. Nebraska Innovation Studio is about more than a building full of tools — it's about building a culture of innovation. Nebraska Innovation Studio website Contact: Jerry Reif, Shop Manager, jreif@unl.edu Resources Community-oriented do-it-yourself makerspace Safety and operational (SOP) training courses Equipment CNC & Rapid Prototyping, Wood Shop, Electronics, Ceramics, Textiles, Printmaking, Software (Autocad, Adobe Creative Cloud, CircuitMaker, etc) UNL Maker Club Located on Nebraska Innovation Campus NUTech Ventures NUtech Ventures’ mission is to commercialize technologies generated from the research and creative activities of UNL. Namely, NUtech Ventures seeks to facilitate the transfer of innovations from the “lab to the marketplace” for the benefit of society. Whether you’re interested in seeing your innovations licensed, in starting a company, or securing developmental funding for your cutting-edge research, NUTech Ventures can help you connect with potential partners, entrepreneurs and resources. NUTech Ventures website Contact: Alyssa Amen, Marketing & Communications Manager, aamen@nutechventures.org Resources NMotion, a mentor-driven, equity-based 90-day startup accelerator Assistance with intellectual property, commercialization and securing developmental funding Network of innovators, coaches and resources for startups Internships: Commercialization Analyst, Contracts Analyst, Marketing & Communications, Business Administration Rural Futures Institute The Rural Futures Institute (RFI) provides resources to help entrepreneurs unleash the full potential of rural America's leadership, economic capacity, cultural creativity and natural resources. RFI is dedicated to fueling the future of humankind through rural development. RFI connects students from secondary school through adulthood, faculty from NU campuses and beyond and communities of both localities and practice. Rural Futures Institute website Contact: Kayla Schnuelle, Connecting Young Nebraskans Coordinator, kschnuelle@nebraska.edu Resources RFI Student Serviceship program, a hybrid of service learning and traditional internships that support rural community efforts RFI-Funded Research & Teaching Projects RFI Faculty and Community Innovation Fellows Connecting Young Nebraskans, a statewide network of RFI at the University of Nebraska for leaders between the ages of 21 and 40 RFI is available to talk with students about what they are seeking from rural communities and connect them to networking and experience opportunities across the University system (UNL and beyond) Weibling Entrepreneurship Legal Clinic (E-Clinic) The Weibling Entrepreneurship Clinic at the University of Nebraska College of Law provides free advice and legal representation to startup business clients throughout the state of Nebraska. The E-Clinic handles a variety of early-stage legal matters, including entity formation, contract drafting and review, intellectual property protection, regulatory, compliance and other transactional legal matters. Weibling E-Clinic website Contact: LeAnn Frobom, E-Clinic Legal Assistant, lfrobom2@unl.edu Resources Early-stage transactional legal advice and representation for entrepreneurs, startups and nonprofits Assistance with trademark filings through The Schmid Law Library's Patent & Trademark Resource Center "DIY Packets" for entrepreneurs wanting to establish Nebraska LLCs Student, Director and USPTO outreach presentations Featured Students Lizz Whitacre As a student at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Lizz created Family Pet Project. Inspired by her love of animals and years of volunteering for no-kill shelters, the website helps those who need to rehome their pets into loving environments. She also created Pawlytics, a shelter data management system. She was able to turn her ideas into reality with the help of the Center for Entrepreneurship. “They’ve been everything to me,” Lizz said. Through the Center for Entrepreneurship, Lizz found mentors that pushed and encouraged her through her projects. She practiced pitches there, received feedback from professionals, and ultimately found the confidence she needed to see her ideas come to life. NovacAI Artificial intelligence software that helps diagnose cancer may sound like an idea from the future, but it’s being worked on now by students at the Center for Entrepreneurship. NovocAI was brainstormed and created by two UNL computer science students, Josh Jones and Trevor Fellbaum. They credit the Center for Entrepreneurship for helping push their idea along. Through quick pitch and 48 hour events, NovocAI has developed their code and sourced their data, while simultaneously winning grant money that helps them pursue their goals. NovocAI was just an idea to help doctors. Now, with the Center for Entrepreneurship, it’s becoming a reality. 1,500 Students served by entrepreneurship resources at the University of Nebraska. Highest rated Entrepreneurship faculty are the most highly rated at the university, according to an internal survey of students. Over $500,000 Startup capital raised by student businesses in 2017. Contact Us Address Center for Entrepreneurship 730 N. 14th Street HLH 315 Lincoln, NE 68508-1515 Phone 402-472-3353 Email entrepreneurship@unl.edu Related Links UNL Events Calendar University Communications Office of the Chancellor Campus Links Directory Employment Events Libraries Maps News Office of the Chancellor Report an Incident Policies & Reports Accessibility Statement Emergency Planning and Preparedness Institutional Equity and Compliance Notice of Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Security and Fire Safety Report Student Information Disclosures UNL web framework and quality assurance provided by the Web Developer Network · QA Test University of Nebraska–Lincoln Established 1869 · Copyright 2022 Some parts of this site work best with JavaScript enabled.