What We Do Startup Directory Calendar Newsroom Resources Quick Links Startup Lab Design Studio Annual Report StartupColumbia Festival Columbia Venture Competition DFSI At the Columbia Entrepreneurship Design Studio, we amplify the Columbia community’s creative potential to solve problems through design. Using a set of methodologies, called “human-centered design”, we teach students, alumni, and faculty an agile approach to gaining critical customer insights and integrating them into their products, services, and businesses. We encourage innovators to delve into the needs of market segments, frame customer problems, rapidly generate prototypes, and build viable solutions. Through courses, workshops, events, and community development the Design Studio brings diverse members of Columbia’s community together to build innovative solutions. Each design program is designed to facilitate a culture of creativity and fearless curiosity at Columbia. There are a number of ways you can get involved with the Columbia Entrepreneurship Design Studio! From specific courses to broader projects or individual support, the Studio is a resource for both beginners and design experts. The Design Studio is located in Room 430 of Riverside Church (Map). Join our mailing list to learn about when opportunities to connect come up. Get Involved Open Studio Hours Learn More Design for Social Innovation Learn More Design Your Future Learn More Design Fellows Program Learn More Teaching Team Adam Royalty Sarah Holloway Dave Lerner Daniella Raposo Design Fellows Loan Kim Chu, SIPA & CBS (Current) Perrin Anto, SEAS (Alum) Leah Chung, SIPA (Alum) Dicarlos Davis II, CBS (Alum) Arti Doshi, Teachers College (Alum) Anna Houseman, CBS (Alum) Taylor Light, SIPA (Alum) Jeremy Seah, CBS (Alum) Adeline Thompson, SIPA (Alum) Carolina de los Angeles Leiva Ureta, SIPA (Alum) Khanh Vu, SIPA (Alum) Sign up for our newsletter! Subscribe Now Become a smarter entrepreneur. Join our mailing list today. First Name* Last Name* Email Columbia Affiliation (if any, optional) This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. Learn more here. Subscribe to Mailing List First Name* Last Name* Email* Columbia Affiliation (if any, optional) This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. Learn more here. About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University | Sitemap | Disclaimer | Site by Barrel Subscribe to Mailing List First Name* Last Name* Email* Columbia Affiliation (if any, optional) This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. Learn more here.