What We Do Startup Directory Calendar Newsroom Resources Quick Links Startup Lab Design Studio Annual Report StartupColumbia Festival Columbia Venture Competition DFSI Resources Know exactly what you’re looking for? You can find a sortable list here. Otherwise, scroll through these external resources for getting your idea off the ground, and check out this list of all the entrepreneurship teams across the University that can help you start up. JUMP TO: Legal Pitching and Fundraising Startup Toolkit Campus Centers & Groups Legal What you need to make it official and incorporate your startup. Stripe Atlas “By removing lengthy paperwork, legal complexity, and numerous fees, Stripe Atlas helps you launch your startup from anywhere in the world.” Discount available for Columbia entrepreneurs: Stripe (online payments tool) – $20,000 fee-free processing (some restrictions apply) – Atlas incorporation for $250 (normally $500) – Early access to new product features and exclusive Stripe events Pitching and Fundraising Sample templates and advice to get you started on raising money for your startup. Sample Seed Round Pitchdeck Startup accelerator Y Combinator dives into how companies can tell their stories through slides. More Pitchdeck Advice More advice from Y Combinator, given to teams preparing for a pitch day. Building an Investor Pipeline Spreadsheet Columbia Prof and Techstars Managing Director Jenny Fielding explains how to stay organized. Startup Toolkit External resources for the fundamentals of entrepreneurship, building your business model, networking, and getting inspiration. Lean Launchpad Free Online Course Learn how to do your market research and “get out of the building” from Lean Launchpad creator Steve Blank. Business Model Canvas Alexander Osterwalder’s classic template for planning out your company’s business strategy. Startup School Y Combinator dives into the fundamentals of starting up. When it Comes to These Company Building Blocks, Borrow From Others In an interview with First Round, Columbia alum and Thumbtack CEO Marco Zappacosta talks about knowing when to pull from established playbooks versus beginning from first principles. Gary's Guide A list of NYC Tech Events. AlleyWatch Keep up with the latest news on the NYC entrepreneurship scene. How I Built This NPR dives into the stories of some of today’s best-known companies. Campus Centers & Groups Columbia has innovation hubs across the University and dedicated teams at each school! Get to know the resources that can help you on your entrepreneurship journey. Columbia Entrepreneurship, Innovation, and Design That’s us! Under the Office of the President, we’re the nexus for information on all things entrepreneurship, innovation, and design. In addition to the dedicated resources at your school, we’re here to support your startup journey with interdisciplinary programming and information. Columbia Entrepreneurship Design Studio Using a set of methodologies, called “human-centered design”, the Design Studio teaches students, alumni, and faculty an agile approach to gaining critical customer insights and integrating them into their products, services, and businesses. The Design Studio encourage innovators to delve into the needs of market segments, frame customer problems, rapidly generate prototypes, and build viable solutions. Columbia Makerspace The Makerspace is a Columbia University run workshop that provides a wide variety of tools such as laser cutters and 3D printers for students, artists, makers, creatives, programmers, scientists, and engineers to use, and provide a space in which they can work, share ideas, and collaborate. It is open to all current undergraduates, master’s students, university sponsored researchers, PhD candidates, university faculty, and university staff. Entrepreneurship Resources at Columbia Libraries Welcome to the Columbia University Libraries research guide on entrepreneurship. Columbia Startup Lab The Columbia Startup Lab, Columbia’s alumni entrepreneur coworking space, has been headquarters to over 329 startups and 448 Columbia alumni entrepreneurs that have raised over $94.1M in funding and $115M in acquisitions since it launched in 2014. Student Clubs - Undergraduate and Graduate A growing list of clubs at Columbia that are dedicated to entrepreneurship, venture capital, innovation, and related topics. Columbia Engineering Entrepreneurship Columbia Engineering’s dedicated resource. Res Inc. - Columbia College & Columbia Engineering Res. Inc. is a singular living and learning opportunity open to students who are interested in living alongside like-minded entrepreneurs in a hands-on, ideas-rich environment. Housed in the Living Learning Center (LLC) on the 8th floor of Wallach Hall, this cross-disciplinary community fosters creativity, innovation and entrepreneurship by drawing on the diverse skills and strengths of both upperclass and first-year Columbia College and Columbia Engineering student. Athena Entrepreneurs - Barnard Barnard’s dedicated resource for entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurship at the Data Science Institute Encouraging entrepreneurship and developing an entrepreneurial ecosystem for the Institute’s faculty and staff who are interested in starting companies is an important component of DSI’s mission and has emerged as a central educational theme within Columbia Engineering. The Eugene Lang Entrepreneurship Center - CBS Columbia Business School’s Eugene M. Lang Entrepreneurship Center [The Lang Center] powers entrepreneurship, venture capital, and innovation at Columbia Business School and in the global entrepreneurial community. Tamer Center for Social Enterprise - CBS The Tamer Center for Social Enterprise at Columbia Business School educates leaders to use business knowledge, entrepreneurial skills, and management tools to address social and environmental challenges. Entrepreneurship and Community Development Clinic - Columbia Law Representing the start-ups of low- and moderate-income entrepreneurs and fledgling businesses, Columbia Law students develop substantive knowledge and transactional lawyering skills by serving as pro bono counsel. Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Engaging scholars, entrepreneurs, and technology, Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA explores avenues to shape policy in the public and private sector. The Brown Institute - Columbia Journalism Established in 2012, the David and Helen Gurley Brown Institute is a collaboration between Columbia University and Stanford University, designed to encourage and support new endeavors in media innovation. MetaProp Accelerator and GSAPP Incubator - GSAPP The MetaProp Accelerator at Columbia is a 22-week program focused on driving business growth and accelerated market penetration. As a platform for entrepreneurship and expanded modes of practice, the Incubator Prize supports projects led by GSAPP alumni that bridge critical discourse with active practice and engagement. Columbia Healthcare Ventures - Mailman School of Public Health The Columbia Healthcare Ventures (CHV) aims to empower the next generation of entrepreneurial leaders. It strives to inspire future leaders through collaboration with experts and pioneers to create innovative and sustainable solutions that will address pressing challenges in the healthcare landscape. Startup Sector Jobs - Center for Career Education Startups present an attractive opportunity to build skills and cultivate networks. The Center for Career Education can help you get involved. Columbia's Center for Spatial Research The Center for Spatial Research was established in 2015 as a hub for urban research that links design, architecture, urbanism, the humanities and data science. Columbia Technology Ventures If you’re faculty and/or work at a Columbia research lab, check out Columbia Technology Ventures: CTV’s core mission is to facilitate the transfer of inventions from academic research labs to the market for the benefit of society on a local, national, and global basis. Columbia Lab-to-Market (L2M) Accelerator Network A cross-discipline support system providing tactical and strategic guidance to the Columbia-affiliated accelerators in therapeutics, biomedical technology, clean energy, media, advanced materials, big data, cybersecurity, and more. The network includes: Translational Therapeutics Accelerator (TRx) Accelerating Cancer Therapeutics (ACT) Biomedical Engineering Technology Accelerator (BioMedX) NYC Media Lab Cyber NYC Inventors to Founders Columbia-IBM Center for Blockchain and Data Transparency Columbia E'ship Community View All Subscribe to Mailing List First Name* Last Name* Email* Columbia Affiliation (if any, optional) This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. Learn more here. About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University | Sitemap | Disclaimer | Site by Barrel Subscribe to Mailing List First Name* Last Name* Email* Columbia Affiliation (if any, optional) This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. Learn more here.