Home Discover Funding Space Ideation Other Resources Alumni Spotlight Columbia Startup Lab Our Startups Get Started Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty Calendar About Us Sounding Board Contact Us Search Menu Fast Pitch Fast Pitch Congratulations to The Winners of Fast Pitch 2021 Fast Pitch 2021 Recap Undergraduate Challenge 1st Place: RivR 2nd Place: Langavi 3rd Place (tie): Petids 3rd Place (tie): Throworg 3rd Place (tie): Acute Graduate Challenge 1st Place: Python Fix 2nd Place (tie): Joyshare 2nd Place (tie): Joanne Audience Choice Award Team Releese Do you have a startup idea? Would you like feedback from CU alumni? Enter Fast Pitch, Columbia Engineering’s campus-wide annual elevator pitch competition, and win money to support your idea. Teams have 60 seconds to sell their business ideas to a panel of judges to win up to $5,000. This is a great opportunity to practice and perfect a 60-second pitch of your business to a panel of judges that includes successful Columbia alumni and members of the NYC venture community. $5000 is at stake! There will be a $2000 prize pool solely for undergraduates and a $3000 pool for the best overall pitches. All CU students and alumni 2 years out are welcome. Your elevator pitch could be the most impactful way to convey your business to an outsider. Mastering the skill of the pitch to hook your investors, partners, or customers within the first minute is crucial. Take part in the Fast Pitch competition to improve your marketing, sales, and promotional capabilities. Open to all undergraduate and graduate students across campus. Teams are judged on their idea’s market appeal, pitch clarity, and salesmanship. Attendance and participation is free. As for the experience, it’s priceless. Any questions? Email us at seaseship@columbia.edu. Fast Pitch 2021 Timeline Nov 2: Video pitches due at midnight, no professional editing required, just a pitch! Submit your application with a link to your video on Younoodle. Teams will receive constructive feedback from judges by November 12th. Video requirements: 60 seconds 1 – 2 people pitching for the team no slides (a custom zoom background is encouraged) record in landscape on your phone or laptop – even a zoom recording will work use good lighting and audio – these are crucial Nov 12: Feedback on videos released to applicants. Nov 19: Fast Pitch Competition. Applicants will be contacted the week of November 15th to pitch live at the event! Hear from our past participants Previous Fast Pitch Articles: 2020 Fast Pitch 2019 Fast Pitch 2018 Fast Pitch 2017 Fast Pitch 2016 Fast Pitch 2015 Fast Pitch 2014 Fast Pitch ©2022 Columbia University This material is based upon work supported by the National Foundation under grant number 1740622. Any opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in the material are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Science Foundation. Scroll to top Sign up to stay up to date with our upcoming opportunities First time visitor subscription (in popup) If you are human, leave this field blank. First Name * Last Name * Email Address * Submit × Submit an Opportunity Please select a valid form ×