What We Do Startup Directory Calendar Newsroom Resources Quick Links Startup Lab Design Studio Annual Report StartupColumbia Festival Columbia Venture Competition DFSI Privacy Statement Thank you for visiting the Columbia University Entrepreneurship site. Your privacy is important to us. To better protect your privacy, we have developed this notice explaining our online information practices and the choices you can make about the way your information is collected and used within our sites and services. Please read on for more details about our privacy policy. The Columbia University Entrepreneurship site collects personal information to make our site(s) and service(s) more relevant and rewarding for you to use. We may use the information you provide about yourself to fulfill your requests for our products, programs, and services, to respond to your inquiries about our offerings, and to offer you other products, programs, or services that we believe may be of interest to you. We sometimes use this information to communicate with you, such as to notify you when we make changes to our services, to fulfill a request by you, or to contact you about your account with us. Most of our communications provide an “opt-out” feature. We may also use your information to update internal systems. This allows for seamless delivery of services and resources to you across the University. The Columbia University Entrepreneurship site(s) and service(s) may contain email services, chat areas, new groups, forums, communities, calendars, photo displays, and/or other message or communication facilities designed to enable you to communicate with others (collectively, “Communication Services”). The information we collect in connection with these Communication Services is used to provide an interactive experience. We use this information to facilitate participation in these Communication Services. Within many of these Communication Services, the Columbia University Entrepreneurship site provides you multiple privacy options that allow you to restrict the use and viewability of your information to others. Subscribe to Mailing List First Name* Last Name* Email* Columbia Affiliation (if any, optional) This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. Learn more here. About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University | Sitemap | Disclaimer | Site by Barrel Subscribe to Mailing List First Name* Last Name* Email* Columbia Affiliation (if any, optional) This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. Learn more here.