Skip to main content Entrepreneurship Menu Close About Annual Report Connect With Us Give to NC State Entrepreneurship Our Team Results Students Academics Ambassador Program Andrews Launch Accelerator Entrepreneurship Scholarships Experiential Learning Funding Getting Started with Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program Miller Fellowship Trips Community Alumni Entrepreneurship Alliance Entrepreneurship Partners Program Giving Mentorship Program NC State Founders’ Pledge Spaces Albright Entrepreneurs Village Entrepreneurship Garage Entrepreneurship Clinic Garage Classroom NCSU Libraries Makerspaces Events Calendar Entrepalooza Entrepreneurship Competitions Global Entrepreneurship Week eGames Give Now About About Annual Report Connect With Us Give to NC State Entrepreneurship Our Team Results Students Students Academics Ambassador Program Andrews Launch Accelerator Entrepreneurship Scholarships Experiential Learning Funding Getting Started with Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program Miller Fellowship Trips Community Community Alumni Entrepreneurship Alliance Entrepreneurship Partners Program Giving Mentorship Program NC State Founders’ Pledge Spaces Spaces Albright Entrepreneurs Village Entrepreneurship Garage Entrepreneurship Clinic Garage Classroom NCSU Libraries Makerspaces Events Events Calendar Entrepalooza Entrepreneurship Competitions Global Entrepreneurship Week eGames Give Now Celebrate with the Wolfpack A Celebration of Entrepreneurship Global Entrepreneurship Week (GEW) is a celebration of the innovators and job creators who launch startups that bring ideas to life, drive economic growth and expand human welfare. During the second week of November, GEW inspires people everywhere through local, national and global activities designed to help them explore their potential as self-starters and innovators. Here at NC State, we celebrate GEW with a variety of offerings both on and off-campus. Take a look at our lineup below and don’t forget to RSVP to secure your seat! Food and drinks will be provided at most events with RSVP. GEW Kickoff and Alumni Entrepreneur Showcase | Monday, Nov. 8 | 6:00 p.m. – 8:00 p.m. Celebrate the innovation and entrepreneurship taking place at NC State at this kickoff reception and showcase featuring over 15 alumni startups. Watch our State of Entrepreneurship Video to get a recap of what we’ve been up to this academic year! Speed Networking with Business Sustainability | Tuesday, Nov. 9 | 5:00 p.m. – 7:00 p.m. Meet one-on-one with Triangle-based impact entrepreneurs and find out what is involved in creating a business with social, environmental and community impact. Cultural Competence Workshop | Wed., Nov. 10 | 12:00 p.m. – 1:30 p.m. The Global Training Initiative at NC State introduces a common language for understanding culture and cultural competence. Started at State | Wednesday, Nov. 10 | 6:00 p.m. – 7:00 p.m. This entrepreneurial speaker series features both current NC State students and alumni business founders. Come learn from fascinating tales from these trailblazers as they share the secrets, setbacks, and successes. Mentorship Mixer | Thursday, Nov. 11 | 6:00 p.m. – 7:00 p.m. Sync up with local business leaders and find valuable mentors at this mixer hosted by NC State Entrepreneurship’s mentorship program. Wolf Den Pitch Competition | Friday, Nov. 12 | 5:30 – 7:00 p.m. Join innovators from NC State and beyond for this Shark Tank-inspired event giving students the opportunity to pitch their business concept to live judges and a live audience. We will be taking an audience vote for the Audience Choice Award! Join the Celebration! Get your free tickets before it’s too late! Previous Image1 of 11 Next Image GEW 2021 Promotional Toolkit We need your help spreading the word about Global Entrepreneurship Week! Please feel free to download and share the assets below. All events are open to students, faculty and staff. Must RSVP to guarantee admission. GEW Digital Billboard with event QR code. Download here. GEW Social Media Post Download here. GEW Event Schedule Graphic and Go-Link Go-link for full week schedule: go.ncsu.edu/gew-events Download Schedule Graphic Here. Daily GEW Event Graphics with QR codes Download here. GEW 2021 Event Slides for Class Download Here. Autoplay instructions so slides can rotate as students walk into your classroom: 1) Click “Present” 2) Hover over the bottom left of the screen and click on three vertical dots. 3) Hover over “Auto Play” 4) Select “10-seconds” or desired time 5) Click “Play” Entrepreneurship Home 1017 Main Campus Drive, Suite 1650 Raleigh, NC 27606 entrepreneurship@ncsu.edu 919.513.3676 Campus Map <span class=nowrap>aria-hidden="false"> Entrepreneurship Home About NC State Entrepreneurship Staff Resources Contact Us Alliance Resources News Event Calendar Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.