What We Do Startup Directory Calendar Newsroom Resources Quick Links Startup Lab Design Studio Annual Report StartupColumbia Festival Columbia Venture Competition DFSI News 2022 #CoachingColumbia Awards – Jeremy Kagan By Columbia Entrepreneurship | May 23, 2022 Inspired by the incredible example of mentorship and generosity provided by our friend and former Columbia Trustee, Bill “Coach” Campbell ’62CC, ’64TC, we honor and recognize members of our startup community who give their personal time to Columbia founders in the throes of their journey. Congratulations to Jeremy Kagan ’99CBS #CoachingColumbia Honoree and Mentor in Residence at the Columbia Startup Lab Jeremy Kagan is a growth and innovation consultant, and advisor to corporations, startups and digital media companies. He is also currently Co-Founder and Contributor of Marketecture Media, which does in depth video interviews of marketing technology vendors. He is the former Managing Director of the Eugene Lang Center for Entrepreneurship at Columbia Business School, where he oversaw the entrepreneurial curriculum, student programs, the Lang venture capital fund, and the Columbia Startup Lab. He is also a Professor and Faculty Director of the Digital Marketing Strategy executive education program, and teaches graduate and executive education classes. His book “Digital Marketing: Strategy and Tactics”, the first textbook for digital marketing, was published in 2018 by the Wessex Press. Kagan previously was the founder and CEO of Pricing Engine, a digital marketing platform that enabled small businesses to benchmark, optimize and expand their search and social advertising campaigns. Kagan has been a speaker and corporate trainer in the digital media industry, where his clients include companies in content, services, and e-commerce, as well as traditional advertising agencies needing digital media expertise. Kagan previously worked at Sony Music Entertainment in the Global Digital Business, where he was the Vice President of Global Account Management, working with large partners such as Nokia and Sony Ericsson. Before this, he was Vice President/Director of Strategy and Customer Insight for Publicis Modem, a leading digital advertising agency, where Kagan headed research and innovation out of the New York office. Kagan lives in New York’s East Village with his wife and children, and now walks his kids to school around the corner from where he used to produce indie rock concerts. Life’s funny that way. Share Now Trending PressColumbia Founder Nina Tandon on Day One: Making Sci-Fi a Reality News2022 Columbia Venture Competition Winners - SIPA Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant News2022 Columbia Venture Competition Winners - BlocPower Columbia Climate Challenge PressHow CSL Alum CoinOut Actually Pays You for Your Data Lab DispatchesJeremy Yao '20SEAS of Changing Room is Shaking Up the Fashion Industry More Categories Innovator Stories News Press Lab Dispatches Event Recaps Related Posts News 2022 #CoachingColumbia Awards – Stacy Tarver Patterson May 23, 2022 News Entrepreneur of the Year 2022: Ryan Petersen ’08CBS May 13, 2022 News 2022 Columbia Venture Competition – Tournament of Champions + Full Li... May 12, 2022 News 2022 Columbia Venture Competition Winners – Columbia-CareOne Healthca... May 12, 2022 News 2022 Columbia Venture Competition Winners – Undergraduate Challenge May 12, 2022 News 2022 Columbia Venture Competition Winners – Columbia Journalism Chall... May 12, 2022 Now Trending News2022 Columbia Venture Competition - Tournament of Champions + Full List of Winners News2022 #CoachingColumbia Awards - Stacy Tarver Patterson NewsEntrepreneur of the Year 2022: Nthabiseng Mosia '16SIPA PressHow CSL Alum CoinOut Actually Pays You for Your Data News2022 Columbia Venture Competition Winners - SIPA Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant More Categories Innovator Stories News Press Lab Dispatches Event Recaps Subscribe to Mailing List First Name* Last Name* Email* Columbia Affiliation (if any, optional) This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. Learn more here. About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University | Sitemap | Disclaimer | Site by Barrel Subscribe to Mailing List First Name* Last Name* Email* Columbia Affiliation (if any, optional) This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. Learn more here.