What We Do Startup Directory Calendar Newsroom Resources Quick Links Startup Lab Design Studio Annual Report StartupColumbia Festival Columbia Venture Competition DFSI Wherever you are in your startup journey, Columbia can help you make the most of your time on campus. Columbia Startup Lab – Morningside offers programming and guidance for current Columbia students, including students of Barnard and Teachers College, interested in entrepreneurship and human-centered design. This includes office hours and workshops with faculty and mentors; social mixers for student entrepreneurship groups; and times for students to work on startup ideas and entrepreneurial projects. Students who participate in CSL-Morningside programming and workshops will find themselves particularly ready to participate in the Columbia Venture Competition, which kicks off in the Spring. Columbia alumni are encouraged to consider the Columbia Startup Lab in Soho to continue growing their business full time. Workshops include: Going from idea to action Testing product-market fit Customer discovery Team building Fundraising Incorporation and legal considerations Sign up for our newsletter to keep up with the latest schedule of events, or check out our calendar. Open Studio hours are available in Summer 2022 by appointment, and regular programming will return in September 2022. Become a smarter entrepreneur. Join our mailing list today. First Name* Last Name* Email Columbia Affiliation (if any, optional) This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. Learn more here. Subscribe to Mailing List First Name* Last Name* Email* Columbia Affiliation (if any, optional) This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. Learn more here. About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University | Sitemap | Disclaimer | Site by Barrel Subscribe to Mailing List First Name* Last Name* Email* Columbia Affiliation (if any, optional) This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. Learn more here.