What We Do Startup Directory Calendar Newsroom Resources Quick Links Startup Lab Design Studio Annual Report StartupColumbia Festival Columbia Venture Competition DFSI News Collaboratory Opens New Data Science Clinic By Columbia Entrepreneurship | April 1, 2017 More and more disciplines either require or benefit from a working knowledge of data science. To that end, students and researches at Columbia now have an additional a resource to draw upon: The newly launched Collaboratory Clinic, which will provide free in-person assistance with data science related queries to any member of the Columbia Community. This clinic offers help in planning and executing data driven research projects, including help with data visualization, analysis, and prediction. For example, the Clinic can offer feedback on: Designing data-driven applications. Data collection and storage issues. Data analysis in Python, R, Matlab, SQL, C++, Java and other languages. Choosing analysis and machine learning approaches. Image recognition and image analysis. Text processing, language understanding and topic modelling tasks. Validating data driven analysis. The clinic can address questions both in conceptual terms and with concrete software implementations. Have a question? Fill out the form and make an appointment to ensure that the clinic can process the question and then help in the best possible way. However, if you prefer to start the conversation in person, you can find the Collaboratory Clinic at the Studio@Butler, 208b Butler Library, Thursdays 3-5pm starting March 23. Jointly founded by Columbia University’s Data Science Institute and Columbia Entrepreneurship, The Collaboratory@Columbia is a university-wide program dedicated to fostering the education and training Columbia students need to succeed in today’s data rich world. Share Now Trending Lab DispatchesJeremy Yao '20SEAS of Changing Room is Shaking Up the Fashion Industry NewsColumbia Venture Competition Spring 2022 Tracks NewsComing Up in Entrepreneurship - April & May 2022 NewsEntrepreneur of the Year 2022: Nthabiseng Mosia '16SIPA News2022 Columbia Venture Competition Winners - Columbia-CareOne Healthcare All-Stars Challenge More Categories Innovator Stories News Press Lab Dispatches Event Recaps Related Posts News 2022 #CoachingColumbia Awards – Stacy Tarver Patterson May 23, 2022 News 2022 #CoachingColumbia Awards – Jeremy Kagan May 23, 2022 News Entrepreneur of the Year 2022: Ryan Petersen ’08CBS May 13, 2022 News 2022 Columbia Venture Competition – Tournament of Champions + Full Li... May 12, 2022 News 2022 Columbia Venture Competition Winners – Columbia-CareOne Healthca... May 12, 2022 News 2022 Columbia Venture Competition Winners – Undergraduate Challenge May 12, 2022 Now Trending NewsStarting Up NewsEntrepreneur of the Year 2022: Ryan Petersen '08CBS NewsComing Up in Entrepreneurship - April & May 2022 News2022 Columbia Venture Competition Winners - BlocPower Columbia Climate Challenge PressColumbia Featured in Impact Entrepreneurship Magazine More Categories Innovator Stories News Press Lab Dispatches Event Recaps Subscribe to Mailing List First Name* Last Name* Email* Columbia Affiliation (if any, optional) This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. Learn more here. About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University | Sitemap | Disclaimer | Site by Barrel Subscribe to Mailing List First Name* Last Name* Email* Columbia Affiliation (if any, optional) This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. Learn more here.