Skip to main content Entrepreneurship Menu Close About Annual Report Connect With Us Give to NC State Entrepreneurship Our Team Results Students Academics Ambassador Program Andrews Launch Accelerator Entrepreneurship Scholarships Experiential Learning Funding Getting Started with Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program Miller Fellowship Trips Community Alumni Entrepreneurship Alliance Entrepreneurship Partners Program Giving Mentorship Program NC State Founders’ Pledge Spaces Albright Entrepreneurs Village Entrepreneurship Garage Entrepreneurship Clinic Garage Classroom NCSU Libraries Makerspaces Events Calendar Entrepalooza Entrepreneurship Competitions Global Entrepreneurship Week eGames Give Now About About Annual Report Connect With Us Give to NC State Entrepreneurship Our Team Results Students Students Academics Ambassador Program Andrews Launch Accelerator Entrepreneurship Scholarships Experiential Learning Funding Getting Started with Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program Miller Fellowship Trips Community Community Alumni Entrepreneurship Alliance Entrepreneurship Partners Program Giving Mentorship Program NC State Founders’ Pledge Spaces Spaces Albright Entrepreneurs Village Entrepreneurship Garage Entrepreneurship Clinic Garage Classroom NCSU Libraries Makerspaces Events Events Calendar Entrepalooza Entrepreneurship Competitions Global Entrepreneurship Week eGames Give Now eGames NC State's largest entrepreneurship competition of the year! Meet the 15 eGames finalist Learn More Our Annual Shark Tank-Style Competition! Originating in 2009, the eGames is NC State’s annual startup competition, awarding over $100k to NC State entrepreneurs. There are two tracks for the competition – the student track and the Daugherty Endowment Track for officially registered startup companies that have licensed NC State intellectual property in the past three years. The student segment of eGames is split into two categories, the “Think” category, and the “Do” category. This means teams can compete with an idea or business in the early stages – the ”Think” category – or with an established startup that has a product, revenue, or customers – the ”Do” category. Teams must forgo two rounds of judging across different categories, measuring everything from market feasibility to design and prototype. The student track is open to all undergraduate and graduate student teams comprised of at least 50% degree-seeking NC State students. Cash Prizes Available “Think” Awards Open to undergrad and graduate students with an idea or business in the early stage. 1st Prize – $9,000 2nd Prize – $7,000 3rd Prize – $4,000 “Do” Awards Open to undergrad and graduate students with a more established startup. 1st Prize – $10,000 2nd Prize – $8,500 3rd Prize – $6,500 “Impact” Awards Open to ALL applicants no matter if competing in the “Think” or “Do” category – and no matter on whether you make it to the finals or not. Arts Impact Awards – brought to you by NC State Department of Music’s Arts Entrepreneurship program 1st award – $2,000 2nd award – $2,000 Social and Environmental Impact Award – brought to you by Larry Spera 1st award – $2,000 2nd award – $2,000 Design and Prototype 1st award – $2,000 2nd award – $2,000 Built on Cloud – brought to you by IBM 1st award – $2,000 2nd award – $2,000 Audience and Judge’s Choice Award $1,000 Audience Choice – Join us at Talley Student Union on April 18 for the eGames Award Ceremony and help your favorite team win the $1,000 audience choice. $1,000 Judge’s Choice – Our panel of industry judges will be awarding an additional $1,000 to their favorite team during the eGames Award Ceremony on April 18. Daugherty Endowment Track Awards Open to officially registered startup companies who have licensed NC State intellectual property. 1st Prize – $25,000 2nd Prize – $15,000 3rd Prize – $10,000 eGames Ranks in the Top 20 University Entrepreneurship Competitions We’re not only NC State’s largest entrepreneurship competition – we’re Top 20 in the country! Learn More Daugherty Endowment Track The Daugherty Endowment Track has been a contributing partner of the eGames since 2016, with the primary goal of increasing the success of startup companies based on NC State IP. The Daugherty Endowment Track is open to officially registered startup companies who have licensed NC State intellectual property in the past three years — meaning their licenses must be currently active. The funds allocated to winning companies can be used for critical early-stage business expenses. For the past five years, the Daugherty Track has awarded prizes totaling $50,000 each year – with first place receiving $25,000, second receiving $15,000 and third receiving $10,000. In 2021, the Daugherty Track had two teams tie for first place. The Daugherty Endowment Track is made possible by The Richard L. and Marlene V. Daugherty Centennial Campus Entrepreneurialism Endowment (Daugherty Endowment) with funding partnership from the Kenan Institute for Engineering, Technology & Science and collaboration with the NC State Office of Partnerships and Office of Research Commercialization. Learn More The Daugherty Track at the eGames is made possible thanks to the following: Richard and Marlene Daugherty Entrepreneurialism Endowment Kenan Institute for Engineering, Technology & Science NC State Office of Partnerships NC State Office of Research Commercialization A Special Thanks To all of our Entrepreneurship Champion Partners! View Page We Also Thank Our Entrepreneurship Advocate Partners! Extraordinary Impact Awards are made possible thanks to the following supporters Thank you to this year’s in-kind award sponsors for providing additional awards to student teams Help us Market eGames eGames article that highlights the finalists eGames slides eGames flier Instagram story eGames logo Catch Up on the 2021 eGames Awards Ceremony and View the List of Winners Learn about the amazing businesses and ideas coming out of NC State. Read More Entrepreneurship Home 1017 Main Campus Drive, Suite 1650 Raleigh, NC 27606 entrepreneurship@ncsu.edu 919.513.3676 Campus Map <span class=nowrap>aria-hidden="false"> Entrepreneurship Home About NC State Entrepreneurship Staff Resources Contact Us Alliance Resources News Event Calendar Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.