Skip to main content Entrepreneurship Menu Close About Annual Report Connect With Us Give to NC State Entrepreneurship Our Team Results Students Academics Ambassador Program Andrews Launch Accelerator Entrepreneurship Scholarships Experiential Learning Funding Getting Started with Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program Miller Fellowship Trips Community Alumni Entrepreneurship Alliance Entrepreneurship Partners Program Giving Mentorship Program NC State Founders’ Pledge Spaces Albright Entrepreneurs Village Entrepreneurship Garage Entrepreneurship Clinic Garage Classroom NCSU Libraries Makerspaces Events Calendar Entrepalooza Entrepreneurship Competitions Global Entrepreneurship Week eGames Give Now About About Annual Report Connect With Us Give to NC State Entrepreneurship Our Team Results Students Students Academics Ambassador Program Andrews Launch Accelerator Entrepreneurship Scholarships Experiential Learning Funding Getting Started with Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program Miller Fellowship Trips Community Community Alumni Entrepreneurship Alliance Entrepreneurship Partners Program Giving Mentorship Program NC State Founders’ Pledge Spaces Spaces Albright Entrepreneurs Village Entrepreneurship Garage Entrepreneurship Clinic Garage Classroom NCSU Libraries Makerspaces Events Events Calendar Entrepalooza Entrepreneurship Competitions Global Entrepreneurship Week eGames Give Now Mentorship Program In partnership with the eClinic, this program is designed to help you branch out, connect and build powerful connections. Are you an NC State student with a business idea, curious about exploring mentorship at State, or just looking to build a support network for whatever your future career may be? The Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program is just the place for you! The goal of the Entrepreneurship Mentors Program is to accelerate the growth of our students through connections to a tribe of mentors that volunteer their valuable time to help our entrepreneurs succeed. About the Program The Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program focuses on Adding value for both the student and the mentor Forming mentorships over time through social engagement Creating long-lasting many-to-many relationships How it works We meet 3 times per semester (1x per month) at high-growth ventures headquarters. By signing up to the mentorship program students are commiting to attending all 3 mentorship programs throughout the semester We facilitate structured activities and open networking to enable all our members to build relationships. We leverage Ask the Pack to allow our mentors and mentees to connect online before and after the program To sign up for the program scroll to the “Join the Mentorship Program” section below. Mentors provide Years of experience and insight in various industries and backgrounds Different strategies for how to approach problems Connections to employers or startup resources Feedback and support We mentor students who Want to practice networking skills and are interested in learning from industry experts Are interested in testing ideas or concepts and are seeking help Enjoy learning from other people, especially those who have different life experiences. Spring 2022 Schedule This spring semester we’re hosting a hybrid approach with a mixture of in-person and virtual meetings. You can reference the schedule below. Feb 10 | 6:00 – 7:00 pm – Group activity around accelerating careers and ventures | Via Zoom March 10 | 6:00 – 7:00 pm – Social networking event to help establish deeper relationships within our community | Entrepreneurship Garage at NC State University April 14 | 6:00 – 7:00 pm – Happy hour game night / Raleigh Founded Gateway Plaza Join the Mentorship Program If you’re interested in being a student mentee, please fill out the application below. By applying to join the program you will be invited to all mentorship events this semester via Google Calendar. You are highly encouraged to attend as many as you are able! Student Mentee Application If you’re interested in being a mentor for the program, please fill out the application below. We thank you for your valuable time in advance! Mentor Application Check out Previous Mentorship Events Previous Image1 of 13 Next Image Entrepreneurship Home 1017 Main Campus Drive, Suite 1650 Raleigh, NC 27606 entrepreneurship@ncsu.edu 919.513.3676 Campus Map <span class=nowrap>aria-hidden="false"> Entrepreneurship Home About NC State Entrepreneurship Staff Resources Contact Us Alliance Resources News Event Calendar Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.