Skip to main content Entrepreneurship Menu Close About Annual Report Connect With Us Give to NC State Entrepreneurship Our Team Results Students Academics Ambassador Program Andrews Launch Accelerator Entrepreneurship Scholarships Experiential Learning Funding Getting Started with Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program Miller Fellowship Trips Community Alumni Entrepreneurship Alliance Entrepreneurship Partners Program Giving Mentorship Program NC State Founders’ Pledge Spaces Albright Entrepreneurs Village Entrepreneurship Garage Entrepreneurship Clinic Garage Classroom NCSU Libraries Makerspaces Events Calendar Entrepalooza Entrepreneurship Competitions Global Entrepreneurship Week eGames Give Now About About Annual Report Connect With Us Give to NC State Entrepreneurship Our Team Results Students Students Academics Ambassador Program Andrews Launch Accelerator Entrepreneurship Scholarships Experiential Learning Funding Getting Started with Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program Miller Fellowship Trips Community Community Alumni Entrepreneurship Alliance Entrepreneurship Partners Program Giving Mentorship Program NC State Founders’ Pledge Spaces Spaces Albright Entrepreneurs Village Entrepreneurship Garage Entrepreneurship Clinic Garage Classroom NCSU Libraries Makerspaces Events Events Calendar Entrepalooza Entrepreneurship Competitions Global Entrepreneurship Week eGames Give Now Funding We're ready to help you raise the funding needed to launch and scale your startup. Funding a Bright Idea The right investment can turn a bright idea into a reality. NC State-affiliated startups have access to funding resources needed to launch a venture. $364 Million in venture capital raised over the past five years by NC State alumni startups. Funding Opportunties Andrews Launch Accelerator The NC State Acceleration Fund is designed to accelerate economic development by increasing the propensity of new ventures to survive and grow through equity-free grants. Acceleration grants provide up to $50,000 and pro bono support services to entrepreneurs who complete the Andrews Launch Accelerator. Learn more Wolfpack Investor Network The Wolfpack Investor Network (WIN) is an angel investing platform and co-investment fund (the Seed Capital Endowment Fund) that brings together the NC State entrepreneurial community, NC State alumni network, and innovative private companies to empower the businesses that drive our future. Learn More Miller Fellowship The Dr. Thomas Kenan Miller III Fellowship program is a bridge program to support student entrepreneurs for the first six months after graduation, bridging the gap between graduation and pursuing a startup full-time. During the fellowship period, alumni continue to have access to university resources including the Libraries and eGarage. Learn More Entrepreneurship Competitions Students from all academic departments can participate in entrepreneurship competitions and have access to events, workshops, mentoring that enable them to test and refine their founder skills. Learn More Wolfpack Investor Network Surpasses $15 Million in Capital Deployed Demonstrating its crucial role as an economic engine in North Carolina, the Wolfpack Investor Network (WIN) announced that it has reached $15 million in investments since its inception in December of 2016. Learn More Entrepreneurship Home 1017 Main Campus Drive, Suite 1650 Raleigh, NC 27606 entrepreneurship@ncsu.edu 919.513.3676 Campus Map <span class=nowrap>aria-hidden="false"> Entrepreneurship Home About NC State Entrepreneurship Staff Resources Contact Us Alliance Resources News Event Calendar Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.