Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Entrepreneurship Calendar Join our Mailing List Other Initiatives Other Initiatives Business & Environment Business History Digital Gender Health Care Leadership Social Enterprise Programs & Resources Student Journey Founders & Investors Faculty & Research About …→ Harvard Business School→ Entrepreneurship→ Rock Center The Arthur Rock Center for Entrepreneurship is a vital resource to HBS students and a champion for entrepreneurship at HBS. Our goal is to help you navigate the multitude of programs and resources available to students and alumni in the HBS and Harvard Ecosystem and in locations around the globe. New Venture Competition Results Meet the winners of the 2022 NVC! This year, we celebrated 25 years of the entrepreneurial journey at HBS. Press Release Linked Here Graduating Rock Accelerator Teams Meet the graduating 2021-2022 Rock Accelerator Teams. You can view the teams on our website Learn more about the teams here. Students, Connect with an Expert! Experienced and successful entrepreneurs, investors, and lawyers are available virtually during the academic year to advise and mentor HBS/Harvard student entrepreneurs. View expert profiles and availability here Virtual Programming Recordings We are focused on creating virtual programming that will inform, inspire and engage those in our community as well as support alumni as they explore, launch and scale their ventures. Check out our webinar recordings here New Venture Competition Results Graduating Rock Accelerator Teams Students, Connect with an Expert! Virtual Programming Recordings New Venture Competition Results Meet the winners of the 2022 NVC! This year, we celebrated 25 years of the entrepreneurial journey at HBS. Press Release Linked Here Graduating Rock Accelerator Teams Meet the graduating 2021-2022 Rock Accelerator Teams. You can view the teams on our website Learn more about the teams here. Students, Connect with an Expert! Experienced and successful entrepreneurs, investors, and lawyers are available virtually during the academic year to advise and mentor HBS/Harvard student entrepreneurs. View expert profiles and availability here Virtual Programming Recordings We are focused on creating virtual programming that will inform, inspire and engage those in our community as well as support alumni as they explore, launch and scale their ventures. Check out our webinar recordings here Programs & Resources For Students Calendar Courses New Venture Competition Rock Accelerator Rock Summer Fellows Entrepreneurs in Residence Loan Forgiveness Harvard Innovation Lab Meet with the Rock Team For Alumni The Rock 100 Alumni New Venture Competition Rock Entrepreneurship Advisor Program Harvard Launch Lab Harvard Life Lab Founders & Investors Virtual Programming →All Programs & Resources Faculty & Research Our world-class Entrepreneurship faculty are the thought leaders with deep understanding of the startup experience necessary to test, launch, and scale new ventures. They author cases used in business schools around the world and bring those same case protagonists into the classroom to share their real-world experience. →More Faculty & Research Founders & Investors → Extraordinary alumni entrepreneurs and investors driving impact. In The News 25 May 2022 Harvard Business School Meet the 2022-23 Leadership Fellows 22 May 2022 Six Pixels of Separation Podcast Laura Huang On Turning Adversity Into Advantage Re: Laura Huang 18 May 2022 Harvard Business School Capping a Two-Year First at HBS: Inaugural Cohort of MS/MBA Biotechnology: Life Sciences Program Showcase Their Work Re: Amitabh Chandra →More News Initiatives focus on societal challenges that are too complex for any one discipline or industry to solve alone. ǁ Arthur Rock Center for Entrepreneurship Harvard Business School Boston, MA 02163 Email: rockcenter@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College