Skip to main content Entrepreneurship Menu Close About Annual Report Connect With Us Give to NC State Entrepreneurship Our Team Results Students Academics Ambassador Program Andrews Launch Accelerator Entrepreneurship Scholarships Experiential Learning Funding Getting Started with Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program Miller Fellowship Trips Community Alumni Entrepreneurship Alliance Entrepreneurship Partners Program Giving Mentorship Program NC State Founders’ Pledge Spaces Albright Entrepreneurs Village Entrepreneurship Garage Entrepreneurship Clinic Garage Classroom NCSU Libraries Makerspaces Events Calendar Entrepalooza Entrepreneurship Competitions Global Entrepreneurship Week eGames Give Now About About Annual Report Connect With Us Give to NC State Entrepreneurship Our Team Results Students Students Academics Ambassador Program Andrews Launch Accelerator Entrepreneurship Scholarships Experiential Learning Funding Getting Started with Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program Miller Fellowship Trips Community Community Alumni Entrepreneurship Alliance Entrepreneurship Partners Program Giving Mentorship Program NC State Founders’ Pledge Spaces Spaces Albright Entrepreneurs Village Entrepreneurship Garage Entrepreneurship Clinic Garage Classroom NCSU Libraries Makerspaces Events Events Calendar Entrepalooza Entrepreneurship Competitions Global Entrepreneurship Week eGames Give Now Experiential Learning Beyond the Classroom NC State’s co-curricular programs are designed to complement the learning taking place in the classroom. A packed schedule connects students, alumni and industrious community members who share a clear focus on developing the next generation of entrepreneurial thinkers and doers. Advancement for Women Entrepreneurs Advancement of Women Entrepreneurs (AWE) supports and engages women who want to explore entrepreneurship. Learn more. Albright Entrepreneurs Village The Albright Entrepreneurs Village is a living option for NC State student entrepreneurs. The Village provides an immersive experience with specialized programming and a community of entrepreneurship supporters. Learn more. Business Sustainability Collaborative We’re an academic initiative that unites students, faculty and industry leaders with a shared vision: to use business as a driver for positive change. Learn more. Entrepreneurship Garage Work alongside real-world founders and startup leaders in the HQ Centennial open coworking spaces, or learn technical skills in our prototyping lab. Learn more. Entrepreneurship Ambassador Program The Entrepreneurship Student Ambassadors program (ESAP) engages the entrepreneurship community at NC State through events and campus-wide programming. Members of the group serve as the student voice of NC State Entrepreneurship. Learn more. Social Innovation+Entrepreneurship The Institute for Nonprofits enhances capacity in social sector organizations, enabling them to meet the grand challenges of our communities. Learn more. Mentors Program The NC State Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program facilitates interaction between industry experts and entrepreneurial-minded students at NC State. Learn more. Miller Fellowship The Dr. Thomas Kenan Miller III Fellowship program is a bridge program to support student entrepreneurs for the first six months after graduation, bridging the gap between graduation and pursuing a startup full-time. During the fellowship period, alumni continue to have access to university resources including the Libraries and eGarage. Learn more. NCSU Libraries NC State libraries offer much more than their massive inventory of written and digital works. The libraries also offer rental equipment, workshops, and maker spaces for students. Learn more. Patent and Trademark Research Center The Patent and Trademark Center (PTRC) at NC State University Libraries is a center designated by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to receive and house copies of patent and trademark materials, to make them freely available to the public, and to actively disseminate patent and trademark information. Learn more. Social Innovation Fellows The Social Innovation Fellows program combines emphasis on learning both adaptive skills to become successful social entrepreneurs and innovators, and technical skills to ideate and eventually launch a social project, product, policy or enterprise. Learn more. 7,000+ Students Impacted by NC State Entrepreneurship Annually Events and Trips Entrepalooza NC State’s annual festival of entrepreneurship and innovation takes place every September. Read more In addition to a long list of programs with specific areas of focus, NC State engages students through events and trips to major startup hubs. Events NC State offers events that bring together students from across campus for pitch competitions, entrepreneurship showcases, networking and more. OFFERINGS INCLUDE: Pitch Competitions Networking Receptions Entrepreneur Showcases Skills Workshops Locals Tours Speaker Series Mentor Meet-ups Startup Competitions Trips There are two trips every year: a fall break trip to New York City and a spring break trip to Silicon Valley. Trips are affordable for students; each trip is only $400 all-inclusive. Learn more. Entrepreneurship Competitions Students from all academic departments can participate in entrepreneurship competitions and have access to events, workshops, mentoring that enable them to test and refine their founder skills. Learn More Ent. Ambassador Blending the technical and creative Katie Lawson’s college resume is already impressive and diverse, but given her background, it’s easy to see the common theme. Read more Alumni Ventures Ameet Dhillon Tackles Housing Deficit in Sub-Saharan Africa It’s safe to say that most entrepreneurs don’t follow a straight path to entrepreneurship. Read more EEP Alum Attributes Entrepreneurial Roots to the Engineering Entrepreneurs Program After a decade of projects, two NC State alumni and serial Triangle entrepreneurs announced $4.7 million in seed funding for their technology venture, Allstacks. Read more Entrepreneurship Home 1017 Main Campus Drive, Suite 1650 Raleigh, NC 27606 entrepreneurship@ncsu.edu 919.513.3676 Campus Map <span class=nowrap>aria-hidden="false"> Entrepreneurship Home About NC State Entrepreneurship Staff Resources Contact Us Alliance Resources News Event Calendar Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.