Skip to main content Entrepreneurship Menu Close About Annual Report Connect With Us Give to NC State Entrepreneurship Our Team Results Students Academics Ambassador Program Andrews Launch Accelerator Entrepreneurship Scholarships Experiential Learning Funding Getting Started with Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program Miller Fellowship Trips Community Alumni Entrepreneurship Alliance Entrepreneurship Partners Program Giving Mentorship Program NC State Founders’ Pledge Spaces Albright Entrepreneurs Village Entrepreneurship Garage Entrepreneurship Clinic Garage Classroom NCSU Libraries Makerspaces Events Calendar Entrepalooza Entrepreneurship Competitions Global Entrepreneurship Week eGames Give Now About About Annual Report Connect With Us Give to NC State Entrepreneurship Our Team Results Students Students Academics Ambassador Program Andrews Launch Accelerator Entrepreneurship Scholarships Experiential Learning Funding Getting Started with Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program Miller Fellowship Trips Community Community Alumni Entrepreneurship Alliance Entrepreneurship Partners Program Giving Mentorship Program NC State Founders’ Pledge Spaces Spaces Albright Entrepreneurs Village Entrepreneurship Garage Entrepreneurship Clinic Garage Classroom NCSU Libraries Makerspaces Events Events Calendar Entrepalooza Entrepreneurship Competitions Global Entrepreneurship Week eGames Give Now Getting Started with Entrepreneurship Dive into the entrepreneurship ecosystem at NC State At NC State, there are entrepreneurship programs to engage every interest. We know you’re busy, and it can be hard to find a place to start, so we’ve provided a few ways to get plugged into the entrepreneurship community. Find your Path to Entrepreneurship at NC State Take this quick quiz to discover which NC State entrepreneurship program is a fit for you? Take the Quiz Find a Space to Work on Your Ideas At NC State, big ideas have room to grow. From our Entrepreneurship Garage, to the DH Hill Makerspace, to our off-campus Entrepreneurship Clinic and a living and learning Entrepreneurship Village, our student entrepreneurs have vital resources to innovate. Discover our Creation Spaces Attend an Entrepreneurship Event Through a year-round calendar of events, we help student entrepreneurs build relationships with future collaborators, experienced mentors and prospective investors. Find opportunities to connect with like-minded entrepreneurs. View our Calendar of Events Compete in an Entrepreneurship Competition NC State offers a bevy of competitions for students looking to throw their ideas into the ring. Whether you’re at the idea stage or seeking to expand a venture that’s further along, these competitions award money to student businesses looking to grow. Entrepreneurship Competitions Entrepreneurship Academic Offerings Building an entrepreneurial-mindset at NC State is enhanced through classroom engagement. Students across all academic disciplines have the opportunity to explore entrepreneurship through NC State’s many academic programs that include majors, minors and an undergraduate certificate. Class offerings in Entrepreneurship Discover Opportunities Beyond the Classroom NC State’s co-curricular programs are designed to complement the learning taking place in the classroom. A packed schedule connects students, alumni and industrious community members who share a clear focus on developing the next generation of entrepreneurial thinkers and doers. See experiential Learning Options Join our Mentorship Program Are you an NC State student with a business idea, curious about exploring mentorship at State, or just looking to build a support network for whatever your future career may be? The Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program is just the place for you! Learn about the program Entrepreneurship Home 1017 Main Campus Drive, Suite 1650 Raleigh, NC 27606 entrepreneurship@ncsu.edu 919.513.3676 Campus Map <span class=nowrap>aria-hidden="false"> Entrepreneurship Home About NC State Entrepreneurship Staff Resources Contact Us Alliance Resources News Event Calendar Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.