Skip to main content Entrepreneurship Menu Close About Annual Report Connect With Us Give to NC State Entrepreneurship Our Team Results Students Academics Ambassador Program Andrews Launch Accelerator Entrepreneurship Scholarships Experiential Learning Funding Getting Started with Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program Miller Fellowship Trips Community Alumni Entrepreneurship Alliance Entrepreneurship Partners Program Giving Mentorship Program NC State Founders’ Pledge Spaces Albright Entrepreneurs Village Entrepreneurship Garage Entrepreneurship Clinic Garage Classroom NCSU Libraries Makerspaces Events Calendar Entrepalooza Entrepreneurship Competitions Global Entrepreneurship Week eGames Give Now About About Annual Report Connect With Us Give to NC State Entrepreneurship Our Team Results Students Students Academics Ambassador Program Andrews Launch Accelerator Entrepreneurship Scholarships Experiential Learning Funding Getting Started with Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program Miller Fellowship Trips Community Community Alumni Entrepreneurship Alliance Entrepreneurship Partners Program Giving Mentorship Program NC State Founders’ Pledge Spaces Spaces Albright Entrepreneurs Village Entrepreneurship Garage Entrepreneurship Clinic Garage Classroom NCSU Libraries Makerspaces Events Events Calendar Entrepalooza Entrepreneurship Competitions Global Entrepreneurship Week eGames Give Now Garage Classroom The Garage Classroom is intended to be used by NC State faculty and Raleigh Founded community members to lead entrepreneurship-related educational classes, workshops, and presentations for up to 50 participants. If you’re interested in reserving the classroom, please fill out the request form below. Requests will be reviewed and approved at the discretion of the NC State Entrepreneurship team and based on availability. A response will be sent to you within 1-2 business days. Where is it located? The Garage classroom is located at Partners I, 1017 Main Campus Dr, Suite 1650, Raleigh, NC 27606. We are co-located with Raleigh Founded, near Hunt Library. Our main entrance is right across from the Fitts-Woorald Hall. Here is a map of our main entrance. Parking & Transportation University parking regulations are enforced from 7 am – 5 pm and faculty and staff with a C parking pass can park in the lot adjacent to the Garage. Parking is free in the lot located outside the building after 5 pm. For all other parking locations, please check university signage. Students can get to the Garage via Wolf line 40 and 41. We are near Hunt Library. Classroom amenities include 18 Tables, that accommodate 36 seated attendees at two chairs per table. There are 14 additional chairs against the walls for a total of 50 chairs in the classroom. Diagram here. Tables each have (2) three-prong outlets and (2) usb outlets for device charging. Two TVs at the front of the room for presentations, audio and video with HDMI splitter to broadcast to both TVs simultaneously Large dry erase board 1 PC classroom laptop and 1 Mac classroom laptop pre-configured for ease of use Link Bridge camera and microphone to stream live or record virtual classes or meetings How to reserve To request a reservation fill out the form below. You will get a confirmation within 2 business days. Request Form Space Policies and Procedures The classroom must be reserved at least 48 hours in advance. If you would like to check availability for time less than 48 hours out, please email the NC State Entrepreneurship team directly at entrepreneurship@ncsu.edu Tables may not be moved around. In order to keep the tables powered and connected, they are electrically daisy-chained, which makes moving them very time consuming. Chairs may be moved as desired as long as they are set back at the end of the reservation. If chairs are moved, please place all furniture back according to it’s default orientation and position [template below]. Please note that as the reservee of the classroom, you must provide all labor to setup and breakdown unless explicitly told otherwise. You will only have access to the room for the specific time requested, no more or less, so please include setup and breakdown times in your reservation request Please clean up all food, drink, or other trash before your reservation time is over. Trash, recycling, and compost depositories are available in the open cafe space adjacent to the classroom. To discard large amounts of waste, large recycling trash dumpsters are located outside the north side of the building, just past the makers space. All personal items left in the classroom past the time booked will be disposed of or removed from the room. Neither NC State Entrepreneurship nor Raleigh Founded are responsible for items left in the classroom past the reserved time. All events must adhere to University guidelines around COVID. It is important to know that doors lock before 8am and after 5pm. Garage membership is required to access the space during off hours. COVID-19 Guidelines All participants must wear masks, and the event organizer is responsible for notifying all attendees of such. Events can not exceed 75 minutes in duration without breaks. Attendance in the classroom is limited to 50 max. Food should be individually packaged. Attendance must be tracked and provided to Raleigh Founded or NC State staff/faculty at request for contact tracing purposes. Teaching a class? Read this If you’d like to teach in the classroom, please fill out the Classroom request form so we can confirm your reservation for the duration of your class. Once the reservation is confirmed, you can schedule a walkthrough with NC State Entrepreneurship staff to help get you familiarized with the classroom technology and additional resources. In order for your students to get the best experience, we encourage they become Garage members. Membership is free and will grant them access to the Garage, prototyping space, conference rooms and co-working area 24/7. New member on-boarding can be done online or facilitated by a staff member. This will help them get familiar with the space and available resources NC State Entrepreneurship offers. It is important to know that doors lock before 8am and after 5pm. Garage membership is required to access the space during off hours. Entrepreneurship Home 1017 Main Campus Drive, Suite 1650 Raleigh, NC 27606 entrepreneurship@ncsu.edu 919.513.3676 Campus Map <span class=nowrap>aria-hidden="false"> Entrepreneurship Home About NC State Entrepreneurship Staff Resources Contact Us Alliance Resources News Event Calendar Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.