Skip to main content Entrepreneurship Menu Close About Annual Report Connect With Us Give to NC State Entrepreneurship Our Team Results Students Academics Ambassador Program Andrews Launch Accelerator Entrepreneurship Scholarships Experiential Learning Funding Getting Started with Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program Miller Fellowship Trips Community Alumni Entrepreneurship Alliance Entrepreneurship Partners Program Giving Mentorship Program NC State Founders’ Pledge Spaces Albright Entrepreneurs Village Entrepreneurship Garage Entrepreneurship Clinic Garage Classroom NCSU Libraries Makerspaces Events Calendar Entrepalooza Entrepreneurship Competitions Global Entrepreneurship Week eGames Give Now About About Annual Report Connect With Us Give to NC State Entrepreneurship Our Team Results Students Students Academics Ambassador Program Andrews Launch Accelerator Entrepreneurship Scholarships Experiential Learning Funding Getting Started with Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program Miller Fellowship Trips Community Community Alumni Entrepreneurship Alliance Entrepreneurship Partners Program Giving Mentorship Program NC State Founders’ Pledge Spaces Spaces Albright Entrepreneurs Village Entrepreneurship Garage Entrepreneurship Clinic Garage Classroom NCSU Libraries Makerspaces Events Events Calendar Entrepalooza Entrepreneurship Competitions Global Entrepreneurship Week eGames Give Now Entrepreneurship Alliance Together we advance the culture of entrepreneurship throughout the university. The NC State Entrepreneurship Alliance is a federation of university departments, programs and groups offering opportunities for the NC State community to learn and explore various aspects of entrepreneurship. Member organizations collaborate on events and meet often to discuss and share new initiatives. Mission The NC State Entrepreneurship Alliance supports, promotes and advances a culture of entrepreneurship throughout the university. By connecting many different campus communities, the alliance model brings together groups, organizations, companies and generations where they may not normally cross paths. By providing resources, fostering collaboration and enhancing communication in support of NC State students, faculty, staff and alumni, the alliance is powered by, and for our communities. Alliance Members Advancement of Women Entrepreneurs Agribusiness Entrepreneurship Program Albright Entrepreneurs Village Alumni Entrepreneurs Network Arts Entrepreneurship Business Sustainability Collaborative Department of Computer Science Department of Forest Biomaterials Department of Management Innovation and Entrepreneurship Engineering Entrepreneurs Program Entrepreneurship Clinic Entrepreneurship Initiative for Food Global Training Initiative Institute for Nonprofits Kenan Institute for Engineering, Technology & Science Making and Innovation Studio (NCSU Libraries) NC State Entrepreneurship Office of Research Commercialization Raleigh Founded SKEMA Technology Entrepreneurship Commercialization Program (TEC) Wilson College of Textiles Wolfpack Investor Network This list is not all-inclusive. If you belong to an NC State unit that supports entrepreneurship education, but your specific program is not listed, please contact monica_smith@ncsu.edu to check your eligibility. Communication Resources We use multiple channels to share events, student and program highlights and entrepreneurship news to nearly 20,000 students, alumni, faculty, staff and community members. We want to share your content with our audiences to help students and the community connect with you and your program. Social Media Make sure to follow us and tag us! #NCStateEnt Twitter | Facebook | Instagram | LinkedIn Email Marketing Monthly Community Newsletter (12,000+) | Weekly Student Email (3,000+) Marketing Assistance The NC State Entrepreneurship Alliance has a small team available to assist with marketing-related efforts that enhance entrepreneurship at NC State. Options include photography, videography, feature writing and graphic design that help us tell your program’s story to a broader audience. We’d love to work with you to help tell the story of NC State Entrepreneurship! Submit a Marketing Request Entrepreneurship Garage Classroom The classroom at the Entrepreneurship Garage is available for Alliance partners to reserve for events or gatherings focused on entrepreneurship. Requests can be submitted at any time and a member of our team will reach out within 1-2 business days to let you know of availability. We have recently installed a Link Bridge camera and microphone in the Garage classroom to help live stream or record events or to host virtual classes. Click the button below to read more about reserving the classroom Classroom Reservation NC State Entrepreneurship Fund The NC State Entrepreneurship Fund is used to support programs, activities and initiatives designed to advance all facets of entrepreneurship in support of NC State students, faculty/staff and alumni collaborations. Applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis by our advisory council members. Fund Details and Application Entrepreneurship Home 1017 Main Campus Drive, Suite 1650 Raleigh, NC 27606 entrepreneurship@ncsu.edu 919.513.3676 Campus Map <span class=nowrap>aria-hidden="false"> Entrepreneurship Home About NC State Entrepreneurship Staff Resources Contact Us Alliance Resources News Event Calendar Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.