What We Do Startup Directory Calendar Newsroom Resources Quick Links Startup Lab Design Studio Annual Report StartupColumbia Festival Columbia Venture Competition DFSI Meaning in Big Data: Patterns and Empathy This course (and concomitant tools and techniques) seeks to bridge the creative world of artistic expression with the rich data-world of scientific inquiry. The course will focus upon the sonic and visual representation of complex data, the development of data science tools such as neural networks for revealing features in large data sets and artistic perspectives on the representation of these features in contemporary visual art and music. The course will augmented by a “Data and Art Visiting Artist Lecture Series” to provide necessary perspectives on the work we develop in the class. About the Collaboratory Fellows Fund: Technology and massive data are reshaping society in profound ways. To be effective, the leaders of tomorrow will need to understand how these transformations are impacting their professions, now and in the future. The Collaboratory Fellows Fund is developing the coursework to allow students to master the technical skills and cultivate the creative thinking to confront the unique challenges in their chosen careers. BACK TO THE COLLABORATORY PAGE Subscribe to Mailing List First Name* Last Name* Email* Columbia Affiliation (if any, optional) This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. Learn more here. About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University | Sitemap | Disclaimer | Site by Barrel Subscribe to Mailing List First Name* Last Name* Email* Columbia Affiliation (if any, optional) This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. Learn more here.