What We Do Startup Directory Calendar Newsroom Resources Quick Links Startup Lab Design Studio Annual Report StartupColumbia Festival Columbia Venture Competition DFSI About Us Columbia Organization of Rising Entrepreneurs As the undergraduate entrepreneurship society, the Columbia Organization of Rising Entrepreneurs (CORE) works to inspire, educate, and launch the next generation of student entrepreneurs at Columbia University. With a following of 5,300+ unique active subscribers to our weekly newsletter, CORE is one of Columbia’s fast-moving, most dynamic, and exciting student organizations. CORE runs a wide host of events and programs each year to engage and immerse students in entrepreneurship and tech. From panels and speaker events on everything from fintech to food entrepreneurship, our events are open to the entire campus community and beyond. We are proud to have hosted speakers such as Arianna Huffington and DJ Khaled, Jack Dorsey (Square), Alexis Ohanian (Reddit), Jared Hecht (GroupMe), and Zach Sims (Codecademy). We are proud to run Columbia’s student-run startup accelerator, Almaworks, a program that has graduated participants into Y Combinator and Techstars. CORE is also the student partner behind the Columbia Venture Competition and its Undergraduate Challenge division, as well as on Startup Columbia, Columbia’s annual celebration of unconventional entrepreneurship. CORE also runs EVE (Entrepreneurship via Exploration), a first-year immersion program that exposes first-years to entrepreneurship and tech in NYC. CORE’s annual spring break Global Tech Treks program takes students from all different backgrounds on trips to global centers of entrepreneurship such as London, Paris, Berlin, and Barcelona for a week of immersion with founders and startups across the ocean. In partnership with the Center for Career Education, CORE runs the Startup Internship Program (SIP), a spring internship program that matches students with up-and-coming startups in the city. CORE Impulse, CORE’s media platform, produces quality journalism about the stories of entrepreneurship and the founders behind ventures on campus and in the city. If you are interested in getting involved with student entrepreneurship, please do join the community by signing up for its newsletter at https://coreatcu.wufoo.com/forms/core-newsletter-signup/. Also feel free to reach out at any time at coreboard@columbia.edu if you have comments, questions, or feedback. Subscribe to Mailing List First Name* Last Name* Email* Columbia Affiliation (if any, optional) This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. Learn more here. About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University | Sitemap | Disclaimer | Site by Barrel Subscribe to Mailing List First Name* Last Name* Email* Columbia Affiliation (if any, optional) This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. Learn more here.