Skip to main content Entrepreneurship Menu Close About Annual Report Connect With Us Give to NC State Entrepreneurship Our Team Results Students Academics Ambassador Program Andrews Launch Accelerator Entrepreneurship Scholarships Experiential Learning Funding Getting Started with Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program Miller Fellowship Trips Community Alumni Entrepreneurship Alliance Entrepreneurship Partners Program Giving Mentorship Program NC State Founders’ Pledge Spaces Albright Entrepreneurs Village Entrepreneurship Garage Entrepreneurship Clinic Garage Classroom NCSU Libraries Makerspaces Events Calendar Entrepalooza Entrepreneurship Competitions Global Entrepreneurship Week eGames Give Now About About Annual Report Connect With Us Give to NC State Entrepreneurship Our Team Results Students Students Academics Ambassador Program Andrews Launch Accelerator Entrepreneurship Scholarships Experiential Learning Funding Getting Started with Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program Miller Fellowship Trips Community Community Alumni Entrepreneurship Alliance Entrepreneurship Partners Program Giving Mentorship Program NC State Founders’ Pledge Spaces Spaces Albright Entrepreneurs Village Entrepreneurship Garage Entrepreneurship Clinic Garage Classroom NCSU Libraries Makerspaces Events Events Calendar Entrepalooza Entrepreneurship Competitions Global Entrepreneurship Week eGames Give Now Trips Expand your worldview and discover new applications for a big idea through startup tours in different cities! Have an Adventure Every year, we take a select group of students to Silicon Valley (in the spring) and an Eastcoast trip (like Boston, New York or Asheville) to meet with visionary entrepreneurs, leading executives and successful NC State alumni. In addition to these two break trips, we have several departmental partners that also take entrepreneurship-focused trips. Poole College of Management sponsors a trip to the United Kingdom, and the Albright Entrepreneurs Village sponsors a trip to a different city in America every year. About Our Trips The trips are affordable for students, averaging a total of $400 for an all-inclusive eye-opening adventure, which includes airfare or travel accommodations, food, and room and boarding. Any degree-seeking NC State student in good conduct and academic standing are eligible to apply. Space is limited, so we encourage students to apply early and share why this trip is of importance to them. How to Apply We open spring applications in late January and fall applications in mid-August. Application questions ask students to discuss a demonstrated interest in entrepreneurship and discuss future career goals. Note: Spring Trip is postponed until further notice Out of an abundance of caution with the health and safety of our community in mind, we will be postponing the Silicon Valley Trip in the Spring of 2022. NC State Entrepreneurship is working to coordinate a trip in early May after graduation. Please sign up for our student newsletter to get updates on upcoming trip announcements. Questions? Contact entrepreneurship@ncsu.edu Entrepreneurship Home 1017 Main Campus Drive, Suite 1650 Raleigh, NC 27606 entrepreneurship@ncsu.edu 919.513.3676 Campus Map <span class=nowrap>aria-hidden="false"> Entrepreneurship Home About NC State Entrepreneurship Staff Resources Contact Us Alliance Resources News Event Calendar Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.