Skip to main content Entrepreneurship Menu Close About Annual Report Connect With Us Give to NC State Entrepreneurship Our Team Results Students Academics Ambassador Program Andrews Launch Accelerator Entrepreneurship Scholarships Experiential Learning Funding Getting Started with Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program Miller Fellowship Trips Community Alumni Entrepreneurship Alliance Entrepreneurship Partners Program Giving Mentorship Program NC State Founders’ Pledge Spaces Albright Entrepreneurs Village Entrepreneurship Garage Entrepreneurship Clinic Garage Classroom NCSU Libraries Makerspaces Events Calendar Entrepalooza Entrepreneurship Competitions Global Entrepreneurship Week eGames Give Now About About Annual Report Connect With Us Give to NC State Entrepreneurship Our Team Results Students Students Academics Ambassador Program Andrews Launch Accelerator Entrepreneurship Scholarships Experiential Learning Funding Getting Started with Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program Miller Fellowship Trips Community Community Alumni Entrepreneurship Alliance Entrepreneurship Partners Program Giving Mentorship Program NC State Founders’ Pledge Spaces Spaces Albright Entrepreneurs Village Entrepreneurship Garage Entrepreneurship Clinic Garage Classroom NCSU Libraries Makerspaces Events Events Calendar Entrepalooza Entrepreneurship Competitions Global Entrepreneurship Week eGames Give Now About Anyone can become an entrepreneur at NC State. Through a wealth of programs and initiatives, we provide you with everything you need to bring your bright ideas to life. Think and Do Be the First to Know Subscribe to our weekly newsletter and have exciting updates, featured blogs and important deadlines delivered straight to your inbox. Email Address* Name This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Δ NC State has always been home to thinkers and doers. We offer students the chance to take a big, bold idea and run with it, and we instill in them the entrepreneurial mindset they need to thrive in the career of their choice. That takes more than just a Think and Do attitude. It takes a complete infrastructure of academic programs, faculty talent, cutting-edge tools, investor networks and institutional support, including a tech transfer office that’s among the best in the nation. And it takes an entrepreneurship community that wants bright ideas to win out. You’ll find all of those things at NC State. Here, we love fresh thinking and successful startups almost as much as we love teaching students to succeed. We can’t wait for you to get started. Annual Report The 2018-2019 academic year marked incredible growth and change in the entrepreneurial ecosystem at NC State. From academics to co-curricular and extracurricular offerings, NC State has continued to expand entrepreneurship engagement across disciplines, supporting an increasing number of students as they develop entrepreneurial mindsets. Read the report Dig Deeper Spaces NC State is home to a wide variety of physical spaces for enterprising minds, from the Entrepreneurship Clinic in downtown Raleigh to creative makerspaces across campus. Explore our spaces Events Our calendar is packed with entrepreneurship and innovation events, including a pair of annual celebrations open to the campus: Entrepalooza and the Lulu eGames startup competition. See what’s happening Results We turn fledgling ideas into successful companies, products and services — and give students the skills and experiences they’ll need to navigate the global marketplace. Follow our success Outstanding Entrepreneurship NC State is ranked as top 20 best undergraduate and graduate entrepreneurship program in the U.S. by the 2021 Princeton Review. Read more Run With the Pack Catch Up on Entrepreneurship News Read about our entrepreneurial Pack in action. Read Now At NC State, we think of every student as an entrepreneur getting ready to take on the world. All of our academic offerings focus on results and real-world action — whether that means consulting with local startups through the Entrepreneurship Clinic or deepening your understanding of nonprofits and the voluntary sector through the Social Entrepreneurship Initiative. And nothing we do is confined to any one college: From Arts Entrepreneurship to the Engineering Entrepreneurs Program, you can find an outlet for your creativity at NC State. When you’re ready to take the next step, the wider NC State community will be there with you, offering technical, legal and financial help through the university’s entrepreneurship ecosystem and through alumni-centered initiatives like the Wolfpack Investor Network. Want to schedule a tour of the Entrepreneurship Garage? Fill out the tour request form here A Broad Entrepreneurial Ecosystem NC State Entrepreneurship supports, promotes, and advances a culture of entrepreneurship throughout the university community by providing resources, fostering collaboration and enhancing communication in support of NC State students, faculty, staff and alumni. Learn More Students If you have a bright idea, big or small, NC State has everything you need to build it. And we’ll be with you every step of the way. Get started Alumni NC State entrepreneurs depend on NC State alumni for their expertise, their investment and their shared Think and Do spirit. Stay connected Entrepreneurship Home 1017 Main Campus Drive, Suite 1650 Raleigh, NC 27606 entrepreneurship@ncsu.edu 919.513.3676 Campus Map <span class=nowrap>aria-hidden="false"> Entrepreneurship Home About NC State Entrepreneurship Staff Resources Contact Us Alliance Resources News Event Calendar Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.