Home Discover Funding Space Ideation Other Resources Alumni Spotlight Columbia Startup Lab Our Startups Get Started Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty Calendar About Us Sounding Board Contact Us Search Menu Explore Columbia Engineering Entrepreneurship’s innovation and entrepreneurship Undergraduates Graduates Faculty Community Join our new community Slack group to keep updated with news and events! Join Slack Group Welcome Interested in entrepreneurship at Columbia? Click here to get started Get Started Featured Story Columbia Engineering, Innovation, Design, and Entrepreneurship’s 2020-21 Annual Review Read More Startup News Jern Kunpittaya ’23, co-founder of crypto startup Edge Protocol, took an unexpected path into decentralized finance Read More Ignition Grants Apply for funding to launch a new startup. Application deadline extended to May 20. Read More Venture Competition Winners Congratulations to the winners of this year's Columbia Venture Competition Technology Challenge Read More COI and IP Resources Conflict of interest - Office of Research Compliance and Training Start-up Companies and Conflicts of Interest (PDF) More info can be found here: https://research.columbia.edu/content/coi-policies-and-resources. Columbia Technology Ventures (CTV) Two Online Libraries of Commercialization Resources for Faculty & Students Columbia Grant Clauses Library contains up-to-date clauses relating to entrepreneurship and technology commercialization for use in grant proposal preparation. The library is available here, with UNI logon. Columbia Commercialization & Entrepreneurial Resources Database is a university-wide resource geared toward providing a comprehensive and searchable list of all entrepreneurially-related activity at Columbia. Available here. Photos Columbia Design Challenge Census 2020 Kickoff on September 6, 2019 Fast Pitch is our campus-wide 60 second pitch competition in November Apoorv Agarwal ’14SEAS, Co-Founder & CEO of TextIQ at the Columbia Startup Lab 5 year celebration (June 2019) Teresa Cauvel ’16SEAS and Sona Shah ’16SEAS, Founders of Neopenda BioMedX is one of the many accelerators available for Columbia students Columbia’s new MakerSpace is now open, visit make.columbia.edu for more information Newsletter Signup Sign up to hear the latest news and events from SEAS Entrepreneurship Programs! Facebook-f Twitter Instagram Newspaper ©2022 Columbia University This material is based upon work supported by the National Foundation under grant number 1740622. Any opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in the material are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Science Foundation. Scroll to top Sign up to stay up to date with our upcoming opportunities First time visitor subscription (in popup) If you are human, leave this field blank. First Name * Last Name * Email Address * Submit × Submit an Opportunity Please select a valid form ×