ABOUT DIRECTOR’S WELCOME MISSION D & I Diverse Founders & Resources OVERVIEW NELSON @ 5 PEOPLE Our Team Advisory Council ENTREPRENEUR IN RESIDENCE PROGRAM NEWS@NELSON News Student Stories Alumni Stories Share Your Story/Resource OUR BUILDING E-NEWS SIGN UP CONTACT US ACADEMICS ENTREPRENEURSHIP CERTIFICATE COURSES RESEARCH Faculty Graduate Research Fellowship RESEARCH CONFERENCE 2021 PRIME, MASTER’S PROGRAM VC INCLUSION LAB BUILD YOUR VENTURE MENTORSHIP Entrepreneur in Residence Peer Entrepreneurs Mentoring Resources Volunteer & Black Mentor Drive Forms Hazeltine Mentoring Award FUNDING Explore & Expand Anti-Black & Systemic Racism Venture Grants Climate Change Grants Hazeltine Grants COMMUNITY LAB B-LAB About the Program 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 BROWN VENTURE PRIZE About the Prize 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 STUDENT INCUBATORS Health Hatch (Spring) Innovation Dojo (Fall/Spring) DIGITAL HEALTH $25K PITCH PRIZE NELSON TECHNOLOGY FELLOWS VAN WICKLE VENTURES TECH VENTURES OFFICE GET INVOLVED EVENTS INTERNSHIPS STARTUP SYNAPSES STUDENT CLUBS Brown EP Women’s Entrepreneurship Innovation Dojo EP Dive In Podcast Young Entrepreneurs of Providence Innovation for Health/Hatch Health Incubator Brown Healthcare Investment Group RESOURCES Navigating Startup Resources on Campus Looking to join a venture? Brown Startup Database Startup Registration Form FOR ALUMNI Volunteer & Black Mentor Drive Forms Mentoring Resources Make a Gift Other Groups/Resources Brown Alumni Entrepreneurship Group Brown Angel Group SLATER TECH FUND JOIN OUR EMAIL LIST MAKE A GIFT Select Page Nearly five years have passed since our 2016 launch following a generous founding gift from Jonathan M. Nelson ’77 P’07 P’09. In the coming months, we are excited to catch up with alumni, students, faculty, staff, and friends to share and reflect through a Nelson@5 video series commemorating highlights and milestones. ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND THE OPEN CURRICULUM To kick off the celebration, we chatted with folks like Elvia Perez ’22, current Peer Entrepreneur in Residence, and Christian Anthony ’96, a member of our President’s Advisory Council on Entrepreneurship, and others. They share how the Nelson Center’s support of new entrepreneurship courses and of cutting-edge entrepreneurship research have enhanced and expanded the Brown community’s understanding of how entrepreneurship can solve significant problems. Our curricular efforts continue to evolve and reflect critical trends in entrepreneurship. Students can take new courses like Jennifer Nazareno’s Global Dynamics and Critical Perspectives on Immigrant Entrepreneurship in the United States, Linda Scott’s Gender, Women and Enterprise, Howard Anderson’s Entrepreneurial Management in Adversity, and Alice Nichols’ Eco-Entrepreneurship, among many others. In addition to teaching Leadership in Organizations, Banu Ozkazanc-Pan launched the Venture Capital Inclusion Lab, a cutting-edge research group that investigates issues of equity in entrepreneurship and access to capital. Both Nazareno and Ozkazanc-Pan hosted our second academic research conference on June 21, 2021—a forum in which to discuss and examine entrepreneurship at the intersection of women, refugees, immigrants, allyship, and anti-Black racism. And of course, we have launched the Certificate Program in Entrepreneurship which provides curricular structure for undergraduate students who want to make entrepreneurship an important part of their intellectual journey. BIG PROBLEMS, BIG SOLUTIONS This second video installment focuses on how our students leverage the Nelson Center’s venture support programs, like the Breakthrough Lab (B-Lab) accelerator, to solve big problems. We spoke with the director of B-Lab, Jason Harry, along with a few B-Lab alumni including Robbie Felton ‘21, co-founder of Intus Care, and Elvia Perez ‘22, founder of EmpowerU. We also spoke with Scott Friend ‘87 P‘22, a member of the President’s Advisory Council on Entrepreneurship, who explains why programs that support early-stage ventures are so valuable. When it comes to venture support, we have a variety of paths students can take. We offer a diverse list of grant opportunities including Explore & Expand Grants, Grants for Addressing Anti-Black and Systemic Racism, Climate Change Grants, and Hazeltine Grants focused on encouraging more students to design and build technology-related projects. Students can also apply to take part in the Brown Venture Prize Pitch Competition, a competition where Brown’s most advanced ventures pitch to a select group of judges for the chance to win prize money, critical mentorship, and access to leaders in the Brown entrepreneurial community and beyond. We run a coworking space in our building called Community Lab (Co-Lab), where a community of Brown and RISD student entrepreneurs develops new ventures that are creating high-impact and scalable solutions to a diverse range of problems. We also support Van Wickle Ventures (VWV), a student-run venture fund through which its student leaders learn about venture capital firsthand by investing a pool of funds in Brown and RISD-affiliated companies. PEOPLE, PLACES, PRIORITIES Our third video highlights the people behind the Nelson Center, our state-of-the-art building, and specific priority areas including addressing issues that stem from anti-Black and systemic racism and the problems that arise as a result of climate change. We hear from Danny Warshay ’87, P’20, P’23, Executive Director of the Nelson Center; Jonathan M. Nelson ’77 P’07 P’09, Founder and Executive Chairman of Providence Equity Partners; Lorine Pendleton ’91, Venture Investor and 2021 Entrepreneurship in Residence (EIR); and Jack Roswell ’20, co-founder of Cloud Agronomics. Each provides insight into how our building enables people to work together to identify problems and develop solutions with impact. Entrepreneurial thinking goes hand-in-hand with Brown’s emphasis on interdisciplinary study, pushing students to consider the different avenues they can take when approaching a topic. Similarly, the Nelson Center teaches a structured entrepreneurship practice that can be learned and applied in a variety of contexts. By embracing this interdisciplinary thinking and applying the structured entrepreneurship process, we serve as a resource for all students on campus who identify a problem and see an opportunity to work toward a sustainable solution. One important resource we offer students is our building on Thayer St. which, with the generous support of donors, opened in May of 2019. Since then, it continues to serve as a center for teaching, collaboration, mentorship, events, and much more. As a result of students looking to entrepreneurship to solve problems and having a dedicated space to come together, we have built an enthusiastic and dedicated entrepreneurship community here at Brown. As a community, we have come together to highlight two priorities in particular: anti-Black and systemic racism and climate change. Among our Venture Support resources, we offer two focused grants: Venture Grants for Innovative Solutions to Anti-Black and Systemic Racism and Climate Change Grants. Our intention is for these grants to help Brown students use entrepreneurial tools to address these critical issues. HIGHLIGHTS FROM THE LAST FIVE YEARS AT THE NELSON CENTER To reflect on the many milestones from the last five years, we have compiled a timeline of a few highlights that show how far we have come since our launch in 2016. Although this is not an exhaustive list, we hope that as you scroll through the timeline you see the hard work of our team, the passion of our students, the growth of our entrepreneurship community at Brown, and the bright future to come as we look forward to the next five years. " $25 Million Gift from Jonathan M. Nelson '77 P'07 P'09 January 2016 Due to the generosity of Jonathan M. Nelson ’77 P’07 P’09, Founder and Executive Chairman of Providence Equity Partners, Brown announced the gift that would launch the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship with the goal to have an interdisciplinary student-focused center for entrepreneurship learning and research. Read the announcement here and here. " Danny Warshay ‘87 Named the Inaugural Executive Director August 2016 Danny Warshay ‘87, a talented educator and successful career entrepreneur, was named as the inaugural Executive Director of the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship. " Launch of The Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship in the temporary home of Hillel September 2016 Ten months after the transformative $25 million gift, we opened our center’s doors on the third floor of Hillel, with a small, but mighty staff, and a diverse lineup of partnerships, initiatives, and events underway. Read more here. " Launched the Peer Entrepreneurship In Residence Program (PEIR) to expand mentoring capacity October 2016 In the Peer Entrepreneur-In-Residence (PEIR) program, students serve as mentors and additional resources for their fellow students. Whether exploring an unmet need, designing a value proposition, or developing a sustainability model, PEIRs work with founders to clarify and sharpen their ideas. " First Academic Research Conference December 2016 “Entrepreneurship at the Intersection of Diversity and Inequality” was our first academic research conference. The conference provided critical perspectives on how entrepreneurship has served as a potential pathway toward inclusion and socioeconomic mobility, particularly in times of exclusion and marginalization. Read this News from Brown feature on the event. " Launched collaboration with Community Partner Practico Innovation December 2016 Our collaboration with Practico helped to support its work with “invisible communities” of underrepresented entrepreneurs throughout Rhode Island. " First Annual Women's Empowerment Conference featuring Melanie Whalen ‘99 March 2017 The Women’s Empowerment branch of EP (WE@Brown) hosted a day-long conference dedicated to empowering the next generation of women entrepreneurs. " Breakthrough Lab (B-Lab) June 2017 Now under the auspices of the Center, we supported 30 student entrepreneurs through the 2017 B-Lab program. Through B-Lab, students gain access to custom mentoring, a peer cohort of dedicated founders, and a co-working space. Watch the sold-out 2017 B-Lab Pitch Night and learn about the cohort here. " Launched our Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan Committee September 2017 Fostering a diverse and inclusive entrepreneurial community involves partnering with key stakeholders from the Undocumented, First-Generation College, and Low-Income Student Center (UFli), to local high schools. It also includes providing essential funds to provide access to opportunities, particularly for Brown students who have limited economic means and Brown students from historically underrepresented groups. Read more here. " Launched Climate Change Venture Grants in partnership with IBES October 2017 In conjunction with the Institute at Brown for Environment and Society (IBES), we provide dedicated support for sustainability-focused ventures. These early-stage venture grants are for undergraduate and graduate students interested in developing entrepreneurial solutions to environmental problems and come with dedicated advising along with funding. Click here to learn more. " Launched additional Entrepreneurship Courses January 2018 We collaborated with Institutional Equity and Diversity, Engineering, and Economics to launch courses such as Building Entrepreneurial Ecosystems for Economic Inclusion, Entrepreneurial Management in Adversity, Venture Capital, Private Equity, and Entrepreneurship, and Designing Internet Marketplaces. " Launch of EP’s WE@Brown Incubator February 2018 WE@Brown launched its first-ever incubator, created for women-identifying founders, the incubator takes entrepreneurial students deeper into the problem they are solving or hope to solve with their seed of an idea or full-fledged venture. " Launched the $50k Brown Venture Prize Competition March 2018 Through the generous donation from the Founders of Casper, Luke Sherwin ‘12 and Neil Parikh ‘12, we launched our first Brown Venture Prize Competition and hosted our first-ever Pitch Night, which included eight student ventures and was a sold-out event. " Held first international Synapse trip to Barcelona March 2018 In conjunction with BrownConnect and other partners, we offer students the chance to join our Startup Synapse programs, which support students exploring entrepreneurship from Barcelona to Silicon Valley. By traveling beyond Brown, students are able to experience the global reach of entrepreneurship. Learn more about the first cohort’s experience here. Later, Synapse returned to Barcelona and we took our first cohort to London during Spring Break in 2019. Now we are planning to add Tokyo to our list of future Synapse trips. " Danny Warshay ‘87 Lead a Bottom Up Research Workshop in Jamaica/University of West Indies March 2018 Danny flew down to Jamaica not to catch some rays, but more importantly, to provide critical entrepreneurship training to over 250+ students and faculty at the University of West Indies and entrepreneurs and local business owners. You can learn more about Danny’s trip in this print and tv coverage. " Launched two international Startup Internship Programs with CareerLab June 2018 These included the Sweden Summer Entrepreneurship Internship Program and the Israel Summer Entrepreneurship Internship Program. " Established the Entrepreneur In Residence Program August 2018 We launched with our inaugural Entrepreneur in Residence, Jessica Kim ‘00, founder of Ianacare. For 2019 to 2020, we welcomed our new Entrepreneurs In Residence Laura Thompson ‘09, and local entrepreneur Arnell Milhouse. Read about it here. In 2021, we welcomed our new Entrepreneurs In Residence Riche Holmes Grant ’99, Ben Chesler ‘15, and Lorine Pendleton ’91. " Hired Dr. Jennifer Nazareno, Assistant Professor of Public Health and Entrepreneurship September 2018 Assistant Professor Jennifer Nazzareno joins the Nelson Center team and the School of Public Health for a dual appointment, offering new courses for students. " Launched the Venture Capital Inclusion Lab through a $360k Kauffman Grant September 2018 Launched under Visiting Professor Banu Ozkazanc-Pan’s leadership, the Venture Capital Inclusion Lab strives to understand how the geographic context of VC firms and their decision-making practices affect funding outcomes for women, minorities, and LGBTQIA entrepreneurs. " Launched Van Wickle Ventures November 2018 Bob Place ‘75 and Erna Place ‘76 generously donated $150K to launch Van Wickle Ventures, a student-run venture fund investing in Brown-affiliated ventures. " Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship Building Opens on Thayer Street May 2019 We opened our new building! Read more about this exciting new milestone here. " New International & Domestic Startup Internship Programs Added June 2019 The Berlin Summer Entrepreneurship Internship Program and Echoing Green Summer Internship Program were new options for students, along with the Israel and Sweden Entrepreneurship Internship Programs. " Students Launch YEP!, High School Program September 2019 Young Entrepreneurs of Providence (YEP!) launched its fall 2019 incubator for local high school students. YEP! is a completely free program for Providence high school students led by Brown University undergrads that provides students with the tools they need to create change in their communities through a series of workshops, hands-on activities, and mentor relationships. " Awarded Best New Entrepreneurship Center by the Global Consortium of Entrepreneurship Centers October 2019 The Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship received the “Outstanding Emerging Entrepreneurship Center” Award at the annual Global Consortium of Entrepreneurship Centers (GCEC) conference. " Launched Community Lab (Co-Lab) October 2019 We launched the Community Lab (Co-Lab) program with 13 teams in our venture spaces on the 3rd floor. Co-Lab is a community of Brown and RISD student entrepreneurs developing new ventures that are creating high-impact and scalable solutions to a diverse range of problems. " Van Wickle Ventures Makes First Investment December 2019 Van Wickle Ventures makes its first investment in 305 Fitness founded by Sadie Kurzban ‘12. Later investments include Projector, founded by Trevor O’Brien ‘10; Minded, founded by David Ronick ‘89; and Intus Care, founded by Robbie Felton ‘21, Evan Jackson ‘21, Sam Prado ‘21, and Alex Rothberg ‘21. " Hazeltine Mentoring in Entrepreneurship Award April 2020 Like the rest of the world and the University, we transitioned all of our events and programs to Zoom. In April, we awarded Professor Jennifer Nazareno and Don Stanford ‘‘72 ScM ’77 with the Hazeltine Mentoring Award. Over 100+ people tuned in all over the country, a record-breaking number for this event that we typically host in person. " Launch of Certificate Program in Entrepreneurship May 2020 The Nelson Center’s certificate program in entrepreneurship provides curricular structure for undergraduate students who wish to make entrepreneurship an important part of their intellectual journey at Brown. " Collaboration with Spelman College August 2020 Our student-run club Brown EP formed a partnership with AMPLIFY and Spelman College. AMPLIFY’s mission is to bring to light underrepresented voices in entrepreneurship and VC. " Hired Alice Nichols as Adjunct Lecturer for New Eco-Entrepreneurship Course December 2020 We sponsored a new course that gives students the opportunity to learn how to use entrepreneurship tools to tackle challenges in the sustainability space. Taught by Alice Nichols, students learned to develop an eco-entrepreneurship idea and put it on the path to becoming a real, viable venture. " Mentoring in Focus Training Series January 2021 We launched our Mentoring in Focus training series focused on inclusive mentoring practices for faculty and center mentors. " Grants to address Anti-Black and Systemic Racism February 2021 We collaborated with the Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America (CSREA) to create venture grants to address anti-Black and systemic racism. Learn more here. " Nelson Technology Fellows April 2021 We piloted the Nelson Technology Fellows program in conjunction with Brown Technology Innovations. " Brown EP Launched New Virtual Synapse Trips April 2021 In addition to New York and San Francisco, Brown EP led virtual Synapse trips in East Africa (Kenya, Ethiopia, Somaliland), and Southeast Asia. " Second Academic Research Conference June 2021 “The Entrepreneurship you Don’t See: Bringing Visibility to New Majority Founders” was our second entrepreneurship research conference. Here we awarded the first-ever lifetime achievement award to Dr. Juliet E. K. Walker and the emerging scholar award in entrepreneurship to Dr. Courtney McCluney. " $10 million in Funding Raised by Nelson Center Ventures July 2021 Ventures supported by the Nelson Center have now raised approximately $10 million in funding and many others have gone on to national accelerator programs such as Y Combinator, Techstars, etc. Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2017 Brown University Connect with us: Facebook Youtube Instagram Twitter Copyright 2018 Brown University