Skip to main content Entrepreneurship News Menu Close Students Alumni Faculty and Staff Thought Leadership Getting Started with Entrepreneurship: Recommendations from Eren Hebert facebook twitter linked in email Students Alumni Faculty and Staff Thought Leadership Alliance Getting Started with Entrepreneurship: Recommendations from Eren Hebert Eren Hebert, Technical Lead at the NC State Entrepreneurship Garage, shares some of his favorite entrepreneurship resources. April 4, 2022 Jaclyn McVey Getting started with your entrepreneurial journey can be overwhelming. Having resources to help point you in the right direction can make things a little easier. At NC State Entrepreneurship we have many resources and staff that are ready to assist you in your journey. We connected with the Garage’s Technical Lead, Eren Hebert to ask for resources for those interested in rolling up their sleeves and getting involved with prototyping or using the Garage equipment. Eren’s background spans a range of disciplines, including design, art and engineering and he spends most of his time helping students best utilize the Garage Prototyping equipment to accomplish their entrepreneurial project goals. He’s a technical guru and resource for all things related to design, prototyping, equipment and manufacturing. We asked Eren for some recommendations to get started with entrepreneurship, below are some of his favorites. Books Designing Interactions by Bill Moogridge Emotional Design: Why We Love (Or Hate) Everyday Things by Don Norman Set Phasers on Stun: And Other True Tales of Design, Technology, and Human Error by S.M. Casey Resources Fusion 360 – free CAD development resource for students Makezine – resource for articles, projects and tutorials Thingiverse – resource for 3D printed objects Connect with Eren Hebert through email at ebhebert@ncsu.edu. Categories: Alliance Faculty/Staff Students Thought Leadership Tags: Entrepreneurship Garage NC State Entrepreneurship View Comments 0 total responses Leave a Response Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. All fields are required. Comment * Name * Email * Δ More Entrepreneurship News 2022 eGames Winners Announced Tran Nguyen, Winner of the February Design Challenge Series EEP Team Represents NC State at the 2022 ACC InVenture Prize Entrepreneurship Competition Entrepreneurship Home 1017 Main Campus Drive, Suite 1650 Raleigh, NC 27606 entrepreneurship@ncsu.edu 919.513.3676 Campus Map <span class=nowrap>aria-hidden="false"> Entrepreneurship Home About NC State Entrepreneurship Staff Resources Contact Us Alliance Resources News Event Calendar Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.