ABOUT DIRECTOR’S WELCOME MISSION D & I Diverse Founders & Resources OVERVIEW NELSON @ 5 PEOPLE Our Team Advisory Council ENTREPRENEUR IN RESIDENCE PROGRAM NEWS@NELSON News Student Stories Alumni Stories Share Your Story/Resource OUR BUILDING E-NEWS SIGN UP CONTACT US ACADEMICS ENTREPRENEURSHIP CERTIFICATE COURSES RESEARCH Faculty Graduate Research Fellowship RESEARCH CONFERENCE 2021 PRIME, MASTER’S PROGRAM VC INCLUSION LAB BUILD YOUR VENTURE MENTORSHIP Entrepreneur in Residence Peer Entrepreneurs Mentoring Resources Volunteer & Black Mentor Drive Forms Hazeltine Mentoring Award FUNDING Explore & Expand Anti-Black & Systemic Racism Venture Grants Climate Change Grants Hazeltine Grants COMMUNITY LAB B-LAB About the Program 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 BROWN VENTURE PRIZE About the Prize 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 STUDENT INCUBATORS Health Hatch (Spring) Innovation Dojo (Fall/Spring) DIGITAL HEALTH $25K PITCH PRIZE NELSON TECHNOLOGY FELLOWS VAN WICKLE VENTURES TECH VENTURES OFFICE GET INVOLVED EVENTS INTERNSHIPS STARTUP SYNAPSES STUDENT CLUBS Brown EP Women’s Entrepreneurship Innovation Dojo EP Dive In Podcast Young Entrepreneurs of Providence Innovation for Health/Hatch Health Incubator Brown Healthcare Investment Group RESOURCES Navigating Startup Resources on Campus Looking to join a venture? Brown Startup Database Startup Registration Form FOR ALUMNI Volunteer & Black Mentor Drive Forms Mentoring Resources Make a Gift Other Groups/Resources Brown Alumni Entrepreneurship Group Brown Angel Group SLATER TECH FUND JOIN OUR EMAIL LIST MAKE A GIFT Select Page MENTORING IN FOCUS Building an Inclusive Entrepreneurship Ecosystem on College Hill & Beyond Being a great mentor for students isn’t always as easy as it seems. Having a breadth of life and startup experience is certainly a necessary foundation, but effective mentoring is rarely “simple nuts and bolts of advice.” What would you do in these situations? – A student is experiencing personal issues dealing with gender, race, or socioeconomic disparities. – You’re asked by your mentees to invest in their company. – A student comes from a different culture from yours and maybe you can’t relate to or even help them navigate through their pain points. – Student founders are starkly at odds over equity splits or decision-making structures. Below are links to videos and resources to our workshop series Mentoring in Focus, to help build our collective understanding of inclusive approaches to mentoring, teaching, and entrepreneurship practices. Continue to learn more about our mentor and mentee guidelines. Mentoring in Focus Event Series Why Being Inclusive in Your Approach Isn’t So Obvious with Dr. Banu Ozkazanc-Pan As part of this session, Dr. Banu Ozkazanc-Pan, Professor of Practice and Founder and Director of the Venture Capital Inclusion Lab led an interactive conversation about becoming an inclusive mentor and shared examples of how we can better navigate the diverse social, political, and cultural nuances of our identities and experiences. So, You Want to Save the World? with Betsy Shimberg, Senior Associate Dean of the College for Co-Curricular and Experiential Learning Rescheduled date TBD As part of this session, Betsy Shimberg and others will lead a workshop designed for mentees and mentors alike eager to better understand new perspectives on problem identification and helping each other navigate the complexities of global problems. How To Be An Effective Mentor for Student Ventures with Jason Harry, B-Lab Director & Professor of the Practice As part of this session, Jason Harry, the Hugh W. Pearson ’58 Professor of the Practice of Technology and Entrepreneurship at the School of Engineering and the Director of the Breakthrough Lab (B-Lab) led a discussion on the important nuts and bolts of advising through the Nelson Center venture development process. Each One, Teach One with Riche Holmes Grant '99, Entrepreneur in Residence, Nelson Center Riche Holmes Grant ‘99, Entrepreneur in Residence, and Lauren Brown ‘22, Lead Peer Entrepreneur in Residence at the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship are two Black women entrepreneurs who have built a strong mentor-mentee relationship fostered by initiatives at Brown. Learn best practices for how to find a mentor, what not to do once you have one, and how to cultivate the success of the relationship, both at Brown and beyond. MENTOR SPECIFIC GUIDELINES View your role as being part teacher, part venture advisor. The Nelson Center’s mission is fundamentally educational; feel empowered to serve as an instructor … one who often points toward answers, not just gives them. That said, you can dispense your knowledge and advice as you would to a colleague, with a forthrightness that might not typically be seen in a classroom. Resist the temptation to take charge. Perhaps it goes without saying (given the first point above), but it is important that the student(s) and/ or venture be in control of its own destiny. While giving winning advice, recognize that you are not responsible for failures (or successes!). Recognize that each students’ situation is different. We all come from different backgrounds and identities. It’s important not to assume a student’s identity or that certain resources, whether it be financial or social capital are available for each and every student. For example, a student may also have to gain income while also working on his/her/their venture and cannot dedicate as much time while in school or might not have the networks to raise capital from “friends and family”. We ask that you consider these, and other possible scenarios as you give feedback. Remember your story is not universal. Watch this video on diversity and inclusive approaches to mentoring led by Dr. Banu Ozkazanc-Pan. Some other helpful resources: The Key To Diversity And Inclusion Is Mentorship; U Madison Wisconsin Self-Assessment; Implicit Bias Test; Guide for Mentors. Sharing contact info. It’s up to you to share your contact info. We recognize that you may meet frequently with entrepreneurs in and out of Brown, and may not have the time to schedule another meeting or even time to have email correspondence. Feel welcome to share your bandwidth with the student or venture you’re meeting with if they ask about contacting you again after the meeting. Be clear if you are open to other conversations, or if you’d like to connect again next time you’re on campus. Express your interest in mentoring or getting involved in the Nelson Center through our Volunteer Form. MENTEE SPECIFIC GUIDELINES Preparing to speak with a mentor for the first time Research: Before your meeting, take a little time to learn more about them (e.g., look at their LinkedIn or search their name and professional experience online). This will allow you to learn more about their background and skill set. Understanding who you are speaking with is a crucial component of mentorship. It provides context to your conversation by laying out an understanding of where the visitor is coming from. Come prepared with a topic: We recommend that you have something (be it a challenge, question, or specific area on which you would like feedback) to share with your mentor. They are interested in getting to know you and are offering their time because they want to provide support and use their experience as a resource for you. Respect this resource by allowing them to offer guidance to your work. During the meeting/chat Introduce yourself. Be sure to introduce yourself and provide a brief overview of you or your venture. Keep it concise, but you can share a one-pager about your venture, a prototype, etc as necessary. This provides your mentor with a basic understanding of you, and what you may be working on. Advice and constructive criticism. Receive it with grace and gratitude. And treat all advice strictly as “data points,” not gospel. Remember: “Nobody knows your venture as well as you do!” Exchanging contact info. It’s up to you both. Though chats are typically a one-time meeting, if you would like to share your contact info, you may do so. Recognize that the visiting mentor may meet frequently with other aspiring entrepreneurs in and out of Brown, and may not have the time to schedule another meeting or even have time for email correspondence. Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2017 Brown University Connect with us: Facebook Youtube Instagram Twitter Copyright 2018 Brown University