Skip to main content Entrepreneurship Menu Close About Annual Report Connect With Us Give to NC State Entrepreneurship Our Team Results Students Academics Ambassador Program Andrews Launch Accelerator Entrepreneurship Scholarships Experiential Learning Funding Getting Started with Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program Miller Fellowship Trips Community Alumni Entrepreneurship Alliance Entrepreneurship Partners Program Giving Mentorship Program NC State Founders’ Pledge Spaces Albright Entrepreneurs Village Entrepreneurship Garage Entrepreneurship Clinic Garage Classroom NCSU Libraries Makerspaces Events Calendar Entrepalooza Entrepreneurship Competitions Global Entrepreneurship Week eGames Give Now About About Annual Report Connect With Us Give to NC State Entrepreneurship Our Team Results Students Students Academics Ambassador Program Andrews Launch Accelerator Entrepreneurship Scholarships Experiential Learning Funding Getting Started with Entrepreneurship Mentorship Program Miller Fellowship Trips Community Community Alumni Entrepreneurship Alliance Entrepreneurship Partners Program Giving Mentorship Program NC State Founders’ Pledge Spaces Spaces Albright Entrepreneurs Village Entrepreneurship Garage Entrepreneurship Clinic Garage Classroom NCSU Libraries Makerspaces Events Events Calendar Entrepalooza Entrepreneurship Competitions Global Entrepreneurship Week eGames Give Now Giving The NC State Entrepreneurship fund is used to support programs, activities and initiatives designed to advance all facets of entrepreneurship in support of students, faculty/staff and alumni. Make an Impact Anyone can become an entrepreneur at NC State. In 2019, more than 7,000 students participated in entrepreneurship offerings, and 14 percent of the student population enrolled in an entrepreneurship course. These and other entrepreneurship experiences helped NC State students and alumni start more than 100 companies over the past five years. Your support builds NC State’s entrepreneurial community and enhances our academic programs, faculty talent, cutting-edge tools and investor networks. About NC State Entrepreneurship We support, promote and advance a culture of entrepreneurship throughout the university community by providing resources, fostering collaboration and enhancing communications in support of NC State students, faculty, staff and alumni. We are an alliance of more than a dozen entrepreneurship programs and units across NC State. Together, we represent a broad spectrum of entrepreneurship — social, business, technical — and foster a campus community of entrepreneurial leaders that embody NC State’s Think and Do spirit. SUPPORT NC STATE ENTREPRENEURSHIP Thank you for your support. Amount$ Your gift can support… Academic Offerings Startup Spaces Entrepreneurship Scholarships Make The Founders’ Pledge The Founders’ Pledge is a personal and nonbinding commitment to make a gift back to NC State at some point in the future: when you have an exit, IPO, or stream of steady revenue. Discover More Interested in partnering with us? Contact: TM Todd Marrs Director of Development 919-515-9080 todd_marrs@ncsu.edu Partner with Us The Partners Program provides exclusive opportunities for companies, entities and entrepreneurial leaders to connect and share experiences with NC State Entrepreneurship students, faculty and programs. Learn More Announcing the First Frank J. Newlands, M.D. Entrepreneurship Scholars Scholarship support enables greater success in college by allowing students to have more time to focus on their studies. Learn more about the latest addition to the robust group of entrepreneurship scholarships – The Frank J. Newlands, M.D. Entrepreneurship Scholarship. 2021 Entrepreneurship Scholars Announced NC State Entrepreneurship Scholarships are awarded to hardworking NC State students who have outstanding achievements in or involvements with entrepreneurship activities. Michael Evans – Co-Founder and CFO, Park Scholar, 2x Statistics Graduate and Miller Fellow Michael Evans knew a Statistics major would give him highly sought-after transferable skills, but little did he know it would also open a door to the world of entrepreneurship. Entrepreneurship Home 1017 Main Campus Drive, Suite 1650 Raleigh, NC 27606 entrepreneurship@ncsu.edu 919.513.3676 Campus Map <span class=nowrap>aria-hidden="false"> Entrepreneurship Home About NC State Entrepreneurship Staff Resources Contact Us Alliance Resources News Event Calendar Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.