ABOUT DIRECTOR’S WELCOME MISSION D & I Diverse Founders & Resources OVERVIEW NELSON @ 5 PEOPLE Our Team Advisory Council ENTREPRENEUR IN RESIDENCE PROGRAM NEWS@NELSON News Student Stories Alumni Stories Share Your Story/Resource OUR BUILDING E-NEWS SIGN UP CONTACT US ACADEMICS ENTREPRENEURSHIP CERTIFICATE COURSES RESEARCH Faculty Graduate Research Fellowship RESEARCH CONFERENCE 2021 PRIME, MASTER’S PROGRAM VC INCLUSION LAB BUILD YOUR VENTURE MENTORSHIP Entrepreneur in Residence Peer Entrepreneurs Mentoring Resources Volunteer & Black Mentor Drive Forms Hazeltine Mentoring Award FUNDING Explore & Expand Anti-Black & Systemic Racism Venture Grants Climate Change Grants Hazeltine Grants COMMUNITY LAB B-LAB About the Program 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 BROWN VENTURE PRIZE About the Prize 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 STUDENT INCUBATORS Health Hatch (Spring) Innovation Dojo (Fall/Spring) DIGITAL HEALTH $25K PITCH PRIZE NELSON TECHNOLOGY FELLOWS VAN WICKLE VENTURES TECH VENTURES OFFICE GET INVOLVED EVENTS INTERNSHIPS STARTUP SYNAPSES STUDENT CLUBS Brown EP Women’s Entrepreneurship Innovation Dojo EP Dive In Podcast Young Entrepreneurs of Providence Innovation for Health/Hatch Health Incubator Brown Healthcare Investment Group RESOURCES Navigating Startup Resources on Campus Looking to join a venture? Brown Startup Database Startup Registration Form FOR ALUMNI Volunteer & Black Mentor Drive Forms Mentoring Resources Make a Gift Other Groups/Resources Brown Alumni Entrepreneurship Group Brown Angel Group SLATER TECH FUND JOIN OUR EMAIL LIST MAKE A GIFT Select Page B-Lab 2021 B-Lab is an intensive 8-week accelerator program that supports student entrepreneurs developing high-impact ventures. We are welcoming 16 ventures that address unmet needs in a wide range of market sectors: empowering Asian-American college students, a marketplace for artists, e-commerce for small businesses in sub-Saharan Africa, hand-held electricity generator, regenerative agriculture, reimagined mentoring platforms for BIPOC students, and many others. The venture founders from Brown University, RISD, and Drexel University bring diverse perspectives, strengths, and interests to the cohort. They are bound together by their passion for creating meaningful solutions to important challenges in exciting markets, and they represent some of the most advanced ventures in the Brown entrepreneurial ecosystem. Learn more about the program and its impact on our students through this short video! Watch the 2021 Virtual Showcase below. Aloe Aloe is a data-driven computer vision company with a focus on improving the film and entertainment industry. Our mission is to support creators of all kinds by using AI and Machine Learning models to provide insight into all facets of video content. Sidney Schwartz '23 Computer Science sidney_schwartz@brown.edu Olivia Johnson '23 Computer Science olivia_johnson@brown.edu Bamboo Chats Bamboo Chats is an online platform for college students and professionals in the Asian American community. We match students and professionals for one-on-one, 30 minutes career chats centered around conversations about career and Asian identity. Christine Han '23 East Asian Studies christine_han@brown.edu Basq Basq is a social media marketplace for artists and patrons to connect, explore, and learn more about the art world. We provide a museum quality viewing experience for patrons and a professionally credible platform for artists. With personalized feeds, accessible prints, and interactive prompts, you never experienced a gallery like this on the go! Brantley Leaphart '21 Computer Science and Theater and Performance Studies brantley_leaphart@brown.edu BuzzButton 860 million people live without reliable access to the electric grid, one billion people experience at least one temporary power outage annually due to natural disasters, and civilians and soldiers often travel off-grid. In these trying situations, we lose the ability to charge our consumer electronics, which motivates the development of our first product, the BuzzButton. The BuzzButton is a portable, low-cost, and relatively high power output energy generator with an integrated storage unit, inspired by the mechanics of the classic button spinner toy. After our first product launch, we will engineer our platform technology—the high speed, tethered button spinner and our analytical physics model—into other useful, electricity-free (or electricity generating) tools. Tyler Jacobson '22 Mechanical Engineering tyler_jacobson@brown.edu Sai Allu '21 Biology and Economics sai_allu@brown.edu Dangy Dangy is an AI-powered recommendation platform and social media network for restaurant dishes. Dangy personally tailors dish recommendations for you so that you can find your new favorite pizza, Chinese food, drinks, and more! Dangy also helps you find the best dish for you at any restaurant so that you always have the best meal. Then, when you find your new favorite dish, rate it on factors like taste, value, and spiciness. Finally, share it with your friends with funny, TikTok-like videos! Jason Whang '21 Business, Entrepreneurship, and Organizations (BEO) jason_whang@brown.edu Elijah Whang '26 ewhang3@gmail.com Decrypted By Us Decrypted By Us is an online learning community by and for students from groups underrepresented in Computer Science. We believe the field of CS should be more inclusive and welcoming of students from diverse academic, cultural, and socioeconomic backgrounds. We do this by creating videos about applied CS topics, that represent and speak to underrepresented CS students to encourage them to pursue their interests and goals. Luna Ito-Fisher '21 Computer Science luna_ito-fisher@brown.edu Emit Emit is an app that is meant to make spontaneous get-togethers among friends and acquaintances easier. Easily communicate the Who What When and Where of your spontaneous urges or plans and get others to join you in just a couple taps! Brandon Li '21 Computer Science brandon_li@brown.edu Nathaniel Goodman '21 Computer Science nathaniel_goodman@brown.edu Anderson Addo '23 Computer Science anderson_addo@brown.edu enRoot enRoot Inc is a regenerative agricultural technology company that aims to improve the livelihoods, incomes, and futures of Black and other marginalized farmers in the agricultural sector. Jeffrey Martín '21 Master's in Urban Education Policy jeffrey_martin1@brown.edu First-Gen Chisme First-Generation Chisme is an online bilingual college resource for BIPOC, Low-Income, and First-Generation college students. The First-Gen Chisme tech app will focus on providing BIPOC, Low-Income, and First-Generation students with financial and academic resources throughout their college journey. The app hopes to support high school, college, and graduate students achieve their own educational goals with access to resources that are often not found within marginalized and under-resourced communities. Leslie Ponce-Díaz '23 Bachelors of Architecture (BArch), Bachelors of Fine Arts (BFA) lponcedi@risd.edu Flowbits Flowbits reimagines the structure of digital organization. Our intuitive platform finally provides the level of shareability, integration, and automation that the modern user needs–giving you back your valuable time and mental space. Plan less, and do more of what you love. Yenteen Hu '23 Biology and Economics yenteen_hu@brown.edu Matt Reed '21 Entrepreneurship (Drexel University) matthew.reed@drexel.edu Roman Hall '23 Computer Science and Economics roman_hall@brown.edu Jula Many women people in The Gambia rely on reselling used products as their main source of household income, yet they do not have a reliable means of securing customers and scaling their business easily. Our platform, Jula, is an e-commerce solution that aims to address this problem. We allow small business owners to reach out to a wide variety of customers, accept payments seamlessly, and have their products delivered to their customers doorsteps. Isatou Saho '21 Computer Science isatou_saho@brown.edu Saron Fisseha '21 Computer Science and Economics saron_fisseha@brown.edu Keeb World Keeb World is an search engine for mechanical keyboard parts. Users can quickly browse among switches, keycaps, and stabilizers for the next keyboard build. Think of it as the Google search for keyboard parts! Ryan Burnett '22 Business, Entrepreneurship, and Organizations (BEO) ryan_burnett@brown.edu Revive Revive trains and empowers middle- and high-schoolers in youth advocacy through an intergenerational mentorship program. Through learning from local, experienced activists and community members, Revive members gain both a hyper localized advocacy toolkit as well as mentors that share the same backgrounds as themselves. This latter point is especially important when considering how BIPOC voices are often undervalued in traditional school settings. Moreover, by providing the space and support for youth to lead their own campaigns, Revive allows students to determine their own interests, develop real-time leadership skills, and gain confidence in their own abilities. In short, through providing an intergenerational, hyper localized framework for learning activism skills, Revive revolutionizes the way youth can make change in their communities. Zoe Fuad '23 Education Studies zoe_fuad@brown.edu Carina Sandoval '23 International and Public Affairs, Development carina_sandoval@brown.edu, Soirée Ladder Inc. is a diversity-focused recruiting startup that serves to increase the representation and support of diverse professionals within corporations. Our one-stop platform offers an open network and recruiting pipeline through which students, professionals, and corporations can easily connect. We seek to transform modern recruiting conventions by prioritizing accessibility, efficiency, and personalization for all users. Sterling Stiger '22 Business, Entrepreneurship, and Organizations (BEO) sterling_stiger@brown.edu Michael Mireles '21 Development Studies michael_mireles@brown.edu The Reem Company The Reem Company offers U.S. consumers a shari’a-compliant insurance product based on cooperation and mutuality. The company aims to be the most trusted shari’a-compliant insurance brokerage in the United States. Whitney Terrill '23 Executive Master's in Healthcare Leadership whitney_terrill@brown.edu Workista Workista is a commission-free talent matchmaking platform that makes hiring freelancers easier than ever before. Using state-of-the-art AI algorithms, Workista analyzes each project’s needs and automatically notifies qualified freelancers based on their skills and previous work experiences – all without having to pay hefty commission fees. Andrew Kim '22 Applied Mathematics and Computer Science andrew_kim2@brown.edu Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2017 Brown University Connect with us: Facebook Youtube Instagram Twitter Copyright 2018 Brown University