ABOUT DIRECTOR’S WELCOME MISSION D & I Diverse Founders & Resources OVERVIEW NELSON @ 5 PEOPLE Our Team Advisory Council ENTREPRENEUR IN RESIDENCE PROGRAM NEWS@NELSON News Student Stories Alumni Stories Share Your Story/Resource OUR BUILDING E-NEWS SIGN UP CONTACT US ACADEMICS ENTREPRENEURSHIP CERTIFICATE COURSES RESEARCH Faculty Graduate Research Fellowship RESEARCH CONFERENCE 2021 PRIME, MASTER’S PROGRAM VC INCLUSION LAB BUILD YOUR VENTURE MENTORSHIP Entrepreneur in Residence Peer Entrepreneurs Mentoring Resources Volunteer & Black Mentor Drive Forms Hazeltine Mentoring Award FUNDING Explore & Expand Anti-Black & Systemic Racism Venture Grants Climate Change Grants Hazeltine Grants COMMUNITY LAB B-LAB About the Program 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 BROWN VENTURE PRIZE About the Prize 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 STUDENT INCUBATORS Health Hatch (Spring) Innovation Dojo (Fall/Spring) DIGITAL HEALTH $25K PITCH PRIZE NELSON TECHNOLOGY FELLOWS VAN WICKLE VENTURES TECH VENTURES OFFICE GET INVOLVED EVENTS INTERNSHIPS STARTUP SYNAPSES STUDENT CLUBS Brown EP Women’s Entrepreneurship Innovation Dojo EP Dive In Podcast Young Entrepreneurs of Providence Innovation for Health/Hatch Health Incubator Brown Healthcare Investment Group RESOURCES Navigating Startup Resources on Campus Looking to join a venture? Brown Startup Database Startup Registration Form FOR ALUMNI Volunteer & Black Mentor Drive Forms Mentoring Resources Make a Gift Other Groups/Resources Brown Alumni Entrepreneurship Group Brown Angel Group SLATER TECH FUND JOIN OUR EMAIL LIST MAKE A GIFT Select Page B-Lab 2020 B-Lab is an intensive 8-week venture accelerator program that supports student entrepreneurs developing high-impact ventures. Each venture receives sector-specific mentoring and programming, and joins a peer cohort of dedicated founders. This summer, our 15 ventures will be working remotely for their safety, tuning into engaging live and pre-recorded content, and meeting with peers, mentors, and B-Lab staff via web conferencing. We are thrilled that we can continue to offer B-Lab (in this slightly different way) and are confident that all students and ventures will make incredible progress over the summer. The 15 student ventures accepted into this year’s program have founders from Brown University, RISD, Amherst College, and Hofstra University who bring diverse perspectives, strengths, and interests to the cohort. They are bound together by their passion for creating meaningful solutions to important challenges in exciting markets, and they represent some of the most advanced ventures in the Brown entrepreneurial ecosystem. Learn more about the program through this short video! Watch the B-Lab 2020 Virtual Showcase September 23, 2020 at 6:00 pm ET Aridity Capital Aridity Capital is a social venture using direct cash transfers coupled with individualized support programs to help families lift themselves out of poverty. Listen to his podcast here. Venture Showcase Pitch Eddie Uong '21 Economics and History edward_uong@brown.edu Belong Here Belong Here offers an online space in which immigrants who have been in the US for less than 7 – 10 years are paired with a first or second-generation resident who serves as a mentor. After a first conversation determining fit, the pair has weekly or bi-weekly conversations discussing a goal the mentee wants to pursue, a shared interest or a story from their life. Based on their indicated needs, the mentee might ask their mentor about applying for a drivers’ license or pursuing higher education. They may want to practice English or ask questions they have about American culture and customs. We give both sides guidance and resources so that mentors are equipped to help, and mentees feel supported. In short, we create an intentional and inclusive community through a structured mentorship system. Listen to their podcast here. (Formerly knownas TimeSpent) Venture Showcase Pitch William Yang '22 Applied Math-Computer Science william_yang@brown.edu Hannah Skye Dunnigan '23 Economics, Industrial Design Brown|RISD Dual Degree hannah_dunnigan@brown.edu Bittersweet Our pets are family, and deserve sensitive and dignified death care. At Bittersweet, we design and produce pet coffins because they ensure that the moment does not go unmarked. Our designs are based around diverse burial traditions and sustainability practices. Listen to their podcast here. Venture Showcase Pitch. Hillary Brame '20 Development Studies and Furniture Design hillary_brame@alumni.brown.edu Cress Health Cress Health develops technologies that enhance personal mental wellness. We offer a first-of-its-kind mobile self-care app that is designed for healthcare workers, combining data-driven mental wellness features with a confidential peer support platform. Listen to their podcast here. Venture Showcase Pitch Justin M. Kim '21 Health and Human Biology (A.B.) and Computer Science (A.B.) justin_kim1@brown.edu Matthew Lee '22 Business-Economics and Biology matthew_lee1@brown.edu Michael Lai '20 Biology Hofstra University mlai3@pride.hofstra.edu EmpowerU Empower U is an educational tech startup that works to help address educational disparities. It achieves this goal by providing students with the resources and tools they need to obtain higher education and essentially go on to improve the quality of their lives. Listen to her podcast episode here. Venture Showcase Pitch Elvia Perez '22 Business Economics elvia_perez@brown.edu Figured It takes most people two years to find their haircare groove. Figured helps people with afro-textured hair find the best hair product lineup and routine for their curl characteristics and lifestyle in just 90 days. Our focus on curating samples from high quality brands creates the perfect collection of products and tips tailored to you. Finding your fit faster means spending less time and money on products that don’t work, and building your curl confidence. Listen to her podcast here. Venture Showcase Pitch Lauren Brown '22 Business, Entrepreneurship, and Organizations (BEO) lauren_brown2@brown.edu InStance Sitting is the new smoking. There is an increased recognition of the importance of standing, and InStance is pushing the envelope of the health benefits derived from being upright through our day. Listen to their podcast here. Venture Showcase Pitch Joshua Daniel Biomedical Engineering ScB '18, ScM '20 joshua_daniel@alumni.brown.edu LapSnap LapSnap has designed a grocery shopping bag for wheelchair users. Currently, shopping for food is a major hassle for people who use wheelchairs, and there is no affordable solution that works for all chairs. The LapSnap bag was designed in collaboration with real wheelchair users, and the hope is that it will improve lives by giving people a tool for greater independence. Listen to their podcast here. Venture Showcase Pitch Diana Perkins '20 Mechanical Engineering & Industrial Design diana_perkins@alumni.brown.edu Chloe Rosenberg '20 Engineering and Economics chloe_rosenberg@alumni.brown.edu Hannah Mintz '20 Masters in Teaching (MAT) hannah_mintz@alumni.brown.edu Monara Puberty is a time full of changes for young girls, from getting their first period to experiencing new emotions – which are exciting but can also be stressful. At Monara, we prepare and support girls during their transition through puberty through products, services, education, and community. We enable girls to appreciate the changes and be proud of their growth rather than being overwhelmed and underinformed. We are the brand that is there for girls as they grow up. Listen to their podcast here. Venture Showcase Pitch Zixi (Jessica) Zhu '20 Cognitive Neuroscience zixi_zhu@alumni.brown.edu Peal Peal is an app centered on improving mental wellness through personalized insights and community conversations. Through new resources and tools recommended to you daily, Peal makes it easy to engage with your mental health. Listen to their podcast here. Venture Showcase Pitch Asha Franchi '20 Economics & Music asha_franchi@alumni.brown.edu Srishti Lulla '20 Computer Science srishti_lulla@alumni.brown.edu Pointz Pointz is a mobile app that determines and presents the safest routes for bicyclists based on a variety of factors including the type of bicycle being ridden (different types of bikes call for different types of roads), preferences for elevation, and purpose of ride (ex. recreational, commuting). Pointz accomplishes this by using road data and crowdsourced route information. Our app can be thought of as “Waze for bikes.” Listen to her podcast here. Venture showcase Pitch Maggie Bachenberg '22 Environmental Science maggie_bachenberg@brown.edu SiliStor Inspired by mothers, SiliStor is a functionally designed breast milk storage system with space-saving, reusable silicone bottles, a storage unit that ensures the oldest milk is easily accessible, and adapters that enable direct attachment of bottles to a breast pump and to a feeding nipple. This system allows for simple pumping, storing and feeding and eliminates the need for milk transfers in between. The unique shape maximizes storage space, and, unlike plastic, silicone does not leach harsh chemicals. Listen to their podcast here. Venture Showcase Pitch Selahaddin Gumus '22 Chemistry, PhD selahaddin_gumus@brown.edu Dana Biechele-Speziale '24 Chemistry, PhD dana_biechele-speziale@brown.edu Survivor Central Survivor Central, formally known as Callisto, is an interactive web platform for survivors of sexual assault assault and domestic violence that allows for intuitive/efficient reporting and streamlines the process of seeking legal aid, grants, and shelters. Listen to their podcast here. Venture Showcase Pitch Reetam Ganguli '23 Medical Engineering and Reproductive Healthcare reetam_ganguli@brown.edu Ubica Ubica makes it easier than ever to create and share events. We help organizations deliver live, virtual and hybrid event experiences with an all-in-one platform solution. Listen to their podcast here. Venture Showcase Pitch Nkanyiso Nzimande '20 Computer Science nkanyiso_nzimande@alumni.brown.edu Samuel Aguilar '19 Cognitive Science samuel_aguilar@alumni.brown.edu WeFlop WeFlop is an online poker platform that allows users to host, customize, and monetize their own online poker rooms. Listen to their podcast here. Venture Showcase Pitch Glenn Yu '20 Economics and English glenn_yu@alumni.brown.edu Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2017 Brown University Connect with us: Facebook Youtube Instagram Twitter Copyright 2018 Brown University