Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage The Forest School Connecting people, forests, and forestry for a sustainable future The Forest School Giving Alumni News Calendar YSE Resources Open the search panel Search Academic Programs Master’s Programs Doctoral Program Certificate Programs Courses Academic Calendar Admissions Master’s Admissions Funding Your Master’s Degree Doctoral Admissions Certificate Program Admissions Visit Campus Why Choose YSE? Learning Communities Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Research & Impact Faculty Explore Our Research Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Research Contacts Student Experience Student Life Career and Professional Development YSE Campus and Virtual Tours Yale Campus Living in New Haven Student Affairs About Hire Our Graduates Leadership Vision and Mission Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Campus History Contact Learning Communities Business and the Environment Business and the Environment Students who engage with this LC join a dynamic circle of scholars and practitioners who are thinking about the many opportunities and challenges for businesses in developing more sustainable approaches to meeting human needs. On This Page For more information about events and to receive emails and other updates from the Business and the Environment Learning Community, visit the group page on YaleConnect. Join this Community (YaleConnect) Related Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Centers & Programs Center for Industrial Ecology (CIE) Leading the way in an emerging field, the Center for Industrial Ecology focuses research, teaching, and outreach on how resources are converted to products, the pollution that comes from these processes, and opportunities to reduce resource use and pollution. Centers & Programs Yale Center for Business and the Environment (CBEY) CBEY educates and inspires interdisciplinary leaders through business solutions to systemic environmental problems. Centers & Programs Center for Green Chemistry & Green Engineering at Yale Taking sustainability to the molecular level, the Center supports chemists and engineers whose scientific and technological breakthroughs are crucial to the future success of the human economy. Centers & Programs Affiliated: Yale Center for Natural Carbon Capture Finding solutions to climate change through advances in natural carbon sequestration. Centers & Programs Affiliated: Tsai Center for Innovative Thinking at Yale (CITY) Tsai CITY serves students from across Yale’s campus through programs, funding, and mentoring: whether you have a big idea you’re ready to build on or just want to explore the tools of innovation, we can help you get there. Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Business and the Environment in the News View More Stories News YSE Student’s Line of Alternative Leather Consumer Goods Wins Startup Yale Sustainability Prize Aatma Leather, co-founded by Yale School of the Environment student Jinali Mody, will manufacture cruelty-free, plant-based leather products, such as belts, shoes, and handbags, from fruit and crop waste. News YSE Class of ’22: Akshyah Krishnakumar Seeks to Make Change from the Inside Akshyah Krishnakumar is seeking to achieve clean energy goals by working from the inside — starting with the fourth largest corporation in the world. News Report: Businesses Should Play Key Role in Addressing Environmental and Social Issues The Center for Business and the Environment’s just-released study of 2,035 global business students found students increasingly believe that business leaders and the private sector should play a vital role in addressing environmental sustainability and social issues. Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Degree Programs YSE's learning communities span across all master's and doctoral degree programs. RESEARCH DEGREES Master of Environmental Science Master of Forest Science The Doctoral Program at the Yale School of the Environment PROFESSIONAL DEGREES Master of Environmental Management Master of Forestry OTHER DEGREES & PROGRAMS Joint Degrees with Another Yale School Joint Degrees with an Outside Institution Learning Communities YSE's Learning Communities were created to offer robust interdisciplinary experiences and networks. Students may engage with as many learning communities as they choose, regardless of their degree program or specialization. Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Connect with us Request Information Visit Virtually Apply Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage 195 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 06511 (203) 432-5100 admissions.yse@yale.edu Social Media Links Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Academic Programs Admissions Learning Communities Research & Impact Student Experience About Footer Util Media Inquiries For Employers Job Opportunities Sign Up for Our Newsletter Copyright © 2021, Yale University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Accessibility at Yale