Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Subscribe to our mailing list About Mission Open Access Policy Contact Us People Faculty Associates Center Affiliates Fellows Staff Research Areas Architecture & Environmental Design Arts & Humanities Business, Law & Policy Climate Ecology & Biodiversity Energy Human Health Social Sciences Programs Environmental Fellows Program Graduate Consortium on Climate & Environment Climate Leaders Program Environmental Science & Public Policy (ESPP) Summer Undergraduate Research Fund Faculty Grants for Exploratory Research Affiliated Programs News & Events HUCE in the News Events Calendar HUCE Events Environment@Harvard Newsletter Resources Campus Environmental Directory Course Guide Videos Library Liasons Harvard Speaks on Climate Change Search Search Harnessing the intellectual power of Harvard to understand and shape our environmental future In the Spotlight Summer Environmental Writing Group Learn more about this writing group for Harvard graduate students and postdocs interested in the environmental humanities In the Spotlight Stay informed & involved For a centralized list of Harvard programs, projects, student groups, and special initiatives pertaining to climate and environmental research, visit our Campus Environmental Directory In the Spotlight Join our virtual community Find us on Twitter, Instagram, and Facebook at @hucenvironment Refine by Research Area Dive deeper into the environmentally-related efforts and happenings across a variety of disciplines at each of Harvard’s schools. Meet Our Faculty HUCE connects a large and diverse faculty community that bridges disciplines, departments, and schools. Learn more about our faculty and their work. Explore HUCE Programs Through a variety of grants and fellowship programs, HUCE supports research and education, from summer undergraduate research to interdisciplinary faculty collaborations. News & Events 10 Teams Tackle Climate Change May 18, 2022 Climate Change Solutions Fund awards $1.3M in research grants to address local and global issues... Read more about 10 Teams Tackle Climate Change Better, Faster, Energy Efficient Predictions April 7, 2022 Research combines artificial intelligence and computational science for accurate and efficient simulations of complex systems... Read more about Better, Faster, Energy Efficient Predictions Climate Change a Multiplier for Racial Inequities Warns Panel April 7, 2022 Listening to and learning from people of color and Indigenous people is critical to tackling climate and racial injustice... Read more about Climate Change a Multiplier for Racial Inequities Warns Panel What AI Can Do for Climate Change, and What Climate Change Can Do for AI April 5, 2022 To tackle the climate crisis, artificial intelligence is becoming more open and democratic, says HUCE Affiliate Wai Chee Dimock... Read more about What AI Can Do for Climate Change, and What Climate Change Can Do for AI Harvard Law Students Track Environmental Laws and Regulations across Administrations April 5, 2022 Since 2018, Environmental and Energy Law Program students and researchers have updated the program's regulatory tracker, an invaluable resource for journalists, policymakers, advocates, and legislators... Read more about Harvard Law Students Track Environmental Laws and Regulations across Administrations See all News 2022 Jun 09 Summer Environmental Writing Group Repeats every week every Thursday until Thu Jul 14 2022 . 12:00pm to 3:00pm Location: HUCE 429, 26 Oxford Street, Cambridge Working on chapters, articles, or other writing projects in the environmental humanities and social sciences this summer? Looking for a sense of community and collegiality? Join a group of fellow graduate students and postdocs in the humanities and social sciences with environmental interests for the Summer Environmental Writing Group.... Read more about Summer Environmental Writing Group 2022 Jun 16 Summer Environmental Writing Group 12:00pm to 3:00pm Location: HUCE 429, 26 Oxford Street, Cambridge Working on chapters, articles, or other writing projects in the environmental humanities and social sciences this summer? Looking for a sense of community and collegiality? Join a group of fellow graduate students and postdocs in the humanities and social sciences with environmental interests for the Summer Environmental Writing Group.... Read more about Summer Environmental Writing Group 2022 Jun 23 Summer Environmental Writing Group 12:00pm to 3:00pm Location: HUCE 429, 26 Oxford Street, Cambridge Working on chapters, articles, or other writing projects in the environmental humanities and social sciences this summer? Looking for a sense of community and collegiality? Join a group of fellow graduate students and postdocs in the humanities and social sciences with environmental interests for the Summer Environmental Writing Group.... Read more about Summer Environmental Writing Group See All Events Connect 2e7ae6d59839920551d9e3a125296580 Powered by Curator.io Subscribe, stay informed, get involved. Subscribe to our mailing list Email Address * First Name Last Name Harvard University Center for the Environment 26 Oxford Street, 4th Floor Cambridge, MA 02138 huce@environment.harvard.edu 617-495-0368 About People Research Areas Programs News & Events Resources 330a07913210e1f825ff8336e4eba020 ce0f651fd1b418200a51134b6ee65c4f Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement