Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage The Forest School Connecting people, forests, and forestry for a sustainable future The Forest School Giving Alumni News Calendar YSE Resources Open the search panel Search Academic Programs Master’s Programs Doctoral Program Certificate Programs Courses Academic Calendar Admissions Master’s Admissions Funding Your Master’s Degree Doctoral Admissions Certificate Program Admissions Visit Campus Why Choose YSE? Learning Communities Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Research & Impact Faculty Explore Our Research Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Research Contacts Student Experience Student Life Career and Professional Development YSE Campus and Virtual Tours Yale Campus Living in New Haven Student Affairs About Hire Our Graduates Leadership Vision and Mission Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Campus History Contact News News Story President's Podcast: An Earth Day Conversation with Dean Indy Burke For Earth Day, Dean Indy Burke joined Yale University President Peter Salovey on his monthly Yale Talk podcast for a conversation covering a wide range of environmental issues including: The latest IPCC report and what can still be done to mitigate climate change. How ‘smarter’ cities can be an important part of the ‘mitigation equation.’ How universities can drive solutions to climate change and help policy makers and the public implement sustainable actions. Carbon pricing, carbon capture, and the potential of the Yale Center for Natural Carbon Capture. The groundbreaking work being done by Dr. Tony Leiserowitz and the Yale Program on Climate Change Communication. (Preview: Meteorologists are key to influencing public attitudes on climate change in their local communities.) A Yale Center for Business and the Environment survey of global business students in which more than half say they would accept a lower salary to work with a sustainability-forward employer. How YSE is preparing future leaders to pursue positive change for society. Tune in for this insightful Earth Day 2022 discussion! YaleUniversity · Providing solutions to climate change Published April 22, 2022 Tags Interviews / Q&As Climate Change Science and Solutions Faculty Media Contact Paige Stein Executive Director of Strategic Communications paige.stein@yale.edu +1 203-432-3631 Climate Change Science and Solutions in the News View More Stories News 2022 Environmental Performance Index Finds World Is Not on Track to Meet Climate Commitments The United States is among four nations projected to fall far short of the net-zero greenhouse gas emissions target established by the 2021 Glasgow Climate Pact — with over 50% of global emissions expected to come from the U.S., China, India, and Russia by 2050. News YSE Class of ’22: Kyle Lemle’s Love of Forests Guides His Work on Climate Change Whether leading climate protests, fighting for Indigenous land rights, or working the land at Yale-Myers, Kyle Lemle is keeping his focus on the importance of forests. News President's Podcast: An Earth Day Conversation with Dean Indy Burke For Earth Day, Dean Indy Burke joined Yale University President Peter Salovey on his monthly Yale Talk podcast for a conversation covering a wide range of environmental issues. Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Connect with us Request Information Visit Virtually Apply Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage 195 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 06511 (203) 432-5100 admissions.yse@yale.edu Social Media Links Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Academic Programs Admissions Learning Communities Research & Impact Student Experience About Footer Util Media Inquiries For Employers Job Opportunities Sign Up for Our Newsletter Copyright © 2021, Yale University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Accessibility at Yale