Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage The Forest School Connecting people, forests, and forestry for a sustainable future The Forest School Giving Alumni News Calendar YSE Resources Open the search panel Search Academic Programs Master’s Programs Doctoral Program Certificate Programs Courses Academic Calendar Admissions Master’s Admissions Funding Your Master’s Degree Doctoral Admissions Certificate Program Admissions Visit Campus Why Choose YSE? Learning Communities Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Research & Impact Faculty Explore Our Research Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Research Contacts Student Experience Student Life Career and Professional Development YSE Campus and Virtual Tours Yale Campus Living in New Haven Student Affairs About Hire Our Graduates Leadership Vision and Mission Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Campus History Contact About Strategic Plan Strategic Plan Guided by our storied history, we face today’s environmental challenges with a renewed commitment to groundbreaking scholarship, practice, engagement, and leadership. On This Page For more than a century, the Yale School of the Environment has been at the forefront of turning science into solutions. We’ve built upon our historic strengths in forestry and land management, developing a more comprehensive and rigorous curriculum that combines environmental science and sustainability with business, law, policy, energy, and natural resources. When our students graduate, they are already nationally and internationally renowned environmental leaders. With more diverse and increasingly urgent environmental challenges upon us, we continue to follow our mission and vision — promoting knowledge and leadership for a sustainable future for all people. Our ambitious Strategic Plan provides the framework for how we will meet these challenges — in the immediate future and beyond — through innovative teaching and learning in the environmental field. Annual Reports and Strategic Plan Updates DEI — A Vision for the Future In the next five years, we will make YSE a trailblazer in educating diverse environmental professionals in the U.S. and around the globe. Annual Report Impacts 2021 2021 Annual Report on the Strategic Plan Annual Report Impacts 2020 2020 Annual Report on the Strategic Plan Three-Year Report 2020 Three-Year Report on the Strategic Plan Annual Report Impacts 2019 2019 Annual Report on the Strategic Plan Annual Report Impacts 2018 2018 Annual Report on the Strategic Plan 2017 Strategic Plan The original 2017 Strategic Plan, which predates the School's name change in 2020. Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. 2017 Strategic Plan The original 2017 Strategic Plan, which predates the School's name change in 2020. Read the Strategic Plan Stay Informed Biweekly, we highlight three news and research stories about the work we’re doing at Yale School of the Environment to achieve sustainability — for ourselves and future generations. Subscribe to “YSE 3” Subpages More in This Section Leadership The YSE leadership team comprises faculty and staff who serve in key administrative roles that support the School community and its major programs and initiatives. Vision and Mission We are leading the world toward a sustainable future with cutting-edge research, teaching, and public engagement on society’s evolving and urgent environmental challenges. Strategic Plan Guided by our storied history, we face today’s environmental challenges with a renewed commitment to groundbreaking scholarship, practice, engagement, and leadership. Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion The Yale School of the Environment is committed to creating an inclusive environment for all students, staff, and faculty. Our Campus From the heart of Yale University’s Science Hill to the forests of New England, this is our home. History From the nation’s first foresters to today’s environmental leaders, this is the story of how we became the Yale School of the Environment. Contact About Connect with us Request Information Visit Virtually Apply Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage 195 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 06511 (203) 432-5100 admissions.yse@yale.edu Social Media Links Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Academic Programs Admissions Learning Communities Research & Impact Student Experience About Footer Util Media Inquiries For Employers Job Opportunities Sign Up for Our Newsletter Copyright © 2021, Yale University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Accessibility at Yale