Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage The Forest School Connecting people, forests, and forestry for a sustainable future The Forest School Giving Alumni News Calendar YSE Resources Open the search panel Search Academic Programs Master’s Programs Doctoral Program Certificate Programs Courses Academic Calendar Admissions Master’s Admissions Funding Your Master’s Degree Doctoral Admissions Certificate Program Admissions Visit Campus Why Choose YSE? Learning Communities Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Research & Impact Faculty Explore Our Research Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Research Contacts Student Experience Student Life Career and Professional Development YSE Campus and Virtual Tours Yale Campus Living in New Haven Student Affairs About Hire Our Graduates Leadership Vision and Mission Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Campus History Contact Research & Impact Learned in the classroom, practiced in the field, impacting our world. On This Page Our faculty, students, and alumni are conducting innovative research that is changing how we understand and approach the environment, conservation, and sustainability. We’re turning wood into biodegradable plastics, re-imagining the urban tree lifecycle, and engineering plants to fight climate change — creating critical knowledge and new perspectives to solve environmental challenges across multiple disciplines and scales. Pictured above: a still image from an interactive 3D model of a single fir needle as captured through high-resolution X-ray micro-computed tomography (microCT) by Craig Brodersen, professor of plant physiological ecology. To explore the models, visit the Brodersen Lab's 3D data portal. Faculty Yale School of the Environment faculty are a diverse group of field-defining scholars who continue to break new ground in the areas of biodiversity, climate change, energy, policy, business, industrial ecology and green chemistry, urban systems, and environmental justice, among other disciplines. Explore YSE Faculty Research in the News View More Stories News 2022 Environmental Performance Index Finds World Is Not on Track to Meet Climate Commitments The United States is among four nations projected to fall far short of the net-zero greenhouse gas emissions target established by the 2021 Glasgow Climate Pact — with over 50% of global emissions expected to come from the U.S., China, India, and Russia by 2050. News Research on Rapid, Fine-Scale Evolution in Wood Frogs Wins 2022 Bormann Prize Andis Arietta’s doctoral research found that frogs have evolved in response to climate change in recent years, but that continued warming would likely outpace the species’s ability to adapt to extreme environmental change. News Pandemic Shutdowns Give Window into Environmental Racism in California’s Air Pollution Policy Study finds that though air pollution is highly regulated in California, environmental policy as a whole is not protecting all communities in an equal way: Regulatory machinery has been preferentially protecting White, non-Hispanic people from exposure. Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Explore Our Research Search Research by Keyword Impact through Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Students, faculty, and staff come together within more than 20 YSE-affiliated centers and programs, which provide collaborative research opportunities, relevant professional experience, and engaging conferences and outreach programs. See all Centers... Centers & Programs Yale Program on Climate Change Communication (YPCCC) YPCCC is a leader in climate change communication, tracking Americans’ perception of climate change at all scales and building public and political will for climate action. Centers & Programs Urban Resources Initiative (URI) Making New Haven cleaner and greener, URI works with local partners to plant trees, restore community green spaces, and build bioswales to filter stormwater runoff. Centers & Programs Environmental Leadership Training Initiative (ELTI) In critical natural landscapes rich in biodiversity, ELTI empowers local leaders to design and implement land use practices and initiatives that protect tropical forests and the livelihoods of local landowners and their communities. Centers & Programs Yale Forests Our homes away from home, the Yale Forests manage 10,777 acres of forestland that provide educational, research, and professional opportunities to the Yale community and beyond. Centers & Programs The Forests Dialogue (TFD) The Forests Dialogue provides a platform for ongoing, multi-stakeholder conversations focused on collaborative solutions to challenges in achieving sustainable forest management and forest conservation. Centers & Programs Tropical Resources Institute (TRI) The Tropical Resources Institute supports student research and on-campus programming aimed at solutions to complex challenges within the conservation and management of tropical environments. Centers & Programs Affiliated: Yale Center for Natural Carbon Capture Finding solutions to climate change through advances in natural carbon sequestration. Centers & Programs Center for Industrial Ecology (CIE) Leading the way in an emerging field, the Center for Industrial Ecology focuses research, teaching, and outreach on how resources are converted to products, the pollution that comes from these processes, and opportunities to reduce resource use and pollution. Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Stay Informed on YSE Research We highlight three news and research stories about the work we’re doing at the Yale School of the Environment to achieve sustainability — for ourselves and future generations. Subscribe to “YSE 3” More in This Section Faculty Explore Our Research Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Yale School of the Environment’s centers, programs and initiatives offer diverse research, fieldwork, training and events in areas ranging from business to public health, from diversity to leadership. Research Contacts Contact us for more information on research at the Yale School of the Environment. Connect with us Request Information Visit Virtually Apply Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage 195 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 06511 (203) 432-5100 admissions.yse@yale.edu Social Media Links Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Academic Programs Admissions Learning Communities Research & Impact Student Experience About Footer Util Media Inquiries For Employers Job Opportunities Sign Up for Our Newsletter Copyright © 2021, Yale University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Accessibility at Yale