Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage The Forest School Connecting people, forests, and forestry for a sustainable future The Forest School Giving Alumni News Calendar YSE Resources Open the search panel Search Academic Programs Master’s Programs Doctoral Program Certificate Programs Courses Academic Calendar Admissions Master’s Admissions Funding Your Master’s Degree Doctoral Admissions Certificate Program Admissions Visit Campus Why Choose YSE? Learning Communities Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Research & Impact Faculty Explore Our Research Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Research Contacts Student Experience Student Life Career and Professional Development YSE Campus and Virtual Tours Yale Campus Living in New Haven Student Affairs About Hire Our Graduates Leadership Vision and Mission Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Campus History Contact Admissions YSE students do not think small. They want to make a bold impact. Explore what YSE can offer you and what you can offer the world. On This Page Master’s Degree Admissions Ready to have an impact? Whether it is at the local or global level, we help students develop the skills, knowledge, and perspective to navigate complex global environmental issues and help build a sustainable future. Learn more about the admissions process for two-year master’s degrees and joint degree programs with other schools at Yale and external institutions. Apply for a Master’s Degree Doctoral Degree Admissions Our doctoral program offers scholars from diverse backgrounds the opportunity to pursue a highly individualized area of inquiry under the mentorship of a YSE faculty member. The research conducted by YSE PhD candidates spans global and disciplinary boundaries — and what’s more, it is fully funded. Learn more about how to join this vibrant and dynamic intellectual community. Apply for a Doctoral Degree Earn a Non-Degree Certificate at YSE Earn a Yale non-degree certificate in topics vital to the addressing the climate emergency and achieving a sustainable future. We offer two courses that will build your credibility as a highly skilled and well-connected professional. Learn more about admissions for our Financing and Deploying Clean Tropical Forest Landscapes: Conservation, Restoration & Sustainable Use. Student and Alumni Impacts Restoring Belize’s Landscapes Ki’ila Salas ’19 MF returned to her home country of Belize to participate in its first landscape restoration initiative, helping to develop its National Landscape Restoration Strategy for the Belize Forest Department. The project is part of the country’s national restoration commitment to the Bonn Challenge, which has a global goal to bring 350 million hectares of degraded and deforested landscapes into restoration by 2030. “The project gave me great pride and joy in guiding the process of how the restoration strategies should be accomplished,” says Salas. Working to Make the Midwest Greener and Cleaner As the climate solutions director at Clean Wisconsin, a nonprofit whose mission is to fight for clean air and water in the state, Chelsea Chandler ’10 MEM is working to protect one of Wisconsin’s most effective programs: Focus on Energy, the statewide energy efficiency program. By helping people buy efficient lightbulbs or tune up their grain dryers, Focus on Energy has been an enormous success, and Chandler says that evaluations of the program have consistently shown huge returns for the investments. Preserving China’s Biodiversity As the executive director of the Shan Shui Conservation Center in China, Irene Xiangying Shi ’13 MESC is helping conservation efforts in the Tibetan Plateau and southern regions. The Center focuses its work on urban ecosystems and endangered species, such as giant pandas and snow leopards. “If we have the right incentives,” she says, “people will conserve nature in the best way." Her efforts have helped build a biodiversity conservation alliance, an information sharing platform on biodiversity, and long-term funding mechanisms to continue work on these issues. Master of Environmental Science — MESc Mapping Panama’s Sustainable Farmlands A researcher for the Environmental Leadership & Training Initiative, Cecilia Rogers ’22 MFS is mapping the success of ELTI’s Panama program that helps cattle ranchers incorporate sustainable practices, such as the use of forested pastureland, into their land management. Working with fellow students, she found that the amount of sustainably managed farmland had significantly increased from 4% in 2011 to 66% in 2020. Rehabilitating Ghana’s Forests As the director of operations for Ghana’s Forestry Commission, Hugh Brown ’10 MF oversees the country’s commercial forest plantation development and land restoration. About 450,000 hectares are being rehabilitated under his guidance. In 2020, Brown was given YSE’s Prospect Street Award, which recognizes a graduate of the last decade who has made a significant impact in their field. “Landscape restoration,’’ says Brown, “is a team sport.” Master of Forestry — MF Keeping Bhutan Carbon Neutral To make good on its constitutional mandate to be the first carbon neutral country for its entire existence, Bhutan relies heavily on its forest cover. Dechen Dorji ’01 MEM led the Bhutan for Life initiative, which raised more than $40 million to finance the protection of the country’s pristine network of protected areas. Dorji continues to work on land preservation and protection of endangered species as the World Wildlife Fund’s senior director for the Asian Wildlife Program. Master of Environmental Management - MEM Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. YSE knows we need everyone at the table to build a better world.” Liz Plascencia’22 MEM candidate, Los Angeleno, first-generation Mexican American, ocean conservationist, surfer Why choose Yale School of the Environment? Experiential Learning At YSE, education and training extend well beyond the classroom. Participate in our unique summer orientation program, MODs; travel widely for field research and internships; attend global conferences and climate talks such as the U.N. Climate Change Conference (COP 26). Activities and Opportunities Acclaimed Faculty Working closely with some of the top experts in their fields is one of the advantages of a YSE graduate degree. Our faculty are committed to mentoring the next generation of environmental leaders to tackle the world’s most urgent problems. Faculty Profiles Our Commitment to Diversity YSE is committed to the principles of diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI), including increasing the diversity of our faculty, student body, and staff; increasing access and affordability for underrepresented students; and taking conscious steps to combat racism and other forms of discrimination. Learn More More in This Section Master’s Admissions A degree from YSE equips graduates with the knowledge and leadership skills they need to have an immediate impact in a wide range of environmental fields as scholars, policymakers, industry experts, and boots-on-the-ground professionals. Funding Your Master’s Degree Our commitment to diversity and access means our goal is to bring the most promising students into our graduate programs, regardless of financial circumstances. Eighty percent of our master’s students receive financial assistance. Doctoral Admissions Our doctoral program offers scholars from diverse backgrounds the opportunity to pursue a highly individualized area of inquiry under the mentorship of a YSE faculty member. The research conducted by YSE PhD candidates spans global and disciplinary boundaries — and what’s more, it is fully funded. Learn more about how to join this vibrant and dynamic intellectual community. Certificate Program Admissions Earn a Yale non-degree certificate in topics vital to the addressing the climate emergency and achieving a sustainable future. Visit Campus Centered in Science Hill, in the Prospect Hill area of New Haven, YSE’s campus spans seven buildings. Why Choose YSE? At YSE, we are a community that is committed to achieving a sustainable future. Many of our faculty members are thought leaders who have pioneered or redefined their fields of expertise, and they are dedicated to helping our students develop the knowledge base and gain the experience they need to have an immediate impact. Connect with us Request Information Visit Virtually Apply Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage 195 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 06511 (203) 432-5100 admissions.yse@yale.edu Social Media Links Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Academic Programs Admissions Learning Communities Research & Impact Student Experience About Footer Util Media Inquiries For Employers Job Opportunities Sign Up for Our Newsletter Copyright © 2021, Yale University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Accessibility at Yale