Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage The Forest School Connecting people, forests, and forestry for a sustainable future The Forest School Giving Alumni News Calendar YSE Resources Open the search panel Search Academic Programs Master’s Programs Doctoral Program Certificate Programs Courses Academic Calendar Admissions Master’s Admissions Funding Your Master’s Degree Doctoral Admissions Certificate Program Admissions Visit Campus Why Choose YSE? Learning Communities Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Research & Impact Faculty Explore Our Research Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Research Contacts Student Experience Student Life Career and Professional Development YSE Campus and Virtual Tours Yale Campus Living in New Haven Student Affairs About Hire Our Graduates Leadership Vision and Mission Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Campus History Contact Admissions Certificate Program Admissions Certificate Program Admissions Earn a Yale non-degree certificate in topics vital to the addressing the climate emergency and achieving a sustainable future. On This Page Financing and Deploying Clean Energy This online certificate program — developed by the Yale Center for Business and the Environment — trains and connects rising leaders to catalyze the transition to a clean economy, aiming to accelerate the uptake of clean energy by building capacity in the workforce in the areas of policy, finance, and technology. Financing and Deploying Clean Energy Certificate Admissions Tropical Forest Landscapes: Conservation, Restoration & Sustainable Use In this year-long program — developed by the Environmental Leadership Training Initiative — you will learn to design, implement and monitor effective conservation and restoration initiatives. Initiatives can be projects, policies, business plans and programs at any scale. Tropical Forest Landscapes Certificate Admissions Clean Energy Contact This program is administered by the Yale Center for Business and Environment. Contact the CBEY Team Vero Bourg-Meyer Program Director, Clean Energy, Yale Center for Business and the Environment cbey.admissions@yale.edu Tropical Forest Landscapes Contact This program is overseen by the Environmental Leadership and Training Initiative (ELTI). Contact the ELTI Team Karin Bucht ELTI Program Coordinator and Mentor tropicalcertificate@yale.edu Subpages More in This Section Master’s Admissions A degree from YSE equips graduates with the knowledge and leadership skills they need to have an immediate impact in a wide range of environmental fields as scholars, policymakers, industry experts, and boots-on-the-ground professionals. Funding Your Master’s Degree Our commitment to diversity and access means our goal is to bring the most promising students into our graduate programs, regardless of financial circumstances. Eighty percent of our master’s students receive financial assistance. Doctoral Admissions Our doctoral program offers scholars from diverse backgrounds the opportunity to pursue a highly individualized area of inquiry under the mentorship of a YSE faculty member. The research conducted by YSE PhD candidates spans global and disciplinary boundaries — and what’s more, it is fully funded. Learn more about how to join this vibrant and dynamic intellectual community. Certificate Program Admissions Earn a Yale non-degree certificate in topics vital to the addressing the climate emergency and achieving a sustainable future. Visit Campus Centered in Science Hill, in the Prospect Hill area of New Haven, YSE’s campus spans seven buildings. Why Choose YSE? At YSE, we are a community that is committed to achieving a sustainable future. Many of our faculty members are thought leaders who have pioneered or redefined their fields of expertise, and they are dedicated to helping our students develop the knowledge base and gain the experience they need to have an immediate impact. Admissions Connect with us Request Information Visit Virtually Apply Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage 195 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 06511 (203) 432-5100 admissions.yse@yale.edu Social Media Links Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Academic Programs Admissions Learning Communities Research & Impact Student Experience About Footer Util Media Inquiries For Employers Job Opportunities Sign Up for Our Newsletter Copyright © 2021, Yale University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Accessibility at Yale