Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage The Forest School Connecting people, forests, and forestry for a sustainable future The Forest School Giving Alumni News Calendar YSE Resources Open the search panel Search Academic Programs Master’s Programs Doctoral Program Certificate Programs Courses Academic Calendar Admissions Master’s Admissions Funding Your Master’s Degree Doctoral Admissions Certificate Program Admissions Visit Campus Why Choose YSE? Learning Communities Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Research & Impact Faculty Explore Our Research Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Research Contacts Student Experience Student Life Career and Professional Development YSE Campus and Virtual Tours Yale Campus Living in New Haven Student Affairs About Hire Our Graduates Leadership Vision and Mission Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Campus History Contact Spotlight At the Intersection of Food and Environmental Justice “One of the great things about Doris Duke is that it exposes you to so much,” says Destiny Treloar ’23 MESc, who joined the program as a junior in college. She was, at the time, interested in environmental policy and politics; she planned to go into nonprofit work. Her first summer with Doris Duke, however, she studied food precarity among youth and became fascinated by the intersection of food and environmental justice. “And now my thesis at YSE is going to be on food — a subject that never would have occurred to me if you’d asked three years ago what field I’d be working in.” Master of Environmental Science - MESc More about Destiny Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Like many others in the Doris Duke program, Treloar was drawn to apply by the figure at its center: Professor Dorceta Taylor. When she was a sophomore at Mount Holyoke College, Treloar attended a talk given by Dr. Taylor. “I was inspired by her work on environmental justice,” Treloar says. Once accepted to Doris Duke, she was equally inspired by the other members of her cohort. Hometown Fort Lauderdale, FL Focus at YSE Food justice “It was first and foremost incredible to be around other people who are so motivated to make their mark in the environmental field, whether they’re interested in ecology or they are aspiring political officials,” she says. “Being part of a community like this pushes you to put yourself out there, to not feel intimidated.” Though graduate school had not initially been in her plans, Treloar realized during her time in Doris Duke that she not only enjoyed working on issues of food justice, but that she took great pleasure in research more generally. Along with YSE, she applied to master’s programs at Columbia, the University of Michigan, and the University of Chicago. She was accepted to all four of the programs but ultimately chose YSE in part because of the financial assistance she was offered. But also, she says, because of Professor Taylor. “If you’re going to work on food, then she is the person to go to,” Treloar says. “I knew that continuing to build my relationship with her would be an advantage unmatched anywhere else.” More Doris Duke Scholars Read the Article Spotlight Jayson Velazquez ’23 MESc The Two-Year Plan for Success Spotlight Te’Yah Wright ’23 MEM Sustaining People and the Environment Spotlight Ryan Anderson ’23 MEM You Can’t Have One Without the Other Spotlight Kiera Quigley ’23 MEM Shifting Focus Toward Justice Spotlight Julia Talamo ’23 MEM Knowing Where to Look Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Connect with us Request Information Visit Virtually Apply Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage 195 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 06511 (203) 432-5100 admissions.yse@yale.edu Social Media Links Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Academic Programs Admissions Learning Communities Research & Impact Student Experience About Footer Util Media Inquiries For Employers Job Opportunities Sign Up for Our Newsletter Copyright © 2021, Yale University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Accessibility at Yale