Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage The Forest School Connecting people, forests, and forestry for a sustainable future The Forest School Giving Alumni News Calendar YSE Resources Open the search panel Search Academic Programs Master’s Programs Doctoral Program Certificate Programs Courses Academic Calendar Admissions Master’s Admissions Funding Your Master’s Degree Doctoral Admissions Certificate Program Admissions Visit Campus Why Choose YSE? Learning Communities Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Research & Impact Faculty Explore Our Research Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Research Contacts Student Experience Student Life Career and Professional Development YSE Campus and Virtual Tours Yale Campus Living in New Haven Student Affairs About Hire Our Graduates Leadership Vision and Mission Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Campus History Contact Spotlight Climate Action through Centering Communities Simon Bunyan — '23 MEM (he/him) “Prior to coming to Yale, I worked for several federal agencies on energy and environmental policy. While those experiences were great, it was eye-opening to realize how mainstream environmental organizations, like ‘the Big Greens,’ have a history and active present of working against communities of color, low-income communities, and environmental justice communities on environmental policy." Master of Environmental Management - MEM More about Simon Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Hometown: Chicago, Illinois Fellowship host: UPROSE Next step: Completing MEM degree and then seeking a position in the renewable energy field. Key takeaway from the Environmental Fellows Program: “When you center impacted communities and support their goals and visions, the solutions we achieve are more equitable, just, and lasting.” “One reason I came to Yale School of the Environment was to dig into what a just transition looks like. Our transition to a 100% clean economy, as it is currently being envisioned, will only further marginalize the communities that bear the brunt of environmental pollution. I’m specifically interested in how we can decarbonize our power sector and transition to a system that benefits, rather than further marginalizes, Indigenous, Black, brown, and low-income communities. “With this in mind, my fellowship with UPROSE was so fulfilling. The difference of working with a true grassroots organization that is intergenerational, multi-racial, and led by women of color was palpable. I spent my summer working on a solar project that will be built on the Brooklyn Army Terminal rooftop and will be New York’s first solar project owned and operated by the community for the benefit of local residents and businesses. It’s a great example of a paradigm shift in energy infrastructure on the local scale; we’re showing that we really can move away from these heavily polluting peaker plants that are so often located in predominantly Black and brown neighborhoods, in favor of sustainable solar power and supporting community energy sovereignty." Meet More 2021 Environmental Fellows Read the Article Spotlight Liam Gunn ’21 MEM Growing a Grassroots Movement for a Just Transition Spotlight Tevin Hamilton ’21 MEM Rising From the Bottom Up Spotlight Cam Humphrey ’21 MEM Preventing the Harm from Happening (Again) Spotlight Pari Kasotia ’22 MEM The Drive to Create a Better World Spotlight Liz Plascencia ’22 MEM Where My Heart Will Always Be Spotlight Tabitha Sookdeo ’25 MEM / JD Non-Traditional in Almost Every Sense Spotlight Tiana Wilson-Blindman ’21 MEM Shifting the Power Dynamics Spotlight Ashia Ajani ’21 MEM With the Help of High Expectations Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Connect with us Request Information Visit Virtually Apply Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage 195 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 06511 (203) 432-5100 admissions.yse@yale.edu Social Media Links Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Academic Programs Admissions Learning Communities Research & Impact Student Experience About Footer Util Media Inquiries For Employers Job Opportunities Sign Up for Our Newsletter Copyright © 2021, Yale University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Accessibility at Yale