Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage The Forest School Connecting people, forests, and forestry for a sustainable future The Forest School Giving Alumni News Calendar YSE Resources Open the search panel Search Academic Programs Master’s Programs Doctoral Program Certificate Programs Courses Academic Calendar Admissions Master’s Admissions Funding Your Master’s Degree Doctoral Admissions Certificate Program Admissions Visit Campus Why Choose YSE? Learning Communities Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Research & Impact Faculty Explore Our Research Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Research Contacts Student Experience Student Life Career and Professional Development YSE Campus and Virtual Tours Yale Campus Living in New Haven Student Affairs About Hire Our Graduates Leadership Vision and Mission Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Campus History Contact Knowledge & Leadership for A Sustainable Future Read more about A Sustainable Future Read more about Business & the Environment Read more about Climate Science & Solutions Read more about Ecosystem Management & Conservation Read more about Energy & the Environment Read more about Environmental Policy Analysis Read more about Forestry Read more about Industrial Ecology & Green Chemistry Read more about People, Equity & the Environment Read more about Urban Read more about Water Science & Management A Sustainable Future Choose a Topic Read more about A Sustainable Future Read more about Business & the Environment Read more about Climate Science & Solutions Read more about Ecosystem Management & Conservation Read more about Energy & the Environment Read more about Environmental Policy Analysis Read more about Forestry Read more about Industrial Ecology & Green Chemistry Read more about People, Equity & the Environment Read more about Urban Read more about Water Science & Management a sustainable future We are a community that is all-in on creating a more sustainable world — for ourselves and for future generations Jump To Programs & Degrees News 2022 Environmental Performance Index Finds World Is Not on Track to Meet Climate Commitments The United States is among four nations projected to fall far short of the net-zero greenhouse gas emissions target established by the 2021 Glasgow Climate Pact — with over 50% of global emissions expected to come from the U.S., China, India, and Russia by 2050. Read this Story MEET THE NEXT GENERATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL LEADERS Meet YSE's Class of 2022: Akshyah Krishnakumar Seeks to Make Change from the Inside; Kyle Lemle’s Love of Forests Guides His Work on Climate Change; Lovinia Reynolds is Headed Home to New York City to Fight for Climate Justice; Kristina Rodriguez is Focused on Preserving Coastal Ecosystems Full Commencement Wrap-Up Innovative, Implementable Solutions Faculty Q & A Karen Seto Brings Her ‘Cities as Solutions’ Focus to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Recently elected to one of the country’s oldest and most prestigious honorary societies, YSE Professor Karen Seto talks about how cities can be a catalyst for generating solutions to climate change, what she is hoping to bring to the academy, and her role in developing the new Yale Center for Cities and Climate Solutions. Students YSE Student’s Line of Alternative Leather Consumer Goods Wins Startup Yale Sustainability Prize Student Research Research on Rapid, Fine-Scale Evolution in Wood Frogs Wins 2022 Bormann Prize Faculty The Washington Post’s Chris Mooney Addresses the Challenge of Translating Environmental Data for Public Consumption Earth Day President's Podcast: An Earth Day Conversation with Dean Indy Burke business & the environment From commercial giants to innovative startups, we help businesses develop sustainable solutions to meet human needs within planetary boundaries. Jump To Programs & Degrees Innovative, Implementable Solutions Centers and Programs Report: Businesses Should Play Key Role in Addressing Environmental and Social Issues The Center for Business and the Environment’s just-released study of 2,035 global business students found students increasingly believe that business leaders and the private sector should play a vital role in addressing environmental sustainability and social issues. Research YSE Partners with World Bank on Identifying Industrial Symbiosis Opportunities Research Fossil Fuel Companies Benefit from Inefficient Pricing on Climate and Health Consequences Faculty Q & A Meeting the Challenges of Sustainable Financing Students YSE Students Spicing up Trail Foods in Sustainable Ways Research Sustainable Procurement Key to Lowering Carbon Footprint Initiatives Yale to Launch Center for Natural Carbon Capture climate science & solutions We provide cross disciplinary training that allows professionals to tackle the urgent challenge of climate change. Jump To Programs & Degrees Innovative, Implementable Solutions YSE at COP26: Students, Faculty Make An Impact at UN Climate Summit From speaking on panels to taking part in critical decision-making, students and faculty from the Yale School of the Environment played a major role at this year's COP26 in Glasgow, Scotland. Research Near Total Loss of Historical Lands Leaves Indigenous Nations in the U.S. More Vulnerable to Climate Change Initiatives Yale to Launch Center for Natural Carbon Capture Research The Social Cost of Carbon is Still the Best Way to Evaluate Climate Policy Research Aquatic Ecosystems Source of Half of Global Methane Emissions Alumni Maggie Thomas Named Chief of Staff of New Office of Domestic Climate Policy ecosystem management & conservation We give students the skills to steward and conserve ecosystems, ensuring that human and nonhuman species can coexist across landscapes. Jump To Programs & Degrees Innovative, Implementable Solutions Research Repopulating Endangered Animals Can Play a Vital Role in Cutting Carbon Emissions Rewilding, restoring, and conserving the role of endangered and threatened species could magnify carbon uptake by 1.5 to 12.5 times or more across the world. Research Aquatic Ecosystems Source of Half of Global Methane Emissions Faculty Cutting-Edge Wildlife Ecologist Nyeema Harris to Join YSE Faculty Students Forest Fragmentation Research Earns 2021 Bormann Prize Initiatives Yale to Launch Center for Natural Carbon Capture Student Research YSE Class of ’21 Andie Creel: Putting a Value on Natural Resources energy & the environment We examine ways to effectively meet society’s energy demand, from the pursuit of more sustainable sources to ways of influencing individual choices. Jump To Programs & Degrees Innovative, Implementable Solutions Research Efficient Buildings Could Save Thousands of Lives in U.S. Every Year Buildings in the U.S. are responsible for 40% of the country’s total energy consumption. By improving the energy efficiency of new and existing buildings, the emissions generated from heating and cooling them could be reduced – preventing thousands of premature deaths every year. Research Study Finds Poor Households in India Bear Brunt of Pollution Effects Research What is Driving Reductions in Residential Greenhouse Gas Emissions in the U.S.? Research Fossil Fuel Companies Benefit from Inefficient Pricing on Climate and Health Consequences Faculty Q & A Advances in Energy-Climate Change Models Will Help Refine Policies environmental policy analysis We focus on understanding the strengths and weaknesses of policies designed to address today’s most pressing environmental challenges. Jump To Programs & Degrees Innovative, Implementable Solutions Research Efficient Buildings Could Save Thousands of Lives in U.S. Every Year Buildings in the U.S. are responsible for 40% of the country’s total energy consumption. By improving the energy efficiency of new and existing buildings, the emissions generated from heating and cooling them could be reduced – preventing thousands of premature deaths every year. Conferences and Events Why Denmark Wants to Be a ‘Frontrunner’ in the Fight Against Climate Change Research Rivers Are Largest Global Source of Mercury in Coastal Oceans Research Near Total Loss of Historical Lands Leaves Indigenous Nations in the U.S. More Vulnerable to Climate Change Research The Social Cost of Carbon is Still the Best Way to Evaluate Climate Policy Faculty Eli Fenichel Named to Office of Science and Technology Policy forestry Building on over a century of leadership in forestry and land conservation, we train professionals to work with people on managing forests. Jump To Programs & Degrees Innovative, Implementable Solutions Research Study Develops Technique for Creating Strong, ‘Moldable’ Wood Materials A research team that included Yuan Yao of the Yale Center for Industrial Ecology has developed a “moldable” wood product, dismantling wood’s lignin and shaping it via a “water-shock” process. Students Forest Fragmentation Research Earns 2021 Bormann Prize Faculty Brodersen Receives Generous Gift to Support Research on How We Build More Resilient Plants Students Supporting Research in the Tropics During the COVID Era Students Firefighters Battling Wildfires in U.S. West Face a New Threat this Year: COVID-19 Initiatives Hybrid Vigor: Forest School Builds on Historic Strengths — and Creates New Opportunities industrial ecology & green chemistry We apply systems thinking to improve the sustainability of industry and production/consumption systems, from creating greener products to improving recycling processes Jump To Programs & Degrees Innovative, Implementable Solutions Centers and Programs The Center for Industrial Ecology: Pathfinders in Life Cycles and Resource Reuse This is the first in a special series that takes an in-depth look at Yale School of the Environment’s Centers, Programs, and Initiatives. This month’s focus is on the Center for Industrial Ecology, which seeks not only to advance our understanding of the environmental impacts of production and consumption on an international scale, but also to be part of tangible solutions. Research YSE Partners with World Bank on Identifying Industrial Symbiosis Opportunities Faculty Paul Anastas Wins the 2021 Volvo Environment Prize Research Sustainable Procurement Key to Lowering Carbon Footprint Research Turning Wood Into Plastic Students Compostable Packaging Company Wins Startup Yale 2021 Prize Research What is Driving Reductions in Residential Greenhouse Gas Emissions in the U.S.? people, equity, & the environment We teach students to critique and improve the relationship between people and the planet with a focus on deep-seated, systemic challenges. Jump To Programs & Degrees Innovative, Implementable Solutions Research Near Total Loss of Historical Lands Leaves Indigenous Nations in the U.S. More Vulnerable to Climate Change YSE-led study finds that Indigenous nations across the United States have lost 98.9% of their historical land base; historical land dispossession is associated with current and future climate risk. Conferences and Events Environmental Justice Conference Explores a Just Recovery Research Study Finds Poor Households in India Bear Brunt of Pollution Effects Faculty Cutting-Edge Wildlife Ecologist Nyeema Harris to Join YSE Faculty Conferences and Events New Horizons Conference Highlights Challenges, Emerging Voices, and Reasons for Optimism in Environmental Justice Students YSE Class of ’21 Cam Humphrey Seeks to Elevate Voices on the Periphery in Environmental Policy urban We examine the impacts of an ‘urbanized’ world, from effects on resources and biodiversity to public health and climate change. Jump To Programs & Degrees Innovative, Implementable Solutions Research Compound Hazards Pose Increased Risk to Highly Populated Regions in the Himalaya Urbanization trends in the Himalaya are exposing more people to risk from compound hazards such as flooding, landslides and wildfires, a new study published in the journal Science of the Total Environment has found. Faculty A New Vantage Point: At Nobel Summit, YSE Professor Karen Seto Explains How Satellites Are Changing How We Understand Human Activity Alumni Eleanor Stokes Named Rising Star for Leading Role in Nighttime Satellite Imagery Project Research When Disaster Strikes Locally, Urban Networks Spread the Damage Globally Research Can Wood Construction Transform Cities From Carbon Source to Carbon Vault? water science & management We impart knowledge needed to safeguard and restore the world’s water resources, while promoting their sustainable use and equitable access. Jump To Programs & Degrees Innovative, Implementable Solutions Research Rivers Are Largest Global Source of Mercury in Coastal Oceans Ten rivers are responsible for half of the riverine mercury entering the world's oceans — with the Amazon River, the Ganges, and the Yangtze topping the list. Alumni Coral Vita Wins Earthshot Prize Students Addicott Awarded Marine Economics Fellowship to Study Coastal Erosion Research Science as a Foundation for Policy: The Case of Fracking Research New Study Examines Whether COVID-19 Virus Has Entered Rivers and Streams Centers and Programs Community Stormwater Partnership Receives National Environmental Award Meet Our Students and Alumni Climate Action through Centering Communities Simon Bunyan — '23 MEM (he/him) “Prior to coming to Yale, I worked for several federal agencies on energy and environmental policy. While those experiences were great, it was eye-opening to realize how mainstream environmental organizations, like ‘the Big Greens,’ have a history and active present of working against communities of color, low-income communities, and environmental justice communities on environmental policy." Master of Environmental Management - MEM More about Simon At the Intersection of Food and Environmental Justice “One of the great things about Doris Duke is that it exposes you to so much,” says Destiny Treloar ’23 MESc, who joined the program as a junior in college. She was, at the time, interested in environmental policy and politics; she planned to go into nonprofit work. Her first summer with Doris Duke, however, she studied food precarity among youth and became fascinated by the intersection of food and environmental justice. “And now my thesis at YSE is going to be on food — a subject that never would have occurred to me if you’d asked three years ago what field I’d be working in.” Master of Environmental Science - MESc More about Destiny Rehabilitating Ghana’s Forests As the director of operations for Ghana’s Forestry Commission, Hugh Brown ’10 MF oversees the country’s commercial forest plantation development and land restoration. About 450,000 hectares are being rehabilitated under his guidance. In 2020, Brown was given YSE’s Prospect Street Award, which recognizes a graduate of the last decade who has made a significant impact in their field. “Landscape restoration,’’ says Brown, “is a team sport.” Master of Forestry — MF Insights from the Night Sky Using data from the Visible Infrared Imaging Radiometer Suite aboard NASA’s Suomi NPP satellite spacecraft, Eleanor Stokes ’18 PhD is mapping disaster impacts in vulnerable communities. As co-leader of Black Marble, NASA’s first nighttime light dataset, Stokes has helped FEMA and other relief organizations direct their boots-on-the ground operations after natural disasters. “Humanity is facing major global risks from extreme weather and rising sea levels,” she says. “It’s very important to have a satellite record that can speak to the human piece of the puzzle.” Doctor of Philosophy — PhD Re-imagining Urban Tree Life Cambium Carbon, a startup company founded by Ben Christensen ’20 MEM and Marisa Repka ’20 MEM, is re-imagining the urban tree lifecycle — and combatting climate change in the process. The company is building “reforestation hubs,” a unique private-public partnership that restores city forests across the U.S. Cambium Carbon received its initial funding from the Center for Business and the Environment at Yale and the Tsai Center for Innovative Thinking at Yale. It launched pilot reforestation hubs in four U.S. cities in 2021. It recently raised $3 million in seed funding that will allow it to reinvest in urban tree restoration and create local jobs. Master of Environmental Management - MEM Preserving China’s Biodiversity As the executive director of the Shan Shui Conservation Center in China, Irene Xiangying Shi ’13 MESC is helping conservation efforts in the Tibetan Plateau and southern regions. The Center focuses its work on urban ecosystems and endangered species, such as giant pandas and snow leopards. “If we have the right incentives,” she says, “people will conserve nature in the best way." Her efforts have helped build a biodiversity conservation alliance, an information sharing platform on biodiversity, and long-term funding mechanisms to continue work on these issues. Master of Environmental Science — MESc Protecting An Underrated Resource — Soil For Darya Watnick ’21 MEM and Abbey Warner ’21 MEM, soil is an underappreciated resource. So, they authored an innovative guide to help states craft community-driven policy guidelines for soil health. The guide, Soil Health Policy: Developing Community-Driven State Soil Health Policy and Programs, addresses topics from food production to drought prevention to climate resilience. “We have a Clean Air Act, A Clean Water Act, but no clean soil act,” Watnick says. “To me, it’s just as important.” Master of Environmental Management - MEM Waste Warrior As founding chair of the New York City Public Housing Authority Recycling Committee, DeNeile Cooper ’22 MEM is working to boost recycling efforts in public housing units. Only 2% of waste from NYCHA units is recycled. Nationally, that rate is 32%. “This work has been successful so far because it involves a variety of stakeholders who bring unique perspectives to create programs that work for everyone,” says Cooper, who is a member of the Manhattan Solid Waste Advisory Board. Master of Environmental Management - MEM Redefining Human-Wildlife Conflict In the Tibetan Plateau, PhD candidate Yufang Gao ’14 MESc interviews, observes, and travels with Tibetan herders and Buddhist monks. He sets up camera traps and collects scat to analyze the diet of snow leopards. And he has hiked a mountainside 15,000 feet above sea level — all in pursuit of data for his dissertation that focuses on the quest for harmonious coexistence between people and large carnivores. What is needed for human-wildlife coexistence is a different perspective about conflict, Gao says. “Conflict,” he has found, “is part of coexistence.” Master of Environmental Science - MESc Keeping Bhutan Carbon Neutral To make good on its constitutional mandate to be the first carbon neutral country for its entire existence, Bhutan relies heavily on its forest cover. Dechen Dorji ’01 MEM led the Bhutan for Life initiative, which raised more than $40 million to finance the protection of the country’s pristine network of protected areas. Dorji continues to work on land preservation and protection of endangered species as the World Wildlife Fund’s senior director for the Asian Wildlife Program. Master of Environmental Management - MEM Tree Equity Using income, age, ethnicity, health, and surface temperature data and tree canopy surveys, Ian Leahy ’21 MEM, vice president of urban forestry at American Forests, helped create a Tree Equity Score. Wealthy urban communities, it found, have 65% more tree cover than low-income neighborhoods where temperatures can range 10 degrees higher. The issue is a matter of health, Leahy noted in a New York Times Op-Ed., and his efforts have led to more financial support for urban tree growth. “What we're trying to do right now,’’ he says, “is close the canopy gap to save lives.’’ Master of Environmental Management - MEM Uniting Voices to Safeguard the Oceans While at YSE, Humna Sharif ’21 MEM worked on marine policy and coastal ecosystem projects, including crafting bilateral US-Canada Climate Change agreements. Today, as government relations manager for the National Ocean Protection Coalition, she is working toward three main goals: equitable access to nature, protecting 30% of the oceans by 2030, and safeguarding national marine monuments. “We all want to help the planet and have healthy oceans,’’ Sharif says. “I think the impact comes when we bring together all those voices and present a united front.” Master of Environmental Management - MEM Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Why Yale School of the Environment? Experiential Learning At YSE, education and training extend well beyond the classroom. Participate in our unique summer orientation program, MODs; travel widely for field research and internships; attend global conferences and climate talks such as the U.N. Climate Change Conference (COP). Learn More About Student Activities Acclaimed Faculty Working closely with some of the top experts in their fields is one of the advantages of a YSE graduate degree. Our faculty are committed to mentoring the next generation of environmental leaders to tackle the world’s most urgent problems. Meet Our Faculty Fast Facts Studen Data 86% Receive Financial Aid 86% of students depend on financial aid to attend YSE. Student Data 3.6 Undergraduate GPA The average undergraduate GPA for incoming students is 3.6. Student Data 24% U.S. Students of Color Of the incoming class of Fall 2021, 24% of the U.S.-based students identify as students of color. Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Degrees & Programs The Yale School of the Environment offers a variety of degree programs, many of which can be customized to meet each student’s professional goals, and prepare them for careers in environmental science, management, and policy. Master’s Program Application Deadline: December 15th, 2021 Apply to a Master's Program Doctoral Program Application Deadline: January 2nd, 2022 Apply to the Doctoral Program RESEARCH DEGREES Master of Environmental Science Master of Forest Science The Doctoral Program at the Yale School of the Environment PROFESSIONAL DEGREES Master of Forestry Master of Environmental Management OTHER DEGREES & PROGRAMS Joint Degrees with Another Yale School Joint Degrees with an Outside Institution Certificate Programs Celebrating the Legacy of F. Herbert Bormann At YSE’s 38th Annual Research Day on April 8, the 14th annual Bormann Prize will be awarded to a YSE student whose work exemplifies the legacy of plant ecologist F. Herbert Bormann. Bormann, who taught at YSE from 1966-1992, was one of the scientists credited with the discovery of acid rain and his research was a major contributory factor towards the amendments to the Clean Air Act in 1990. This year’s award will be particularly poignant as March 24th of this year was Bormann’s Centennial — having been born on March 24, 1922, in New York City. View a gallery of past Bormann Prize winners. News Forest Fragmentation Research Earns 2021 Bormann Prize Meghna Krishnadas’ doctoral research into how forest fragmentation alters the underlying mechanisms shaping patterns of tropical tree regeneration and forest diversity was recognized for its novel insight into ecological processes. News Forest Research in the Congo Basin Earns the 2020 Bormann Prize Peter Umunay’s research, which explores ways to find a balance between conservation and economic development in the Congo Basin, earned him the 2020 F. Herbert Bormann Prize. News Research on Fracking Impacts Wins 2019 Bormann Prize Given rare access to a hydraulic fracturing well site in Pennsylvania, an F&ES doctoral student revealed a surprising finding about the impacts of fracking on groundwater — research that earned her the 2019 F. Herbert Bormann Prize News F&ES Student Researchers Take Center Stage in Day-long Conference Forty-nine master’s students, doctoral students, and postdocs from the School community presented their research during the 34th annual F&ES Research Conference. News Study Linking Microscale Processes with Landscape Impacts Wins Bormann Prize Ashley Keiser ’16 Ph.D., who studies how microbes in the soil respond to changing conditions aboveground, has won the 2017 F. Herbert Bormann Prize. News Bormann Prize Honors Research Aimed At Reducing Carnivore-Human Conflicts Jennie Miller '15 Ph.D., whose research has explored an emerging method of spatial mapping to reduce conflicts between humans and carnivores, won the 2015 F. Herbert Bormann Prize. News Bormann Prize Winner Honored For Study in ‘Green Sovereignty’ A published paper exploring the relationship between landscape imagery and national self-identity in Costa Rica helped earn Dana Graef, an F&ES doctoral student, the 2014 F. Herbert Bormann Prize. News Hurricane-Inspired Study Earns F&ES Student Inaugural Bormann Prize F&ES doctoral student Yoon says he considers Bormann, who died in 2012, a personal hero and views Bormann's work as one of environmental science’s “great success stories.” Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. CENTERS, PROGRAMS, AND INITIATIVES From Local to Global Yale School of the Environment’s more than 20 centers and programs are having immediate impact across many sectors and disciplines. They also provide students with numerous opportunities to gain hands-on clinical and research experience. Carbon Containment Lab (CC Lab) Finding big solutions to the climate challenge The CC Lab designs, tests, and develops novel, low-cost, safe, scalable, and verifiable methods of atmospheric carbon containment. Read this Story Urban Resources Initiative (URI) Helping to create a stronger, more sustainable New Haven The Urban Resources Initiative works with the city to improve community green spaces, build bioswales, and promote urban forestry. The Forests Dialogue (TFD) Bringing together stakeholders on complex forest issues For more than two decades, TFD has coordinated ongoing, multi-stakeholder conversation and trust building to resolve forest-related conflicts across the world. Center for Industrial Ecology (CIE) An organizational focus for an emerging field The Center for Industrial Ecology develops and promotes research, teaching, and outreach about how resources are converted to products, the pollution that comes from these processes, and opportunities to reduce resource use and pollution. All Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Connect with us Request Information Visit Virtually Apply Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage 195 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 06511 (203) 432-5100 admissions.yse@yale.edu Social Media Links Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Academic Programs Admissions Learning Communities Research & Impact Student Experience About Footer Util Media Inquiries For Employers Job Opportunities Sign Up for Our Newsletter Copyright © 2021, Yale University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Accessibility at Yale