Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage The Forest School Connecting people, forests, and forestry for a sustainable future The Forest School Giving Alumni News Calendar YSE Resources Open the search panel Search Academic Programs Master’s Programs Doctoral Program Certificate Programs Courses Academic Calendar Admissions Master’s Admissions Funding Your Master’s Degree Doctoral Admissions Certificate Program Admissions Visit Campus Why Choose YSE? Learning Communities Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Research & Impact Faculty Explore Our Research Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Research Contacts Student Experience Student Life Career and Professional Development YSE Campus and Virtual Tours Yale Campus Living in New Haven Student Affairs About Hire Our Graduates Leadership Vision and Mission Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Campus History Contact Academic Programs Master’s Programs Master of Forestry — MF Master of Forestry — MF The two-year Master of Forestry program prepares students for careers in sustainable natural resource management and policy — solving critical sustainability challenges and resource conflicts across a complex web of social, political, and ecological systems. On This Page Program Overview Open Full Program Overview The MF curriculum focuses on two major themes: multidisciplinary exposure in the biological and social sciences and a progressive growth of experience in resource measurement, analysis, management, and policy. Students gain hands-on research and technical experience alongside faculty at 11,000 acres of Yale-owned forested properties as well as benefiting from opportunities in management and policy development through YSE centers and programs. The Master of Forestry degree, accredited by the Society of American Foresters (SAF), is intended for students wishing to pursue professional careers in the management and policy of forest resources, across the span of urban to rural environments. These professional opportunities can be private-sector forest management—corporate or consulting; public-sector forest management—federal, state, county, local government; stewardship and conservation of forest resources - government, private or non-profit sector; or education. The goal is to prepare students to manage forest resources for various public and private values within a complex social, political, and ecological environment. The curriculum draws from coursework in the natural and social sciences and focuses on the complex relationships among the science, management, and policy of forest resources. Students are also expected to hone their capacities as leaders and managers through summer internships, professional skills courses, and other opportunities. MF Courses MF Curriculum Description Degree Awarded Master of Forestry — MF Program Duration 2 Years Required Credit Hours 48 Jump to Admissions & Financial Aid Why choose Yale School of the Environment? Experiential Learning At YSE, education and training extend well beyond the classroom. Participate in our unique summer orientation program, MODs; travel widely for field research and internships; attend global conferences and climate talks such as the U.N. Climate Change Conference (COP 26). Activities and Opportunities Acclaimed Faculty Working closely with some of the top experts in their fields is one of the advantages of a YSE graduate degree. Our faculty are committed to mentoring the next generation of environmental leaders to tackle the world’s most urgent problems. Faculty Profiles Restoring Belize’s Landscapes Ki’ila Salas ’19 MF returned to her home country of Belize to participate in its first landscape restoration initiative, helping to develop its National Landscape Restoration Strategy for the Belize Forest Department. The project is part of the country’s national restoration commitment to the Bonn Challenge, which has a global goal to bring 350 million hectares of degraded and deforested landscapes into restoration by 2030. “The project gave me great pride and joy in guiding the process of how the restoration strategies should be accomplished,” says Salas. Indigenous Restoration Approaches As co-founder and executive director of Shelterwood, Nikola Alexandre ’18 MF, MBA leads the restoration of a 900-acre forest in Northern California with Black and Indigenous community approaches to land care. His work creates partnerships with and between traditional conservation NGOs, Indigenous and racial justice organizations, government agencies, and private landowners to model socially just and ecologically sound pathways to protecting and restoring nature. In 2020, Alexandre was named a Pritzker Emerging Environmental Genius Award candidate for his work. Rehabilitating Ghana’s Forests As the director of operations for Ghana’s Forestry Commission, Hugh Brown ’10 MF oversees the country’s commercial forest plantation development and land restoration. About 450,000 hectares are being rehabilitated under his guidance. In 2020, Brown was given YSE’s Prospect Street Award, which recognizes a graduate of the last decade who has made a significant impact in their field. “Landscape restoration,’’ says Brown, “is a team sport.” Master of Forestry — MF Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. MF Program Timeline Overview The broad objective of the two-year M.F.program is realized by requiring a multidisciplinary suite of formal course work coupled with a progressive synthesis of knowledge into a resource management plan and a significant professional project along with a host of allied extra-curricular fieldwork activities. First Semester During their first semester students are encouraged to meet the foundational and basic knowledge of working in a forest and with people. This can be described as a process of assimilating knowledge, understanding values, and comprehending the relationships between knowledge and values that form essential concepts and hypotheses within the biological (e.g stand dynamics, Tree ecophysiology), social (political ecology, human equity, law and policy), and physical disciplines (hydrology, soils and climate). This stage can be regarded as the baseline upon which the remaining framework for synthesizing and integrating knowledge for management decisions is built. This curriculum encourages students to understand the resource, people and science before developing policy. Second Semester In the second semester students start to take framework and techniques courses that integrate biological, physical and social science knowledge together through courses in silviculture and economics. And by taking quantitative skills and tools courses (statistics, measurements and GIS/spatial analysis courses) they learn how to collect and integrate foundational knowledge and information appropriately for analysis and synthesis. Summer During the summer between first and second year a student's education is realized further by gaining management experience in the the Apprentice Forester Program of the Yale Forests or working as a community forester with URI; taking up a host of policy and analysis internships offered through The Forest School via ELTI and TFD, or conducting an independent research project sponsored by TRI. Experience in management, policy and research can be gained at regional, national or international scales depending upon a student's focus.. Second Year In the third semester students focus on "Synthesis and Analysis of Knowledge". Generally, students take courses that are designed to address and prepare them for solving important problems in the real world. Courses concerning resource management focus on increasing the students ability to ask relevant questions in useful ways, and to gather data to answer these questions. These courses are designed to maintain high faculty-student and student-student interaction. A significant project component is expected in these courses, some being client driven (e.g. management plans) while others are research reports or assessments (e.g. independent research; seminar projects; and forest management assessments). These projects are intended to be of high professional/academic caliber, publishable as part of the School’s communications or in recognized journals. Another category of courses students take during their second year concerns "professional knowledge". This category strives to provide aspects of forestry that broaden and add to the students knowledge base from a professional perspective in a self-designed area of interest (e.g urban forestry, tropical forest restoration, conservation and ecological forestry, agroforestry, climate change and carbon, business and investment, watershed management, social equity and justice). Lastly, during a student's fourth semester the capstone course addresses leadership, among other management skills, a characteristic that we have seek to strengthen in all of our students since the inception of the School. Throughout the two-year education experience for a student there is an array of local, regional, national, and international field trips extended field experiences, and fellowships to witness and participate in the practice of forestry in diverse settings; and workshops and seminars to engage students that are designed to expose students to the breadth and complexity of real world forest issues.. How To Apply Contact Master’s Admissions Introduce yourself to the YSE master’s admissions team. Request Information Master’s Admissions admissions.yse@yale.edu +1 203-432-5106 Learning Communities YSE's Learning Communities were created to offer robust interdisciplinary experiences and networks. Students may engage with as many learning communities as they choose, regardless of their degree program or specialization. Forestry Ecosystem Management and Conservation Climate Change Science and Solutions People, Equity, and the Environment Business and the Environment Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry Urban Water Resource Science and Management Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Subpages MF Curriculum Courses MF Curriculum Description More in This Section Master of Environmental Management — MEM This program provides students with an in-depth understanding of natural and social systems that can be applied to environmental and natural resource problem solving in a policy or management context. Master of Forestry — MF The two-year Master of Forestry program prepares students for careers in sustainable natural resource management and policy — solving critical sustainability challenges and resource conflicts across a complex web of social, political, and ecological systems. Master of Environmental Science or Master of Forest Science — MESc or MFS Develop critical research skills and learn grant-seeking strategies in these highly individualized programs. Joint Degree Programs These programs are designed to fully immerse students in the curriculum and campus life of two graduate school programs over a full three to four years, either at Yale or in partnership with another institution. Professional Skills Modules The Professional Skills Modules (PSMs) provide students with opportunities to strengthen their proficiency in core areas considered essential to all professionals, including those focused on environmental management. Master’s Programs Connect with us Request Information Visit Virtually Apply Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage 195 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 06511 (203) 432-5100 admissions.yse@yale.edu Social Media Links Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Academic Programs Admissions Learning Communities Research & Impact Student Experience About Footer Util Media Inquiries For Employers Job Opportunities Sign Up for Our Newsletter Copyright © 2021, Yale University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Accessibility at Yale