Princeton Environmental Research A Half-Century at the Forefront Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Princeton Environmental Research A Half-Century at the Forefront Main Menu Menu Research Submenu Biodiversity Climate Energy Food, Land, & Cities Society Sustainability Water, Drought & Flooding Experts In the News Events Academic Units About Search Search Princeton Environmental Research Princeton University’s research across the spectrum of environmental issues is making pivotal contributions to solving some of humanity’s toughest problems. Our impact is built on a legacy of personal commitment, intellectual leadership, perseverance and innovation. Research Food, Land & Cities Sustainability How green algae grows could hold key to boosting crop yields May 25, 2022 Climate Food, Land & Cities Coastal walks highlight the reality of future sea level rise May 2, 2022 Biodiversity Climate Marine biodiversity at risk with increasing global warming April 30, 2022 Climate Sustainability New Jersey is fertile ground for climate and environmental research April 27, 2022 Climate Food, Land & Cities New calculator helps cities achieve net-zero goals April 5, 2022 Climate Energy Carbon-free electric supply is possible for New Jersey, said Jesse Jenkins April 5, 2022 View All Research In the News Politico Pro Google, GE back new zero-carbon research coalition Featured: Jesse Jenkins June 1, 2022 E and E News Ind. experiment highlights wind siting challenge Featured: Jesse Jenkins May 18, 2022 The New York Times We can't drill our way to energy security Featured: Jesse Jenkins May 14, 2022 World Economic Forum Why India's clean energy future lies with green hydrogen – not blue Featured: Chris Greig, Arun Sharma May 13, 2022 View All News Highlights Research Themes Biodiversity From the tiniest microbes to the largest mammals, biodiversity is about the variety of life on Earth. It explores genetic diversity, the variety of species, and the ecosystems species shape and inhabit. As Earth faces the largest extinction since the dinosaurs, understanding biodiversity is critical to planetary health. Climate Climate study investigates the structure and dynamics of Earth’s climate system — including oceans, land and atmosphere. It also considers the role humans play through policy, behavior, demographics and more. Research informs how we can minimize climate change and cope with extreme weather — among the most challenging issues facing humanity today. Energy Satisfying increasing worldwide demands for energy while phasing out fossil fuels and eliminating greenhouse gas emissions is a critical challenge for our time. New energy technologies hold the promise of a cleaner, more sustainable future and the study of whole energy systems provides essential understanding for comprehensive change. Food, Land, & Cities Food touches every part of human existence, and food production is tied to almost every aspect of the environment. Princeton researchers take a holistic approach to the study of food, considering its relationship with biodiversity, greenhouse gas emissions, land use change, cities, human migration and overall resilience. Society Human societies are deeply embedded in natural landscapes. Our cultures, policies, behaviors, cities, health and architecture shape and are shaped by the environmental systems and the forces surrounding them. The social sciences and humanities provide key insights into society’s complex relationship with the environment. Sustainability Creating a sustainable future demands bold action, whether by implementing alternative modes of transportation, designing more efficient buildings or changing our consumption habits. By adopting thoughtfully developed sustainable practices, humanity can prevent irreversible damage to our Earth and its resources. Water, Drought & Flooding Water is the most elemental ingredient of life; its regular availability is essential to our economies and to civilization itself. Climate change and population growth put water at the nexus of multiple issues including catastrophic droughts and flooding, while water’s ecological role remains a fundamental subject of research. Featured Experts Michael Celia Yueh-Lin (Lynn) Loo Michael Oppenheimer Stephen Pacala Anu Ramaswami David Wilcove View All Upcoming Events Jun 5 Climate Water, Drought & Flooding Modflow and More Conference: Hydrologic modeling in a changing world Jun 5, 2022, 5:00 pm Jun 8 Energy PPPL Colloquium, Dr. Steven McNamara, Tokamak Energy, TBD Jun 8, 2022, 4:00 pm Location Online via Zoom Sep 30 Climate Sustainability Sustainable Finance: What would you do with $100 million? Sep 30, 2022, 12:30 pm Location Princeton Entrepreneurial Hub 115 View All Follow Us Footer Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University