About HMEI < About HMEI Discover HMEI History & Mission Get Involved Our Name Employment Opportunities Contact Research < Research Faculty Research Research Centers Research Areas Research Initiatives Resources and Opportunities Programs Education < Education Undergraduate Program Program in Environmental Studies Internships Funding Opportunities Prizes Resources Graduate Program Graduate Certificate in Environmental Studies HMEI-STEP Program Princeton Energy and Climate Scholars (PECS) Fellowships and Awards Resources Events News People Search Sites & People About HMEI < About HMEI Discover HMEI History & Mission Get Involved Our Name Employment Opportunities Contact Research < Research Faculty Research Research Centers Research Areas Research Initiatives Resources and Opportunities Programs Education < Education Undergraduate Program Program in Environmental Studies Internships Funding Opportunities Prizes Resources Graduate Program Graduate Certificate in Environmental Studies HMEI-STEP Program Princeton Energy and Climate Scholars (PECS) Fellowships and Awards Resources Events News People Our New Home Check out our special page about our new home in Princeton’s ES + SEAS complex now under construction ENV Certificate About The Certificate Program in Environmental Studies (ENV Certificate) is designed for Princeton undergraduates who are interested in the scientific, political, humanistic, and/or technological dimensions of environmental problems and who wish to demonstrate proficiency in Environmental Studies. Students from all academic disciplines are eligible to participate. Students may elect to pursue a course of study following one of two tracks: the Generalist Track for students looking for a broad-based introduction to environmental topics or the Environmental Sciences and Engineering Track for students wishing to delve more deeply into the science and technical dimensions of environmental topics. Certificate Requirements To receive the ENV Certificate, students are required to: Complete 5 courses including a combination of requisite ENV foundation course(s) and ENV electives*. Investigate an environmental topic as a dimension of their senior thesis OR complete an independent paper (15-20 pages in length) on an environment-related topic, approved by the ENV Director. Participate in the ENV Senior Colloquium. ENV Certificate Program students also participate in HMEI’s annual Discovery Day poster show in the spring of their senior year. *All courses taken to fulfill ENV Certificate Program requirements must be taken on a fully graded basis (i.e., no PDF) and graded as C or higher. Note: an exception is being made, on account of the exceptional circumstances of COVID, to allow ENV courses taken on a PDF basis and receiving a grade of ‘P’ in the spring 2020, fall 2020 and/or spring 2021 semesters to count towards ENV Certificate requirements. ENV Certificate Program requirements and course offerings are published in the Princeton Undergraduate Announcement annually. HMEI maintains an archive of ENV Student Thesis Titles. Course of Study Generalist Track Environmental Science and Engineering Track Enrollment Princeton undergraduates wishing to pursue a Certificate in Environmental Studies should complete the ENV Certificate Enrollment Form. Once submitted, you will be contacted by e-mail to schedule an appointment with the ENV Program Director or the Undergraduate/Graduate Program Manager to discuss your program of study. Connect With Us Monthly Newsletter Sign-up Name* Email* Contact Us Guyot Hall, Room 129 Princeton University Princeton, New Jersey 08544 (609)258-5985 environment@princeton.edu © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University