Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage The Forest School Connecting people, forests, and forestry for a sustainable future The Forest School Giving Alumni News Calendar YSE Resources Open the search panel Search Academic Programs Master’s Programs Doctoral Program Certificate Programs Courses Academic Calendar Admissions Master’s Admissions Funding Your Master’s Degree Doctoral Admissions Certificate Program Admissions Visit Campus Why Choose YSE? Learning Communities Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Research & Impact Faculty Explore Our Research Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Research Contacts Student Experience Student Life Career and Professional Development YSE Campus and Virtual Tours Yale Campus Living in New Haven Student Affairs About Hire Our Graduates Leadership Vision and Mission Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Campus History Contact Admissions Doctoral Admissions Doctoral Admissions Our doctoral program offers scholars from diverse backgrounds the opportunity to pursue a highly individualized area of inquiry under the mentorship of a YSE faculty member. The research conducted by YSE PhD candidates spans global and disciplinary boundaries — and what’s more, it is fully funded. Learn more about how to join this vibrant and dynamic intellectual community. On This Page Student and Alumni Spotlights Redefining Human-Wildlife Conflict In the Tibetan Plateau, PhD candidate Yufang Gao ’14 MESc interviews, observes, and travels with Tibetan herders and Buddhist monks. He sets up camera traps and collects scat to analyze the diet of snow leopards. And he has hiked a mountainside 15,000 feet above sea level — all in pursuit of data for his dissertation that focuses on the quest for harmonious coexistence between people and large carnivores. What is needed for human-wildlife coexistence is a different perspective about conflict, Gao says. “Conflict,” he has found, “is part of coexistence.” Master of Environmental Science - MESc Insights from the Night Sky Using data from the Visible Infrared Imaging Radiometer Suite aboard NASA’s Suomi NPP satellite spacecraft, Eleanor Stokes ’18 PhD is mapping disaster impacts in vulnerable communities. As co-leader of Black Marble, NASA’s first nighttime light dataset, Stokes has helped FEMA and other relief organizations direct their boots-on-the ground operations after natural disasters. “Humanity is facing major global risks from extreme weather and rising sea levels,” she says. “It’s very important to have a satellite record that can speak to the human piece of the puzzle.” Doctor of Philosophy — PhD Tracking Forest Inventory Richard Guldin ’76 MFS, ’79 PhD has helped reinvent the U.S. Forest Service’s Forest Inventory and Analysis (FIA) program by integrating new sampling designs, field procedures, and innovative software to create an annual inventory that has become a global model. His work earned him the Society of American Foresters’ Sir William Schlich Award. Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Why YSE Doctoral Programs? Research Independence and Funding Doctoral students at YSE receive five years of guaranteed funding, independent of any faculty research grants, allowing doctoral students the intellectual freedom to explore the environmental issues that most inspire them. Current Dissertation Titles Funding Information Acclaimed Faculty Working closely with some of the top experts in their fields is one of the advantages of a YSE doctoral degree. Our faculty are committed to mentoring the next generation of environmental leaders to tackle the world’s most urgent problems. YSE Faculty Faculty Who May Take on Doctoral Students All applicants must identify and contact one or two faculty members who they think could serve as their major advisor. Faculty Profiles How to Apply The application deadline for admission to the fall class in a given year is typically the preceding January 2 of that year. Applications are submitted through the Yale Graduate School of Arts and Sciences (GSAS) website. Get Started Focus on Doctoral Research News Addicott Awarded Marine Economics Fellowship to Study Coastal Erosion PhD candidate Ethan Addicott aims to create a tool to aid beach restoration efforts and maximize the value and utility of every bucket of sand. News YSE Class of ‘21 Peter Berrill’s Doctoral Research on Energy Hits the Right Notes Once a student at the Royal Conservatoire of Scotland, Peter Berrill '21 PhD set aside the trumpet and forged a path to YSE, where he conducted doctoral research on residential energy systems in the U.S. and their effect on greenhouse gas emissions. News Forest Fragmentation Research Earns 2021 Bormann Prize Meghna Krishnadas’ doctoral research into how forest fragmentation alters the underlying mechanisms shaping patterns of tropical tree regeneration and forest diversity was recognized for its novel insight into ecological processes. Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Contact the Doctoral Program Elisabeth Barsa is the contact for students interested in the YSE doctoral program. Elisabeth Barsa Doctoral Program Coordinator elisabeth.barsa@yale.edu 203-432-5146 Subpages How to Apply to the Doctoral Program More in This Section Master’s Admissions A degree from YSE equips graduates with the knowledge and leadership skills they need to have an immediate impact in a wide range of environmental fields as scholars, policymakers, industry experts, and boots-on-the-ground professionals. Funding Your Master’s Degree Our commitment to diversity and access means our goal is to bring the most promising students into our graduate programs, regardless of financial circumstances. Eighty percent of our master’s students receive financial assistance. Doctoral Admissions Our doctoral program offers scholars from diverse backgrounds the opportunity to pursue a highly individualized area of inquiry under the mentorship of a YSE faculty member. The research conducted by YSE PhD candidates spans global and disciplinary boundaries — and what’s more, it is fully funded. Learn more about how to join this vibrant and dynamic intellectual community. Certificate Program Admissions Earn a Yale non-degree certificate in topics vital to the addressing the climate emergency and achieving a sustainable future. Visit Campus Centered in Science Hill, in the Prospect Hill area of New Haven, YSE’s campus spans seven buildings. Why Choose YSE? At YSE, we are a community that is committed to achieving a sustainable future. Many of our faculty members are thought leaders who have pioneered or redefined their fields of expertise, and they are dedicated to helping our students develop the knowledge base and gain the experience they need to have an immediate impact. Admissions Related PhD Student Directory PhD Program Overview Connect with us Request Information Visit Virtually Apply Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage 195 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 06511 (203) 432-5100 admissions.yse@yale.edu Social Media Links Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Academic Programs Admissions Learning Communities Research & Impact Student Experience About Footer Util Media Inquiries For Employers Job Opportunities Sign Up for Our Newsletter Copyright © 2021, Yale University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Accessibility at Yale