Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage The Forest School Connecting people, forests, and forestry for a sustainable future The Forest School Giving Alumni News Calendar YSE Resources Open the search panel Search Academic Programs Master’s Programs Doctoral Program Certificate Programs Courses Academic Calendar Admissions Master’s Admissions Funding Your Master’s Degree Doctoral Admissions Certificate Program Admissions Visit Campus Why Choose YSE? Learning Communities Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Research & Impact Faculty Explore Our Research Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Research Contacts Student Experience Student Life Career and Professional Development YSE Campus and Virtual Tours Yale Campus Living in New Haven Student Affairs About Hire Our Graduates Leadership Vision and Mission Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Campus History Contact Faculty Directory Faculty Member Ingrid C. Burke Carl W. Knobloch, Jr. Dean; Professor of Ecosystem Ecology Contact indy.burke@yale.edu Type YSE Faculty Dr. Burke is an ecosystem ecologist whose research has focused on carbon and nitrogen cycling in dryland ecosystems. She received her Bachelor of Science in biology from Middlebury College and her PhD in botany from the University of Wyoming, and has taught at Colorado State University and the University of Wyoming. Her work with graduate students, postdoctoral associates, and colleagues has addressed how drylands are influenced by land use management, climatic variability, and regional variability. She teaches in the fields of environmental science, ecosystem ecology, and biogeochemistry. She has received over $20m in grant support for research, and published over 150 peer-reviewed articles, chapters, books, and reports. Burke has served as a member of several National Research Council (NRC) committees to review national environmental research programs and policies, as a member of the NRC Board on Environmental Studies and Toxicology, on the national Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Science Advisory Board, and as a member of numerous National Science Foundation, NASA, EPA, and other advisory panels. She has served on editorial boards for a number of nationally ranked scientific journals. A respected educator and intellectual leader in the U.S. and internationally, Dean Burke is particularly interested in fostering interdisciplinary scholarship. She came to the Yale School of the Environment in 2016 from the University of Wyoming, where she was the dean of the Haub School of Environment and Natural Resources, one of the leading institutions in the western U.S. for research, teaching, and outreach on natural resource issues. Areas of Expertise Carbon Sequestration Climate Change and Climate Science Conservation Ecology Ecosystem Conservation Ecosystem Restoration Ecosystem Science Land Conservation Natural Resource Management & Policy Soil Science Sustainable Land Management This professor is accepting doctoral students Related YSE News Stories Part of the Solution Botswana and Yale Partner on Improving Sustainable Land and Water Management Faculty Support Lois Greene lois.greene@yale.edu 203-436-3634 Office Kroon Hall 195 Prospect Street New Haven, CT Links Website Burke CV On This Page Publication List 132 Publications 2020 Cattle, conservation, and carbon in the western Great Plains JOURNAL OF SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION 2020 2019 Spatial distribution of roots across three dryland ecosystems and plant functional types WESTERN NORTH AMERICAN NATURALIST 2019 Nitrogen addition pulse has minimal effect in big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata) communities on the Pinedale Anticline, Wyoming (USA) PLOS ONE 2019 Seasonal Patterns of Root Production with Water and Nitrogen Additions Across Three Dryland Ecosystems ECOSYSTEMS 2019 Soil and stand structure explain shrub mortality patterns following global change-type drought and extreme precipitation ECOLOGY 2019 Soil texture and precipitation seasonality influence plant community structure in North American temperate shrub steppe ECOLOGY 2019 Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page ›› Last page Last » Connect with us Request Information Visit Virtually Apply Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage 195 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 06511 (203) 432-5100 admissions.yse@yale.edu Social Media Links Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Academic Programs Admissions Learning Communities Research & Impact Student Experience About Footer Util Media Inquiries For Employers Job Opportunities Sign Up for Our Newsletter Copyright © 2021, Yale University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Accessibility at Yale