Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage The Forest School Connecting people, forests, and forestry for a sustainable future The Forest School Giving Alumni News Calendar YSE Resources Open the search panel Search Academic Programs Master’s Programs Doctoral Program Certificate Programs Courses Academic Calendar Admissions Master’s Admissions Funding Your Master’s Degree Doctoral Admissions Certificate Program Admissions Visit Campus Why Choose YSE? Learning Communities Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Research & Impact Faculty Explore Our Research Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Research Contacts Student Experience Student Life Career and Professional Development YSE Campus and Virtual Tours Yale Campus Living in New Haven Student Affairs About Hire Our Graduates Leadership Vision and Mission Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Campus History Contact About Leadership Leadership Team The YSE leadership team comprises faculty and staff who serve in key administrative roles that support the School community and its major programs and initiatives. On This Page Ingrid C. Burke Carl W. Knobloch, Jr. Dean; Professor of Ecosystem Ecology indy.burke@yale.edu Mark S. Ashton Senior Associate Dean of The Forest School; Morris K. Jesup Professor of Silviculture and Forest Ecology; Director of Yale Forests mark.ashton@yale.edu Oswald J. Schmitz Senior Associate Dean of Research & Director of Doctoral Studies; Oastler Professor of Population and Community Ecology oswald.schmitz@yale.edu Dorceta Taylor Senior Associate Dean of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion; Professor of Environmental Justice dorceta.taylor@yale.edu Julie Zimmerman Senior Associate Dean of Academic Affairs, Professor of Green Engineering, Assistant Director for Research at Center for Green Chemistry and Green Engineering julie.zimmerman@yale.edu Danielle Dailey Chief of Staff and Associate Dean of Faculty Affairs danielle.dailey@yale.edu Kristin Floyd Associate Dean, Development and Alumni Services kristin.floyd@yale.edu 203-432-5189 Sara Smiley Smith Associate Dean of Academic Affairs, Research and Sustainability; Lecturer sara.smileysmith@yale.edu Andrés Fernández Assistant Dean of Student Affairs andres.fernandez@yale.edu +1 203-432-6286 Kevin Doyle Executive Director, Office of Career and Professional Development kevin.doyle@yale.edu 203-903-7620 Paige Stein Executive Director of Strategic Communications paige.stein@yale.edu +1 203-432-3631 Denny Kalenzaga Director of Finance and Administration (Lead Administrator) denny.kalenzaga@yale.edu Melanie Quigley Director of Strategic Initiatives melanie.quigley@yale.edu Subpages More in This Section Leadership The YSE leadership team comprises faculty and staff who serve in key administrative roles that support the School community and its major programs and initiatives. Vision and Mission We are leading the world toward a sustainable future with cutting-edge research, teaching, and public engagement on society’s evolving and urgent environmental challenges. Strategic Plan Guided by our storied history, we face today’s environmental challenges with a renewed commitment to groundbreaking scholarship, practice, engagement, and leadership. Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion The Yale School of the Environment is committed to creating an inclusive environment for all students, staff, and faculty. Our Campus From the heart of Yale University’s Science Hill to the forests of New England, this is our home. History From the nation’s first foresters to today’s environmental leaders, this is the story of how we became the Yale School of the Environment. Contact About Connect with us Request Information Visit Virtually Apply Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage 195 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 06511 (203) 432-5100 admissions.yse@yale.edu Social Media Links Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Academic Programs Admissions Learning Communities Research & Impact Student Experience About Footer Util Media Inquiries For Employers Job Opportunities Sign Up for Our Newsletter Copyright © 2021, Yale University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Accessibility at Yale