Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage The Forest School Connecting people, forests, and forestry for a sustainable future The Forest School Giving Alumni News Calendar YSE Resources Open the search panel Search Academic Programs Master’s Programs Doctoral Program Certificate Programs Courses Academic Calendar Admissions Master’s Admissions Funding Your Master’s Degree Doctoral Admissions Certificate Program Admissions Visit Campus Why Choose YSE? Learning Communities Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Research & Impact Faculty Explore Our Research Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Research Contacts Student Experience Student Life Career and Professional Development YSE Campus and Virtual Tours Yale Campus Living in New Haven Student Affairs About Hire Our Graduates Leadership Vision and Mission Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Campus History Contact About Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion The Yale School of the Environment is committed to creating an inclusive environment for all students, staff, and faculty. On This Page Our diverse perspectives shape the way we approach environmental work. Thus, we aim to foster a school environment that supports all individuals to increase our collective learning, awareness, and empathy. In this way, Yale School of the Environment strives to promote leadership at the School and in communities around the world for a more sustainable future for all people and the planet. YSE Admissions’ Commitment to Diversity Key Programs New Horizons in Conservation Conference The annual New Horizons in Conservation Conference is an opportunity to understand the status of diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) within the conservation field and assess critical gaps. Learn more about the New Horizons Conference Doris Duke Conservation Scholars Program The Doris Duke Conservation Scholars Program (DDCSP) is a two-summer opportunity for undergraduates who are traditionally underrepresented in the conservation field and who are interested in careers in the sector. Explore DDCSP Environmental Fellows Program The Environmental Fellows Program (EFP) is a 12-week summer fellowship opportunity that seeks to diversify the environmental field by cultivating the career aspirations of master’s and doctoral students from historically underrepresented groups. Explore EFP Subpages DEI — A Vision for the Future Community Charter Campus Resources Online Resources DEI Office Contacts Anonymous Contact Form More in This Section Leadership The YSE leadership team comprises faculty and staff who serve in key administrative roles that support the School community and its major programs and initiatives. Vision and Mission We are leading the world toward a sustainable future with cutting-edge research, teaching, and public engagement on society’s evolving and urgent environmental challenges. Strategic Plan Guided by our storied history, we face today’s environmental challenges with a renewed commitment to groundbreaking scholarship, practice, engagement, and leadership. Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion The Yale School of the Environment is committed to creating an inclusive environment for all students, staff, and faculty. Our Campus From the heart of Yale University’s Science Hill to the forests of New England, this is our home. History From the nation’s first foresters to today’s environmental leaders, this is the story of how we became the Yale School of the Environment. Contact About Connect with us Request Information Visit Virtually Apply Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage 195 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 06511 (203) 432-5100 admissions.yse@yale.edu Social Media Links Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Academic Programs Admissions Learning Communities Research & Impact Student Experience About Footer Util Media Inquiries For Employers Job Opportunities Sign Up for Our Newsletter Copyright © 2021, Yale University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Accessibility at Yale