Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage The Forest School Connecting people, forests, and forestry for a sustainable future The Forest School Giving Alumni News Calendar YSE Resources Open the search panel Search Academic Programs Master’s Programs Doctoral Program Certificate Programs Courses Academic Calendar Admissions Master’s Admissions Funding Your Master’s Degree Doctoral Admissions Certificate Program Admissions Visit Campus Why Choose YSE? Learning Communities Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Research & Impact Faculty Explore Our Research Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Research Contacts Student Experience Student Life Career and Professional Development YSE Campus and Virtual Tours Yale Campus Living in New Haven Student Affairs About Hire Our Graduates Leadership Vision and Mission Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Campus History Contact About the School of the Environment Since 1900, YSE has addressed the world’s most critical environmental challenges through research, practice-based scholarship, and public engagement. On This Page Students at YSE gain the knowledge and leadership skills necessary to create a sustainable future for themselves and future generations. They are part of 14 master’s and three doctoral programs, including joint- and dual-degrees offered in collaboration with departments and schools across Yale and with external peer institutions. YSE also hosts more than 20 unique centers, programs, and initiatives that foster groundbreaking research, sponsor internship opportunities, and host engaging conferences and events that elevate diverse voices and ideas in numerous fields of study. Our internationally renowned faculty lead rigorous coursework across ten learning communities, each focused on a different area of expertise. Their innovative research, completed with students and staff across Yale and within numerous disciplines, is changing how we understand the environment, conservation, and sustainability. Alumni Impacts Generating Climate Solutions While tackling the climate crisis can seem overwhelming at times, Victoria Mansfield ’22 MEM is helping to find answers by overseeing the Climate Solutions Generator, a six-week program run by Yale’s Center for Business and the Environment and the Tsai Center for Innovative Thinking. More than 50 students participated in the program in teams, pitching a solution on issues ranging from food waste to energy. “It is motivating to work with teams of students with interdisciplinary backgrounds who are coming together for innovate solutions,” says Mansfield. Dismantling Equity Barriers in Food Systems Working with the Good Foods Communities campaign and their partners, YSE students examined institutional supply chains in Buffalo, N.Y. and found that a lack of transparency and discriminatory practices keep minority-owned farms, small-scale producers, and front-line workers at a disadvantage. The study, part of a project for the “Social Justice in the Global Food System Capstone” class, was conducted by YSE students Erica Hellen ’21 MEM, Viola Taubmann ’21 MEM, Avery Siler ’22 MEM, and Abbey Warner ’22 MEM. Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Job Opportunities All jobs are posted in STARS, Yale University's online hiring and recruitment system. Current staff positions available: 72511BR Assistant Director of Events and Special Projects 72316BR Deputy Director, Partnerships Program 72310BR Deputy Research Manager 71374BR Administrative Assistant 70186BR Financial Assistant 68935BR Wastewater Technician Clery Report The Annual Safety Report on Campus Crime and Fire Incidents is available, in compliance with federal law. Stay Informed Biweekly, we highlight three news and research stories about the work we’re doing at Yale School of the Environment to achieve sustainability — for ourselves and future generations. Subscribe to “YSE 3” More in This Section Leadership The YSE leadership team comprises faculty and staff who serve in key administrative roles that support the School community and its major programs and initiatives. Vision and Mission We are leading the world toward a sustainable future with cutting-edge research, teaching, and public engagement on society’s evolving and urgent environmental challenges. Strategic Plan Guided by our storied history, we face today’s environmental challenges with a renewed commitment to groundbreaking scholarship, practice, engagement, and leadership. Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion The Yale School of the Environment is committed to creating an inclusive environment for all students, staff, and faculty. Our Campus From the heart of Yale University’s Science Hill to the forests of New England, this is our home. History From the nation’s first foresters to today’s environmental leaders, this is the story of how we became the Yale School of the Environment. Contact Connect with us Request Information Visit Virtually Apply Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage 195 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 06511 (203) 432-5100 admissions.yse@yale.edu Social Media Links Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Academic Programs Admissions Learning Communities Research & Impact Student Experience About Footer Util Media Inquiries For Employers Job Opportunities Sign Up for Our Newsletter Copyright © 2021, Yale University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Accessibility at Yale