Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage The Forest School Connecting people, forests, and forestry for a sustainable future The Forest School Giving Alumni News Calendar YSE Resources Open the search panel Search Academic Programs Master’s Programs Doctoral Program Certificate Programs Courses Academic Calendar Admissions Master’s Admissions Funding Your Master’s Degree Doctoral Admissions Certificate Program Admissions Visit Campus Why Choose YSE? Learning Communities Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Research & Impact Faculty Explore Our Research Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Research Contacts Student Experience Student Life Career and Professional Development YSE Campus and Virtual Tours Yale Campus Living in New Haven Student Affairs About Hire Our Graduates Leadership Vision and Mission Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Campus History Contact Learning Communities Climate Change Science and Solutions Climate Change Science and Solutions Businesses, ecosystems, industries, societies, and political systems are all vulnerable to climate change. This LC focuses on the science of climate change and on investigating innovative, interdisciplinary ways to address it. On This Page Restoring Belize’s Landscapes Ki’ila Salas ’19 MF returned to her home country of Belize to participate in its first landscape restoration initiative, helping to develop its National Landscape Restoration Strategy for the Belize Forest Department. The project is part of the country’s national restoration commitment to the Bonn Challenge, which has a global goal to bring 350 million hectares of degraded and deforested landscapes into restoration by 2030. “The project gave me great pride and joy in guiding the process of how the restoration strategies should be accomplished,” says Salas. Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Climate Change Science and Solutions in the News View More Stories News 2022 Environmental Performance Index Finds World Is Not on Track to Meet Climate Commitments The United States is among four nations projected to fall far short of the net-zero greenhouse gas emissions target established by the 2021 Glasgow Climate Pact — with over 50% of global emissions expected to come from the U.S., China, India, and Russia by 2050. News YSE Class of ’22: Kyle Lemle’s Love of Forests Guides His Work on Climate Change Whether leading climate protests, fighting for Indigenous land rights, or working the land at Yale-Myers, Kyle Lemle is keeping his focus on the importance of forests. News President's Podcast: An Earth Day Conversation with Dean Indy Burke For Earth Day, Dean Indy Burke joined Yale University President Peter Salovey on his monthly Yale Talk podcast for a conversation covering a wide range of environmental issues. Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Related Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Centers & Programs Yale Program on Climate Change Communication (YPCCC) YPCCC is a leader in climate change communication, tracking Americans’ perception of climate change at all scales and building public and political will for climate action. Centers & Programs Affiliated: Yale Center for Natural Carbon Capture Finding solutions to climate change through advances in natural carbon sequestration. Centers & Programs Carbon Containment Lab (CC Lab) The Carbon Containment Lab is finding big solutions to the climate challenge, designing and testing innovative, affordable, and scalable methods of atmospheric carbon containment. Centers & Programs SEARCH Center: Solutions for Energy, Air, Climate, and Health At the nexus of energy and public health, the SEARCH Center utilizes cutting-edge scientific research and technology to support the EPA’s strategic goals of protecting human health and the environment. Centers & Programs Yale Center for Environmental Law and Policy (YCELP) Through discussion and collaboration across campus, YCELP introduces fresh thinking and analytically rigorous approaches to environmental decision-making across disciplines, sectors, and scales. Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Degree Programs YSE's learning communities span across all master's and doctoral degree programs. RESEARCH DEGREES Master of Environmental Science Master of Forest Science The Doctoral Program at the Yale School of the Environment PROFESSIONAL DEGREES Master of Environmental Management Master of Forestry OTHER DEGREES & PROGRAMS Joint Degrees with Another Yale School Joint Degrees with an Outside Institution Certificate Programs Learning Communities YSE's Learning Communities were created to offer robust interdisciplinary experiences and networks. Students may engage with as many learning communities as they choose, regardless of their degree program or specialization. Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Business and the Environment Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Connect with us Request Information Visit Virtually Apply Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage 195 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 06511 (203) 432-5100 admissions.yse@yale.edu Social Media Links Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Academic Programs Admissions Learning Communities Research & Impact Student Experience About Footer Util Media Inquiries For Employers Job Opportunities Sign Up for Our Newsletter Copyright © 2021, Yale University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Accessibility at Yale