Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage The Forest School Connecting people, forests, and forestry for a sustainable future The Forest School Giving Alumni News Calendar YSE Resources Open the search panel Search Academic Programs Master’s Programs Doctoral Program Certificate Programs Courses Academic Calendar Admissions Master’s Admissions Funding Your Master’s Degree Doctoral Admissions Certificate Program Admissions Visit Campus Why Choose YSE? Learning Communities Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Research & Impact Faculty Explore Our Research Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Research Contacts Student Experience Student Life Career and Professional Development YSE Campus and Virtual Tours Yale Campus Living in New Haven Student Affairs About Hire Our Graduates Leadership Vision and Mission Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Campus History Contact Student Experience Career and Professional Development Career and Professional Development From career strategies to resumes and interviewing skills, to jobs, internships, and networking opportunities, our office provides students with individual support for their career and professional development needs. On This Page More Resources For Employers For Alumni YSE Next Career Resources and Events for Students Career Counseling As a student at YSE, you can bring all your career questions to CPD. We offer individualized career counseling sessions with CPD team members as well as resume, cover letter, and personal statement review by our peer career advisors. Connect for an appointment through your YSE Next account. Career Counseling YSE Next Career Preparation CPD offers comprehensive resources, tools, and a career essentials checklist to prepare for all stages of your professional development. Job Search Tools Career Essentials Checklist Annual Program Sample Jobs and Fellowships Each year CPD facilitates opportunities to meet, interview, and network with a broad group of employers across the globe through recruiting events, all-Ivy career fairs, and job listings. Our online job database, YSE Next offers students access to a central resource for job and internship postings and grants. Jobs YSE Next Summer Experience Master’s degree students at YSE are required to spend between 10 and 12 weeks in the summer working on a research project or summer internship. Our summer experience offers opportunities for students to gain professional experience, build networks, and investigate potential career paths first-hand. Find out where our students have worked and start preparing for your summer experience with our tools and resources. Summer Experience Overview Registration and Completion Summer Funding Previous Summer Experiences Data Network Hone your skills and expand your network with our resources and international connections. Network Professional Associations Connect with CPD on Social Media Instagram Facebook Twitter Annual Career Activities Career Fair All-Ivy Environmental and Sustainable Development Career Fair More than 80 employers and 1000+ students attend this annual career fair in partnership with eight Ivy League schools. Regional Recruiting YSEinDC Explore the landscape of environmental work in Washington D.C., which is home to 650 YSE alumni, through YSEinDC. This program provides unparalleled opportunity to participate in employer meetings, career panels, alumni conversations, and an Alumni/Student networking reception. Internship or Project Summer Experience Each summer our students work in positions with government agencies, NGOs, nonprofits, and international corporations across the globe. Check out our map and list of host organizations. Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Office of Career and Professional Development Bring your career questions to us! Get in Touch Kevin Doyle Executive Director, Office of Career and Professional Development kevin.doyle@yale.edu 203-903-7620 Kathy Douglas Senior Associate Director, Office of Career and Professional Development kathy.douglas@yale.edu 203-436-4830 Maya Polan Associate Director, Office of Career and Professional Development maya.polan@yale.edu 203-436-9631 Subpages Career Counseling Career Essentials Checklist Summer Experience Employment Data Jobs Network Contact More in This Section Student Life From day trips to Yale-Myers Forest in Connecticut’s Quiet Corner to summer field experience in South Central Colorado, much of YSE learning takes place outside of the classroom — through the programs’ many opportunities for field research and experiential learning. Career and Professional Development From career strategies to resumes and interviewing skills, to jobs, internships, and networking opportunities, our office provides students with individual support for their career and professional development needs. YSE Campus and Virtual Tours Centered in Science Hill, in the Prospect Hill area of New Haven, YSE’s campus spans seven buildings. Yale Campus Yale’s historic tree-lined campus in New Haven dates back 300 years and is home to some of the world’s most comprehensive research facilities, libraries, and global art collections, providing students myriad opportunities to connect, explore and pursue their field of study. Living in New Haven Nicknamed the Elm City for the abundance of elm trees that shade its streets and squares, New Haven provides a cosmopolitan atmosphere and energetic cultural scene with critically acclaimed restaurants, theaters, clubs, concert venues, and museums. Student Affairs With students at the heart of all that we do, the Office of Student Affairs creates holistic learning opportunities, programs and services that prepare environmentally focused students to lead, serve and become engaged members of a global society. Student Experience Connect with us Request Information Visit Virtually Apply Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage 195 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 06511 (203) 432-5100 admissions.yse@yale.edu Social Media Links Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Academic Programs Admissions Learning Communities Research & Impact Student Experience About Footer Util Media Inquiries For Employers Job Opportunities Sign Up for Our Newsletter Copyright © 2021, Yale University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Accessibility at Yale