Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage The Forest School Connecting people, forests, and forestry for a sustainable future The Forest School Giving Alumni News Calendar YSE Resources Open the search panel Search Academic Programs Master’s Programs Doctoral Program Certificate Programs Courses Academic Calendar Admissions Master’s Admissions Funding Your Master’s Degree Doctoral Admissions Certificate Program Admissions Visit Campus Why Choose YSE? Learning Communities Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Research & Impact Faculty Explore Our Research Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Research Contacts Student Experience Student Life Career and Professional Development YSE Campus and Virtual Tours Yale Campus Living in New Haven Student Affairs About Hire Our Graduates Leadership Vision and Mission Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Campus History Contact News News Story YSE at COP26: Students, Faculty Make An Impact at UN Climate Summit From speaking on panels to taking part in critical decision-making, students and faculty from the Yale School of the Environment played a major role at this year's COP26 in Glasgow, Scotland. With more than 20,000 attendees and an enormous global spotlight, this year's “conference of the parties” hosted by the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, COP26, was seen as one of the most important in the conference’s history, as experts believe countries must begin making drastic shifts away from fossil fuels to reduce increasing global warming and avoid the most catastrophic impacts of climate change. From left: Jamie Lee '22 MEM, Urvi Talaty '21 MEM, Victoria Gramuglia '22 MEM and Ines Ayostina '22 MEM took part in the Volvo Panel on green chemistry. Over the two weeks, the Yale School of the Environment and Yale University played a major role, with more than 20 students and several faculty members speaking on panels, taking part in critical climate negotiations, and networking with some of the biggest names in science, technology, and policy from around the world. The conference kicked off with several YSE faculty participating in panel discussions, including Paul Anastas, Teresa and H. John Heinz III Professor in the Practice of Chemistry for the Environment at Yale. Anastas, who was recently awarded the 2021 Volvo Environment Prize in recognition of his pioneering work in green chemistry, joined Volvo CEO Martin Lundstedt , climate advocacy group We Don't Have Time, and several YSE students for a discussion on the role of green chemistry in tackling the climate crisis. Daniel Esty, Hillhouse Professor of Environmental Law and Policy at Yale, and Anthony Leiserowitz, director of the Yale Program on Climate Change Communication, also took part in panel discussions at COP26. Leiserowitz was interviewed during COP26 by The Washington Post about youth and public empowerment; he and Esty also reflected on COP26 in an editorial published in The Norwalk Hour. Daniel Esty, center, took part in several panels at COP26, including discussions on public finance and the role of universities in decarbonization efforts. At COP26, Anthony Leiserowitz discussed the gap between climate information and action, as well as the public perception and understanding of climate change in the United States. YSE faculty members also appeared live on BBC Radio during COP26 to discuss the conference, including Narasimha Rao, (profile) associate professor of energy systems, and Oswald Schmitz (profile), Oastler Professor of Population and Community Ecology. Kyle Lemle '22 MF worked with World War Zero, an initiative founded by climate envoy John Kerry, and provided dispatches from the conference. Lemle's role gave him the opportunity to interview Surangel Whipps, Jr., President of Palau, and meet Sen. Ed Markey and Sen. Jon Ossoff. Kyle Lemle '22 MF (right) with Sen. Ed Markey and Phoebe Hering '23 MEM YSE student Kyle Lemle is at #COP26 this week, telling important stories on @WorldWarZeroOrg. Follow along: https://t.co/4LNzcnMRbp His dispatches included an interview with @Surangeljr, President of Palau. #YaleClimate @AOSISChair @yaleforestry pic.twitter.com/937Nk7a76e — Yale School of the Environment (@YaleEnvironment) November 5, 2021 The Forests Dialogue was also well-represented at COP26, with the center hosting a discussion, "Forests & Forest Product Innovation for an Inclusive Net-Zero Economy," with several of its partners. The Forests Dialogue program associates, from left, Nick Nugent '21 MEM, Yvonne Shih '22 MEM, and Luca Guadagno '21 MESc at COP26. Four YSE students also took over the School's Instagram story during the conference! Published November 12, 2021 Tags Paul Anastas Anthony Leiserowitz Daniel C. Esty Narasimha Rao Oswald J. Schmitz MEM MESc MF Events Climate Change Science and Solutions Environmental Policy Analysis Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry Faculty Students Media Contact Josh Anusewicz Assistant Editor joshua.anusewicz@yale.edu +1 203-436-8994 More COP26 Stories News YSE Alumni Lend Expertise to COP26 Climate Negotiations In addition to YSE students and faculty, alumni played a major role at the November 2021 U.N. climate summit, representing global organizations and taking part in negotiations aimed at stronger climate action. News YSE Students Support NGOs and Country Delegations at COP26 Dozens of YSE and Yale students, faculty, and staff are taking part in the annual United Nations climate summit centered on reducing global greenhouse gas emissions. Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Related Faculty Faculty Paul Anastas Teresa and H. John Heinz III Professor in the Practice of Chemistry for the Environment Faculty Daniel C. Esty Hillhouse Professor of Environmental Law and Policy, jointly with Yale Law School; Director of the Center for Environmental Law and Policy Faculty Anthony Leiserowitz Senior Research Scientist and Director of the Yale Program on Climate Change Communication (YPCCC) Faculty Narasimha Rao Associate Professor of Energy Systems Faculty Oswald J. Schmitz Senior Associate Dean of Research & Director of Doctoral Studies; Oastler Professor of Population and Community Ecology Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Connect with us Request Information Visit Virtually Apply Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage 195 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 06511 (203) 432-5100 admissions.yse@yale.edu Social Media Links Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Academic Programs Admissions Learning Communities Research & Impact Student Experience About Footer Util Media Inquiries For Employers Job Opportunities Sign Up for Our Newsletter Copyright © 2021, Yale University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Accessibility at Yale