Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage The Forest School Connecting people, forests, and forestry for a sustainable future The Forest School Giving Alumni News Calendar YSE Resources Open the search panel Search Academic Programs Master’s Programs Doctoral Program Certificate Programs Courses Academic Calendar Admissions Master’s Admissions Funding Your Master’s Degree Doctoral Admissions Certificate Program Admissions Visit Campus Why Choose YSE? Learning Communities Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Research & Impact Faculty Explore Our Research Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Research Contacts Student Experience Student Life Career and Professional Development YSE Campus and Virtual Tours Yale Campus Living in New Haven Student Affairs About Hire Our Graduates Leadership Vision and Mission Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Campus History Contact Learning Communities People, Equity, and the Environment People, Equity, and the Environment This LC helps students develop the skills they need to thoughtfully critique and improve the relationship between people and the planet, with a focus on deep-seated, systemic challenges. Emphasis is placed on the interplay among the environment, systemic social issues, and the emerging environmental justice movement. On This Page Preserving and Restoring Urban Forests Sarah Charlop-Powers ’09 MEM is helping to preserve and restore critical urban forests in New York City and beyond. In 2012, she helped launch the Natural Areas Conservancy (NAC), which has partnered with NYC Parks to create the innovative Forest Management Framework that conducted field-based ecological assessments in the city. Its efforts recently expanded with a national survey distributed to 125 cities and organizations across the U.S. aimed at gaining a better understanding of how urban forests and natural areas are being managed. Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. People, Equity, and the Environment in the News View More Stories News YSE Class of ’22: Lovinia Reynolds is Headed Home to Fight for Climate Justice Returning to her native Brooklyn, Lovinia Reynolds is graduating from YSE with an eye on climate justice in the largest city in the U.S. News YSE Class of ’22: Kristina Rodriguez is Focused on Preserving Coastal Ecosystems A childhood appreciation of South Florida’s dunes and mangroves led Kristina Rodriguez to become deeply invested in conserving the state’s coastal ecosystems for future generations. News LANDBACK Panel Addresses Importance of Indigenous Leadership in Land Reclamation and Conservation Restoring Indigenous power in land stewardship and co-management policies were at the center of a YSE-Wyss Foundation panel discussion that brought together Indigenous voices from across the country. Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Related Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Centers & Programs Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Sustainability Initiative (JEDSI) Examining the relationship between social inequalities, lived experiences, and environmental outcomes, JEDSI focuses research, teaching, and practice on our environmental history, diverse voices in the environmental movement, and better pathways forward. Centers & Programs Yale Center for Environmental Justice Developing tools, networks, and interdisciplinary research, the Center for Environmental Justice empowers frontline communities to lead the charge for environmental justice at the local, national, and global level. Centers & Programs Urban Resources Initiative (URI) Making New Haven cleaner and greener, URI works with local partners to plant trees, restore community green spaces, and build bioswales to filter stormwater runoff. Centers & Programs Environmental Leadership Training Initiative (ELTI) In critical natural landscapes rich in biodiversity, ELTI empowers local leaders to design and implement land use practices and initiatives that protect tropical forests and the livelihoods of local landowners and their communities. Centers & Programs The Forests Dialogue (TFD) The Forests Dialogue provides a platform for ongoing, multi-stakeholder conversations focused on collaborative solutions to challenges in achieving sustainable forest management and forest conservation. Centers & Programs Yale Forum on Religion and Ecology (FORE) Inspiring people to preserve, protect, and restore the Earth community, the Forum on Religion and Ecology takes an international, multi-faith approach to contributing to environmental solutions. Centers & Programs Yale Program on Climate Change Communication (YPCCC) YPCCC is a leader in climate change communication, tracking Americans’ perception of climate change at all scales and building public and political will for climate action. Centers & Programs Hixon Center for Urban Ecology The Hixon Center provides an interdisciplinary forum for research, teaching, and outreach that improve our understanding and management of urban environmental systems. Centers & Programs SEARCH Center: Solutions for Energy, Air, Climate, and Health At the nexus of energy and public health, the SEARCH Center utilizes cutting-edge scientific research and technology to support the EPA’s strategic goals of protecting human health and the environment. Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Degree Programs YSE's learning communities span across all master's and doctoral degree programs. RESEARCH DEGREES Master of Environmental Science Master of Forest Science The Doctoral Program at the Yale School of the Environment PROFESSIONAL DEGREES Master of Forestry Master of Environmental Management OTHER DEGREES & PROGRAMS Joint Degrees with Another Yale School Joint Degrees with an Outside Institution Certificate Programs Learning Communities YSE's Learning Communities were created to offer robust interdisciplinary experiences and networks. Students may engage with as many learning communities as they choose, regardless of their degree program or specialization. People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Connect with us Request Information Visit Virtually Apply Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage 195 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 06511 (203) 432-5100 admissions.yse@yale.edu Social Media Links Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Academic Programs Admissions Learning Communities Research & Impact Student Experience About Footer Util Media Inquiries For Employers Job Opportunities Sign Up for Our Newsletter Copyright © 2021, Yale University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Accessibility at Yale