Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage The Forest School Connecting people, forests, and forestry for a sustainable future The Forest School Giving Alumni News Calendar YSE Resources Open the search panel Search Academic Programs Master’s Programs Doctoral Program Certificate Programs Courses Academic Calendar Admissions Master’s Admissions Funding Your Master’s Degree Doctoral Admissions Certificate Program Admissions Visit Campus Why Choose YSE? Learning Communities Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Research & Impact Faculty Explore Our Research Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Research Contacts Student Experience Student Life Career and Professional Development YSE Campus and Virtual Tours Yale Campus Living in New Haven Student Affairs About Hire Our Graduates Leadership Vision and Mission Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Campus History Contact Giving Gifts to YSE create a foundation upon which our entire school is built, providing generous financial aid for our students, support for groundbreaking faculty research, and the ability to execute an ambitious and innovative strategic plan. On This Page Thank you so very much for your generous gift. Your giving has allowed me — a first-generation college student — the opportunity to pursue graduate studies in a way that neither I nor my family ever thought possible. I am learning a great deal about how I can become a well-equipped, morally convicted urban climate strategist, and I have you, in part, to thank for this opportunity.” Cameron Kritikos ’23 MEM, MDiv Plan for retirement or provide for your loved ones by setting up a planned gift today. Ways to Give Make a one-time gift today, or set up a convenient giving plan with a pledge or a recurring gift. You can designate your gift to support financial aid, The Forest School, diversity and inclusion efforts — or provide unrestricted support to our areas of greatest need. Make A Gift YSE Publications Annual Report Impacts 2021 2021 Annual Report on the Strategic Plan Magazine Canopy — Spring 2021 Fanning Out Across the Globe in Search of Big Cats, and other stories. Newsletter Subscribe to “YSE 3” Biweekly, we highlight three news and research stories about the work we’re doing at Yale School of the Environment to achieve sustainability — for ourselves and future generations. Annual Report Impacts 2020 2020 Annual Report on the Strategic Plan Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Development and Alumni Services 205 Prospect Street, 2nd Floor, Room 20 New Haven, CT 06511 203-432-5697 Contact Us Kristin Floyd Associate Dean, Development and Alumni Services kristin.floyd@yale.edu 203-432-5189 Connect with us Request Information Visit Virtually Apply Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage 195 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 06511 (203) 432-5100 admissions.yse@yale.edu Social Media Links Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Academic Programs Admissions Learning Communities Research & Impact Student Experience About Footer Util Media Inquiries For Employers Job Opportunities Sign Up for Our Newsletter Copyright © 2021, Yale University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Accessibility at Yale