Skip to main content The Environment & Sustainability major is a collaboration between the College of Agriculture & Life Sciences and the College of Arts & Sciences. Search Cals Menu Cals Cals Menu Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About Quick Links Environment & Sustainability Main navigation Education Core Curriculum Concentrations Course Spotlights E&S Minor Research Opportunities Credit or Pay? Honors Program Research Funding Student Experience Career Development Global Learning Internships Project Teams About Campus Partners Curriculum Committee Learning Goals & Outcomes People Navigation Main mobile navigation Education Education Overview Core Curriculum Concentrations Course Spotlights E&S Minor Research Opportunities Research Opportunities Overview Credit or Pay? Honors Program Research Funding Student Experience Student Experience Overview Career Development Global Learning Internships Project Teams About About Overview Campus Partners Curriculum Committee Learning Goals & Outcomes People Search CALS Search Main navigation Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About Quick Links Main navigation Panels Back Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Back Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Back Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Back Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series Back About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Welcome to Environment & Sustainability Interdisciplinary approaches are needed to sustainably resolve environmental problems. Our visionary faculty and passionate students make this possible at Cornell. Defy disciplinary boundaries The Environment & Sustainability major spans perspectives needed to build a world with more sustainable environmental conditions. As a cross-college major in CALS and Arts & Sciences, we bring together students and faculty with diverse skills and common purpose. Image Caption Button CALS students Katie Sims ’20, left, and Alex Ding ’21, in white hat, follow county forester Jim Frohn and Carrie Deegan of the Forest Society. Ding and Sims participated in the maple seedling project through a Cornell Engaged Undergraduate Research Grant. Photo by Paul Hayes. Intellectual exploration Experiences on-campus and throughout the world emphasize active, engaged and experiential learning. Core courses provide fundamental understanding of environment and sustainability issues. Six concentrations provide depth in environmental science and environmental studies perspectives. Image Caption Button Students in Sustainability Science NTRES 3301. Environmental justice We foster awareness of policies and practices that link environmental degradation to inequities in resources and power available to different groups of people. Environmental justice course opportunities We explore the past, consider the present and plan the future. We contrast modern and ancient cities, as in this distant view of St. Louis from Monks Mound, central structure of the largest city of the Mississippian culture that prevailed across the eastern U.S. for centuries, prior to European colonization. We span boundaries between humans and sensitive environments. We work to understand the capacity for humans to share the earth with the vast diversity of all living things. This sign at the Guadalupe-Nipomo Dunes Complex in coastal California alerts beachgoers to nesting California least terns and Western snowy plovers. We get our feet wet. We aim to experience all kinds of environments in all kinds of weather. We are ready to look at what thrives, whether the weather is hot, cold, wet or dry. We go where decisions are made. Each year our students meet and work with decision-makers in New York City, Washington D.C., Bonn and throughout the world. Here we meet with Oregon Senator Jeff Merkley. We explore food security across the globe. Food sold in this Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia outdoor market reflects the multiple contrasts of food availability throughout the world. We examine how cultural practices develop. This advertisement in Beijing, China was part of a campaign to stop the illegal trade of ivory. We evaluate restored habitats. We examine altered biophysical processes in disturbed landscapes, such as this clear-cut forest in coastal Oregon, along with the economic impact of boom-and-bust natural resource extraction on nearby communities. We compare inequities associated with environmental degradation. This sewer outfall in the shadow of the U.S. Capitol highlights the issue of environmental justice and communities that disproportionately experience environmental degradation. We engage the arts to understand people and their environments. We use literature, art, music and forms of human expression that impact knowledge and action to reflect upon divergent visions grounded in human imagination, narration, reflection, and persuasion. “Water Dreaming at Kalipinypa” (copyright The Estate of Johnny Warangkula, courtesy of The Aboriginal Artist's Agency) was created by Australian aboriginal artist Johnny Warangkula. This and many other works by Warangkula focused on Kalipinypa, a location where water – a scarce resource in the central Australian desert – gathers after infrequent storms. Spotlight Slider Previous Next Environment & Sustainability news Has taxonomy terms (with depth) Article Type (field_article_type) CALS MagazineReportField NoteFutureCastMultimediaNewsSpotlight Event Type (field_event_type) ClassConferenceExhibitFairFestivalField DayLectureMeetingSeminarWebinarWorkshop Offset Spotlight Details Solar grazing project combines renewable energy and agriculture Solar energy developers and farmers need land to operate, and a Cornell research project aims to demonstrate how co-locating solar arrays on farmland can be an environmentally friendly way to benefit both the renewable energy and agriculture industries. Cornell Atkinson Cornell Cooperative Extension Animal Science News May 24, 2022 Quick View Three students win Robinson-Appel Humanitarian Awards Matthew Borinshteyn ’25, Jennifer Lee ’23 and Avery MacLean ’22 received the 2022 Robinson-Appel Humanitarian Awards in recognition of their significant involvement in community service. Agriculture Sciences Major Natural Resources and the Environment School of Integrative Plant Science News May 23, 2022 Quick View Target CO2 and non-carbon pollutants to slow climate change Mitigation strategies must target carbon dioxide alongside other largely neglected climate pollutants in order to stay below catastrophic climate tipping points. Department of Global Development Climate Change Environment News May 23, 2022 Quick View Brook trout hook for Cornell climate change research and extension outreach In 1975, New York officially recognized the brook trout as the state fish. A favorite of anglers and a symbol of the pristine upstate wilderness, this species also contributes to New York state’s annual $2 billion freshwater fishing industry... Cornell Cooperative Extension Little Moose Field Station Natural Resources and the Environment News May 19, 2022 Quick View Policy, farm management help China mitigate climate change Production of animal protein in China has increased by 800% over the past 40 years, but new research shows why the amount of climate-warming nitrous oxide released from this animal farming has not risen as quickly. Department of Global Development Climate Change Environment Load More Life. Changing. Visit CALS Explore Programs Diversity & Inclusion Support CALS Contact CALSLinks & Resources Information For Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Staff CALS Alumni NYS Residents Newsroom Upcoming Events Media Relations CALS Directory Jobs at CALS Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Footer menu Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Equal Education & Employment Land Acknowledgment Sustainability Commitment Emergency Information