Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage The Forest School Connecting people, forests, and forestry for a sustainable future The Forest School Giving Alumni News Calendar YSE Resources Open the search panel Search Academic Programs Master’s Programs Doctoral Program Certificate Programs Courses Academic Calendar Admissions Master’s Admissions Funding Your Master’s Degree Doctoral Admissions Certificate Program Admissions Visit Campus Why Choose YSE? Learning Communities Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Research & Impact Faculty Explore Our Research Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Research Contacts Student Experience Student Life Career and Professional Development YSE Campus and Virtual Tours Yale Campus Living in New Haven Student Affairs About Hire Our Graduates Leadership Vision and Mission Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Campus History Contact Learning Communities Ecosystem Management and Conservation Ecosystem Management and Conservation Students engaged with this LC build a knowledge base and develop skills they can use to help steward and conserve ecosystems, ensuring that human and nonhuman species can coexist across landscapes. On This Page Restoring Belize’s Landscapes Ki’ila Salas ’19 MF returned to her home country of Belize to participate in its first landscape restoration initiative, helping to develop its National Landscape Restoration Strategy for the Belize Forest Department. The project is part of the country’s national restoration commitment to the Bonn Challenge, which has a global goal to bring 350 million hectares of degraded and deforested landscapes into restoration by 2030. “The project gave me great pride and joy in guiding the process of how the restoration strategies should be accomplished,” says Salas. Preserving China’s Biodiversity As the executive director of the Shan Shui Conservation Center in China, Irene Xiangying Shi ’13 MESC is helping conservation efforts in the Tibetan Plateau and southern regions. The Center focuses its work on urban ecosystems and endangered species, such as giant pandas and snow leopards. “If we have the right incentives,” she says, “people will conserve nature in the best way." Her efforts have helped build a biodiversity conservation alliance, an information sharing platform on biodiversity, and long-term funding mechanisms to continue work on these issues. Master of Environmental Science — MESc Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Ecosystem Management and Conservation in the News View More Stories News Research on Rapid, Fine-Scale Evolution in Wood Frogs Wins 2022 Bormann Prize Andis Arietta’s doctoral research found that frogs have evolved in response to climate change in recent years, but that continued warming would likely outpace the species’s ability to adapt to extreme environmental change. News Future U.S. Conservation Leaders Named 2022 Wyss Scholars Three Yale students — Annie Miller ’23 MEM, Molly Ryan ’23 MEM, and Jane Jacoby ’24 MF/JD ’24 — have been named 2022 Wyss Scholars, a program that supports the graduate-level education of a new generation of leaders in U.S. land conservation. News LANDBACK Panel Addresses Importance of Indigenous Leadership in Land Reclamation and Conservation Restoring Indigenous power in land stewardship and co-management policies were at the center of a YSE-Wyss Foundation panel discussion that brought together Indigenous voices from across the country. Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Related Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Centers & Programs Yale Forests Our homes away from home, the Yale Forests manage 10,777 acres of forestland that provide educational, research, and professional opportunities to the Yale community and beyond. Centers & Programs Urban Resources Initiative (URI) Making New Haven cleaner and greener, URI works with local partners to plant trees, restore community green spaces, and build bioswales to filter stormwater runoff. Centers & Programs Environmental Leadership Training Initiative (ELTI) In critical natural landscapes rich in biodiversity, ELTI empowers local leaders to design and implement land use practices and initiatives that protect tropical forests and the livelihoods of local landowners and their communities. Centers & Programs The Forests Dialogue (TFD) The Forests Dialogue provides a platform for ongoing, multi-stakeholder conversations focused on collaborative solutions to challenges in achieving sustainable forest management and forest conservation. Centers & Programs Tropical Resources Institute (TRI) The Tropical Resources Institute supports student research and on-campus programming aimed at solutions to complex challenges within the conservation and management of tropical environments. Centers & Programs Affiliated: Yale Center for Natural Carbon Capture Finding solutions to climate change through advances in natural carbon sequestration. Centers & Programs Carbon Containment Lab (CC Lab) The Carbon Containment Lab is finding big solutions to the climate challenge, designing and testing innovative, affordable, and scalable methods of atmospheric carbon containment. Centers & Programs Yale Forest Forum (YFF) The hub of communications and engagement for The Forest School, the Yale Forest Forum brings together a diverse group of leaders in forestry and forest policy through regular events and programs. Centers & Programs Ucross High Plains Stewardship Initiative In the vast and diverse American West, the Ucross High Plains Stewardship Initiative promotes land stewardship and conservation through innovative teaching, research, and outreach. Centers & Programs Hixon Center for Urban Ecology The Hixon Center provides an interdisciplinary forum for research, teaching, and outreach that improve our understanding and management of urban environmental systems. Centers & Programs Affiliated: Yale Institute for Biospheric Studies (YIBS) YIBS is an umbrella environmental science center on campus, supporting and inspiring the environmental community at Yale through research and training, grants and fellowships, and weekly seminars and events. Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Degree Program YSE's learning communities span across all master's and doctoral degree programs. RESEARCH DEGREES Master of Environmental Science Master of Forest Science The Doctoral Program at the Yale School of the Environment PROFESSIONAL DEGREES Master of Environmental Management Master of Forestry OTHER DEGREES & PROGRAMS Joint Degrees with Another Yale School Joint Degrees with an Outside Institution Certificate Programs Learning Communities YSE's Learning Communities were created to offer robust interdisciplinary experiences and networks. Students may engage with as many learning communities as they choose, regardless of their degree program or specialization. Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Connect with us Request Information Visit Virtually Apply Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage 195 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 06511 (203) 432-5100 admissions.yse@yale.edu Social Media Links Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Academic Programs Admissions Learning Communities Research & Impact Student Experience About Footer Util Media Inquiries For Employers Job Opportunities Sign Up for Our Newsletter Copyright © 2021, Yale University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Accessibility at Yale