Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage The Forest School Connecting people, forests, and forestry for a sustainable future The Forest School Giving Alumni News Calendar YSE Resources Open the search panel Search Academic Programs Master’s Programs Doctoral Program Certificate Programs Courses Academic Calendar Admissions Master’s Admissions Funding Your Master’s Degree Doctoral Admissions Certificate Program Admissions Visit Campus Why Choose YSE? Learning Communities Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Research & Impact Faculty Explore Our Research Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Research Contacts Student Experience Student Life Career and Professional Development YSE Campus and Virtual Tours Yale Campus Living in New Haven Student Affairs About Hire Our Graduates Leadership Vision and Mission Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Campus History Contact About Our Campus Our Campus From the heart of Yale University’s Science Hill to the forests of New England, this is our home. On This Page The Yale School of the Environment is situated on Science Hill, part of the campus of Yale University in New Haven, Connecticut. Our campus spans seven buildings, including our ultra-sustainable hub of activity, Kroon Hall, and the historic Marsh Hall, home to The Forest School. YSE also owns and manages thousands of acres of research and production forests in Connecticut, Vermont, and New Hampshire — living laboratories for our faculty and students. Additionally, YSE students have access to Yale’s wide network of facilities, including libraries, student centers, dining halls, and fitness and athletic facilities. Campus Tour Video <br /> Yale Forests 10,777 Acres of Forests Sustainably managed, Yale Forests comprise 10,777 acres of forestland in Connecticut, New Hampshire, and Vermont and are an extensive resource for researchers and students as well as local landowners and communities Pictured: Yale-Myers Forest Explore the Forests Subpages Kroon Hall Yale-Myers Forest More in This Section Leadership The YSE leadership team comprises faculty and staff who serve in key administrative roles that support the School community and its major programs and initiatives. Vision and Mission We are leading the world toward a sustainable future with cutting-edge research, teaching, and public engagement on society’s evolving and urgent environmental challenges. Strategic Plan Guided by our storied history, we face today’s environmental challenges with a renewed commitment to groundbreaking scholarship, practice, engagement, and leadership. Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion The Yale School of the Environment is committed to creating an inclusive environment for all students, staff, and faculty. Our Campus From the heart of Yale University’s Science Hill to the forests of New England, this is our home. History From the nation’s first foresters to today’s environmental leaders, this is the story of how we became the Yale School of the Environment. Contact About Connect with us Request Information Visit Virtually Apply Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage 195 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 06511 (203) 432-5100 admissions.yse@yale.edu Social Media Links Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Academic Programs Admissions Learning Communities Research & Impact Student Experience About Footer Util Media Inquiries For Employers Job Opportunities Sign Up for Our Newsletter Copyright © 2021, Yale University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Accessibility at Yale