Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage The Forest School Connecting people, forests, and forestry for a sustainable future The Forest School Giving Alumni News Calendar YSE Resources Open the search panel Search Academic Programs Master’s Programs Doctoral Program Certificate Programs Courses Academic Calendar Admissions Master’s Admissions Funding Your Master’s Degree Doctoral Admissions Certificate Program Admissions Visit Campus Why Choose YSE? Learning Communities Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Research & Impact Faculty Explore Our Research Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Research Contacts Student Experience Student Life Career and Professional Development YSE Campus and Virtual Tours Yale Campus Living in New Haven Student Affairs About Hire Our Graduates Leadership Vision and Mission Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Campus History Contact Career and Professional Development For Employers For Employers Our students are uniquely prepared to face complex environmental challenges in all sectors through our range of graduate degrees and concentrations suited to corporate, government, educational, non-profit and NGO career tracks. On This Page Connect via YSE Next We offer employers with relevant job opportunities free access to our online posting system, YSE Next, to post both full-time and internship opportunities that reach current students and alumni. Create your account to post opportunities and search the candidate database! Post current and future positions directly, collect applications through the system, and communicate with candidates as you see fit. Post a Job or Internship Let Us Connect You to the World’s Future Environmental Leaders Work with us to meet master’s and doctoral students through on-campus recruiting, regional events and major targeted career fairs, our on-line posting system, and through Student Interest Groups and Learning Communities. Recent graduates work worldwide. Work with us to bring an intern to your organization! Our master's degree programs include Environmental Management, Environmental Science, Forest Science and Forestry. Student Spotlights Mapping Panama’s Sustainable Farmlands A researcher for the Environmental Leadership & Training Initiative, Cecilia Rogers ’22 MFS is mapping the success of ELTI’s Panama program that helps cattle ranchers incorporate sustainable practices, such as the use of forested pastureland, into their land management. Working with fellow students, she found that the amount of sustainably managed farmland had significantly increased from 4% in 2011 to 66% in 2020. Generating Climate Solutions While tackling the climate crisis can seem overwhelming at times, Victoria Mansfield ’22 MEM is helping to find answers by overseeing the Climate Solutions Generator, a six-week program run by Yale’s Center for Business and the Environment and the Tsai Center for Innovative Thinking. More than 50 students participated in the program in teams, pitching a solution on issues ranging from food waste to energy. “It is motivating to work with teams of students with interdisciplinary backgrounds who are coming together for innovate solutions,” says Mansfield. Redefining Human-Wildlife Conflict In the Tibetan Plateau, PhD candidate Yufang Gao ’14 MESc interviews, observes, and travels with Tibetan herders and Buddhist monks. He sets up camera traps and collects scat to analyze the diet of snow leopards. And he has hiked a mountainside 15,000 feet above sea level — all in pursuit of data for his dissertation that focuses on the quest for harmonious coexistence between people and large carnivores. What is needed for human-wildlife coexistence is a different perspective about conflict, Gao says. “Conflict,” he has found, “is part of coexistence.” Master of Environmental Science - MESc Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Subpages Summer Internship Guidelines More in This Section For Employers Our students are uniquely prepared to face complex environmental challenges in all sectors through our range of graduate degrees and concentrations suited to corporate, government, educational, non-profit and NGO career tracks. Career and Professional Development Connect with us Request Information Visit Virtually Apply Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage 195 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 06511 (203) 432-5100 admissions.yse@yale.edu Social Media Links Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Academic Programs Admissions Learning Communities Research & Impact Student Experience About Footer Util Media Inquiries For Employers Job Opportunities Sign Up for Our Newsletter Copyright © 2021, Yale University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Accessibility at Yale