Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage The Forest School Connecting people, forests, and forestry for a sustainable future The Forest School Giving Alumni News Calendar YSE Resources Open the search panel Search Academic Programs Master’s Programs Doctoral Program Certificate Programs Courses Academic Calendar Admissions Master’s Admissions Funding Your Master’s Degree Doctoral Admissions Certificate Program Admissions Visit Campus Why Choose YSE? Learning Communities Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Research & Impact Faculty Explore Our Research Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Research Contacts Student Experience Student Life Career and Professional Development YSE Campus and Virtual Tours Yale Campus Living in New Haven Student Affairs About Hire Our Graduates Leadership Vision and Mission Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Campus History Contact Student Experience Student Affairs Student Affairs With students at the heart of all that we do, the Office of Student Affairs creates holistic learning opportunities, programs and services that prepare environmentally focused students to lead, serve and become engaged members of a global society. On This Page Our goal is to provide developmental advising and mentoring as we help YSE students identify and understand the resources and options available, empowering them to make more informed choices that facilitate opportunities to help find a sense of belonging and build relationships across differences. In this process, we hope to foster wellbeing, leadership, and life skills so that they can thrive personally and intellectually at YSE and beyond. The Office of Student Affairs seeks to be transparent in the way we do our work and to engage with students and colleagues in ways that improve the services we provide and the experiences of all the students we serve. Andrés Fernández Assistant Dean of Student Affairs andres.fernandez@yale.edu +1 203-432-6286 Originally from Caracas, Venezuela, Andrés Fernández Álvarez joined YSE in June 2021. Prior to Yale, Andrés was an Associate Dean at Brown University, an Assistant Dean at Oberlin College, an Assistant Director of MBA Admissions at Columbia University, an Advisor for Global Programs at New York University, the Translator to the Venezuelan Ambassador to the United Nations and a Project Manager in a Refugee Camp in Zambia. He hopes to provide developmental advising/mentoring and helping students identify and understand their resources and options, empowering them to make more informed choices, facilitating opportunities to find a sense of belonging and to build relationships across differences. He engages in this work from a place of care, empathy, and compassion. Alyssa Pereira Assistant Director of Student Affairs & Title IX Coordinator alyssa.pereira@yale.edu +1 (203) 432-4247 Alyssa Pereira serves the YSE community as the Assistant Director of Student Affairs and Deputy Title IX Coordinator. Alyssa completed her master’s degree in College Student Personnel Services at Arkansas State University and her bachelor’s degree in Business Management at Albertus Magnus College. As a passionate advocate for the college student experience, Alyssa has enjoyed a rich and varied career in student life. Alyssa has been responsible for student engagement, health and wellness, mentorship, and large-scale programs such as orientation and commencement. Alyssa leads the YSE Title IX Working Group an area she is passionate about. A native of Connecticut, Alyssa was born at Yale New Haven Hospital and grew up in North Haven, a small suburb outside of the City. She currently lives in the town of Bethany with her husband, four children and dog Zoe. In her free time she enjoys gardening, reading, decorating her home and traveling. Mia Wilson Embedded Counselor, Mental Health Provider (LCSW) mia.wilson@yale.edu Mia Wilson is a Licensed Clinical Social Worker and embedded therapist for both the Yale Law School and Yale School of the Environment. Mia graduated with her MSW from New York University and completed a fellowship in Leadership Education in Neurodevelopmental Disabilities at Boston Children’s Hospital. Mia has experience with a variety of populations and settings including crisis, residential, university, and in-home. Her philosophy is that people grow and change often throughout the course of their lives. They experience challenges and transitions and may benefit from extra unbiased support. Her approaches include insight-oriented therapy, CBT, trauma focused, and person-centered therapy. Mia will be available to meet with YSE students: Schedule an appointment. If you do not see a time that works for you please email Mia so you can attempt to find a time. If you need immediate assistance please call 911 or the Acute Care line at 203-432-0290 to speak with an on-call clinician. Cristina Violano Administrative Assistant cristina.violano@yale.edu Cristina joined YSE in 2017 as an administrative assistant providing support to the Student Affairs and Registrar offices. When Cristina isn’t working she can be found trying new restaurants, exercising, or watching her favorite HGTV home improvement shows. Subpages More in This Section Student Life From day trips to Yale-Myers Forest in Connecticut’s Quiet Corner to summer field experience in South Central Colorado, much of YSE learning takes place outside of the classroom — through the programs’ many opportunities for field research and experiential learning. Career and Professional Development From career strategies to resumes and interviewing skills, to jobs, internships, and networking opportunities, our office provides students with individual support for their career and professional development needs. YSE Campus and Virtual Tours Centered in Science Hill, in the Prospect Hill area of New Haven, YSE’s campus spans seven buildings. Yale Campus Yale’s historic tree-lined campus in New Haven dates back 300 years and is home to some of the world’s most comprehensive research facilities, libraries, and global art collections, providing students myriad opportunities to connect, explore and pursue their field of study. Living in New Haven Nicknamed the Elm City for the abundance of elm trees that shade its streets and squares, New Haven provides a cosmopolitan atmosphere and energetic cultural scene with critically acclaimed restaurants, theaters, clubs, concert venues, and museums. Student Affairs With students at the heart of all that we do, the Office of Student Affairs creates holistic learning opportunities, programs and services that prepare environmentally focused students to lead, serve and become engaged members of a global society. Student Experience Connect with us Request Information Visit Virtually Apply Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage 195 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 06511 (203) 432-5100 admissions.yse@yale.edu Social Media Links Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Academic Programs Admissions Learning Communities Research & Impact Student Experience About Footer Util Media Inquiries For Employers Job Opportunities Sign Up for Our Newsletter Copyright © 2021, Yale University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Accessibility at Yale