Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage The Forest School Connecting people, forests, and forestry for a sustainable future The Forest School Giving Alumni News Calendar YSE Resources Open the search panel Search Academic Programs Master’s Programs Doctoral Program Certificate Programs Courses Academic Calendar Admissions Master’s Admissions Funding Your Master’s Degree Doctoral Admissions Certificate Program Admissions Visit Campus Why Choose YSE? Learning Communities Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Research & Impact Faculty Explore Our Research Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Research Contacts Student Experience Student Life Career and Professional Development YSE Campus and Virtual Tours Yale Campus Living in New Haven Student Affairs About Hire Our Graduates Leadership Vision and Mission Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Campus History Contact Admissions Master’s Admissions Master’s Admissions A degree from YSE equips graduates with the knowledge and leadership skills they need to have an immediate impact in a wide range of environmental fields as scholars, policymakers, industry experts, and boots-on-the-ground professionals. On This Page The demand for professionals with training and experience in the environmental field is growing across multiple industries and sectors. Whether you’re just beginning to consider a career in the environmental field or have made the decision to join the YSE community, our Office of Admissions and Financial Aid is here to help. Request InformationAttend an Admissions Event Apply Now Master’s Application Deadline: December 15 For guaranteed consideration of your application, all materials must be completed and submitted electronically no later than the deadline of 11:59 PM EST, December 15. Our Commitment to Diversity YSE is committed to the principles of diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI), including increasing the diversity of our faculty, student body, and staff; increasing access and affordability for underrepresented students; and taking conscious steps to combat racism and other forms of discrimination. Learn More Funding Your Master’s Degree YSE master’s students fund their studies through a variety of sources, including internal and external fellowships, scholarships, awards, and grants. Eighty percent of our students receive some financial aid directly from YSE. Tuition and Financial Aid Ready to have an impact? Whether it is at the local or global level, we help students develop the skills, knowledge, and perspective to navigate complex global environmental issues and help build a sustainable future. How to Apply Student and Alumni Spotlights Indigenous Restoration Approaches As co-founder and executive director of Shelterwood, Nikola Alexandre ’18 MF, MBA leads the restoration of a 900-acre forest in Northern California with Black and Indigenous community approaches to land care. His work creates partnerships with and between traditional conservation NGOs, Indigenous and racial justice organizations, government agencies, and private landowners to model socially just and ecologically sound pathways to protecting and restoring nature. In 2020, Alexandre was named a Pritzker Emerging Environmental Genius Award candidate for his work. Preserving China’s Biodiversity As the executive director of the Shan Shui Conservation Center in China, Irene Xiangying Shi ’13 MESC is helping conservation efforts in the Tibetan Plateau and southern regions. The Center focuses its work on urban ecosystems and endangered species, such as giant pandas and snow leopards. “If we have the right incentives,” she says, “people will conserve nature in the best way." Her efforts have helped build a biodiversity conservation alliance, an information sharing platform on biodiversity, and long-term funding mechanisms to continue work on these issues. Master of Environmental Science — MESc Waste Warrior As founding chair of the New York City Public Housing Authority Recycling Committee, DeNeile Cooper ’22 MEM is working to boost recycling efforts in public housing units. Only 2% of waste from NYCHA units is recycled. Nationally, that rate is 32%. “This work has been successful so far because it involves a variety of stakeholders who bring unique perspectives to create programs that work for everyone,” says Cooper, who is a member of the Manhattan Solid Waste Advisory Board. Master of Environmental Management - MEM Mapping Panama’s Sustainable Farmlands A researcher for the Environmental Leadership & Training Initiative, Cecilia Rogers ’22 MFS is mapping the success of ELTI’s Panama program that helps cattle ranchers incorporate sustainable practices, such as the use of forested pastureland, into their land management. Working with fellow students, she found that the amount of sustainably managed farmland had significantly increased from 4% in 2011 to 66% in 2020. Working to Make the Midwest Greener and Cleaner As the climate solutions director at Clean Wisconsin, a nonprofit whose mission is to fight for clean air and water in the state, Chelsea Chandler ’10 MEM is working to protect one of Wisconsin’s most effective programs: Focus on Energy, the statewide energy efficiency program. By helping people buy efficient lightbulbs or tune up their grain dryers, Focus on Energy has been an enormous success, and Chandler says that evaluations of the program have consistently shown huge returns for the investments. Climate Justice for Cities As a public school teacher in New York City watching socially marginalized Black and Latinx students struggle with inequalities in education and health issues from an emerging lead poisoning crisis, A.J. Hudson ’19 MESc was moved to take action. He helped found a public high school and led neighborhood workshops on climate justice and political action efforts. He also helped organize coalitions to pass New York’s Climate Leadership and Community Protection Act and helped plan the 2019 Youth Climate Summit, the nation’s largest gathering of young people of color passionate about climate change. Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Why choose Yale School of the Environment? Experiential Learning At YSE, education and training extend well beyond the classroom. Participate in our unique summer orientation program, MODs; travel widely for field research and internships; attend global conferences and climate talks such as the U.N. Climate Change Conference (COP 26). Activities and Opportunities Acclaimed Faculty Working closely with some of the top experts in their fields is one of the advantages of a YSE graduate degree. Our faculty are committed to mentoring the next generation of environmental leaders to tackle the world’s most urgent problems. Faculty Profiles Student Profile Student Data 24% U.S. Students of Color Of the incoming class of Fall 2021, 24% of the U.S.-based students identify as students of color. Student Data 3.6 Undergraduate GPA The average undergraduate GPA for incoming students is 3.6. Student Data 33 Countries Represented Our current population of master's students hail from 33 countries, spanning 6 continents. Student Data 21-35 Age Range The current class of first-year master's students at YSE range in age from 21 to 35, with an average of 26. Twenty of those new students have more than 5 years of professional experience. Student Data 325 Master's Students There are typically around 325 master's students and ~75 doctoral students enrolled at YSE each year. Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Contact Master’s Admissions Introduce yourself to the YSE master’s admissions team. Request Information Master’s Admissions admissions.yse@yale.edu +1 203-432-5106 Funding Your Master’s Degree Explore Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid financialaid.yse@yale.edu +1 203-432-5105 Subpages Funding Your Master’s Degree How to Apply to the Master's Programs Master’s Application Materials List Our Commitment to Diversity Office of Admissions and Financial Aid Masters Admissions FAQ More in This Section Master’s Admissions A degree from YSE equips graduates with the knowledge and leadership skills they need to have an immediate impact in a wide range of environmental fields as scholars, policymakers, industry experts, and boots-on-the-ground professionals. Funding Your Master’s Degree Our commitment to diversity and access means our goal is to bring the most promising students into our graduate programs, regardless of financial circumstances. Eighty percent of our master’s students receive financial assistance. Doctoral Admissions Our doctoral program offers scholars from diverse backgrounds the opportunity to pursue a highly individualized area of inquiry under the mentorship of a YSE faculty member. The research conducted by YSE PhD candidates spans global and disciplinary boundaries — and what’s more, it is fully funded. Learn more about how to join this vibrant and dynamic intellectual community. Certificate Program Admissions Earn a Yale non-degree certificate in topics vital to the addressing the climate emergency and achieving a sustainable future. Visit Campus Centered in Science Hill, in the Prospect Hill area of New Haven, YSE’s campus spans seven buildings. Why Choose YSE? At YSE, we are a community that is committed to achieving a sustainable future. Many of our faculty members are thought leaders who have pioneered or redefined their fields of expertise, and they are dedicated to helping our students develop the knowledge base and gain the experience they need to have an immediate impact. Admissions Connect with us Request Information Visit Virtually Apply Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage 195 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 06511 (203) 432-5100 admissions.yse@yale.edu Social Media Links Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Academic Programs Admissions Learning Communities Research & Impact Student Experience About Footer Util Media Inquiries For Employers Job Opportunities Sign Up for Our Newsletter Copyright © 2021, Yale University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Accessibility at Yale