Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage The Forest School Connecting people, forests, and forestry for a sustainable future The Forest School Giving Alumni News Calendar YSE Resources Open the search panel Search Academic Programs Master’s Programs Doctoral Program Certificate Programs Courses Academic Calendar Admissions Master’s Admissions Funding Your Master’s Degree Doctoral Admissions Certificate Program Admissions Visit Campus Why Choose YSE? Learning Communities Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Research & Impact Faculty Explore Our Research Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Research Contacts Student Experience Student Life Career and Professional Development YSE Campus and Virtual Tours Yale Campus Living in New Haven Student Affairs About Hire Our Graduates Leadership Vision and Mission Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Campus History Contact Student Experience Yale Campus Yale Campus Yale’s historic tree-lined campus in New Haven dates back 300 years and is home to some of the world’s most comprehensive research facilities, libraries, and global art collections, providing students myriad opportunities to connect, explore and pursue their field of study. On This Page The Yale campus features more than one million square feet of laboratory space, the world-renowned Yale University Art Gallery, Yale Center for British Art, and Peabody Museum of Natural History. It also has 14 intimate residential college dining halls, more than 20 on-site venues for student theater, music, and dance productions, the 1,500-acre Outdoor Education Center, ice rink, and the historic Yale Bowl. Yale Campus Gallery Sterling Memorial Library Sterling Library houses one of the largest research library collections in the country. Ingalls Rink Designed by Eero Saarinen, the iconic "Yale Whale" is right across the street from Kroon Hall. Yale University Art Gallery The oldest university art museum in America, with a spectacular collection of modern art. Steep Cafe Just steps away from Kroon Hall, Steep Cafe sits at the center of Science Hill, between the new Yale Science Building and Kline Tower. Sterling Memorial Library Sterling Library houses one of the largest research library collections in the country. Ingalls Rink Designed by Eero Saarinen, the iconic "Yale Whale" is right across the street from Kroon Hall. Yale University Art Gallery The oldest university art museum in America, with a spectacular collection of modern art. Steep Cafe Just steps away from Kroon Hall, Steep Cafe sits at the center of Science Hill, between the new Yale Science Building and Kline Tower. Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Subpages More in This Section Student Life From day trips to Yale-Myers Forest in Connecticut’s Quiet Corner to summer field experience in South Central Colorado, much of YSE learning takes place outside of the classroom — through the programs’ many opportunities for field research and experiential learning. Career and Professional Development From career strategies to resumes and interviewing skills, to jobs, internships, and networking opportunities, our office provides students with individual support for their career and professional development needs. YSE Campus and Virtual Tours Centered in Science Hill, in the Prospect Hill area of New Haven, YSE’s campus spans seven buildings. Yale Campus Yale’s historic tree-lined campus in New Haven dates back 300 years and is home to some of the world’s most comprehensive research facilities, libraries, and global art collections, providing students myriad opportunities to connect, explore and pursue their field of study. Living in New Haven Nicknamed the Elm City for the abundance of elm trees that shade its streets and squares, New Haven provides a cosmopolitan atmosphere and energetic cultural scene with critically acclaimed restaurants, theaters, clubs, concert venues, and museums. Student Affairs With students at the heart of all that we do, the Office of Student Affairs creates holistic learning opportunities, programs and services that prepare environmentally focused students to lead, serve and become engaged members of a global society. Student Experience Connect with us Request Information Visit Virtually Apply Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage 195 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 06511 (203) 432-5100 admissions.yse@yale.edu Social Media Links Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Academic Programs Admissions Learning Communities Research & Impact Student Experience About Footer Util Media Inquiries For Employers Job Opportunities Sign Up for Our Newsletter Copyright © 2021, Yale University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Accessibility at Yale