Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage The Forest School Connecting people, forests, and forestry for a sustainable future The Forest School Giving Alumni News Calendar YSE Resources Open the search panel Search Academic Programs Master’s Programs Doctoral Program Certificate Programs Courses Academic Calendar Admissions Master’s Admissions Funding Your Master’s Degree Doctoral Admissions Certificate Program Admissions Visit Campus Why Choose YSE? Learning Communities Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Research & Impact Faculty Explore Our Research Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Research Contacts Student Experience Student Life Career and Professional Development YSE Campus and Virtual Tours Yale Campus Living in New Haven Student Affairs About Hire Our Graduates Leadership Vision and Mission Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Campus History Contact News News Story YSE Class of ’22: Lovinia Reynolds is Headed Home to Fight for Climate Justice Returning to her native Brooklyn, Lovinia Reynolds is graduating from YSE with an eye on climate justice in the largest city in the U.S. Living the first 13 years of her life a short walk from Brooklyn’s Prospect Park, Lovinia Reynolds ’22 MEM has always felt a strong connection to her environment. During her second year at the Yale School of the Environment, Reynolds worked with UPROSE, an intergenerational, multi-racial community organization that promotes sustainability and resiliency in Brooklyn's Sunset Park neighborhood through community organizing, education, indigenous and youth leadership development, and cultural/artistic expression. She coupled this work with a summer internship at BlueHub Capital, where she helped develop a program promoting access for low-income communities to electric vehicles. She also worked with a mutual aid group prior to attending YSE, which tied perfectly into her goal of understanding how environmental crises can be used to address the crises of systemic injustices taking place in marginalized communities. “That’s why I came to YSE,” says Reynolds, who admits that after her undergraduate studies in geology and biology at Brown, she wanted more space to “address issues of racial injustice” in environmental challenges. After working with the Environmental Justice Clinic at the University of Miami School of Law and the Environmental Law Institute in Washington, D.C., she tailored her academic focus at YSE to leveraging energy efficiency and renewable energy as ways to create wealth and health in marginalized communities. At YSE, Reynolds found numerous ways to get the most out of her two-year experience. She worked with the Justice, Equity, Diversity and Sustainability Initiative to plan the New Horizons in Conservation Conference; she completed an independent study with Narasimha Rao, associate professor of energy systems and a leading expert in energy justice; she contributed to research for a course on energy justice with Ken Gillingham, professor of environmental and energy economics; and she completed capstone work with UPROSE and the city of Ithaca, New York, on energy justice, giving her an opportunity to work on community-based efforts. “Addressing environmental justice is an ongoing journey at YSE,” Reynolds says. “But many professors are starting to tie these ideas into their teaching, and the School is creating more platforms for students to share their ideas.” News Brave, Persistent, and Nimble, the YSE Class of 2022 is Ready to Defy the Odds After facing “the toughest challenge in a generation,” the YSE Class of 2022 graduated May 23 with a unique sense of community and the will to lead. Reynolds says her fellow students were a lifeline during the last two years that were overshadowed by the COVID-19 pandemic. She recalls emailing classmates after particularly impactful classroom conversations, creating spaces to continue talking about critical environmental challenges and making lasting friendships along the way. “It means a lot to be in a space where people are passionate about similar issues,” she says. “Now that we’re talking about the next steps in our careers, we realize that we’re going to have a lot of influence in how we handle environmental challenges moving forward. It’s kind of incredible to think that our friends will be the ones making impactful decisions in the environmental space.” For Reynolds, the next step will be returning to UPROSE as a policy planner addressing climate justice in New York City — with a bolstered passion for justice, a deep investment in the city that raised her, and a network of environmental professionals at her back. “I’m so excited for this next chapter. I feel extremely lucky to be working on issues I care deeply about in a community that means so much to me.” More Class of ’22 Profiles News YSE Class of ’22: Akshyah Krishnakumar Seeks to Make Change from the Inside Akshyah Krishnakumar is seeking to achieve clean energy goals by working from the inside — starting with the fourth largest corporation in the world. News YSE Class of ’22: Kyle Lemle’s Love of Forests Guides His Work on Climate Change Whether leading climate protests, fighting for Indigenous land rights, or working the land at Yale-Myers, Kyle Lemle is keeping his focus on the importance of forests. News YSE Class of ’22: Kristina Rodriguez is Focused on Preserving Coastal Ecosystems A childhood appreciation of South Florida’s dunes and mangroves led Kristina Rodriguez to become deeply invested in conserving the state’s coastal ecosystems for future generations. Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Published May 13, 2022 Tags MEM Profiles / Features Energy and the Environment People, Equity, and the Environment Students Media Contact Josh Anusewicz Assistant Editor joshua.anusewicz@yale.edu +1 203-436-8994 Related Stories News YSE Welcomes Back Classes of 2020, 2021 for In-Person Alumni Commencement Celebration Nearly 100 graduates returned to campus with family and friends for an in-person celebration, which included ceremonies at Old Campus and Kroon Courtyard. News YSE Class of ’22: Akshyah Krishnakumar Seeks to Make Change from the Inside Akshyah Krishnakumar is seeking to achieve clean energy goals by working from the inside — starting with the fourth largest corporation in the world. News YSE 2022 Commencement Information Details of the May 23 commencement ceremony for the Class of 2022! Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Connect with us Request Information Visit Virtually Apply Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage 195 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 06511 (203) 432-5100 admissions.yse@yale.edu Social Media Links Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Academic Programs Admissions Learning Communities Research & Impact Student Experience About Footer Util Media Inquiries For Employers Job Opportunities Sign Up for Our Newsletter Copyright © 2021, Yale University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Accessibility at Yale