Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage The Forest School Connecting people, forests, and forestry for a sustainable future The Forest School Giving Alumni News Calendar YSE Resources Open the search panel Search Academic Programs Master’s Programs Doctoral Program Certificate Programs Courses Academic Calendar Admissions Master’s Admissions Funding Your Master’s Degree Doctoral Admissions Certificate Program Admissions Visit Campus Why Choose YSE? Learning Communities Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Research & Impact Faculty Explore Our Research Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Research Contacts Student Experience Student Life Career and Professional Development YSE Campus and Virtual Tours Yale Campus Living in New Haven Student Affairs About Hire Our Graduates Leadership Vision and Mission Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Campus History Contact Admissions Funding Your Master’s Degree Funding Your Master’s Degree Our commitment to diversity and access means our goal is to bring the most promising students into our graduate programs, regardless of financial circumstances. Eighty percent of our master’s students receive financial assistance. On This Page The Office of Admissions and Financial Aid is committed to: Assisting you in understanding our programs and the resources and options available to you; Flexibility and concern in responding to individual circumstances and special needs, consistent with the guidelines of our general policies; Protecting the confidentially of the information you provide us; and Doing the best to notify you of any changes in federal programs and YSE policies. Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Fellowships Strategic Scholarship Partnerships Student Employment Student Loans External Funding Financial Aid FAQ Tuition Payments Update In light of mail complexities caused by ongoing COVID-19 concerns, all checks for tuition payments should be sent directly to: Student Finance & Administration PO Box 208232 New Haven, CT 06520-8232 Sending payments to the YSE Office of Admissions and Financial Aid may result in delays as our office is operating virtually until further notice. Please contact financialaid.yse@yale.edu if you have any questions. Financial Aid at YSE When applying for financial aid, students are considered for the following sources of aid: YSE Scholarships Most of our scholarship budget is funded by private donors. Scholarship recipients are automatically considered for all named scholarships. These named scholarships are not in addition to any generic scholarship a student receives in their financial aid award notification, but may be matched to a scholarship recipient once the student matriculates. Work Study Federal Direct Loans for U.S. Citizens and Permanent Residents Yale International Loans for International Students Students may also seek funding from other sources: Strategic Scholarship Partnerships External Funding Opportunities Student Employment Loans Contact YSE Financial Aid Get In Touch Financial Aid financialaid.yse@yale.edu +1 203-432-5105 Subpages More in This Section Master’s Admissions A degree from YSE equips graduates with the knowledge and leadership skills they need to have an immediate impact in a wide range of environmental fields as scholars, policymakers, industry experts, and boots-on-the-ground professionals. Funding Your Master’s Degree Our commitment to diversity and access means our goal is to bring the most promising students into our graduate programs, regardless of financial circumstances. Eighty percent of our master’s students receive financial assistance. Doctoral Admissions Our doctoral program offers scholars from diverse backgrounds the opportunity to pursue a highly individualized area of inquiry under the mentorship of a YSE faculty member. The research conducted by YSE PhD candidates spans global and disciplinary boundaries — and what’s more, it is fully funded. Learn more about how to join this vibrant and dynamic intellectual community. Certificate Program Admissions Earn a Yale non-degree certificate in topics vital to the addressing the climate emergency and achieving a sustainable future. Visit Campus Centered in Science Hill, in the Prospect Hill area of New Haven, YSE’s campus spans seven buildings. Why Choose YSE? At YSE, we are a community that is committed to achieving a sustainable future. Many of our faculty members are thought leaders who have pioneered or redefined their fields of expertise, and they are dedicated to helping our students develop the knowledge base and gain the experience they need to have an immediate impact. Admissions Connect with us Request Information Visit Virtually Apply Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage 195 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 06511 (203) 432-5100 admissions.yse@yale.edu Social Media Links Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Academic Programs Admissions Learning Communities Research & Impact Student Experience About Footer Util Media Inquiries For Employers Job Opportunities Sign Up for Our Newsletter Copyright © 2021, Yale University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Accessibility at Yale