Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage The Forest School Connecting people, forests, and forestry for a sustainable future The Forest School Giving Alumni News Calendar YSE Resources Open the search panel Search Academic Programs Master’s Programs Doctoral Program Certificate Programs Courses Academic Calendar Admissions Master’s Admissions Funding Your Master’s Degree Doctoral Admissions Certificate Program Admissions Visit Campus Why Choose YSE? Learning Communities Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Research & Impact Faculty Explore Our Research Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Research Contacts Student Experience Student Life Career and Professional Development YSE Campus and Virtual Tours Yale Campus Living in New Haven Student Affairs About Hire Our Graduates Leadership Vision and Mission Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Campus History Contact About Contact Media Inquiries Media Inquiries Let us connect you to our faculty experts. On This Page The Office of Communications serves as the liaison between media and faculty. For media inquiries and faculty interview requests, contact media.yse@yale.edu. Please include in the body of your email the name of your publication, deadline and specific topic. Fran Silverman Associate Director of Communications fran.silverman@yale.edu +1 203-436-4842 Josh Anusewicz Assistant Editor joshua.anusewicz@yale.edu +1 203-436-8994 To schedule an interview with or request comment from YSE Dean Indy Burke, please contact Paige Stein: Paige Stein Executive Director of Strategic Communications paige.stein@yale.edu +1 203-432-3631 For inquiries about use of the Yale School of the Environment logo, please contact: Angela Chen-Wolf Associate Director of Design angela.chen-wolf@yale.edu Faculty Directory News Stay Informed on YSE Research We highlight three news and research stories about the work we’re doing at the Yale School of the Environment to achieve sustainability — for ourselves and future generations. Subscribe to “YSE 3” Research in the News View More Stories News 2022 Environmental Performance Index Finds World Is Not on Track to Meet Climate Commitments The United States is among four nations projected to fall far short of the net-zero greenhouse gas emissions target established by the 2021 Glasgow Climate Pact — with over 50% of global emissions expected to come from the U.S., China, India, and Russia by 2050. News Research on Rapid, Fine-Scale Evolution in Wood Frogs Wins 2022 Bormann Prize Andis Arietta’s doctoral research found that frogs have evolved in response to climate change in recent years, but that continued warming would likely outpace the species’s ability to adapt to extreme environmental change. News Pandemic Shutdowns Give Window into Environmental Racism in California’s Air Pollution Policy Study finds that though air pollution is highly regulated in California, environmental policy as a whole is not protecting all communities in an equal way: Regulatory machinery has been preferentially protecting White, non-Hispanic people from exposure. Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Subpages Contact Connect with us Request Information Visit Virtually Apply Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage 195 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 06511 (203) 432-5100 admissions.yse@yale.edu Social Media Links Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Academic Programs Admissions Learning Communities Research & Impact Student Experience About Footer Util Media Inquiries For Employers Job Opportunities Sign Up for Our Newsletter Copyright © 2021, Yale University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Accessibility at Yale