Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage The Forest School Connecting people, forests, and forestry for a sustainable future The Forest School Giving Alumni News Calendar YSE Resources Open the search panel Search Academic Programs Master’s Programs Doctoral Program Certificate Programs Courses Academic Calendar Admissions Master’s Admissions Funding Your Master’s Degree Doctoral Admissions Certificate Program Admissions Visit Campus Why Choose YSE? Learning Communities Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Research & Impact Faculty Explore Our Research Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Research Contacts Student Experience Student Life Career and Professional Development YSE Campus and Virtual Tours Yale Campus Living in New Haven Student Affairs About Hire Our Graduates Leadership Vision and Mission Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Campus History Contact About Vision and Mission Vision and Mission We are leading the world toward a sustainable future with cutting-edge research, teaching, and public engagement on society’s evolving and urgent environmental challenges. On This Page Knowledge and leadership for a sustainable future” Core Values Our Mission and Vision are grounded in seven fundamental values: Excellence: We promote and engage in path-breaking science, policy, and business models that build on a fundamental commitment to analytic rigor, data, intellectual integrity, and excellence. Leadership: We attract outstanding students nationally and internationally and offer a pioneering curriculum that defines the knowledge and skills needed to be a 21st century environmental leader in a range of professions. Sustainability: We generate knowledge that will advance thinking and understanding across the various dimensions of sustainability. Community: We offer a community that finds strength in its collegiality, diversity, independence, commitment to excellence, and lifelong learning. Diversity: We celebrate our differences and identify pathways to a sustainable future that respects diverse values including equity, liberty, and civil discourse. Collaboration: We foster collaborative learning, professional skill development, and problem-solving — and we strengthen our scholarship, teaching, policy work, and outreach through partnerships across the university and beyond. Responsibility: We encourage environmental stewardship and responsible behavior on campus and beyond. Guiding Principles In pursuit of our Mission and Vision, we: Build on more than a century of work bringing science-based strategies, ethical considerations, and conservation practices to natural resource management. Approach problems on a systems basis and from interdisciplinary perspectives. Integrate theory and practice, providing innovative solutions to society’s most pressing environmental problems. Address environmental challenges at multiple scales and settings — from local to global, urban to rural, managed to wild. Draw on the depth of resources at Yale University and our network of alumni who extend across the world. Create opportunities for research, policy application, and professional development through our unique centers and programs. Provide a diverse forum to convene conversations on difficult issues that are critical to progress on sustainability. Bring special focus on the most significant threats to a sustainable future including climate change, the corresponding need for clean energy, and the increasing stresses on our natural resources. Statement of Environmental Policy As faculty, staff, and students of the Yale School of the Environment, we affirm our commitment to responsible stewardship of the environment of our School, our University, the city of New Haven, and the other sites of our teaching, research, professional, and social activities. In the course of these activities, we shall strive to: reduce our use of natural resources; support the sustainable production of the resources we must use by purchasing renewable, reusable, recyclable, and recycled materials; minimize our use of toxic substances and ensure that unavoidable use is in full compliance with federal, state, and local environmental regulations; reduce the amount of waste we generate and promote strategies to reuse and recycle those wastes that cannot be avoided; restore the environment where possible. Each member of the School community is encouraged to set an example for others by serving as an active steward of our environment. Subpages More in This Section Leadership The YSE leadership team comprises faculty and staff who serve in key administrative roles that support the School community and its major programs and initiatives. Vision and Mission We are leading the world toward a sustainable future with cutting-edge research, teaching, and public engagement on society’s evolving and urgent environmental challenges. Strategic Plan Guided by our storied history, we face today’s environmental challenges with a renewed commitment to groundbreaking scholarship, practice, engagement, and leadership. Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion The Yale School of the Environment is committed to creating an inclusive environment for all students, staff, and faculty. Our Campus From the heart of Yale University’s Science Hill to the forests of New England, this is our home. History From the nation’s first foresters to today’s environmental leaders, this is the story of how we became the Yale School of the Environment. Contact About Connect with us Request Information Visit Virtually Apply Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage 195 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 06511 (203) 432-5100 admissions.yse@yale.edu Social Media Links Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Academic Programs Admissions Learning Communities Research & Impact Student Experience About Footer Util Media Inquiries For Employers Job Opportunities Sign Up for Our Newsletter Copyright © 2021, Yale University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Accessibility at Yale