Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage The Forest School Connecting people, forests, and forestry for a sustainable future The Forest School Giving Alumni News Calendar YSE Resources Open the search panel Search Academic Programs Master’s Programs Doctoral Program Certificate Programs Courses Academic Calendar Admissions Master’s Admissions Funding Your Master’s Degree Doctoral Admissions Certificate Program Admissions Visit Campus Why Choose YSE? Learning Communities Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Research & Impact Faculty Explore Our Research Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Research Contacts Student Experience Student Life Career and Professional Development YSE Campus and Virtual Tours Yale Campus Living in New Haven Student Affairs About Hire Our Graduates Leadership Vision and Mission Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Campus History Contact Academic Programs Doctoral Program Doctor of Philosophy — PhD The doctoral program cultivates scholars who are equipped to understand and develop solutions to complex environmental challenges. On This Page Program Overview Open Full Program Overview Doctoral students work with the school’s world-renowned faculty to collaboratively design cutting-edge research projects that engage them in scientific discovery, policy, public discourse, and action. The five-year program is fully funded and independent of any faculty research grants, allowing doctoral students the intellectual freedom to explore the environmental issues that most inspire them. Students also have access to a broad array of resources across Yale University and its professional and graduate schools, including its faculty and library system. Graduates complete the doctoral program having gained disciplinary depth and strong leadership skills that enable success in any career path — academic, government research, policy, nonprofits, and the private sector. Doctoral students at YSE receive five years of guaranteed funding, independent of any faculty research grants, allowing doctoral students the intellectual freedom to explore the environmental issues that most inspire them. Doctoral Program Handbook Combined PhD — Yale Anthropology Combined PhD — New York Botanical Garden Degree Awarded Doctor of Philosophy — PhD Program Duration 5 Years Required Credit Hours N/A Additional Program Options Combined PhD — Yale Anthropology Combined PhD — NY Botanical Garden Jump to Admissions & Financial Aid Why YSE Doctoral Programs? Research Independence and Funding Doctoral students at YSE receive five years of guaranteed funding, independent of any faculty research grants, allowing doctoral students the intellectual freedom to explore the environmental issues that most inspire them. Current Dissertation Titles Funding Information Acclaimed Faculty Working closely with some of the top experts in their fields is one of the advantages of a YSE doctoral degree. Our faculty are committed to mentoring the next generation of environmental leaders to tackle the world’s most urgent problems. YSE Faculty Student and Alumni Spotlights Redefining Human-Wildlife Conflict In the Tibetan Plateau, PhD candidate Yufang Gao ’14 MESc interviews, observes, and travels with Tibetan herders and Buddhist monks. He sets up camera traps and collects scat to analyze the diet of snow leopards. And he has hiked a mountainside 15,000 feet above sea level — all in pursuit of data for his dissertation that focuses on the quest for harmonious coexistence between people and large carnivores. What is needed for human-wildlife coexistence is a different perspective about conflict, Gao says. “Conflict,” he has found, “is part of coexistence.” Master of Environmental Science - MESc Insights from the Night Sky Using data from the Visible Infrared Imaging Radiometer Suite aboard NASA’s Suomi NPP satellite spacecraft, Eleanor Stokes ’18 PhD is mapping disaster impacts in vulnerable communities. As co-leader of Black Marble, NASA’s first nighttime light dataset, Stokes has helped FEMA and other relief organizations direct their boots-on-the ground operations after natural disasters. “Humanity is facing major global risks from extreme weather and rising sea levels,” she says. “It’s very important to have a satellite record that can speak to the human piece of the puzzle.” Doctor of Philosophy — PhD Tracking Forest Inventory Richard Guldin ’76 MFS, ’79 PhD has helped reinvent the U.S. Forest Service’s Forest Inventory and Analysis (FIA) program by integrating new sampling designs, field procedures, and innovative software to create an annual inventory that has become a global model. His work earned him the Society of American Foresters’ Sir William Schlich Award. Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Contact the Doctoral Program Elisabeth Barsa is the contact for students interested in the YSE doctoral program. Elisabeth Barsa Doctoral Program Coordinator elisabeth.barsa@yale.edu 203-432-5146 Subpages Doctoral Dissertation Titles Combined Doctoral Degree with Anthropology Combined Doctoral Degree with the New York Botanical Garden More in This Section Master’s Programs Each of our 4 master’s degrees and 17 joint degree programs are designed to foster interdisciplinary collaboration and incorporate diverse perspectives on critical environmental issues. Doctoral Program The doctoral program cultivates scholars who are equipped to understand and develop solutions to complex environmental challenges. Certificate Programs Earn a Yale non-degree certificate in topics vital to the addressing the climate emergency and achieving a sustainable future. Academic Calendar The Yale School of the Environment 2021-22 academic year schedule (subject to change) Academic Programs Related PhD Student Directory Doctoral Admissions Connect with us Request Information Visit Virtually Apply Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage 195 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 06511 (203) 432-5100 admissions.yse@yale.edu Social Media Links Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Academic Programs Admissions Learning Communities Research & Impact Student Experience About Footer Util Media Inquiries For Employers Job Opportunities Sign Up for Our Newsletter Copyright © 2021, Yale University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Accessibility at Yale