Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage The Forest School Connecting people, forests, and forestry for a sustainable future The Forest School Giving Alumni News Calendar YSE Resources Open the search panel Search Academic Programs Master’s Programs Doctoral Program Certificate Programs Courses Academic Calendar Admissions Master’s Admissions Funding Your Master’s Degree Doctoral Admissions Certificate Program Admissions Visit Campus Why Choose YSE? Learning Communities Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Research & Impact Faculty Explore Our Research Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Research Contacts Student Experience Student Life Career and Professional Development YSE Campus and Virtual Tours Yale Campus Living in New Haven Student Affairs About Hire Our Graduates Leadership Vision and Mission Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Campus History Contact Alumni Stay connected with YSE and thousands of alumni around the world through events, professional networking, and volunteer opportunities. On This Page Alumni Impacts Rehabilitating Ghana’s Forests As the director of operations for Ghana’s Forestry Commission, Hugh Brown ’10 MF oversees the country’s commercial forest plantation development and land restoration. About 450,000 hectares are being rehabilitated under his guidance. In 2020, Brown was given YSE’s Prospect Street Award, which recognizes a graduate of the last decade who has made a significant impact in their field. “Landscape restoration,’’ says Brown, “is a team sport.” Master of Forestry — MF Insights from the Night Sky Using data from the Visible Infrared Imaging Radiometer Suite aboard NASA’s Suomi NPP satellite spacecraft, Eleanor Stokes ’18 PhD is mapping disaster impacts in vulnerable communities. As co-leader of Black Marble, NASA’s first nighttime light dataset, Stokes has helped FEMA and other relief organizations direct their boots-on-the ground operations after natural disasters. “Humanity is facing major global risks from extreme weather and rising sea levels,” she says. “It’s very important to have a satellite record that can speak to the human piece of the puzzle.” Doctor of Philosophy — PhD Working to Make the Midwest Greener and Cleaner As the climate solutions director at Clean Wisconsin, a nonprofit whose mission is to fight for clean air and water in the state, Chelsea Chandler ’10 MEM is working to protect one of Wisconsin’s most effective programs: Focus on Energy, the statewide energy efficiency program. By helping people buy efficient lightbulbs or tune up their grain dryers, Focus on Energy has been an enormous success, and Chandler says that evaluations of the program have consistently shown huge returns for the investments. Preserving China’s Biodiversity As the executive director of the Shan Shui Conservation Center in China, Irene Xiangying Shi ’13 MESC is helping conservation efforts in the Tibetan Plateau and southern regions. The Center focuses its work on urban ecosystems and endangered species, such as giant pandas and snow leopards. “If we have the right incentives,” she says, “people will conserve nature in the best way." Her efforts have helped build a biodiversity conservation alliance, an information sharing platform on biodiversity, and long-term funding mechanisms to continue work on these issues. Master of Environmental Science — MESc Indigenous Restoration Approaches As co-founder and executive director of Shelterwood, Nikola Alexandre ’18 MF, MBA leads the restoration of a 900-acre forest in Northern California with Black and Indigenous community approaches to land care. His work creates partnerships with and between traditional conservation NGOs, Indigenous and racial justice organizations, government agencies, and private landowners to model socially just and ecologically sound pathways to protecting and restoring nature. In 2020, Alexandre was named a Pritzker Emerging Environmental Genius Award candidate for his work. Restoring Belize’s Landscapes Ki’ila Salas ’19 MF returned to her home country of Belize to participate in its first landscape restoration initiative, helping to develop its National Landscape Restoration Strategy for the Belize Forest Department. The project is part of the country’s national restoration commitment to the Bonn Challenge, which has a global goal to bring 350 million hectares of degraded and deforested landscapes into restoration by 2030. “The project gave me great pride and joy in guiding the process of how the restoration strategies should be accomplished,” says Salas. Tracking Bear Movements After Rae Wynn-Grant ’10 MESc studied bears in the Nevada mountains, the National Geographic Society sent her to conduct similar work with the American Prairie Reserve in the grasslands of Montana — a region where bears are not common. The nonprofit is seeking create a national wildlife refuge. Wynn-Grant began working with carnivores while at YSE, tracking lions in Tanzania. She has leaned on her expertise to predict which habitats will attract bears, using state and federal data and camera traps to monitor bear movements and habitats. Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Stay Connected Alumni can connect with other YSE alumni and students through events, networking on AlumniFire, volunteering, and contributing to our mission — among other opportunities. Stay up to date with YSE by updating your contact information. Stay Connected Make a Gift Support the School with a gift to the YSE Annual Fund. Recent graduates are also encouraged to make a Class Gift to support scholarships for incoming students. Give Now Wear Your YSE Show off your school pride with YSE hats, shirts, hoodies — even onesies for the little one! Learn how our new line of “swag” was done the sustainable way. Shop for Swag Canopy Magazine Read the latest issue of Canopy, our alumni magazine. Read Canopy Reunion Join your classmates to reconnect, learn, and have fun! Attend Reunion Office of Development and Alumni Services 205 Prospect Street, 2nd Floor, Room 20 New Haven, CT 06511 +1 203-432-5697 alumni.yse@yale.edu Hannah Peragine Development and Alumni Services Officer hannah.peragine@yale.edu +1 203-432-4511 More in This Section Reunion YSE offered an engaging and varied program for our virtual reunion, October 7-10, including time for classes to gather with special guests, opportunities to showcase alumni achievements and learn new things, and good old-fashioned fun. Stay Connected There are a variety of ways alumni can connect with other YSE alumni and students by volunteering and contributing to our mission. Alumni Association Board Meet the alumni volunteers who are promoting the interests of YSE alumni and the School. Career Support and Professional Community The YSE alumni community provides a personal and professional network that sustains our graduates throughout their careers and professional lives. Canopy Magazine The Yale School of Environment alumni magazine Connect with us Request Information Visit Virtually Apply Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage 195 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 06511 (203) 432-5100 admissions.yse@yale.edu Social Media Links Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Academic Programs Admissions Learning Communities Research & Impact Student Experience About Footer Util Media Inquiries For Employers Job Opportunities Sign Up for Our Newsletter Copyright © 2021, Yale University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Accessibility at Yale