Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage The Forest School Connecting people, forests, and forestry for a sustainable future The Forest School Giving Alumni News Calendar YSE Resources Open the search panel Search Academic Programs Master’s Programs Doctoral Program Certificate Programs Courses Academic Calendar Admissions Master’s Admissions Funding Your Master’s Degree Doctoral Admissions Certificate Program Admissions Visit Campus Why Choose YSE? Learning Communities Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Research & Impact Faculty Explore Our Research Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Research Contacts Student Experience Student Life Career and Professional Development YSE Campus and Virtual Tours Yale Campus Living in New Haven Student Affairs About Hire Our Graduates Leadership Vision and Mission Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Campus History Contact Commencement 2022 Wrap-Up This year, the Yale School of the Environment celebrated three different graduating classes with two separate ceremonies. On This Page Class of 2022 News Brave, Persistent, and Nimble, the YSE Class of 2022 is Ready to Defy the Odds After facing “the toughest challenge in a generation,” the YSE Class of 2022 graduated May 23 with a unique sense of community and the will to lead. Read this Story Meet the Graduates News YSE Class of ’22: Akshyah Krishnakumar Seeks to Make Change from the Inside Akshyah Krishnakumar is seeking to achieve clean energy goals by working from the inside — starting with the fourth largest corporation in the world. News YSE Class of ’22: Kyle Lemle’s Love of Forests Guides His Work on Climate Change Whether leading climate protests, fighting for Indigenous land rights, or working the land at Yale-Myers, Kyle Lemle is keeping his focus on the importance of forests. News YSE Class of ’22: Lovinia Reynolds is Headed Home to Fight for Climate Justice Returning to her native Brooklyn, Lovinia Reynolds is graduating from YSE with an eye on climate justice in the largest city in the U.S. News YSE Class of ’22: Kristina Rodriguez is Focused on Preserving Coastal Ecosystems A childhood appreciation of South Florida’s dunes and mangroves led Kristina Rodriguez to become deeply invested in conserving the state’s coastal ecosystems for future generations. Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Classes of 2020 and 2021 News YSE Welcomes Back Classes of 2020, 2021 for In-Person Alumni Commencement Celebration Nearly 100 graduates returned to campus with family and friends for an in-person celebration, which included ceremonies at Old Campus and Kroon Courtyard. Read this Story Photo Gallery Classes of 2020 and 2021 Connect with us Request Information Visit Virtually Apply Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage 195 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 06511 (203) 432-5100 admissions.yse@yale.edu Social Media Links Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Academic Programs Admissions Learning Communities Research & Impact Student Experience About Footer Util Media Inquiries For Employers Job Opportunities Sign Up for Our Newsletter Copyright © 2021, Yale University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Accessibility at Yale