Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage The Forest School Connecting people, forests, and forestry for a sustainable future The Forest School Giving Alumni News Calendar YSE Resources Open the search panel Search Academic Programs Master’s Programs Doctoral Program Certificate Programs Courses Academic Calendar Admissions Master’s Admissions Funding Your Master’s Degree Doctoral Admissions Certificate Program Admissions Visit Campus Why Choose YSE? Learning Communities Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Research & Impact Faculty Explore Our Research Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Research Contacts Student Experience Student Life Career and Professional Development YSE Campus and Virtual Tours Yale Campus Living in New Haven Student Affairs About Hire Our Graduates Leadership Vision and Mission Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Campus History Contact Academic Programs Master’s Programs Master of Environmental Management — MEM Master of Environmental Management - MEM This program provides students with an in-depth understanding of natural and social systems that can be applied to environmental and natural resource problem solving in a policy or management context. On This Page Program Overview Open Full Program Overview The Master of Environmental Management curriculum draws from coursework in the natural and social sciences and focuses on the complex relationships among science, management, and policy. The purpose of the program is to provide students with an in-depth understanding of natural and social systems that can be applied to environmental and natural resource problem solving in a policy or management context. In addition to course work, students are expected to hone their capacities as leaders and managers through summer internships, professional skills courses, and other opportunities. The MEM curriculum requires students to focus on an area of specialization, while still offering the flexibility to tailor their course programming in a way that exposes them to other disciplines and subject areas. This structure assures that students develop both depth and breadth in their course of study. Students can choose from more than 100 courses offered by YSE faculty and have access to an even larger number of courses from across Yale University. MEM Goals Provide the broad knowledge necessary to engage in 21st century environmental challenges while gaining the depth required to offer expertise Expose students to diverse perspectives and approaches to environmental problem-solving Offer clear pathways for subject immersion through required specializations while encouraging exploration Foster interdisciplinary teamwork focused on developing and validating solutions to environmental challenges Equip students with practical, professional skills needed to be effective organizational leaders Support student learning, training, and engagement through robust learning communities MEM Curriculum Details Degree Awarded Master of Environmental Management — MEM Program Duration 2 Years Required Credit Hours 48 Additional Program Options Joint Degree Programs Jump to Admissions & Financial Aid Specializations Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Self-Designed MEM Specializations All MEM students are required to choose one specialization. Specialization are designed to ensure that students obtain sufficient depth in their chosen area of study. Specialization requirements account for 18 of the 48 total credits required for the MEM degree, and it is possible to add a second specialization. Students have until the end of their second semester of study to choose their specialization, which will be listed on their transcript, upon completion. Why choose Yale School of the Environment? Experiential Learning At YSE, education and training extend well beyond the classroom. Participate in our unique summer orientation program, MODs; travel widely for field research and internships; attend global conferences and climate talks such as the U.N. Climate Change Conference (COP 26). Activities and Opportunities Acclaimed Faculty Working closely with some of the top experts in their fields is one of the advantages of a YSE graduate degree. Our faculty are committed to mentoring the next generation of environmental leaders to tackle the world’s most urgent problems. Faculty Profiles Student and Alumni Impacts Waste Warrior As founding chair of the New York City Public Housing Authority Recycling Committee, DeNeile Cooper ’22 MEM is working to boost recycling efforts in public housing units. Only 2% of waste from NYCHA units is recycled. Nationally, that rate is 32%. “This work has been successful so far because it involves a variety of stakeholders who bring unique perspectives to create programs that work for everyone,” says Cooper, who is a member of the Manhattan Solid Waste Advisory Board. Master of Environmental Management - MEM Generating Climate Solutions While tackling the climate crisis can seem overwhelming at times, Victoria Mansfield ’22 MEM is helping to find answers by overseeing the Climate Solutions Generator, a six-week program run by Yale’s Center for Business and the Environment and the Tsai Center for Innovative Thinking. More than 50 students participated in the program in teams, pitching a solution on issues ranging from food waste to energy. “It is motivating to work with teams of students with interdisciplinary backgrounds who are coming together for innovate solutions,” says Mansfield. Tree Equity Using income, age, ethnicity, health, and surface temperature data and tree canopy surveys, Ian Leahy ’21 MEM, vice president of urban forestry at American Forests, helped create a Tree Equity Score. Wealthy urban communities, it found, have 65% more tree cover than low-income neighborhoods where temperatures can range 10 degrees higher. The issue is a matter of health, Leahy noted in a New York Times Op-Ed., and his efforts have led to more financial support for urban tree growth. “What we're trying to do right now,’’ he says, “is close the canopy gap to save lives.’’ Master of Environmental Management - MEM Working to Make the Midwest Greener and Cleaner As the climate solutions director at Clean Wisconsin, a nonprofit whose mission is to fight for clean air and water in the state, Chelsea Chandler ’10 MEM is working to protect one of Wisconsin’s most effective programs: Focus on Energy, the statewide energy efficiency program. By helping people buy efficient lightbulbs or tune up their grain dryers, Focus on Energy has been an enormous success, and Chandler says that evaluations of the program have consistently shown huge returns for the investments. Re-imagining Urban Tree Life Cambium Carbon, a startup company founded by Ben Christensen ’20 MEM and Marisa Repka ’20 MEM, is re-imagining the urban tree lifecycle — and combatting climate change in the process. The company is building “reforestation hubs,” a unique private-public partnership that restores city forests across the U.S. Cambium Carbon received its initial funding from the Center for Business and the Environment at Yale and the Tsai Center for Innovative Thinking at Yale. It launched pilot reforestation hubs in four U.S. cities in 2021. It recently raised $3 million in seed funding that will allow it to reinvest in urban tree restoration and create local jobs. Master of Environmental Management - MEM Preserving and Restoring Urban Forests Sarah Charlop-Powers ’09 MEM is helping to preserve and restore critical urban forests in New York City and beyond. In 2012, she helped launch the Natural Areas Conservancy (NAC), which has partnered with NYC Parks to create the innovative Forest Management Framework that conducted field-based ecological assessments in the city. Its efforts recently expanded with a national survey distributed to 125 cities and organizations across the U.S. aimed at gaining a better understanding of how urban forests and natural areas are being managed. Sustainable Trail Foods Caroline Ebinger ’22 MEM/MBA is promoting an earth-friendly lifestyle through a startup company, Mesa Foods, that sells spice mixes for backpacking meals. Working the concept through Yale’s Tsai Center for Innovative Thinking, Ebinger, in partnership with Tony Cisneros ’21 MEM/MBA, received startup funding and the Center for Business and the Environment. The company supports sustainable farmers and food suppliers who are practicing planetary health principles. “I really have always believed that for-profits can be a tool for social environmental impact,’’ Ebinger says. Keeping Bhutan Carbon Neutral To make good on its constitutional mandate to be the first carbon neutral country for its entire existence, Bhutan relies heavily on its forest cover. Dechen Dorji ’01 MEM led the Bhutan for Life initiative, which raised more than $40 million to finance the protection of the country’s pristine network of protected areas. Dorji continues to work on land preservation and protection of endangered species as the World Wildlife Fund’s senior director for the Asian Wildlife Program. Master of Environmental Management - MEM Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Program Timeline Summer Before First Year Foundational Knowledge Info Attempt Foundational Knowledge waiver exams for each of the four subject areas. Attend MODs, a 3-week summer orientation in the Urban environment of New Haven and forested landscape of Connecticut. First Year — Fall Semester About Specializations Take Perspectives course, and complete any of the Foundational Knowledge courses for which you did not receive a waiver from the summer exams. Begin core and elective courses of your intended specialization(s) Complete a Professional Skills Module (PSM) Declare your specialization by the end of the term First year — Spring Semester About Professional Skills Continue core and elective courses for your specialization(s) Complete a Professional Skills Module (PSM) Summer Experience Summer Experience Info Complete the required summer work experience to apply knowledge and skills gained during the first year of study, gain professional experience, build networks, and investigate potential career paths. Second Year — Fall Semester Capstone Information Continue core and elective courses for your specialization(s) Complete a Capstone course or Independent Capstone project (this semester or next) Complete a Professional Skills Module (PSM) Second Year — Spring Semester Finish remaining electives for your specialization(s) Complete a Capstone course or Independent Capstone project (if you did not last semester) Complete a Professional Skills Module (PSM) Complete any remaining graduation requirements Contact Master’s Admissions Introduce yourself to the YSE master’s admissions team. Request Information Master’s Admissions admissions.yse@yale.edu +1 203-432-5106 Learning Communities YSE's Learning Communities were created to offer robust interdisciplinary experiences and networks. Students may engage with as many learning communities as they choose, regardless of their degree program or specialization. Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Subpages MEM Curriculum Details MEM Foundational Knowledge Guidance MEM Capstone Courses and Guidance MEM Specializations More in This Section Master of Environmental Management — MEM This program provides students with an in-depth understanding of natural and social systems that can be applied to environmental and natural resource problem solving in a policy or management context. Master of Forestry — MF The two-year Master of Forestry program prepares students for careers in sustainable natural resource management and policy — solving critical sustainability challenges and resource conflicts across a complex web of social, political, and ecological systems. Master of Environmental Science or Master of Forest Science — MESc or MFS Develop critical research skills and learn grant-seeking strategies in these highly individualized programs. Joint Degree Programs These programs are designed to fully immerse students in the curriculum and campus life of two graduate school programs over a full three to four years, either at Yale or in partnership with another institution. Professional Skills Modules The Professional Skills Modules (PSMs) provide students with opportunities to strengthen their proficiency in core areas considered essential to all professionals, including those focused on environmental management. Master’s Programs Connect with us Request Information Visit Virtually Apply Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage 195 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 06511 (203) 432-5100 admissions.yse@yale.edu Social Media Links Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Academic Programs Admissions Learning Communities Research & Impact Student Experience About Footer Util Media Inquiries For Employers Job Opportunities Sign Up for Our Newsletter Copyright © 2021, Yale University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Accessibility at Yale