Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage The Forest School Connecting people, forests, and forestry for a sustainable future The Forest School Giving Alumni News Calendar YSE Resources Open the search panel Search Academic Programs Master’s Programs Doctoral Program Certificate Programs Courses Academic Calendar Admissions Master’s Admissions Funding Your Master’s Degree Doctoral Admissions Certificate Program Admissions Visit Campus Why Choose YSE? Learning Communities Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Research & Impact Faculty Explore Our Research Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Research Contacts Student Experience Student Life Career and Professional Development YSE Campus and Virtual Tours Yale Campus Living in New Haven Student Affairs About Hire Our Graduates Leadership Vision and Mission Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Campus History Contact Learning Communities Energy and the Environment Energy and the Environment Students engaging with this LC examine issues related to energy systems and technologies, policies, and economics — helping them to build a knowledge base they can use to assess the problems posed by both traditional and emerging alternative energy sources. On This Page Student and Alumni Spotlights Working to Make the Midwest Greener and Cleaner As the climate solutions director at Clean Wisconsin, a nonprofit whose mission is to fight for clean air and water in the state, Chelsea Chandler ’10 MEM is working to protect one of Wisconsin’s most effective programs: Focus on Energy, the statewide energy efficiency program. By helping people buy efficient lightbulbs or tune up their grain dryers, Focus on Energy has been an enormous success, and Chandler says that evaluations of the program have consistently shown huge returns for the investments. Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Energy and the Environment in the News View More Stories News YSE Class of ’22: Lovinia Reynolds is Headed Home to Fight for Climate Justice Returning to her native Brooklyn, Lovinia Reynolds is graduating from YSE with an eye on climate justice in the largest city in the U.S. News YSE Class of ’22: Akshyah Krishnakumar Seeks to Make Change from the Inside Akshyah Krishnakumar is seeking to achieve clean energy goals by working from the inside — starting with the fourth largest corporation in the world. News Latest IPCC Report Highlights How ‘Smarter’ Cities Can Mitigate Climate Change Providing some hope in the push for climate action, the IPCC report’s chapter on urban mitigation, led by Yale School of the Environment Professor Karen Seto, outlines how cities have an opportunity to increase resource efficiency and significantly reduce GHG emissions through smarter design and greener infrastructure. Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Related Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Centers & Programs Yale Center for Business and the Environment (CBEY) CBEY educates and inspires interdisciplinary leaders through business solutions to systemic environmental problems. Centers & Programs Yale Center for Environmental Law and Policy (YCELP) Through discussion and collaboration across campus, YCELP introduces fresh thinking and analytically rigorous approaches to environmental decision-making across disciplines, sectors, and scales. Centers & Programs SEARCH Center: Solutions for Energy, Air, Climate, and Health At the nexus of energy and public health, the SEARCH Center utilizes cutting-edge scientific research and technology to support the EPA’s strategic goals of protecting human health and the environment. Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Degree Programs YSE's learning communities span across all master's and doctoral degree programs. RESEARCH DEGREES Master of Environmental Science Master of Forest Science The Doctoral Program at the Yale School of the Environment PROFESSIONAL DEGREES Master of Environmental Management Master of Forestry OTHER DEGREES & PROGRAMS Joint Degrees with Another Yale School Joint Degrees with an Outside Institution Certificate Programs Learning Communities YSE's Learning Communities were created to offer robust interdisciplinary experiences and networks. Students may engage with as many learning communities as they choose, regardless of their degree program or specialization. Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Connect with us Request Information Visit Virtually Apply Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage 195 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 06511 (203) 432-5100 admissions.yse@yale.edu Social Media Links Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Academic Programs Admissions Learning Communities Research & Impact Student Experience About Footer Util Media Inquiries For Employers Job Opportunities Sign Up for Our Newsletter Copyright © 2021, Yale University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Accessibility at Yale