Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage The Forest School Connecting people, forests, and forestry for a sustainable future The Forest School Giving Alumni News Calendar YSE Resources Open the search panel Search Academic Programs Master’s Programs Doctoral Program Certificate Programs Courses Academic Calendar Admissions Master’s Admissions Funding Your Master’s Degree Doctoral Admissions Certificate Program Admissions Visit Campus Why Choose YSE? Learning Communities Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Research & Impact Faculty Explore Our Research Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Research Contacts Student Experience Student Life Career and Professional Development YSE Campus and Virtual Tours Yale Campus Living in New Haven Student Affairs About Hire Our Graduates Leadership Vision and Mission Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Campus History Contact Learning Communities Water Resource Science and Management Water Resource Science and Management This LC builds knowledge of the science, policy, and management of the world's water resources, while promoting their sustainable use and equitable access. On This Page Related Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Centers & Programs Urban Resources Initiative (URI) Making New Haven cleaner and greener, URI works with local partners to plant trees, restore community green spaces, and build bioswales to filter stormwater runoff. Centers & Programs Affiliated: Yale Center for Natural Carbon Capture Finding solutions to climate change through advances in natural carbon sequestration. Centers & Programs Carbon Containment Lab (CC Lab) The Carbon Containment Lab is finding big solutions to the climate challenge, designing and testing innovative, affordable, and scalable methods of atmospheric carbon containment. Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Water Resource Science and Management in the News View More Stories News Four YSE Faculty Members Named on the ‘Highly Cited Researchers’ List Four Yale School of the Environment faculty members have been included on Clarivate Analytics’ annual list of the world’s most influential researchers. News Environmental Fellows Share Impassioned Commitment to Justice The nine YSE graduate students and recent graduates in the 2021 Environmental Fellows program have diverse backgrounds and experiences, but share the same impassioned commitment to their environmental work. News Rivers Are Largest Global Source of Mercury in Coastal Oceans Ten rivers are responsible for half of the riverine mercury entering the world's oceans — with the Amazon River, the Ganges, and the Yangtze topping the list. Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Degree Programs YSE's learning communities span across all master's and doctoral degree programs. RESEARCH DEGREES Master of Environmental Science Master of Forest Science The Doctoral Program at the Yale School of the Environment PROFESSIONAL DEGREES Master of Environmental Management Master of Forestry OTHER DEGREES & PROGRAMS Joint Degrees with Another Yale School Joint Degrees with an Outside Institution Certificate Programs Learning Communities YSE's Learning Communities were created to offer robust interdisciplinary experiences and networks. Students may engage with as many learning communities as they choose, regardless of their degree program or specialization. Water Resource Science and Management Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Connect with us Request Information Visit Virtually Apply Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage 195 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 06511 (203) 432-5100 admissions.yse@yale.edu Social Media Links Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Academic Programs Admissions Learning Communities Research & Impact Student Experience About Footer Util Media Inquiries For Employers Job Opportunities Sign Up for Our Newsletter Copyright © 2021, Yale University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Accessibility at Yale