Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage The Forest School Connecting people, forests, and forestry for a sustainable future The Forest School Giving Alumni News Calendar YSE Resources Open the search panel Search Academic Programs Master’s Programs Doctoral Program Certificate Programs Courses Academic Calendar Admissions Master’s Admissions Funding Your Master’s Degree Doctoral Admissions Certificate Program Admissions Visit Campus Why Choose YSE? Learning Communities Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Research & Impact Faculty Explore Our Research Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Research Contacts Student Experience Student Life Career and Professional Development YSE Campus and Virtual Tours Yale Campus Living in New Haven Student Affairs About Hire Our Graduates Leadership Vision and Mission Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Campus History Contact News News Story Coral Vita Wins Earthshot Prize A commercial land-based coral farm founded by YSE alumni Sam Teicher and Gator Halpern recently won the inaugural Earthshot Prize, which supports innovative solutions to the climate crisis. Sam Teicher (center left) and Gator Halpern (center right) celebrate winning with Earthshot Prize with the Coral Vita team. Credit: Harry Lee/Coral Vita Coral Vita, the world’s first commercial land-based coral farming company for reef restoration founded by Sam Teicher ’15 MEM and Gator Halpern ’15 MEM, was named a winner of the inaugural Earthshot Prize, a new global environmental prize that provides financial backing to scale up innovative solutions to the climate crisis. Coral Vita was one of three finalists in the “Revive Our Oceans” category, and was one of five winners of the £1 million grand prize awarded by Prince William, Duke of Cambridge, who established the award competition. “It’s the honor of our lives to have Coral Vita’s work and the global fight to protect coral reefs uplifted by winning the Earthshot Prize,” says Teicher. “We look forward to scaling our efforts around the world and collaborating with local communities, scientists, governments, the private sector, and innovators to protect the ecosystems that sustain us all.” Since 1970, more than 30% of the world’s coral reefs have died and, in the coming decades, experts estimate more than 90% could disappear. The Bahamas-based Coral Vita aims to grow coral species that are resilient to changing ocean conditions — at a rate up to 50 times faster than traditional growth methods. The company hopes its methods could potentially supply coral for an entire country with just a single farm and envisions the Earthshot prize jumpstarting this effort to rebuild reefs across the world. “Sam and I have known since we were teenagers that we wanted to devote our lives to the environmental movement,” Halpern recently told People. “This award is an incredible way to really elevate the conversation around climate destabilization and use the influence that Prince William and really the rest of the prize council has to show how important an issue this is." Both men arrived at YSE with experience in marine biology — Teicher, a Yale College alumnus, had participated in coral farming in Mauritius and Halpern had worked on fish farming and environmental restoration in the Peruvian Amazon. The two launched Coral Vita as YSE students, using seed funding from the Tsai Center for Innovative Thinking at Yale. They’ve since won numerous prizes and plaudits for their work, including recognition from the XPRIZE Ocean Initiative, the Forbes 30 Under 30 list, and the UN Young Champions of the Earth Prize. The five Earthshot winners were chosen from three nominees in five categories. One of the nominees in the “Protect and Restore Nature” category, Restor, was founded by former YSE postdoctoral fellow Thomas Crowther and is headed by CEO Clara Rowe ’15 MEM. Sanergy, co-founded by Yale College alumnus David Auerbach, was also a finalist in the "Build a Waste-Free World" category. Published October 18, 2021 Tags LC: Ecosystem Management and Conservation MEM Awards / Grants / Funding Ecosystem Management and Conservation Alumni Connect with us Request Information Visit Virtually Apply Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage 195 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 06511 (203) 432-5100 admissions.yse@yale.edu Social Media Links Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Academic Programs Admissions Learning Communities Research & Impact Student Experience About Footer Util Media Inquiries For Employers Job Opportunities Sign Up for Our Newsletter Copyright © 2021, Yale University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Accessibility at Yale