Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage The Forest School Connecting people, forests, and forestry for a sustainable future The Forest School Giving Alumni News Calendar YSE Resources Open the search panel Search Academic Programs Master’s Programs Doctoral Program Certificate Programs Courses Academic Calendar Admissions Master’s Admissions Funding Your Master’s Degree Doctoral Admissions Certificate Program Admissions Visit Campus Why Choose YSE? Learning Communities Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Research & Impact Faculty Explore Our Research Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Research Contacts Student Experience Student Life Career and Professional Development YSE Campus and Virtual Tours Yale Campus Living in New Haven Student Affairs About Hire Our Graduates Leadership Vision and Mission Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Campus History Contact Student Experience Student Life Student Life From day trips to Yale-Myers Forest in Connecticut’s Quiet Corner to summer field experience in South Central Colorado, much of YSE learning takes place outside of the classroom — through the programs’ many opportunities for field research and experiential learning. On This Page Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion We can’t achieve a sustainable future without achieving equity and justice. At YSE, we are working to create a sustainable future for all people and the planet and are committed to creating an inclusive environment for students, faculty, and staff. Alumni Network of 5000+ Alumni YSE alumni are working across numerous sectors — government, NGOs, business, academia — around the globe to develop innovative solutions to our biggest environmental challenges, and YSE's strong sense of community creates many opportunities for students to connect with this international network of our alumni. Office of Student Affairs The Office of Student Affairs works closely with other offices at YSE and Yale to help students achieve both personal and academic success from matriculation through graduation. Meet the student affairs team and learn more about the ways they support an inclusive community at YSE. Experiential Learning and Student Activities From day trips to Yale-Myers Forest in Connecticut’s Quiet Corner to summer field experience in South Central Colorado, much of YSE learning takes place outside of the classroom — through the programs’ many opportunities for field research and experiential learning. International Experience 38 Students at COP 25 YSE students attended COP 25 in Spain in 2019. Several students served on the delegations for their home countries, including for Mexico, Rwanda, Turkey, Morocco, Tonga and Peru, while others worked with non-governmental organizations. Centers & Programs 20+ Organizations Communicating about climate change, containing carbon, taking a deeper dive into industrial ecology or environmental law and policy – YSE’s centers, programs, and initiatives offer unmatched opportunities for internships, field experiences, and community building. Explore Centers Student Interest Groups 30+ Groups Find inspiration and community in YSE’s many student interest groups (SIGs), from those centered around a common environmental interest, such as the Energy SIG, to cultural SIGs, such as Roots, which is dedicated to the advancement and resilience of students of the African Diaspora. Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Conferences & Events On any given day, YSE students have the opportunity to organize, host, and attend a wide array of conferences and events, including the YSE-sponsored New Horizons in Conservation Conference for students and professionals who are from underrepresented backgrounds in the conservation field, to national and international conferences, such as the Society of American Foresters (SAF) National Convention and the United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP). Students In Action Panama Students on an international field trip examine a soil pit to unearth the area’s land use history. Bavaria, Germany Students of The Forest School and the Tenische Universität München (the Technical University of Munich) learn alpine forest dynamics together in an exchange trip held in Bavaria, Germany. Panama Students on an international field trip examine a soil pit to unearth the area’s land use history. Bavaria, Germany Students of The Forest School and the Tenische Universität München (the Technical University of Munich) learn alpine forest dynamics together in an exchange trip held in Bavaria, Germany. Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Focus on Student News All Student News News Compound Hazards Pose Increased Risk to Highly Populated Regions in the Himalaya Urbanization trends in the Himalaya are exposing more people to risk from compound hazards such as flooding, landslides and wildfires, a new study published in the journal Science of the Total Environment has found. News YSE Class of 2023 Dives into Research and Analysis This year’s incoming class of 137 master’s students at the Yale School of the Environment span six continents and 21 countries, including 29 U.S. states and territories. News Addicott Awarded Marine Economics Fellowship to Study Coastal Erosion PhD candidate Ethan Addicott aims to create a tool to aid beach restoration efforts and maximize the value and utility of every bucket of sand. Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Contact Student Affairs Meet the student affairs team and learn more about the ways they support an inclusive community at YSE. Meet the Team Andrés Fernández Assistant Dean of Student Affairs andres.fernandez@yale.edu +1 203-432-6286 Subpages More in This Section Student Life From day trips to Yale-Myers Forest in Connecticut’s Quiet Corner to summer field experience in South Central Colorado, much of YSE learning takes place outside of the classroom — through the programs’ many opportunities for field research and experiential learning. Career and Professional Development From career strategies to resumes and interviewing skills, to jobs, internships, and networking opportunities, our office provides students with individual support for their career and professional development needs. YSE Campus and Virtual Tours Centered in Science Hill, in the Prospect Hill area of New Haven, YSE’s campus spans seven buildings. Yale Campus Yale’s historic tree-lined campus in New Haven dates back 300 years and is home to some of the world’s most comprehensive research facilities, libraries, and global art collections, providing students myriad opportunities to connect, explore and pursue their field of study. Living in New Haven Nicknamed the Elm City for the abundance of elm trees that shade its streets and squares, New Haven provides a cosmopolitan atmosphere and energetic cultural scene with critically acclaimed restaurants, theaters, clubs, concert venues, and museums. Student Affairs With students at the heart of all that we do, the Office of Student Affairs creates holistic learning opportunities, programs and services that prepare environmentally focused students to lead, serve and become engaged members of a global society. Student Experience Connect with us Request Information Visit Virtually Apply Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage 195 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 06511 (203) 432-5100 admissions.yse@yale.edu Social Media Links Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Academic Programs Admissions Learning Communities Research & Impact Student Experience About Footer Util Media Inquiries For Employers Job Opportunities Sign Up for Our Newsletter Copyright © 2021, Yale University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Accessibility at Yale