Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage The Forest School Connecting people, forests, and forestry for a sustainable future The Forest School Giving Alumni News Calendar YSE Resources Open the search panel Search Academic Programs Master’s Programs Doctoral Program Certificate Programs Courses Academic Calendar Admissions Master’s Admissions Funding Your Master’s Degree Doctoral Admissions Certificate Program Admissions Visit Campus Why Choose YSE? Learning Communities Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Research & Impact Faculty Explore Our Research Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Research Contacts Student Experience Student Life Career and Professional Development YSE Campus and Virtual Tours Yale Campus Living in New Haven Student Affairs About Hire Our Graduates Leadership Vision and Mission Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Campus History Contact The Forest School Connecting people, forests, and forestry for a sustainable future What We Do Education and Research Education and research centered in applied forest ecology and social sciences with a global scope spanning a spectrum of forest landscapes, geographies, and societies. Education for Graduate Students The Forest School Research The Forest School Faculty Training and Practice A hub for practitioners and land stewards in forest-related fields worldwide, bringing together cross-disciplinary research in science and practice to find solutions to the challenges that face the world’s forests. Forestry Practice at The Forest School Programs for Practitioners and Land Stewards Student and Alumni Impacts Restoring Belize’s Landscapes Ki’ila Salas ’19 MF returned to her home country of Belize to participate in its first landscape restoration initiative, helping to develop its National Landscape Restoration Strategy for the Belize Forest Department. The project is part of the country’s national restoration commitment to the Bonn Challenge, which has a global goal to bring 350 million hectares of degraded and deforested landscapes into restoration by 2030. “The project gave me great pride and joy in guiding the process of how the restoration strategies should be accomplished,” says Salas. Rehabilitating Ghana’s Forests As the director of operations for Ghana’s Forestry Commission, Hugh Brown ’10 MF oversees the country’s commercial forest plantation development and land restoration. About 450,000 hectares are being rehabilitated under his guidance. In 2020, Brown was given YSE’s Prospect Street Award, which recognizes a graduate of the last decade who has made a significant impact in their field. “Landscape restoration,’’ says Brown, “is a team sport.” Master of Forestry — MF Mapping Panama’s Sustainable Farmlands A researcher for the Environmental Leadership & Training Initiative, Cecilia Rogers ’22 MFS is mapping the success of ELTI’s Panama program that helps cattle ranchers incorporate sustainable practices, such as the use of forested pastureland, into their land management. Working with fellow students, she found that the amount of sustainably managed farmland had significantly increased from 4% in 2011 to 66% in 2020. Indigenous Restoration Approaches As co-founder and executive director of Shelterwood, Nikola Alexandre ’18 MF, MBA leads the restoration of a 900-acre forest in Northern California with Black and Indigenous community approaches to land care. His work creates partnerships with and between traditional conservation NGOs, Indigenous and racial justice organizations, government agencies, and private landowners to model socially just and ecologically sound pathways to protecting and restoring nature. In 2020, Alexandre was named a Pritzker Emerging Environmental Genius Award candidate for his work. Tracking Forest Inventory Richard Guldin ’76 MFS, ’79 PhD has helped reinvent the U.S. Forest Service’s Forest Inventory and Analysis (FIA) program by integrating new sampling designs, field procedures, and innovative software to create an annual inventory that has become a global model. His work earned him the Society of American Foresters’ Sir William Schlich Award. Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Our Priorities Forests and Climate Change Conducting innovative research, trainings, and multi-stakeholder dialogues to increase understanding and leadership on forest-climate interactions, forest resilience, and the role of forests in mitigating climate change. People and Livelihoods Engaging forest communities on stewardship, conflict resolution, and environmental justice through place-based knowledge and relationships with the land. Sustainable Management Leading the way in forest and natural resource management education, research, and engagement for more than 120 years. The Forest School Faculty All TFS Faculty Faculty Mark S. Ashton Senior Associate Dean of The Forest School; Morris K. Jesup Professor of Silviculture and Forest Ecology; Director of Yale Forests Faculty Liza Comita Professor of Tropical Forest Ecology Faculty Mark Bradford Professor, Soils and Ecosystem Ecology Faculty Craig Brodersen Professor of Plant Physiological Ecology Faculty Luke Sanford Assistant Professor of Environmental Policy and Governance Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Centers and Programs Centers & Programs Yale Forests Our homes away from home, the Yale Forests manage 10,777 acres of forestland that provide educational, research, and professional opportunities to the Yale community and beyond. Centers & Programs Urban Resources Initiative (URI) Making New Haven cleaner and greener, URI works with local partners to plant trees, restore community green spaces, and build bioswales to filter stormwater runoff. Centers & Programs Environmental Leadership Training Initiative (ELTI) In critical natural landscapes rich in biodiversity, ELTI empowers local leaders to design and implement land use practices and initiatives that protect tropical forests and the livelihoods of local landowners and their communities. Centers & Programs Yale Forest Forum (YFF) The hub of communications and engagement for The Forest School, the Yale Forest Forum brings together a diverse group of leaders in forestry and forest policy through regular events and programs. Centers & Programs The Forests Dialogue (TFD) The Forests Dialogue provides a platform for ongoing, multi-stakeholder conversations focused on collaborative solutions to challenges in achieving sustainable forest management and forest conservation. Centers & Programs Tropical Resources Institute (TRI) The Tropical Resources Institute supports student research and on-campus programming aimed at solutions to complex challenges within the conservation and management of tropical environments. Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Contact Admissions Contact the Yale School of the Environment admissions team for more information about admission into the forestry-focused degree programs. Request Information Lori Lombardo Assistant Director of Admissions, Events & Recruitment admissions.yse@yale.edu +1 203-432-9216 Contact The Forest School Get In Touch Gary Dunning Executive Director, The Forest School; Executive Director, The Forests Dialogue forestry@yale.edu +1 203-432-1843 The Overstory Newsletter Email Address * First Name Last Name Organization Instagram | Twitter | YouTube More in This Section Education The Forest School prescribes the curriculum for two of the master’s degrees granted by the Yale School of the Environment and hosts a cohort of forestry-related PhD students. Research Our research extends from local to global and engages a spectrum of questions, communities, and forest types, with a special focus on applied forest ecology and understanding social dynamics. Practice As a hub for all things forestry, The Forest School (TFS) students, alumni, and faculty are having an impact across the U.S. and globally. Team Meet the leadership, faculty, and staff at the heart of The Forest School (TFS). About The Forest School (TFS) maintains unique governance bodies and structure within the Yale School of the Environment to shape The Forest School and enact our vision, mission, and strategic plan. Related Education at TFS Research at TFS Practice at TFS People at TFS About TFS History of TFS Connect with us Request Information Visit Virtually Apply Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage 195 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 06511 (203) 432-5100 admissions.yse@yale.edu Social Media Links Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Academic Programs Admissions Learning Communities Research & Impact Student Experience About Footer Util Media Inquiries For Employers Job Opportunities Sign Up for Our Newsletter Copyright © 2021, Yale University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Accessibility at Yale