Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage The Forest School Connecting people, forests, and forestry for a sustainable future The Forest School Giving Alumni News Calendar YSE Resources Open the search panel Search Academic Programs Master’s Programs Doctoral Program Certificate Programs Courses Academic Calendar Admissions Master’s Admissions Funding Your Master’s Degree Doctoral Admissions Certificate Program Admissions Visit Campus Why Choose YSE? Learning Communities Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Research & Impact Faculty Explore Our Research Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Research Contacts Student Experience Student Life Career and Professional Development YSE Campus and Virtual Tours Yale Campus Living in New Haven Student Affairs About Hire Our Graduates Leadership Vision and Mission Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Campus History Contact Learning Communities Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry Industrial ecology and green design are key to addressing many of the sustainability challenges posed by ever-increasing industrial production.In this LC, students study the energy and materials used in industry, and develop strategic approaches to the design, use, and re-use of materials. On This Page Related Centers, Programs, and Initiatives Centers & Programs Center for Industrial Ecology (CIE) Leading the way in an emerging field, the Center for Industrial Ecology focuses research, teaching, and outreach on how resources are converted to products, the pollution that comes from these processes, and opportunities to reduce resource use and pollution. Centers & Programs Center for Green Chemistry & Green Engineering at Yale Taking sustainability to the molecular level, the Center supports chemists and engineers whose scientific and technological breakthroughs are crucial to the future success of the human economy. Centers & Programs Yale Center for Business and the Environment (CBEY) CBEY educates and inspires interdisciplinary leaders through business solutions to systemic environmental problems. Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry in the News View More Stories News The Center for Industrial Ecology: Pathfinders in Life Cycles and Resource Reuse This is the first in a special series that takes an in-depth look at Yale School of the Environment’s Centers, Programs, and Initiatives. This month’s focus is on the Center for Industrial Ecology, which seeks not only to advance our understanding of the environmental impacts of production and consumption on an international scale, but also to be part of tangible solutions. News YSE Study Finds Electric Vehicles Provide Lower Carbon Emissions Through Additional Channels A recent YSE-led study published in Nature Communications found that the total indirect emissions from the supply of chain of electric vehicles pale in comparison to the same indirect emissions from fossil fuel-powered vehicles. News A Marketplace Solution to Burning Crop Stubble Earns YSE Team Top Honors YSE students win international prize for new digital app that allows farmers to sell crop byproducts instead of burning them. Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Degree Programs YSE's learning communities span across all master's and doctoral degree programs. RESEARCH DEGREES Master of Environmental Science Master of Forest Science The Doctoral Program at the Yale School of the Environment PROFESSIONAL DEGREES Master of Forestry Master of Environmental Management OTHER DEGREES & PROGRAMS Joint Degrees with Another Yale School Joint Degrees with an Outside Institution Certificate Programs Learning Communities YSE's Learning Communities were created to offer robust interdisciplinary experiences and networks. Students may engage with as many learning communities as they choose, regardless of their degree program or specialization. Industrial Ecology and Green Chemistry People, Equity, and the Environment Urban Water Resource Science and Management Business and the Environment Climate Change Science and Solutions Ecosystem Management and Conservation Energy and the Environment Environmental Policy Analysis Forestry Go to the previous slide. Go to the next slide. Connect with us Request Information Visit Virtually Apply Visit the Yale School of the Environment homepage 195 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 06511 (203) 432-5100 admissions.yse@yale.edu Social Media Links Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Academic Programs Admissions Learning Communities Research & Impact Student Experience About Footer Util Media Inquiries For Employers Job Opportunities Sign Up for Our Newsletter Copyright © 2021, Yale University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Accessibility at Yale