Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Environmental Studies Environmental Studies Contact Us Environmental.Studies@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major and Minors Culminating Experience ENVS 50 Archive Minor Tracks Courses Sample Syllabi Waitlists and Applications Transfer Term Credit Honors Recent Honors Theses Learning Outcomes Back to Top Nav Graduate Foreign Study Overview Africa FSP Syllabi and Documents Paulson Fellowships Back to Top Nav Research Overview Student Research and Internships Faculty Research Fields Hornig Library of Environmental Studies Back to Top Nav Community Overview Careers Alumni Stories Office of Sustainability Dartmouth Organic Farm Sustainability Solutions Café Past Café Events Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Past Events Archive Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Student Research and Internships Faculty Research Fields Hornig Library of Environmental Studies Share Student Research and Internships Through the generosity of James Dougherty '58, Jerry Manne '58, the Pearl family, and other sponsors, ENVS provides support for student research and internships. Research and Internships Students should connect with faculty members for research opportunities, see Faculty Research Fields. Funding for research and internships is available from ENVS from these sources, to name a few. For application instructions, see "Apply for ENVS Funds" below. These funds are restricted to ENVS majors and minors. James D. Dougherty '58 Fund in Environmental Studies - to be used for senior thesis research. Jerry Manne '58 Fund in Environmental Studies - for student research related to Polar studies or studies in Africa Richard and Jane Pearl Family Fund for Environmental Studies - for domestic unpaid student internships or non-profit work. Frederick F. Stockwell 1943 Fund - for international internships, conferences, or research for undergraduates. The John Topping Jr. '64 Climate Initiative Award Established by the Dartmouth Class of 1964 in memory of John Topping Jr. '64. Each year the fund will make an award to a student(s) who need financial support to complete an off-term research project or internship on climate management and change. All students regardless of major are welcome to apply. John Topping Jr. "64 was a pioneer in the area of climate change, having established the Climate Institute in Washington in 1986. The Institute became the world's first organization focused solely on climate change. The mission of the Climate Institute is to "discover and implement climate solutions by advancing research, sharing information, and collaborating with U.S. and international partners." The maximum award is $5,000. The recipient(s) will be expected to prepare a report on their work at the end of the award period that will be sent to an officer of the Class of '64. Applications are accepted on a rolling basis. To apply, please send a 1-2 page funding proposal outline with budget to Kim Wind at Kim.Wind@Dartmouth.edu. Apply for ENVS Funds Please submit a 1-2 page proposal for your unpaid internship or research project to Kim Wind at Kim.Wind@Dartmouth.Edu approximately 3-4 weeks before the start date. Please include a description of the project or internship, including the hours required and budget and be sure to detail how it fits into your overall educational plan. *For remote internships or projects where a traditional budget does not apply, please indicate your financial need. An example would be that you are unable to work a paid job in addition to the internship/project. Other Funding Sources Due to limited funds, students are encouraged to apply to other funding sources on campus prior to applying to ENVS. Please see links below for additional sources on campus. Undergraduate Advising and Research Office Dartmouth Funding Sources for Research and Internships Funding for Experiential Learning and Unpaid Internships Dartmouth Post Graduate Project Fellowships Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Environmental Studies Undergraduate Overview Major and Minors Culminating Experience ENVS 50 Archive Minor Tracks Courses Sample Syllabi Waitlists and Applications Transfer Term Credit Honors Recent Honors Theses Learning Outcomes Graduate Foreign Study Overview Africa FSP Syllabi and Documents Paulson Fellowships Research Overview Student Research and Internships Faculty Research Fields Hornig Library of Environmental Studies Community Overview Careers Alumni Stories Office of Sustainability Dartmouth Organic Farm Sustainability Solutions Café Past Café Events News & Events News & Events Past Events Archive People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback