Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Environmental Studies Environmental Studies Contact Us Environmental.Studies@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major and Minors Culminating Experience ENVS 50 Archive Minor Tracks Courses Sample Syllabi Waitlists and Applications Transfer Term Credit Honors Recent Honors Theses Learning Outcomes Back to Top Nav Graduate Foreign Study Overview Africa FSP Syllabi and Documents Paulson Fellowships Back to Top Nav Research Overview Student Research and Internships Faculty Research Fields Hornig Library of Environmental Studies Back to Top Nav Community Overview Careers Alumni Stories Office of Sustainability Dartmouth Organic Farm Sustainability Solutions Café Past Café Events Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Past Events Archive Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Careers Office of Sustainability Dartmouth Organic Farm Sustainability Solutions Café Student Video Projects Diversity and Inclusivity at Dartmouth Share Community “COVER Stories” students Emma Waugh ’16 and Zan Song ’16, and Professor Terry Osborne, join other COVER volunteers in replacing a roof in Hartland, VT. “Ecological Agriculture” students Calin Mason'18, Alexandra Sclafani '18, and Visiting Assistant Professor Selena Ahmed presented a workshop titled "Flavor and Nutrition at the Marketplace" at the Bionutrient Food Association Conference. “Science Policy and Diplomacy” students Sappho Gilbert MPH'14, Gregory Poulin MALS’16, Lauren Bishop ’19, and Sydney Kamen ’19 attending the Model Arctic Council simulation in Fairbanks, Alaska. “COVER Stories” students Jeni Hendricks ’17 and Grace Miller ’17 stand on the accessibility ramp they helped build with COVER Home Repair Director John Heath and the homeowner in Springfield, VT. PreviousNext Community and Experiential Learning In the Environmental Studies Program (ENVS), we seek to motivate and prepare students to rise to the challenges and opportunities associated with human-environment interactions. To do this, we offer students academic and research opportunities to experience and engage with real-world environmental problems, to practice applying theories learned in the classroom outside of the classroom, and to critically reflect on those experiences and individual learning. Termed experiential or action-based learning, this model of education has been core to Dartmouth's Environmental Studies Program since its inception in the early 1970s. From our foundation courses through to our capstone and thesis experiences, we purposefully build activities into our curriculum to help students develop the skills necessary to engage in this form of deep, transformative learning. Whether it be through engaging experts in the classroom, taking field trips that complement the curriculum, telling human stories through community-engaged video development, conducting research in an ENVS faculty's lab, or by conducting community-based research in a local or global community, we offer numerous opportunities for students to learn and practice how to address environmental problems. Below are selected highlights of experiential learning in our program. To learn more about research opportunities with program faculty, please visit our research page here. For more information or to explore future partnership opportunities, contact Karen Bieluch, ENVS Practice-based Learning Specialist, at Karen.H.Bieluch@Dartmouth.edu. Academic Sample Courses ENVS 15: Environmental Issues of the Earth's Cold Regions Ross Virginia ENVS 15 examines environmental issues in the polar regions – including climate change, natural resource extraction, and indigenous rights – through the complementary lenses of science, policy, and history. With a focus on active learning, students have the opportunity to apply information learned through this course in various way. For example, in spring 2017, fifty-one Dartmouth undergraduates constructed a virtual exhibit on Sir John Franklin and the Northwest Passage. With the assistance of Rauner Special Collections Library staff, students selected items from the private research collection of Arctic explorer Vilhjalmur Stefansson (1879-1962), wrote informative labels, and worked together to structure the exhibit into sections. The resulting exhibit traces the search for the Northwest Passage from before John Franklin's expedition to the present. The virtual exhibit may be viewed here: http://sites.dartmouth.edu/nwp/. ENVS 25: Agroecology Theresa Ong In "Ecological Agriculture" students use an evidence-based experiential-learning approach to answer questions such as: What is ecological agriculture? What are the impacts of agroecological management on ecosystem services and environmental and human wellbeing? Is it feasible for ecological agriculture to sustainably feed the planet? Class activities include: Research Projects at the Dartmouth Organic Farm Farm Practicum at the Dartmouth Organic Farm Field Observations at Local Farms, Farmers' Markets (including an information booth), and a Farm-to-Table Restaurant Inquiry-Based and Student-Led Team Teaching Case Studies ENVS 80.08: The Practice of Science Policy and Diplomacy Melody Brown Burkins In "The Practice of Science Policy & Diplomacy," students explore the methods, best practices, and art of advancing the best, most current, and most credible scientific knowledge to decision-makers and leaders of both policy and diplomacy. Issues to be discussed range from climate change to international security, healthcare access, sustainable food production, energy security, and space exploration. The course is highly interactive, designed to introduce students to emerging opportunities in which the integration of science, technology, policy, and diplomacy is key to finding solutions to complex issues at the local, national, and global level. Students in the class will engage in experiential learning activities at the national and international level while also having an opportunity to focus more locally. In partnership with Dartmouth's Center for Service Social Impact Practicum (SIP), W17 students will have the opportunity to advance science-informed policy communications and recommendations serving a local community organization's efforts to advance informed policies for social justice, diversity, and conflict resolution. Culminating Academic Experiences - ENVS 50: Environmental Problem Analysis Rotating Faculty This culminating course for the ENVS major (and culminating option for the Sustainability Minor) provides students with the opportunity to practice their academic and professional skills through a community-based research project. Student teams drive their own learning and interact with real-world actors to conduct research that is both meaningful to the students and their community partners. The professor is mentor, facilitator and final evaluator. As stated in the ORC: "The purposes of this coordinating course are to (1) give students an opportunity to see how the disciplinary knowledge acquired in their various courses and departmental major programs can be integrated in a synthetic manner; (2) provide a forum for an in-depth evaluation of a significant environmental … problem; and (3) give students the experience of working [in] a project team . . ." In addition, a central goal in this course is that the students produce work that is meaningful to one of our local community partners. We find that this synergistic relationship creates a better learning experience for students, faculty, and community members. Topics addressed vary yearly. In many cases, students' recommendations and research have led to concrete action, such as: A pilot study with the Upper Valley Land Trust and Ascutney Outdoors on user recreation experiences in the West Windsor Town Forest Design contributions to Ascutney Oudoors' warming hut (to be built) Contributions to the success of Thetford Academy's Environmental Science and Outdoor Education Initiative through projects, such as food sustainability and aquaculture, trail design, and outdoor education curriculum. See related press releases: Establishment of the Dartmouth Organic Farm Design and Implementation of Dartmouth's Green Revolving Loan Fund ENVS 50 class reports may be found here. Africa FSP (ENVS 40, 42, 84) Doug Bolger, FSP Director Michael Cox This foreign study program gives students firsthand experience with issues of conservation, population, land and water use, and resource management in southern Africa, focusing on the intersection of conservation and human development. Three courses involve learning via field visits and interactions with a diversity of local people (very little time in a classroom). This involves considerable travel through South Africa, Lesotho and Namibia, camping much of the time. The climate of the region is dry, the environment is fragile, and too many people need scarce resources (e.g., land, water, jobs, and education). These conditions magnify environmental issues and offer powerful learning opportunities. The majority of lectures and field-guidance are by Africans with first-hand experience with the issues. ENVS 84 (another culminating experience option) involves a community-based research project in the Namib Sand Sea in partnership with the Gobabeb Research and Training Centre. Students partner with Gobabeb and work with members of a local indigenous community, Topnaar, to address a problem, identified by the community. Past projects include: Socio-ecological study of the !Nara plant and its commercial and subsistence harvest GIS mapping of ecological landscape using drones Livestock ecology Livestock livelihoods and climate change Survey of Topnaar community livelihoods Socio-political analysis of Topnaar-Gobabeb relationship Assessment of Gobabeb/Topnaar capacity development initiatives Designed environmental curriculum for local school Please visit the AFSP webpage to read the ENVS 84 reports here. Participants are also able to apply for a Paulson Fellowship to return to Southern Africa to pursue their own research, innovation project, or senior thesis research. Please visit the AFSP webpage to read the Paulson Fellowhip Reports here. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Environmental Studies Undergraduate Overview Major and Minors Culminating Experience ENVS 50 Archive Minor Tracks Courses Sample Syllabi Waitlists and Applications Transfer Term Credit Honors Recent Honors Theses Learning Outcomes Graduate Foreign Study Overview Africa FSP Syllabi and Documents Paulson Fellowships Research Overview Student Research and Internships Faculty Research Fields Hornig Library of Environmental Studies Community Overview Careers Alumni Stories Office of Sustainability Dartmouth Organic Farm Sustainability Solutions Café Past Café Events News & Events News & Events Past Events Archive People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback