Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Environmental Studies Environmental Studies Contact Us Environmental.Studies@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major and Minors Culminating Experience ENVS 50 Archive Minor Tracks Courses Sample Syllabi Waitlists and Applications Transfer Term Credit Honors Recent Honors Theses Learning Outcomes Back to Top Nav Graduate Foreign Study Overview Africa FSP Syllabi and Documents Paulson Fellowships Back to Top Nav Research Overview Student Research and Internships Faculty Research Fields Hornig Library of Environmental Studies Back to Top Nav Community Overview Careers Alumni Stories Office of Sustainability Dartmouth Organic Farm Sustainability Solutions Café Past Café Events Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Past Events Archive Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Theresa Ong |Assistant Professor Academic Appointments Assistant Professor of Environmental Studies Theresa Ong is an agroecologist who combines theory with empirical work in agricultural systems to understand how complex interactions between the environment, organisms and people ultimately influence food production and ecosystem stability. Her work focuses on how biocomplexity in terms of space, time and species diversity, influences the resilience of agricultural systems to both ecological and political perturbations. Specific interests include urban agriculture, biological control, critical transition theory, socio-ecological modeling, biocomplexity and spatio-temporal synchrony. Personal Website Contact Theresa.W.Ong@Dartmouth.edu 123 Fairchild HB 6182 Department(s) Environmental Studies Education B.A. Williams College M.S. University of Michigan, Ann Arbor Ph.D. University of Michigan, Ann Arbor Areas of Expertise Agroecology /Population and community ecology /Urban agriculture /Biocomplexity /Biological Control /Non-linear dynamics /Critical transition theory Selected Publications Ong, T. W., and J. Vandermeer. 2018. Multiple hysteretic patterns from elementary population models. Theoretical Ecology:1–7. (https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s12080-018-0376-1), F1000 Prime: https://f1000.com/prime/733670582 Ong, T. W., D. Allen, and J. Vandermeer. 2018. Huffaker revisited: Spatial heterogeneity and the coupling of ineffective agents in biological control. Ecosphere 9:e02299. (https://esajournals.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/ecs2.2299) Ong, T. W., and J. Vandermeer. 2015. Coupling unstable agents in biological control. Nature Communications 6. (https://www.nature.com/articles/ncomms6991) Ong, T. W., and J. Vandermeer. 2014. Antagonism between two natural enemies improves biological control of a coffee pest: The importance of dominance hierarchies. Biological Control 76:107–113. (https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1049964414001236) Egerer, M., K. Li, and T. W. Ong. 2018. Context matters: Contrasting ladybird beetle responses to urban environments across two US regions. Sustainability 10:1829. (https://www.mdpi.com/2071-1050/10/6/1829) + View more Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Environmental Studies Undergraduate Overview Major and Minors Culminating Experience ENVS 50 Archive Minor Tracks Courses Sample Syllabi Waitlists and Applications Transfer Term Credit Honors Recent Honors Theses Learning Outcomes Graduate Foreign Study Overview Africa FSP Syllabi and Documents Paulson Fellowships Research Overview Student Research and Internships Faculty Research Fields Hornig Library of Environmental Studies Community Overview Careers Alumni Stories Office of Sustainability Dartmouth Organic Farm Sustainability Solutions Café Past Café Events News & Events News & Events Past Events Archive People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback