Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Environmental Studies Environmental Studies Contact Us Environmental.Studies@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major and Minors Culminating Experience ENVS 50 Archive Minor Tracks Courses Sample Syllabi Waitlists and Applications Transfer Term Credit Honors Recent Honors Theses Learning Outcomes Back to Top Nav Graduate Foreign Study Overview Africa FSP Syllabi and Documents Paulson Fellowships Back to Top Nav Research Overview Student Research and Internships Faculty Research Fields Hornig Library of Environmental Studies Back to Top Nav Community Overview Careers Alumni Stories Office of Sustainability Dartmouth Organic Farm Sustainability Solutions Café Past Café Events Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Past Events Archive Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Africa FSP Syllabi and Documents Paulson Fellowships Off-Campus Programs Office Share Foreign Study Our popular program in southern Africa helps our students understand the global aspects of environmental problems. Each fall term, 16 Dartmouth undergraduates gain hands-on experience with issues of population, land and water use, ecotourism, and resource management in a developing country. Students in 21F participated in the ENVS New England domestic study program that took place in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont. Students (F17) and their guides at the Timbavati Reserve near Kruger National Park in South Africa – Photo courtesy of Amelia Ali ‘19 Photo courtesy of Brody McNutt '20 Students (F18) listen to a woman speak about her livestock in the upper Kuiseb area of the Namib Naukluft National Park - Photo courtesy of Dr. Julie Snorek Photo courtesy of Ali Banks '20 PreviousNext Overview The ENVS Africa Foreign Study program takes place in the nations of South Africa and Namibia in Southern Africa. The broad theme of the program is the interplay between social and economic development and environment conservation, particularly in the context of natural resource use and management. We approach these issues from the interdisciplinary perspective of Environmental Studies, integrating insights from the natural and social sciences. The overarching theoretical construct of the program is that of the Social-Ecological System (SES), which represents the importance of understanding both social and biophysical processes. The program gives us the opportunity to learn about environmental issues in the unique ecological, historical and cultural milieu of Southern Africa. One advantage of the Southern Africa region as the site for this FSP is degree to which these countries have experimented with different models of natural resource management. An additional advantage is the degree to which we directly engage with local partners on the ground to explore these models. Thus, the learning experience on our FSP is very different from that in a classroom setting. The pedagogy of the program emphasizes active and participatory learning. The responsibility for learning resides equally with the students and the professors. A primary way in which students will engage with the sites we will visit is through conducting research as an environmental problem-solving tool. This research is both empirical and literature based. Through the research process, students are expected to be co-producers of new knowledge. An important part of this idea for us is that we will engage with local systems and partners as active participants, rather than just being “education tourists.” This perspective requires that we be responsible and productive participants in each of the systems that we enter on the program. Primary Intellectual and Personal Challenges of the AFSP (a.k.a. our core values and principles) Shift from passive to active learning – be a participant Take intellectual and personal ownership of the FSP experience. Become a co-producer of knowledge Synthesizing different ways of learning and knowing (empirical and theoretical) Tolerance and patience for ambiguity, complexity and frustration High expectations of personal maturity and accountability Stepping out of your Dartmouth comfort-zone AFSP Courses Academically, the ENVS AFSP consists of three courses, which constitute a normal term’s worth of academic credit. The overall theme of the program is consistent across these courses. Each course implements this theme via different assignments and activities and across multiple sites in South Africa and Namibia. afspcourses_0.png ENVS 40: Human-environmental interactions, governance, and strategies for environmental conservation in South Africa. ENVS 42: Research on conservation and development in Southern Africa through the application of two complementary lenses: personal experience and the academic literature ENVS 84: Culminating experience: Social-ecological research in Namibia applying skills learned in 40 and 42, as well as at Dartmouth. afsptiming.png Living Accommodations During much of the program students and faculty will be traveling and camping in safari tents. Students will also experience short rural homestays. Faculty Contacts Doug Bolger, FSP Director Karen Bieluch Michael Cox Julie Snorek Application Deadline February 1 - Students must apply by February 1 and interviews will be conducted the second week of February. Students who are off in winter term must still apply by February 1 and we will arrange those interviews via skype. Prerequisites for the Africa FSP There are few formal prerequisites to participate in the ENVS Africa FSP. The program benefits from having diverse perspectives among the student participants, and all majors are welcome to apply. What we do look for is individuals who are prepared to engage in a rigorous field-based educational experience. We do ask that you take one of the following courses in preparation. (Availability subject to change): AAAS 11/ANTH 12.23: Intro to African Studies AAAS 14/HIST 5.1: Pre-Colonial African History AAAS 15/HIST 66: History of Africa since 1800 AAAS 19/HIST 5.8: Africa and the World AAAS 40/WGST 34.2: Gender Identities and Politics in Africa AAAS 42/REL 66/WGST 44.03: Women, Religion and Social Change in Africa AAAS 44/ANTH 36: Anthropology and Contemporary Africa: Exploring Myths, Engaging Realities AAAS 46/HIST 67: History of Modern South Africa AAAS 50/ENVS 45/HIST 75: Colonialism, Development, and the Environment in Africa and Asia AAAS 51/COLT 51: African Literatures: Masterpieces of Literatures from Africa AAAS 54/THEA 23: Postcolonial African Drama AAAS 83.02/GEOG 80: Food and the African World AAAS 87.05/GOVT 42: Politics of Africa AAAS 87.09/ANTH 12.14: African Popular Culture AAAS 88.02/WGST 38.02/HIST 6.30: Women & Gender in the African Diaspora GEOG 6/INTS 16: Introduction to International Development Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Environmental Studies Undergraduate Overview Major and Minors Culminating Experience ENVS 50 Archive Minor Tracks Courses Sample Syllabi Waitlists and Applications Transfer Term Credit Honors Recent Honors Theses Learning Outcomes Graduate Foreign Study Overview Africa FSP Syllabi and Documents Paulson Fellowships Research Overview Student Research and Internships Faculty Research Fields Hornig Library of Environmental Studies Community Overview Careers Alumni Stories Office of Sustainability Dartmouth Organic Farm Sustainability Solutions Café Past Café Events News & Events News & Events Past Events Archive People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback