Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Environmental Studies Environmental Studies Contact Us Environmental.Studies@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major and Minors Culminating Experience ENVS 50 Archive Minor Tracks Courses Sample Syllabi Waitlists and Applications Transfer Term Credit Honors Recent Honors Theses Learning Outcomes Back to Top Nav Graduate Foreign Study Overview Africa FSP Syllabi and Documents Paulson Fellowships Back to Top Nav Research Overview Student Research and Internships Faculty Research Fields Hornig Library of Environmental Studies Back to Top Nav Community Overview Careers Alumni Stories Office of Sustainability Dartmouth Organic Farm Sustainability Solutions Café Past Café Events Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Past Events Archive Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Coleen A. Fox Academic Appointments Senior Lecturer View Curriculum Vitae Contact Coleen.A.Fox@Dartmouth.EDU 603-646-0440 Fairchild 018 HB 6017 Department(s) Environmental Studies, Geography Center(s) The John Sloan Dickey Center for International Understanding Education B.A. University of Virginia M.A. University of Oregon Ph.D. University of Oregon Areas of Expertise Southeast Asia /Political and environmental geography /International river basins /social dimensions of dam removal /global health Selected Publications Fox, C.A., Reo, N.J., Fessell, B. and Dituri, F. 2022. Native American Tribes and dam removal: restoring the Ottaway, Penobscot and Elwha rivers. Water Alternatives 15(1):13-37. Sneddon, C., Magilligan, F. and Fox, C. 2021. Peopling the environmental state: river restoration and state power. Annals of the American Association of Geographers 111(6): Fox, C. and Sneddon, C. 2020. Local knowledges and environmental governance: making space for alternative futures in the Arctic circumpolar region and the Mekong River Basin. In, Environmental Geopolitics: A Research Agenda, ed., S. O’Lear, Edward Elgar Publishing. Fox, C. and Sneddon, C. 2019. Political borders, epistemological boundaries, and contested knowledges: constructing dams and narratives in the Mekong River Basin. Water, 11(3), 413; https://doi.org/10.3390/w11030413 Fox, C. 2020. River Basin Development. In, International Encyclopedia of Human Geography, 2nd edition. ed., A. Kobyashi, Elsevier. Fox, C., Reo, N., Turner, D., Cook, J., Dituri, F., Fessell, B., Jenkins, J., Johnson, A., Rakena, T., Riley, C., Turner, A., Williams, J., Wilson, M. 2017. “The river is us; the river is in our veins”: redefining river restoration in three Indigenous communities. Sustainabilty Science 12(4):521-533. Fox, C., Sneddon, C. and F. Magilligan. 2016. “You kill the dam, you are killing a part of me”: the environmental politics of dam removal. Geoforum 70: 93-104. Sneddon, C.S.; Magilligan, F.J. and Fox, C.A. 2017. Science of the dammed: Expertise and knowledge claims in contested dam removals. Water Alternatives 10(3): 677-696. Magilligan, F.J., Sneddon, C.S., and Fox, C.A. 2017. The social, historical and institutional contingencies of dam removal. Environmental Management 59(6): 982-994. Magilligan, F.J., Sneddon, C.S, Fox, C.A. 2018. The socio-geomorphology of river restoration: Dam removal and the politics of place. In, Doreen Massey: Critical Dialogues, M. Werner, J. Peck, R. Lave, and B. Christophers, eds. New York: Columbia University Press (Agenda Publishing). Sneddon, C. and C. Fox. 2014. A Genealogy of the Basin: Scalar Politics and Identity in the MekongRiver Basin. In, Negotiating Water Governance, eds, A. Cohen and E. Norman. Ashgate. Magilligan, F., Nislow, K., Graber, B., Chipman, J., Sneddon, C. & Fox, C. 2016. River restoration by dam removal: assessing riverine re-connectivity and watershed resilience at a regional scale. Elementa: Science of the Anthropocene. Sneddon C. and C. Fox. 2012. Inland capture fisheries and the industrial river basin: a political economy of Mekong fisheries. Journal of Agrarian Change 12(2-3): 279-299. Fox, C. and C. Sneddon. 2007. Transboundary river basin agreements in the Mekong and Zambezi basins:enhancing environmental security or securitizing the environment? International Environmental Agreements 7: 237-261. Fox, C. and C. Sneddon. 2005. Flood pulses, international watercourse law, and common pool resources: a case study of the Mekong Lowlands. Research Paper No. 2005/20. Expert Group on Development Issues. United Nations University – World Institute for Development Economics Research. Sneddon, C. and C. Fox. 2012. Water, geopolitics and economic development in the conceptualization of a region. Eurasian Geography and Economics 53(1): 143-160. Sneddon, C. and C. Fox. 2006. Rethinking transboundary waters: A critical hydropolitics of the Mekong basin. Political Geography 25: 181-202. Magilligan, F.J., Sneddon, C.S., and C. Fox. 2016. The Era of Big Dam Building: It Ain’t Over Till It’s Over. In, The Politics of Fresh Water: Access, Conflict and Identity. Earthscan Studies in Water Resource Management Series. Sneddon C. and C. Fox. 2011. Cold War technopolitics, the US Bureau of Reclamation and emergence of the "modern" river basin, 1950-1970. Political Geography 30(8): 450-460. Sneddon, C. and C. Fox. 2008. River-basin politics and the rise of ecological democracy in Southeast Asia and Southern Africa. Water Alternatives 1(1): 66-88. Sneddon, C. and C. Fox. 2008. Struggles over dams as struggles for justice: the World Commission on Dams(WCD) and anti-dam campaigns in Thailand and Mozambique. Society & Natural Resources: An International Journal 21(7): 625-64. Fox, C. and N. Kohler. 1999. Ecological and Social Sustainability in International River Basins: LocalParticipation in Natural Resource Planning in the Xe Kong and Se San River Basins of Laos, Cambodia, and Vietnam. SYLFF Working Papers (12). Tokyo: Global Foundation for Research and Exchange Sneddon, C. and C. Fox. 2007. Power, development, and institutional change: participatory governance in the Lower Mekong Basin. World Development 35(12): 2161-2181. Fox, C. 2009. River Basin Development. In, International Encyclopedia of Human Geography. Elsevier Publishers. + View more Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Environmental Studies Undergraduate Overview Major and Minors Culminating Experience ENVS 50 Archive Minor Tracks Courses Sample Syllabi Waitlists and Applications Transfer Term Credit Honors Recent Honors Theses Learning Outcomes Graduate Foreign Study Overview Africa FSP Syllabi and Documents Paulson Fellowships Research Overview Student Research and Internships Faculty Research Fields Hornig Library of Environmental Studies Community Overview Careers Alumni Stories Office of Sustainability Dartmouth Organic Farm Sustainability Solutions Café Past Café Events News & Events News & Events Past Events Archive People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback