Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Environmental Studies Environmental Studies Contact Us Environmental.Studies@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major and Minors Culminating Experience ENVS 50 Archive Minor Tracks Courses Sample Syllabi Waitlists and Applications Transfer Term Credit Honors Recent Honors Theses Learning Outcomes Back to Top Nav Graduate Foreign Study Overview Africa FSP Syllabi and Documents Paulson Fellowships Back to Top Nav Research Overview Student Research and Internships Faculty Research Fields Hornig Library of Environmental Studies Back to Top Nav Community Overview Careers Alumni Stories Office of Sustainability Dartmouth Organic Farm Sustainability Solutions Café Past Café Events Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Past Events Archive Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Major and Minors Culminating Experience ENVS 50 Archive Minor Tracks Minor FAQ's Courses Honors Learning Outcomes Share Environmental Studies Minor Tracks The Environmental Studies Minor The Environmental Studies minor is the basic minor. Students wishing to do this minor should complete the worksheet at the link below and send to Kim Wind at kim.wind@dartmouth.edu. ENVS Minor Worksheet The Environmental Studies Sustainable Energy Track Minor Energy is vital to modern life – it enables health care, education, industry, economy, transportation, clean water, and simple everyday comfort and activities. In some regions and for some populations it is so ubiquitous that it is taken for granted – while in other areas, the absence or high cost of energy limits social productivity and community well-being. At the same time, modern energy systems are the major contributing factor to climate change and its increasingly devastating effects. Energy systems around the world are being transformed. Students minoring in Sustainable Energy from all majors will pursue a multidisciplinary course of study, grounded in environmental and social sustainability, to learn how to foster transitions toward energy futures that are both more just and more environmentally responsible. Requirements for the ENVS Sustainable Energy Track Minor (6 courses total) I. Environmental Fundamentals (one course): grounding in environmental studies or environmental science, and introduction to sustainability II. Climate change and its role in energy transitions (one course): foundation in climate science and how climate change impacts society III. What is sustainable energy? (one course): orientation to energy as a sociotechnical phenomenon; background in legacy energy systems; introduction to energy transitions and pathways to just and sustainable energy futures IV. Analyzing and addressing energy and society challenges (two courses): exploration of multiple approaches to characterizing energy problems and pursuing solutions V. Application experience: Advancing transitions to sustainable and just energy systems (one course): Mentored experience applying sustainable energy knowledge and crafting stakeholder-driven response Students wishing to do the Sustainable Energy Track in the Environmental Studies Minor should complete the worksheet below and send it to Kim.Wind@Dartmouth.edu. ENVS Sustainable Energy Minor Track Worksheet Click here for Sustainable Energy Track Minor FAQ's. Click here to go to the Arthur L. Irving Institute for Energy and Society. The Institute is a resource for both undergraduate and graduate students, providing opportunities to study the intersection of energy and society comprehensively, from the perspective of the humanities, social sciences, natural sciences, and engineering. IIES will help train the next generation of leaders who will seek solutions to the challenges posed by the world's energy needs. The Environmental Studies Sustainability Track Minor Many trends in our society are unsustainable, from population growth, land degradation, and resource consumption to climate change and biodiversity losses. How can we chart a path to sustainable futures? This sustainability transition is perhaps the greatest challenge of our age. Do you want to understand and tackle real-world sustainability problems in our communities and the world? Dartmouth's new sustainability curriculum will equip you with the knowledge and practical skills to understand diverse perspectives on sustainability, and work collaboratively with peers and experts from different fields. Students wishing to do the Environmental Studies Sustainability Track minor should complete the worksheet below and submit to Kim Wind at kim.wind@dartmouth.edu. ENVS Sustainability Track Minor Worksheet Click here for Sustainability Track Minor FAQs. The Environmental Science Minor Students wishing to do the Environmental Science Minor should complete the worksheet below and submit to Kim Wind at kim.wind@dartmouth.edu. Environmental Science Minor Worksheet Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Environmental Studies Undergraduate Overview Major and Minors Culminating Experience ENVS 50 Archive Minor Tracks Courses Sample Syllabi Waitlists and Applications Transfer Term Credit Honors Recent Honors Theses Learning Outcomes Graduate Foreign Study Overview Africa FSP Syllabi and Documents Paulson Fellowships Research Overview Student Research and Internships Faculty Research Fields Hornig Library of Environmental Studies Community Overview Careers Alumni Stories Office of Sustainability Dartmouth Organic Farm Sustainability Solutions Café Past Café Events News & Events News & Events Past Events Archive People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback