Skip to main content Left arrow Barnard.edu Open Search Close Our Department Back Faculty and Staff Majors and Minors Back Environmental Science Major Environmental Biology Major Environment and Sustainability Major Minor in Environmental Science 4 + 1 Programs and Five Year Programs Curriculum and Courses Back Course Catalogue Course Schedules Academic Recommendations Events, News and Media Research, E(SP)2 and Affiliates Left arrow Barnard.edu Search for: Search All of Barnard.edu Environmental Science Mission Statement Barnard College’s Environmental Science Department provides highly motivated students with challenging and rewarding programs in Environmental Science, Environmental Biology, and Environment and Sustainability. High academic standards, interdisciplinary courses, and training in methodologies, such as field and laboratory work and data analysis, ready students with the tools needed to think critically, evaluate and solve problems, conduct original research, and communicate science to address the needs of society... Read more of our Mission Statement in About Us. Environmental Majors and Minor About Our Majors Environmental Science Major Environmental Biology Major Environment and Sustainability Major Environmental Minor Double Degree Programs E(SP)2: Environmental Science Pathways Scholars Program E(SP)2 is a new NSF funded program to prepare the next generation of diverse leaders in Environmental Science. The program is designed for incoming and First-Year students looking to pursue one of the majors in the Department of Environmental Science (Environmental Science or Environment and Sustainability) with an interest in Environmental Science, Sustainability or Environmental Justice. E(SP)2 takes students from the first year through major fulfillment with summers of funded-research, field study and service-learning community outreach. The goal is to increase and diversify the Environmental Science major, to help students learn key skills in the field and towards workforce development. Learn more about the E(SP)2program, eligibility and to apply. Departmental Events and Email lists Members of the Environmental Science Department put together a line-up of Thursday Night Events, via Zoom over the past year and a half so students could once again meet up with classmates, peer mentors, faculty and staff members on a range of topics--from academic talks by young alumnae and people in the field, to career and major planning, shares and games! Event links are posted on the EnvSci Events Calendar for those Barnard students who join our email lists. Email us from your Barnard address along with your class standing or fill out the information form if you are interested in receiving information on opportunities and events. Throughout the year, contact a faculty advisor or staff member (email, make an appointment or stop by) if you have questions or need assistance. We continue to be here for you. Site Footer Copyright © 2022 Barnard College | Columbia University