Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Environmental Studies Environmental Studies Contact Us Environmental.Studies@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major and Minors Culminating Experience ENVS 50 Archive Minor Tracks Courses Sample Syllabi Waitlists and Applications Transfer Term Credit Honors Recent Honors Theses Learning Outcomes Back to Top Nav Graduate Foreign Study Overview Africa FSP Syllabi and Documents Paulson Fellowships Back to Top Nav Research Overview Student Research and Internships Faculty Research Fields Hornig Library of Environmental Studies Back to Top Nav Community Overview Careers Alumni Stories Office of Sustainability Dartmouth Organic Farm Sustainability Solutions Café Past Café Events Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Past Events Archive Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Julie L. Snorek Research Associate and Lecturer As a social ecologist, Julie Snorek has been developing an intricate understanding of social, ecological, and political transitions in the Sahel and Sahara where she has lived and worked for over twelve years with rural, nomadic and semi-nomadic societies. Throughout her research, Snorek strives to engage in a co-production of knowledge and to support and enhance practices of sustainability. Her interests and expertise include: soil regenerative agro-ecologies, feminist political ecology, environmentally-induced migration, climate change as it relates to conflict and cooperation dynamics, the links between hegemony, militarization, and extractive economies, the governance of common pool regimes, social and environmental justice movements, and just transitions or 'alternatives' to development. Along with her work in the Sahel, Snorek collaborates with ENVS professors and local partners to understand how social institutions like ubuntu support water management in South Africa and Namibia. Snorek cut her teeth as a field biologist in the Alaska Marine Wildlife Refuge and served as a land and water manager for the US Peace Corps and AmeriCorps. During her doctorate, she served as a fellow for the United Nations University: Institute for Environment and Human Security in Germany and was hired to advise several international non-governmental organizations in Africa. She holds a PhD in Environmental Science and Technology from the Institute for Environmental Science and Technology at the Autonomous University of Barcelona (UAB) and speaks six languages including two West African languages. + View more Contact Julie.L.Snorek@Dartmouth.edu 112B Fairchild HB 6182 Education Ph.D. Autonomous University of Barcelona, 2016 M.A. SIT Graduate Institute, 2010 B.S. Principia College, 2001 Areas of Expertise Political Ecology /Indigenous societies /Common pool regime management /Climate change adaptation /Climate conflict nexus /Regenerative communities of practice Selected Publications Snorek, J. 2021. Local Institutions, Collective Action, and Divergent Adaptation: Case from Agro- Pastoral Niger, in W. Leal Filho et al. (eds.), African Handbook of Climate Change Adaptation, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-42091-8_186-1 Snorek J., T. Kraft, V. Chockalingam, A. Gao and M. Ray. 2020. How Social Connections to Local CBNRM Institutions Shape Interaction: A Mixed Methods Case from Namibia, Journal of Sustainable Development; Vol. 13(6): 26-42. Snorek J. and D. Abrahams. (2018). The Climate Conflict Nexus. Oxford University Bibliographies. Snorek J., Moser L., and Renaud, F. (2017). The production of contested landscapes: enclosing the pastoral commons in Niger. Journal of Rural Studies. Snorek, J. (2015). Summary Paper: 'Governance and Management of the Nexus: Structures and Institutional Capacities.' Change and Adaptations in Social Ecological Systems, 2: 115-117. Snorek J. (2015). 'Contested views of the causes of rural to urban migration amongst pastoralists in Niger.' In Understanding Migration Decisions: From Sub-Saharan Africa to the Mediterranean. Ed. Bloom, T. Routledge Publishing. Snorek J., Kloos J., and Renaud F. G. (2014). Divergent adaptation to climate variability: A pastoral-agricultural case study of Niger. Global Environmental Change. + View more Courses ENVS 80.13: Just Transitions in Agriculture Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Environmental Studies Undergraduate Overview Major and Minors Culminating Experience ENVS 50 Archive Minor Tracks Courses Sample Syllabi Waitlists and Applications Transfer Term Credit Honors Recent Honors Theses Learning Outcomes Graduate Foreign Study Overview Africa FSP Syllabi and Documents Paulson Fellowships Research Overview Student Research and Internships Faculty Research Fields Hornig Library of Environmental Studies Community Overview Careers Alumni Stories Office of Sustainability Dartmouth Organic Farm Sustainability Solutions Café Past Café Events News & Events News & Events Past Events Archive People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback