Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Environmental Studies Environmental Studies Contact Us Environmental.Studies@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major and Minors Culminating Experience ENVS 50 Archive Minor Tracks Courses Sample Syllabi Waitlists and Applications Transfer Term Credit Honors Recent Honors Theses Learning Outcomes Back to Top Nav Graduate Foreign Study Overview Africa FSP Syllabi and Documents Paulson Fellowships Back to Top Nav Research Overview Student Research and Internships Faculty Research Fields Hornig Library of Environmental Studies Back to Top Nav Community Overview Careers Alumni Stories Office of Sustainability Dartmouth Organic Farm Sustainability Solutions Café Past Café Events Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Past Events Archive Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Richard B. Howarth Academic Appointments Professor of Environmental Studies PhD Program in Ecology, Evolution, Environment, and Society Co-Editor-in-Chief, Ecological Economics Rich Howarth is an environmental and ecological economist who studies the interplay between economic analysis and the ecological, moral, and social dimensions of environmental governance. His topical interests focus on the valuation and management of ecosystem services; theories of discounting and intergenerational justice; climate stabilization policy; post-carbon energy futures; the ethical foundations of voluntary pro-environmental behaviors; and the relationship between economic growth, environmental quality, and human well-being as mediated by endogenous social norms. Personal Website Contact richard.b.howarth@Dartmouth.edu 646-2752 106 Fairchild HB 6182 Department(s) Environmental Studies Education A.B. Cornell University, 1985 M.S. University of Wisconsin-Madison, 1987 Ph.D. University of California at Berkeley, 1990 Areas of Expertise Environmental and ecological economics /Ecosystem services /Discounting and intergenerational fairness /Climate stabilization policy /Sustainable energy futures /Voluntary pro-environmental behavior /Welfare economics of status signalling Selected Publications G. Mavrommati, M.E. Borsuk, and R.B. Howarth. 2017. “A Novel Deliberative Multicriteria Evaluation Approach to Ecosystem Service Valuation.” Ecology and Society 22: 39. D.A. Lutz, E.A. Burakowski, M.B. Murphy, M.E. Borsuk, R.M. Niemiec, and R.B. Howarth. 2016. “Tradeoffs between Three Forest Ecosystem Services across the State of New Hampshire, USA: Timber, Carbon, and Albedo.” Ecological Applications 26: 146-161. D.A. Lutz and R.B. Howarth. 2015. “The Price of Snow: Albedo Valuation and a Case Study for Forest Management.” Environmental Research Letters 10: 064013. R.B. Howarth, M.D. Gerst, and M.E. Borsuk. 2014. “Risk Mitigation and the Social Cost of Carbon.” Global Environmental Change 24: 123-131. R.M.R. Turaga, R.B. Howarth, and M.E. Borsuk. 2010. “Pro-Environmental Behavior: Rational Choice Meets Moral Motivation.” Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences 1185: 211-224. K. Nyborg, R.B. Howarth, and K.A. Brekke. 2006. “Green Consumers and Public Policy: On Socially Contingent Moral Motivation.” Resource and Energy Economics 28: 351-366. C. Sneddon, R.B. Howarth, and R.B. Norgaard. 2006. “Sustainable Development in a Post-Brundtland World.” Ecological Economics 57: 253-268. K.A. Brekke and R.B. Howarth. 2002. Status, Growth, and the Environment: Goods as Symbols in Applied Welfare Economics. Cheltenham: Edward Elgar. M.A. Wilson and R.B. Howarth. 2002. “Discourse-Based Valuation of Ecosystem Services: Establishing Fair Outcomes through Group Deliberation.” Ecological Economics. 41: 431-443. R.B. Howarth, B.M. Haddad, and B. Paton. 2000. “The Economics of Energy Efficiency: Insights from Voluntary Participation Programs.” Energy Policy 28: 477-486. R.B. Howarth and R.B. Norgaard. 1992. “Environmental Valuation under Sustainable Development.” American Economic Review Papers and Proceedings 80: 473‑477. + View more Courses ENVS 50 - Environmental Problem Analysis ENVS 55 - Ecological Economics Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Environmental Studies Undergraduate Overview Major and Minors Culminating Experience ENVS 50 Archive Minor Tracks Courses Sample Syllabi Waitlists and Applications Transfer Term Credit Honors Recent Honors Theses Learning Outcomes Graduate Foreign Study Overview Africa FSP Syllabi and Documents Paulson Fellowships Research Overview Student Research and Internships Faculty Research Fields Hornig Library of Environmental Studies Community Overview Careers Alumni Stories Office of Sustainability Dartmouth Organic Farm Sustainability Solutions Café Past Café Events News & Events News & Events Past Events Archive People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback