Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Equal Opportunity & Access Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Home Accommodations & ADA Request an Accommodation Responding to Requests for Accommodation Complete Policies and Guidance on Access at OSU Affirmative Action Sexual Misconduct & Title IX Report Sexual Misconduct Resources Policy and Processes Employee Responsibilities Training for TIX Employees Discrimination & Other Concerns Report Discrimination and Other Concerns Discrimination and Discriminatory Harassment Bullying Retaliation Processes Training Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Home Accommodations & ADA Request an Accommodation Responding to Requests for Accommodation Complete Policies and Guidance on Access at OSU Affirmative Action Sexual Misconduct & Title IX Report Sexual Misconduct Resources Policy and Processes Employee Responsibilities Training for TIX Employees Discrimination & Other Concerns Report Discrimination and Other Concerns Discrimination and Discriminatory Harassment Bullying Retaliation Processes Training How to Request an Accommodation Employees Employees with disabilities in need of assistance should contact the Office of Equal Opportunity and Access (EOA). EOA will work with the employee, supervisor, and potentially other appropriate administrative units to determine whether or not a reasonable accommodation can be made. EOA will assist departments in securing resources. Submit a Request for Accommodations or call 541-737-3556 Remote Work/Teaching Accommodations Note about COVID related continued remote work and remote teaching requests from employees. In order to have enough time to process requests for Fall Term 2021, we can not guarantee requests made after September 14, 2021 will be answered in time for the start of the term. For Winter Term 2022, we can not guarantee requests made after November 5, 2021 will be answered in time for the start of the term. For Spring Term 2022, we can not guarantee requests made after February 11, 2022 will be answered in time for the start of the term. Job Applicants To request a disability-related accommodation in any aspect of the recruitment and selection process, job applicants or prospective job applicants may contact EOA or the hiring unit listed on the job posting. Submit a Request for Accommodations or call 541-737-3556 Students The Director of Disability Access Services (DAS) has the responsibility for providing services to students with disabilities. DAS provides or funds auxiliary aids such as interpreters, note takers, alternative testing, and alternative formats. DAS also administers the procedures by which students disclose a disability and request an accommodation. Contact: Disability Access Services (541-737-4098). Visitors & Community Members Individuals with disabilities wanting to engage in university programs, services, and activities, such as through event attendance or through seeking accessible information, should contact the office or individual listed as a contact for that office. Typically this contact information is provided at the bottom of event advertisements/flyers, and on brochures and other print materials. This information can usually be found online as well. Additional Accommodation Categories EOA also manages other accommodation processes such as for religion and pregnancy using a process very similar to that of disability accommodations. In addition, Oregon State University is committed to ensuring that our programs and activities, normally provided in English, are accessible to Limited English Proficiency (LEP) persons. Upon request, the university will provide appropriate alternative non-English formats for persons with limited proficiency in English. Complaint Procedures EOA is responsible for overseeing compliance with regard to state and federal regulations that prohibit discrimination on the basis of a protected status. Complaints of discrimination or of wrongful accommodation denial may be filed with EOA. Leave Site Now Main Office Links EOA Job Openings Policies Annual Reports Staff Directory Contact Us Contact Info Equal Opportunity and Access (EOA) 330 Snell Hall, Corvallis, OR 97331 Oregon State University Phone: 541-737-3556 Fax: 541-737-8232 [email protected] Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook Twitter