Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Us Policies Affirmative Action and Recruitment Training and Education HERC Resources What We Do Our Team Non-Discrimination Statement and Policies EOAA Policies & Procedures Update & FAQs Romantic and Sexual Relationships Pay Transparency Notice Disability Policies and Laws For Students Faculty Recruitment Access to Restrooms Affirmative Action Overview of Affirmative Action Programs Academic Search and Recruiting (ASR) Recruitment of Academic Personnel System (RAPS) Administrative and Support Staff Standard and Intensive Recruitment EOAA Search Committee Resources Annual New York Anti-Sexual Harassment Training Columbia Faculty and Researcher Briefing Columbia TA Guide EOAA Training & Educational Materials Annual EOAA Reports Campus Resources Selected Laws and Regulations Campus Maps Pregnancy & Parenting Accommodations Disability Accessibility Accommodations Educational Materials Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action You are here: Home Resources Accessibility Accessibility Campus Accessibility Columbia University is committed to fostering a campus that is accessible to people with disabilities. It conducts an on-going program to remove physical barriers and each year, it makes significant accessibility improvements. For questions or concerns regarding access, please send an email to: [email protected] Campus Access Maps Campus Access Maps, which illustrate accessible features of Columbia University's buildings and grounds, are available upon request from the Office of Disability Services and the Department of Public Safety. Morningside Campus CUIMC Campus Program Access While Columbia continues to improve physical access to its campus and buildings, it ensures that all of its programs and activities are accessible to people with disabilities. If a program or activity is scheduled for a venue that is not fully accessible, it is Columbia’s policy to relocate such events to accessible facilities that meet the needs of the individual student. The Office of Disability Services (ODS) works closely with students to ensure that their residence halls and classrooms meet their access needs. Campus Access for Visitors and Guests Columbia University is committed to providing an accessible and welcoming environment for faculty, staff, students and visitors and encourages persons with disabilities to participate in its programs and activities. Persons with disabilities who anticipate needing accommodations or who have questions about physical access for a Columbia event or activity should contact the host program in advance of the occasion to arrange the necessary accommodations. The Department of Public Safety is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week, to assist guests and visitors with outdoor access to the different levels of campus. The Department will also assist guest and visitors with access within campus buildings, subject to each building’s hour of operation. To arrange for assistance, visitors should contact the Public Safety desk in Low Library or request help from the guards stations 24 hours a day at campus entrances at the West 116th and Broadway and West 116th Street and Amsterdam or from any other Public Safety officer they may encounter. For assistance and information, please contact: Department of Public Safety Phone: 212-854-2797 or 212-854-5555 1st Floor, Low Library 535 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 Library Access Services Columbia University is committed to ensuring that the services and programs offered by the Libraries and CUIT are accessible to all patrons. The University works with patrons on an individual basis to assess their unique accommodation needs. If you have any questions, please contact the Access Services Division liaison, Mayra Melendez, at (212) 854-3536 or [email protected]. Library Services for Individuals with Disabilities Campus Call Boxes Emergency Call Boxes on the Morningside and Manhattanville campuses may be used to contact the Department of Public Safety to request assistance with access to different campus levels and to buildings. Morningside Call Box Campus Map Manhattanville Call Box Campus Map Campus Access Tours Campus access tours are available upon request from the Office of Disability Services. These tours will be designed to meet the specific needs of the individuals requesting them. For information or assistance, please contact; Disability Services Phone: 212-854-2388 TTY: 212-854-2378 Report an Incident About the Office (212) 854-5511 [email protected] Office of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action103 Low Library, MC 4333 · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-5511 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close