Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Us Policies Affirmative Action and Recruitment Training and Education HERC Resources What We Do Our Team Non-Discrimination Statement and Policies EOAA Policies & Procedures Update & FAQs Romantic and Sexual Relationships Pay Transparency Notice Disability Policies and Laws For Students Faculty Recruitment Access to Restrooms Affirmative Action Overview of Affirmative Action Programs Academic Search and Recruiting (ASR) Recruitment of Academic Personnel System (RAPS) Administrative and Support Staff Standard and Intensive Recruitment EOAA Search Committee Resources Annual New York Anti-Sexual Harassment Training Columbia Faculty and Researcher Briefing Columbia TA Guide EOAA Training & Educational Materials Annual EOAA Reports Campus Resources Selected Laws and Regulations Campus Maps Pregnancy & Parenting Accommodations Disability Accessibility Accommodations Educational Materials Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action You are here: Home Applicants Applicants Expand all Collapse all Accounts Is there a cost associated with creating an Interfolio dossier account to apply to Columbia University open positions? If you are applying to roles at Columbia University you can create your Interfolio dossier account for free. Does it take a long time to create an Interfolio dossier account if you do not have one? No, you can set up a dossier account in a matter of minutes. Will my dossier account expire? Dossier accounts will never expire. Expand all Collapse all Applications Can I update my application? How many times? Yes, you may update your application by logging back into your dossier account. You will be able to edit your account until the search committee begins to review applications. I withdrew my application, can I reapply to that same position? If the position is still open, you can reactivate your withdrawn application. You will not be able to apply with an entirely new application. What is the largest size document I can upload? 100 MBs per document. How can I check the status of my application? At any time you can log into your dossier account and check the status of your application. Can I apply to more than one job opening? Yes, you may apply for as many positions as you like. Expand all Collapse all References Can I provide references at a later date? Or can I use a placeholder email? No. Please complete all requested information during application submission. If the search committee wants references at a later date they will specifically state when they want references. Can I update my reference providers? Yes, please login to your dossier account to update/modify your references. How many references can I provide? Generally, your application will specify the number of recommendation letters the search committee wants. Depending on the post settings, you may submit additional letters of recommendation but they are not necessary and may not be reviewed. Can my reference provider provide their reference over the phone or in the body of an email? No. All references must be provided via a Word or Adobe PDF document. If the recommender needs reasonable accommodations please contact [email protected] Expand all Collapse all Search Committee When will the search committee make a decision? The search committee will render a decision after a thorough review of all applicants in the pool, interviewing the best qualified candidates and reaching a consensus on the proposed selectee. There is no set timeline for a search committee to render a decision unless explicitly stated in the job posting. Can I have the contact information for the chair of the search committee? Due to the volume of applications, we do not provide the contact information for the search committee chair. However, many searches will list a department contact in the posting that you can contact with questions or you can submit a question or comment via the Contact Us web form. Report an Incident About the Office (212) 854-5511 [email protected] Office of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action103 Low Library, MC 4333 · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-5511 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close