Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Us Policies Affirmative Action and Recruitment Training and Education HERC Resources What We Do Our Team Non-Discrimination Statement and Policies EOAA Policies & Procedures Update & FAQs Romantic and Sexual Relationships Pay Transparency Notice Disability Policies and Laws For Students Faculty Recruitment Access to Restrooms Affirmative Action Overview of Affirmative Action Programs Academic Search and Recruiting (ASR) Recruitment of Academic Personnel System (RAPS) Administrative and Support Staff Standard and Intensive Recruitment EOAA Search Committee Resources Annual New York Anti-Sexual Harassment Training Columbia Faculty and Researcher Briefing Columbia TA Guide EOAA Training & Educational Materials Annual EOAA Reports Campus Resources Selected Laws and Regulations Campus Maps Pregnancy & Parenting Accommodations Disability Accessibility Accommodations Educational Materials Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action You are here: Home Evaluators (Search Committee Members) Evaluators (Search Committee Members) Expand all Collapse all Logging into Your Account I do not know how to access my Academic Search and Recruiting (ASR) account? Go to https://account.interfolio.com/login Select Partner Institution [Columbia University in the City of New York]. This will bring you to the standard SSO page, sign in with your UNI and your password. If you cannot access the page please reach out to your committee manager (department administrator) for assistance. Expand all Collapse all EOAA Policy Specific Can the search committee see individual level EEO data? No, as a part of the application process when applicants fill out the voluntary disclosure form they are notified that individual level data will not be available to the hiring committee. The Unit Administrator or Committee Manager will be able to provide you with aggregate EEO data as long as there are at least five applicants in the pool. Can the search committee write letters of recommendation for candidates in the pool? No, search committee members are barred from writing letters of recommendation for applicants in the pool. Expand all Collapse all ASR Specific Who can see my comments? The committee manager, unit administrator and system administrator. Who can see my annotations? These are private to you and cannot be seen in ASR screens. Please keep in mind that annotations are discoverable. Can blind review be turned on if applicant review has already started? Yes. We would like additional information from our shortlisted candidates, is that possible? Yes, let your committee manager (department administrator) know what additional information you would like from your shortlisted candidates. They can reach out to shortlisted candidates via email from within ASR. Be mindful to request the same information from each candidate. Can I use tags to make notes on an application? Tags are only to be used to designate the Diversity Advocate. Expand all Collapse all Training Opportunities Is there a training course that I can take to better understand how to use ASR? Yes, please contact your committee manager or search the ELM learning catalog for “Academic Search and Recruiting - Evaluator Training.” The training is approximately twenty-five minutes. Report an Incident About the Office (212) 854-5511 [email protected] Office of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action103 Low Library, MC 4333 · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-5511 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close