Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Us Policies Affirmative Action and Recruitment Training and Education HERC Resources What We Do Our Team Non-Discrimination Statement and Policies EOAA Policies & Procedures Update & FAQs Romantic and Sexual Relationships Pay Transparency Notice Disability Policies and Laws For Students Faculty Recruitment Access to Restrooms Affirmative Action Overview of Affirmative Action Programs Academic Search and Recruiting (ASR) Recruitment of Academic Personnel System (RAPS) Administrative and Support Staff Standard and Intensive Recruitment EOAA Search Committee Resources Annual New York Anti-Sexual Harassment Training Columbia Faculty and Researcher Briefing Columbia TA Guide EOAA Training & Educational Materials Annual EOAA Reports Campus Resources Selected Laws and Regulations Campus Maps Pregnancy & Parenting Accommodations Disability Accessibility Accommodations Educational Materials Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action You are here: Home Training and Education Columbia Faculty and Researcher Briefing Columbia Faculty and Researcher Briefing Columbia Faculty and Researcher Briefing: Student Resources, Policies, and Title IX Begin the Briefing This briefing covers requirements and best practices on a variety of topics including academic integrity, student mental health, teaching challenges, discrimination, harassment, sexual misconduct, reporting obligations and other issues. Responsive to Columbia’s Mission It is essential that faculty and research officers have answers to questions that sometimes arise about how to handle the topics addressed in this briefing, including best practices, available resources, and University expectations. Issues That Impact Our Community The briefing provides tools for recognizing and responding to issues that can have a serious impact on our community, whether in the classroom, labs, the workplace or more generally on campus. Platform for New Information For colleagues who have had in-person training on some of these issues, this briefing will provide a refresher as well as new information on other issues. The course you are required to take on the Stridepoint course listing page is the “Columbia Faculty and Researcher Briefing.” For more information on this and other technical questions, see: Technical FAQs Frequently Asked Questions When I click on “Begin the Briefing,” it takes me to a page with several different courses on various topics listed. Do I need to do all of them? The only one you need to complete is the “Columbia Faculty and Researcher Briefing” listed under “Required Courses.” Other required or optional courses may be listed on the page, but those courses have been prepared by other Columbia offices, have their own deadlines, and are separate from this initiative. When is the deadline? Please refer to the email you received that announced the Briefing. Who is requiring that I participate? The Office of the Provost and the Office of University Life worked together to create the briefing, in consultation with faculty from all schools at Columbia. The Provost requires that all full-time and part-time Officers of Instruction and Research complete the briefing. How long will it take to complete? The briefing should take approximately 30-40 minutes to complete. Each slide has a brief set time period before you can manually advance to the next slide. Each slide is narrated in order to accommodate everyone who is completing the briefing. Will I be quizzed on the material? No, the briefing does not include quizzes. Instead, the briefing includes scenarios with questions; for some of these, there is more than one right answer as there would be in real-life interactions. You should aim to respond to all questions correctly but will not have to achieve a particular score. Your answers are not tracked or recorded. How will I know that I have completed the briefing? When you reach the final slide, you have completed the briefing. You will receive an email confirming your completion. CUIT updates the completion list once a day, so it may take up to 24 hours to receive this confirmation. Where can I find more information about Columbia’s resources? The Office of University Life website compiles resource information related to students. The briefing also includes a downloadable resource sheet. Questions or Suggestions? Please direct questions, or suggestions on how to improve the briefing to [email protected]. For technology-related issues, contact [email protected] or call the CUIT Service Desk at (212) 854-1919. Office of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action103 Low Library, MC 4333 · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-5511 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close