Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Us Policies Affirmative Action and Recruitment Training and Education HERC Resources What We Do Our Team Non-Discrimination Statement and Policies EOAA Policies & Procedures Update & FAQs Romantic and Sexual Relationships Pay Transparency Notice Disability Policies and Laws For Students Faculty Recruitment Access to Restrooms Affirmative Action Overview of Affirmative Action Programs Academic Search and Recruiting (ASR) Recruitment of Academic Personnel System (RAPS) Administrative and Support Staff Standard and Intensive Recruitment EOAA Search Committee Resources Annual New York Anti-Sexual Harassment Training Columbia Faculty and Researcher Briefing Columbia TA Guide EOAA Training & Educational Materials Annual EOAA Reports Campus Resources Selected Laws and Regulations Campus Maps Pregnancy & Parenting Accommodations Disability Accessibility Accommodations Educational Materials Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action You are here: Home Technical FAQs Technical FAQs Expand all Collapse all I receive a “Login Incorrect” message when I try to access the guide. What should I do? Please check that your uni and password are functioning by visiting my.columbia.edu and logging in. If you are unable to successfully login with this link, please visit uni.columbia.edu and click “forgot password” to reset your password. If there is still an issue, please contact the CUIT Service Desk at 212-854-1919 or [email protected]. When I try to log in to the guide there is an error that suggests a system problem. What should I do? Please contact the CUIT Service Desk at 212-854-1919 or [email protected] and explain the problem. Someone from CUIT will help resolve your issue. How will I know that my participation has been recorded? You will receive a confirmation via email within 24 hours of completing the guide. If more than 24 hours have passed since you completed the course and you have not received a confirmation, please contact [email protected]. I can log in, but I don’t see the course titled Columbia TA Guide: Essential Resources, Rules, and Guidance The guide is only assigned to those who are currently Teaching Assistants or who work with students in an academic setting. If you are in that population then please contact the CUIT Service Desk at 212-854-1919 or [email protected] What if I have completed the training but do not receive the completion certificate? It is possible that you did not complete all of the material within the slides. Some slides have more than one component to click through. In order to check, open the course and review the table of contents located on the left side of the training window. The header for each section and sub-section will turn from black text to gray text once the slide has been fully completed. You can also click the arrows on the left side of the table of contents to reveal the contents of each section. The headers for any sections you still need to complete will remain black. Review each incomplete section. Sometimes the incomplete portion is a section containing a question you did not answer. Who do I contact with questions or suggestions? Please direct questions, or suggestions on how to improve the guide to [email protected]. For technology-related issues, contact [email protected] or call the CUIT Service Desk at (212) 854-1919. Hours of operation: Monday-Thursday: 8 am - 11pm Friday: 8 am - 7 pm Saturday: 10 am - 6 pm Sunday: 3 pm - 11 pm Where can I find more information about Columbia’s resources? The Office of University Life website compiles resource information related to students. The guide also includes a downloadable resource sheet. (212) 854-1919 [email protected] Office of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action103 Low Library, MC 4333 · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-5511 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close