Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Us Policies Affirmative Action and Recruitment Training and Education HERC Resources What We Do Our Team Non-Discrimination Statement and Policies EOAA Policies & Procedures Update & FAQs Romantic and Sexual Relationships Pay Transparency Notice Disability Policies and Laws For Students Faculty Recruitment Access to Restrooms Affirmative Action Overview of Affirmative Action Programs Academic Search and Recruiting (ASR) Recruitment of Academic Personnel System (RAPS) Administrative and Support Staff Standard and Intensive Recruitment EOAA Search Committee Resources Annual New York Anti-Sexual Harassment Training Columbia Faculty and Researcher Briefing Columbia TA Guide EOAA Training & Educational Materials Annual EOAA Reports Campus Resources Selected Laws and Regulations Campus Maps Pregnancy & Parenting Accommodations Disability Accessibility Accommodations Educational Materials Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action You are here: Home Training and Education Annual New York Anti-Sexual Harassment Training Annual New York Anti-Sexual Harassment Training Launch Course Course FAQ The New York Anti-Sexual Harassment Training (NYASH) is mandated by New York State and New York City legislation. This annual training is required of all personnel, including faculty, staff, researchers, librarians, contractors, and student workers. If you were assigned the course before June 15th, 2021, please click here to access the 2020-2021 version of the course. While the Faculty and Researcher Briefing that launched two years ago addresses a wide variety of topics, including academic integrity and managing student mental health issues, the anti-sexual harassment training focuses specifically on what sexual harassment is, including definitions, and who has a duty to report and how reports can be made. Both the existing Faculty and Researcher Briefing, required of all incoming faculty and researchers, and Columbia’s Anti-Harassment, Discrimination and Title IX Training, required of all incoming officers of the library and administrative officers and staff will still be required as they cover a broader range of topics. We do recognize the time obligation on faculty and staff and are focused on ways to moderate this burden. Columbia University is committed to providing a learning, living, and working environment free from unlawful discrimination and harassment, and to fostering a nurturing and vibrant community founded upon the fundamental dignity of all its members. In addition to being required by law, the training importantly serves the University’s goals of fostering a safe, inclusive, and supportive campus environment, and ensuring that Columbia is a community where all of us meet our shared responsibility to prevent gender-based misconduct in any form. The training itself should take between 45-60 minutes to complete. Current Employees Current employees will be assigned on their NYASH anniversary month and will have 30 days to complete the training. New hires will be assigned on a rolling basis and will have 30 days to complete the training. New York State Anti-Harassment Course FAQ Expand all Collapse all How long will this course take to complete? The course should take approximately 40-60 minutes to complete. Each slide has a brief set time period before you can manually advance to the next slide. Does the course have closed captioning? The course’s slide text and the narration match on each slide in order to accommodate different learning needs. I already took this course. Why am I being assigned to take it again? Columbia University’s New York State Anti-Harassment course is required to be completed by all University employees on an annual basis by New York State and New York City law. Each year's version of the course is assigned on the anniversary of when the previous year's version of the course was assigned to you. For example, if you were assigned the 2020-2021 course in March 2021, you will be assigned the 2021-2022 course in March 2022. I took anti-harassment training already for my other job. Can I just send you that certificate instead of taking this course? No. While the other training you completed may be compliant with New York State and New York City requirements, our course is specific to Columbia University and Columbia Policy and is required of all employees with an active University appointment. You will need to complete this course, as well. Can I get a certificate of completion for this course? Yes. When you complete the course, You should be able to retrieve your certificate through the following steps: In your web browser, head to https://columbia.sabacloud.com/ and login using your UNI and password. Click on the blue “My Learning Plan” button. On the left-hand side of the screen, there is a vertical menu bar. Click on “Completed Learning.” Scroll down to the New York Anti-Harassment course and click on the Print Certificate button on the right side of the screen. I have tried to access the course but it is not loading in ELM. What should I do? Some browser settings make it difficult for the course to load properly. If you run into this, please try launching the course in a different browser, such as Google Chrome, Firefox, or Safari. I was assigned the course but have not done any work for Columbia this year/no longer work at the University. If you are receiving emails requesting that you complete the course , it is because University records reflect that you still have some sort of active appointment as an employee. If this is a mistake and you no longer work for the University, please reach out to your former supervisor to ensure that they have terminated your prior appointment. I completed the course but it is not reflecting that on my ELM dashboard. If you have completed the course in its entirety and it does not show, please contact our office with the information on when you completed the course so that we are able to look into it for you. If you still have questions about this course, please email us at [email protected] Office of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action103 Low Library, MC 4333 · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-5511 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close