Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Us Policies Affirmative Action and Recruitment Training and Education HERC Resources What We Do Our Team Non-Discrimination Statement and Policies EOAA Policies & Procedures Update & FAQs Romantic and Sexual Relationships Pay Transparency Notice Disability Policies and Laws For Students Faculty Recruitment Access to Restrooms Affirmative Action Overview of Affirmative Action Programs Academic Search and Recruiting (ASR) Recruitment of Academic Personnel System (RAPS) Administrative and Support Staff Standard and Intensive Recruitment EOAA Search Committee Resources Annual New York Anti-Sexual Harassment Training Columbia Faculty and Researcher Briefing Columbia TA Guide EOAA Training & Educational Materials Annual EOAA Reports Campus Resources Selected Laws and Regulations Campus Maps Pregnancy & Parenting Accommodations Disability Accessibility Accommodations Educational Materials Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action You are here: Home Affirmative Action and Recruitment EOAA Search Committee Resources EOAA Search Committee Resources EOAA Search Committee Resources EOAA offers workshops, consultations, and technical support to faculty and staff search committees on best practices in recruitment and hiring. In response to requests for additional information, we developed the following resources to assist with searches. Please contact EOAA ([email protected]) with any questions about the materials, best practices for search committees, or to request a workshop for your search committee. Faculty Search Committee Resources Staff Search Committee Resources Resources for Candidates Additional Resources EOAA FACULTY SEARCH COMMITTEE RESOURCES Evaluating Candidates It is a best practice for departments and search committees to develop and use a matrix to evaluate applicants so that all committee members have a shared understanding of what is being evaluated and how it is being evaluated. wrench icon Faculty Candidate Evaluation Tool EOAA provides this Sample Faculty Candidate Evaluation Tool to assist academic departments and faculty search committees in creating their own matrix that meets their needs. users icon Assessing Candidate DEI Contributions Search committees are often interested in learning about a candidate’s contributions to campus diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI). EOAA has developed two resources to assist committees in this area. Assessing Candidate DEI Contributions provides helpful information and strategies for departments and search committees about asking candidates to submit a diversity statement and issues to consider in evaluating responses. table icon Rubric to Assess Faculty Candidate DEI Contributions Another useful tool to help faculty search committees is the Rubric to Assess Faculty Candidate Contributions. EOAA STAFF SEARCH COMMITTEE RESOURCES Evaluating Candidates It is a best practice for departments and search committees to develop and use a matrix to evaluate applicants so that all committee members have a shared understanding of what is being evaluated and how it is being evaluated. wrench icon Staff Candidate Evaluation Tool EOAA provides this Sample Staff Candidate Evaluation Tool to assist departments and search committees in creating their own matrix that meets their needs. users icon Assessing Candidate DEI Contributions Search committees are often interested in learning about a candidate’s contributions to campus diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI). EOAA has developed two resources to assist committees in this area. Assessing Candidate DEI Contributions provides helpful information and strategies for departments and search committees about asking candidates to submit a diversity statement and issues to consider in evaluating responses. Assessing Candidate DEI Contributions provides helpful information and strategies for departments and search committees about asking candidates to submit a diversity statement, issues to consider in evaluating responses, and a table icon Rubric to Assess Staff Candidate Contributions Another useful tool to help staff search committees is the Rubric to Assess Staff Candidate Contributions. RESOURCES FOR FACULTY AND STAFF CANDIDATES: RESPONDING TO DEI QUESTIONS group icon Resources for Candidates Thank you for your interest in a faculty or staff position at Columbia University. We value the advancement of diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) as an integral part of the University. The purpose of this resource is to help you understand how Columbia considers contributions to DEI and prepare you to write an effective statement on your contributions to diversity, and to support you in preparing for a campus visit/job interview if invited. Additional Resources Faculty and staff search committees can also find additional resources with our partner offices: The Higher Education Recruitment Consortium (HERC) and the Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement. Office of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action103 Low Library, MC 4333 · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-5511 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close