Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Department of Earth, Ocean & Atmospheric Science Webmail Search FSU Navigation FSU Sites Student Directory Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Skip to main content Department of Earth, Ocean & Atmospheric Science at Florida State University Home Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Studies Environmental Science Geology Meteorology Undergraduate Advising Course Listing Graduate Programs Graduate Studies Environmental Science Geology Meteorology Oceanography Graduate Advising Course Listing Forms People All Our People Academic Faculty Emeritus Research Staff Postdocs Graduate Students Staff Research Instruments Research Topics Atmospheric Science Earth Science Environmental Science Ocean Science Biogeochemistry Climate Science Geophysical Dynamics Natural Hazards Research Facilities Computing (HPC) Earth Modeling (COAPS) Fluid Dynamics (GFDI) Geochemistry(NHMFL) Marine Field (MFG) Marine Lab (FSU-CML) Weather Service (NWS) Department Info About Us Contact Us Employment Scholarships Giving - Winchester Fund Internal Resources - Conference Room Reservation - Vehicle Reservation Building Art EOAS News News Diversity Diversity Reporting and Feedback Demographics DEI Committee Resource Map Additional Readings Calendar Hollings Scholarship will help FSU student pursue her passion for weather Read More European Geosciences Union names FSU assistant professor Outstanding Early Career Scientist Read More Two EOAS Assistant Professors are awarded very prestigious NSF CAREER Awards: Read More FSU Environmental Science and Policy student named Truman Scholar Read More FSU meteorology grad Marshall Shepherd selected as SEC Professor of the Year for 2022 Read More PLOS “An Interview with Biogeochemist Alex Cory” Read More EOAS Weathercasting Grad Tevin Wooten Named to Forbes 2022 list of “30 Under 30” in Media Category Read More EOAS Weathercasting Students Win IBM Weather Graphics Challenge for Fall 2021 & again for Spring 2022 Read More Researchers find low oxygen and sulfide in the oceans played greater role in ancient mass extinction Read More Dr. Wing named to Popular Science’s Brilliant 10 list of groundbreaking early career researchers Read More Wave wash-over poses threat to endangered sea turtle nests and hatchlings Read More Departmental Vision The Department of Earth, Ocean, and Atmospheric Science (EOAS) conducts research and offers instruction in the fields of Environmental Science, Geology, Oceanography, and Meteorology. The Department’s goals are to contribute to scientific knowledge by conducting world‐class research, and to be a source of information for the public and decision makers. The department offers undergraduate degrees in environmental sciences with a strong interdisciplinary core, and in geology and meteorology. Graduate degrees are offered in environmental science, geology, oceanography and meteorology at MS and PhD levels. To offer the best education, our tenure track faculty personally teach and mentor students, minimizing the role of adjuncts. EOAS faculty are resolute in the belief that their science plays an essential role in the life of the University, state and nation and in the education of tomorrow’s leaders. They are committed to expanding and strengthening that role. EOAS faculty are also committed to offering students rigorous field‐camps, research experiences and cruises, and internships. These experiences are essential to a rounded education. EOAS retains excellence in its established areas of research with vigorous recruitment of highly qualified graduate students and faculty. Diversity Statement At EOAS we continuously work to create an inclusive department that fully reflects the diverse community we serve. We seek to accomplish this by recruiting a diverse faculty, staff, and student body and promoting and strengthening under-represented groups within EOAS. Here, we build on an inclusive culture in which difference is welcomed and valued. We embrace the responsibility of providing and nurturing an affirming climate that supports and celebrates individual identities across a broad spectrum while ensuring equitable treatment. We strongly believe that different backgrounds, perspectives and experiences drive creativity and innovation, and deliver better results. We have a zero-tolerance policy towards discrimination of any kind. At EOAS everyone is welcome! FSU’s Equal Opportunity Statement can be viewed at: View Page Resources for sharing information regarding concerning incidents or behavior in the FSU community can be found at: View Page Specific policies for faculty procedures and responsibilities when a student reports sexual misconduct to you are found at: View Page Undergraduate Programs With five majors and many specialties to choose from, our degree programs include geology, environmental science and meteorology-delivering the very finest Earth Science education. Graduate Programs We offer nine Ph.D. and M.S. degree programs with unique offering of graduate programs that provide the highest quality of education and with an intensive research experience. Research Research opportunities in Atmospheric Science, Earth Science, Environmental Science, Ocean Science, Biogeochemistry, Climate Science, Geophysical Dynamics and Natural Hazards are available at seven exciting research facilities. People Meet the faculty, researchers and staff that make this one of the best Earth Ocean and Atmospheric Science departments. Calendar Departmental schedule of events,meetings and seminars EOAS Twitter Latest comments,current events, news and thoughts from FSU-EOAS community Tweets by FSU_EOAS Current Weather Weather updates from the departmental weather station. Detailed Weather & Skycam FSU Campus FSU Reservation FSU Sports Plex (Intramural Fields) FSU Coastal & Marine Lab © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright FSU Directory Assistance: 850-644-2525 EOAS Departmental Suggestion Box Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media