Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS School of Engineering Engineering Physics myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link Contact Welcome and Mission Academics Select to follow link Advising Courses Degrees Select to follow link Aerospace Systems Chemical Systems Digital Electronic Systems Electromechanical Control Systems Departmental Honors Program Statements Admissions Research People Select to follow link Faculty Staff Alumni & Friends Resources Select to follow link FAQs Information for Prospective Students Accreditation Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo School of Engineering Engineering Physics Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Engineering Physics Students who pursue a degree in Engineering Physics from KU often find themselves in careers that put them at the pinnacle of emerging technology. Here you will find information for current and prospective undergraduate students. Quick Links Academics Admissions Research Degrees Offered KU's Engineering Physics program is jointly administered through the School of Engineering and the Department of Physics and Astronomy in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences. If you love science, math and engineering, this is the place for you. In our interdisciplinary program students prepare themselves for life in the 21st century. Students work with faculty from both the Department of Physics and Astronomy and the School of Engineering. They can have cutting edge research experiences that run the gamut from A (Automobiles) to Z (Z bosons).The program offers a B.S. degree in engineering physics with opportunities to pursue one of four design options: Aerospace Systems, Chemical Systems, Digital Electronic Systems, and Electromechanical Control Systems. Our undergraduate degree program is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET. Degree programs that receive accreditation have undergone an exhaustive peer review of their program to assure they meet and exceed certain standards. 1082 Malott 1251 Wescoe Hall Dr. Lawrence, KS 66045 ephx@ku.edu 785-864-4626 Enrollment & Graduation Data School of Engineering Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.