Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | epiCURE Skin Disease Resource-based Center Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Research Cores Enrichment Program People News Publications Events About Stem Cell Imaging and Manipulation Core (SCIM) Skin Immunity, Integrity and Disease Core (SIND) Translational and Precision Medicine Resources Core (TRAP) Pilot and Feasibility Program Training Activities Seminar Series and Symposia Program Educational Workshops Columbia | epiCURE Skin Disease Resource-based Center Home Expand all Collapse all Congratulation's to Dermatology's Postdoctoral Research Scientist Isha Monga on her Bird Award for "Emerging Researchers in Bioinformatics" Expand all Collapse all News NAAF Proceedings We are delighted to announce the publication of NAAF’s seventh Alopecia Areata Research Summit, Forging the Future, in the prestigious Journal of Investigative Dermatology Symposium Proceedings (JIDSP). Our research summits serve to distill exciting new discoveries, chart the path forward and prioritize the most critical, high-leverage research investments made through NAAF’s... https://epicure.cumc.columbia.edu/recent-news Expand all Collapse all Enrichment Research in Progress 2021 Schedule Recent Publication Perspectives on the recommendations for skin cancer management during the COVID-19 pandemic Geskin LJ Trager MH Aasi SZ Bickers DR Carvajal RD Nghiem P Taback B Zeitouni NC Samie FH PDF Download PubMed Tweets by ColumbiaEpicure Expand all Collapse all Events Dermatology Virtual Grand Rounds 2021 New York Skin Club 2020 https://epicure.cumc.columbia.edu/content/events Expand all Collapse all Careers EPITHELIAL STEM CELL POST-DOCTORAL FELLOW Job Description: The Department of Dermatology at Columbia University is seeking a highly motivated post-doctoral scientist with an interest in adult mammalian stem cell homeostasis to join our group. The position will address the mechanistic regulation of adult cutaneous epithelial niches that may be compromised during aging and the impact of this dysregulation on tissue integrity, function and cancer. The candidate will be responsible for performing rigorous cell biology, biochemistry and bioinformatic analyses using well-defined mouse models targeting specific stem cell niches in the adult skin. The candidate will be responsible handling bioinformatic analyses focused primarily on single-cell and bulk RNAseq data sets. Candidates with prior experience in bioinformatics (transcriptomics and genomics), systems biology, or RNAseq data structure/analysis will be considered highly competitive. Candidates at minimum should have experience with standard bioinformatic analysis (differential expression, basic classification, genomics, data visualization, etc), statistics, and/or programming experience (R, perl, java, python, etc). Prospective applicants should have a Ph.D. or equivalent and should possess strong laboratory, analytical, interpersonal and communication skills. The Basic Science Research Group within the Department of Dermatology at Columbia University is an exciting, multidisciplinary workplace with excellent resources. We are seeking creative and highly motivated individuals interested in working in a dynamic research environment, where they will have the opportunity to gain diverse basic, pre-clinical and clinical research experience, and receive excellent mentoring. Please email the documents below to both David M. Owens, Ph.D. at [email protected] and Brandon Begarly at [email protected] 1. Cover Letter 2. Resume and/or CV 3. Contact information including name, email and telephone number for three (3) references Irving Skin Cancer Faculty Positions - Assistant, Associate and Full Professor The Department of Dermatology at the Columbia University Irving Medical Center invites applicants at all ranks for full-time faculty positions with a focus on research in Skin Cancer. Successful candidates will be joining a vibrant Skin Cancer research community that emphasizes combining basic and clinical research, patient care and teaching. Current research interests in the Department of Dermatology include skin biology, immunology, epidermal differentiation, skin stem cells, signal transduction, skin cancers (both non -melanoma and melanoma), mouse models of skin cancer, immuno-oncology, complex organotypic skin modelling, data warehouse and systems approaches, and clinical research. Applications are invited across the full spectrum of basic to translational skin cancer research. Candidates may hold an MD, MD/PhD or PhD degree or equivalent, with a demonstrated track-record of leadership, excellent communication skills and publications in high-impact journals. Candidates will be expected to sustain an outstanding, extramurally supported research program and multidisciplinary collaborations. Interested candidates should apply online at: www.columbia.edu, under Employment, Recruitment of Academic and Personnel Systems (RAPS) and email your curriculum vitae, research statement and cover letter, along with names and addresses of three references to Dr. Angela Christiano ([email protected] ) and Mashika Patterson ([email protected]) You can also apply at the link provided below as well https://www.nature.com/naturecareers/job/faculty-position-assistant-associate-and-full-professor-columbia-university-medical-center-cumc-cu-732585 Date Posted: November 24, 2020 Columbia Affiliations Department of Dermatology The College of Physicians and Surgeons Columbia University Medical Center The Florence and Herbert Irving Center for Dermatology and Skin Cancer ResearchRuss Berrie Medical Sciences Pavilion, 3rd Floor, 1150 St. Nicholas Avenue · New York, NY 10032 Phone 212.851.4800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close