Skip to Main Content Brown University School of Public Health Brown University Department of Epidemiology Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Mission Statement Diversity and Inclusion Career Opportunities Academics Doctoral Program MPH Epidemiology Concentration Student Resources Research Fields of Research Research Centers Events Seminar Series People Leadership Faculty Research Staff Administrative Staff Ph.D. Students News Search Department of Epidemiology About Sub Navigation In This Section Mission Statement Diversity and Inclusion Career Opportunities Stay Connected Follow us on social media. Facebook Twitter Contact Epidemiology Phone: 401-863-6459 Epidemiology@brown.edu About It is an exciting time to be an epidemiologist. The work we do is fundamental to the practice of evidence-based public health and medicine and affects the lives of millions of people worldwide. Whether it is investigating an infectious disease outbreak, assessing the impact of in-utero exposure to environmental pollutants and endocrine disrupting chemicals, or the relations of nutritional, genetic, stress-related factors to cardiometabolic health, epidemiology is the foundational discipline underpinning many public health stories in the headlines every day. 130+ active grant awards within the department 100+ grant proposals are submitted each year Alumni Success Our alumni have gone on to to be leaders in both academia and industry positions Our faculty are experts in cancer, environmental health, global health, mental health, infectious disease, maternal and child health, molecular, health disparities, obesity, substance use, mindfulness, and epidemiologic methods. Mission Statement The primary mission of the Department of Epidemiology is to pursue excellence in research, scholarship, teaching, training and service within the field of epidemiology. Diversity and Inclusion The Epidemiology Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan (DIAP) Committee guides departmental actions needed to address anti-Black racism and create a culture that embraces diversity and inclusion. Career Opportunities Rewarding professional opportunities in epidemiology at the Brown University School of Public Health Academic Programs The Epidemiology graduate program prepares students for careers in research or public health which require knowledge of advanced epidemiologic methods. The department offers a doctoral degree. Faculty also mentor and teach MPH and undergraduate students. Visit Page Stay Connected Follow us on social media. Facebook Twitter Contact Epidemiology Phone: 401-863-6459 Epidemiology@brown.edu Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Twitter © Brown University School of Public Health Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Mission Statement Diversity and Inclusion Career Opportunities Academics Doctoral Program MPH Epidemiology Concentration Student Resources Research Fields of Research Research Centers Events Seminar Series People Leadership Faculty Research Staff Administrative Staff Ph.D. Students News This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search About Open details for About Bookmark this Page