Skip to Main Content Brown University School of Public Health Brown University Department of Epidemiology Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Mission Statement Diversity and Inclusion Career Opportunities Academics Doctoral Program MPH Epidemiology Concentration Student Resources Research Fields of Research Research Centers Events Seminar Series People Leadership Faculty Research Staff Administrative Staff Ph.D. Students News Search Department of Epidemiology Leadership Breadcrumb Home People Sub Navigation In This Section Leadership Faculty Research Staff Administrative Staff Ph.D. Students Brown University directories Search Brown University faculty, staff, and students by name or department University directory Researchers@Brown faculty profiles Department Chair Francesca Beaudoin Interim Department Chair, Associate Professor of Emergency Medicine, Associate Professor of Health Services, Policy and Practice, Associate Professor of Epidemiology francesca_beaudoin@brown.edu Research Profile Francesca L. Beaudoin MD, MS, PhD is an Associate Professor and Interim Chair of the Department of Epidemiology, and an Associate Professor of Emergency Medicine and Health Services, Policy and Practice. Dr. Beaudoin is a board-certified practicing emergency physician and clinical epidemiologist with expertise in opioid use disorders and adverse post-traumatic health outcomes, particularly pain and substance use. She is Principal Investigator of multiple federal and private grant awards including "Implementing Statewide Emergency Department Care Pathways for Addiction Recovery after Opioid Overdose (R01CE003149)" and a large clinical trial of "ED-based behavioral interventions following opioid overdose: The impact of peer navigation on treatment engagement, relapse, and recovery" (Arnold Ventures Foundation). Dr. Beaudoin has written and implemented practice management policies for health care systems on pain management and opioid prescribing, and has served as a member of the Food and Drug Administration Anesthetic and Analgesic Drug Products Advisory Committee. She has partnered with small businesses to innovate new approaches to solving key public health problems such as the opioid epidemic and was the PI of a NIH STTR award to help develop and evaluate a mobile peer recovery support application. She collaborates with state stakeholders such as the Rhode Island Department of Health and the Governor’s Task Force on Opioid Overdoses and is a Senior Medical Advisor to the Institute for Clinical and Economic Review (ICER). Academic Programs Chanelle Howe Associate Professor of Epidemiology, Graduate Program Director Chanelle_Howe@brown.edu Research Profile Research Interests Infectious disease, Quantitative methods, Health disparities Chanelle Howe, Ph.D., is interested in methods, infectious diseases, and health disparities. Howe's methodologically focused research interests include improving understanding of potential sources of bias as well as better characterizing, adapting, and illustrating the use of advanced quantitative methods to promote accurate inference. Substantively, she is interested in using state-of-the-art approaches to identify the best targets for effective interventions to improve HIV-related population health and to reduce persistent health disparities. Jesse Yedinak Assistant Professor of the Practice of Epidemiology, MPH Epidemiology Concentration Lead jesse_yedinak@brown.edu Research Profile Jesse Yedinak (she/her/hers) is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Epidemiology and the concentration lead for the Epidemiology students in the Master of Public Health program. Her research is focused on applied epidemiology, using a community-engaged approach to research and policy impact by working collaboratively with community-based and state agency partners. She is also the Research Director for the People, Place and Health Collective (PPHC) at Brown School of Public Health. In this role, she is responsible for overseeing the direction of our multidisciplinary team's research program, where they study issues from the nation’s overdose crisis, to the COVID-19 pandemic, to the effects of overlapping infectious disease and substance use epidemics in Rhode Island and beyond. Brown University directories Search Brown University faculty, staff, and students by name or department University directory Researchers@Brown faculty profiles Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Twitter © Brown University School of Public Health Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Mission Statement Diversity and Inclusion Career Opportunities Academics Doctoral Program MPH Epidemiology Concentration Student Resources Research Fields of Research Research Centers Events Seminar Series People Leadership Faculty Research Staff Administrative Staff Ph.D. Students News This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Leadership Open details for Leadership Bookmark this Page