Skip to Main Content Brown University School of Public Health Brown University Department of Epidemiology Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Mission Statement Diversity and Inclusion Career Opportunities Academics Doctoral Program MPH Epidemiology Concentration Student Resources Research Fields of Research Research Centers Events Seminar Series People Leadership Faculty Research Staff Administrative Staff Ph.D. Students News Search Department of Epidemiology Epidemiology Epidemiology Epidemiology is a cornerstone of public health. Epidemiologists study and analyze the incidence and distribution of diseases. We look at defined populations, considering the possible control of diseases and other factors relating to health. Epidemiology's impact extends beyond the classroom: it shapes policy decisions and identifies targets for preventive healthcare. The work we do is fundamental to the practice of evidence-based public health and medicine and affects the lives of millions of people worldwide. Explore Epidemiology at Brown Discover the programs and people that make up the Epidemiology department at Brown University Fields of Research Research areas include cancer, environmental health, global health, mental health, infectious disease, maternal and child health, molecular, health disparities, obesity, substance use, mindfulness, and epidemiologic methods Visit Page Open details for Fields of Research Faculty Faculty in the Department of Epidemiology are world-renowned researchers whose expertise include cancer, environmental health, global health, mental health, infectious disease, maternal and child health, molecular, health disparities, obesity, substance use, mindfulness, and epidemiologic methods. Visit Page Open details for Faculty Seminar Series The department of epidemiology hosts an annual seminar series that brings speakers from across the country to lecture on the pressing epidemiological issues of our time. Visit Page Open details for Seminar Series Centers and Institutes Innovative research centers conduct epidemiological studies from disease outbreaks to the effects of environmental toxins Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute The Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute aims to make a positive impact on the lives of children and their families in Rhode Island and beyond. Visit Page Open details for Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute The Mindfulness Center Dedicated to rigorous research and student-centered education, our goal is to offer programs that improve individual lives and organizational effectiveness. Visit Page Open details for The Mindfulness Center Center for Epidemiological Research The goal of the Center for Epidemiologic Research is to conduct epidemiologic studies of the causes, treatment and prevention of major health concerns at the population level. Visit Page Open details for Center for Epidemiological Research Center for Children’s Environmental Health The CCEH is dedicated to promoting the health of children by understanding the determinants, health effects, and biological action of environmental pollutant exposures from before conception until adolescence. Our Center is engaged in studies examining pesticides, drinking water contaminants, metals, and chemicals used in consumer products. Visit Page Open details for Center for Children’s Environmental Health International Health Institute The IHI's mission is to apply interdisciplinary perspectives to research and training to improve the health of populations in developing countries. Visit Page Open details for International Health Institute People, Place & Health Collective A diverse team of staff, students, postdocs, and faculty who are tackling the most pressing challenges in America today, from the nation’s overdose crisis, the COVID-19 pandemic, to the synergistic effects of overlapping infectious disease and substance use epidemics. Visit Page Open details for People, Place & Health Collective Survey Research Center The Survey Research Center is dedicated to conducting high-quality survey research in partnerships with universities, hospitals, government agencies, and non-profit organizations. From proposal to analysis, we are available to advise and assist investigators during every step of the survey process. Visit Page Open details for Survey Research Center Degree Programs Study epidemiology with world-renowned faculty Brown's Epidemiology graduate program offers a doctoral degree and a MPH concentration which will prepare students for careers in research or public health which require knowledge of advanced epidemiologic methods. Doctoral Program Doctoral candidates undergo rigorous training in epidemiologic methods. We prepare students to become leading, independent investigators. Our graduates excel in academia, industry, government and public health practice. Visit Page Whether it is investigating an infectious disease outbreak, assessing the impact of in-utero exposure to environmental pollutants and endocrine disrupting chemicals, or the relations of nutritional, genetic, stress-related factors to cardiometabolic health, epidemiology is the foundational discipline underpinning many public health stories in the headlines every day. 2 Unique Degree Paths We offer a Ph.D. in Epidemiology and support an MPH Epidemiology Concentration 21 Primary Faculty Members With over 50 Secondary and Adjunct Faculty Members Over 50 % of our recent F31s submitted received funding in their first round Comparatively, F31 success rate was 27.8% across all NIH institutes in FY2020 Recent News All Epidemiology News The Providence Journal With COVID cases rising, CDC issues new guidance. What Rhode Islanders need to know. May 20, 2022 Cases are rising in Rhode Island. Professor Mark Lurie provides comments. Read Article Open details for With COVID cases rising, CDC issues new guidance. What Rhode Islanders need to know. News from Brown 2020 doctoral and master’s degree speakers to return to College Hill for in-person addresses May 19, 2022 Mira Nikolova and Abdullah Shihipar, who respectively earned a Ph.D. and master’s from Brown in 2020, will return to campus to address their fellow alumni during a dedicated Commencement ceremony on Saturday, May 28. Read Article Open details for 2020 doctoral and master’s degree speakers to return to College Hill for in-person addresses The Associated Press US deaths from COVID hit 1 million, less than 2 1/2 years in May 16, 2022 The US COVID-19 death toll has reached more than a million deaths. Professor Jennifer Nuzzo provides comments. Read Article Open details for US deaths from COVID hit 1 million, less than 2 1/2 years in Events at Brown SPH Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Twitter © Brown University School of Public Health Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Mission Statement Diversity and Inclusion Career Opportunities Academics Doctoral Program MPH Epidemiology Concentration Student Resources Research Fields of Research Research Centers Events Seminar Series People Leadership Faculty Research Staff Administrative Staff Ph.D. Students News This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Epidemiology Open details for Epidemiology Bookmark this Page