Skip to Main Content Brown University School of Public Health Brown University Department of Epidemiology Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Mission Statement Diversity and Inclusion Career Opportunities Academics Doctoral Program MPH Epidemiology Concentration Student Resources Research Fields of Research Research Centers Events Seminar Series People Leadership Faculty Research Staff Administrative Staff Ph.D. Students News Search Department of Epidemiology Fields of Research Breadcrumb Home Research Sub Navigation In This Section Fields of Research Behavioral Epidemiology Cancer Cardiometabolic Health Children's Environmental Health Global Health Health Disparities Infectious Disease Molecular Epidemiology Obesity Epidemiology Pediatrics Perinatal & Reproductive Psychiatric Epidemiology Quantitative Methods Social Determinants Women’s Health Research Centers Fields of Research Research areas include cancer, environmental health, global health, mental health, infectious disease, maternal and child health, molecular, health disparities, obesity, substance use, mindfulness, and epidemiologic methods Research areas Behavioral Epidemiology Behavioral epidemiology is the study about the lifestyle and behaviors of people and how they affect their health conditions. Cancer Epidemiology Cancer epidemiology is the study of the distribution, determinants, and frequency of malignant disease in specific populations. Cardiometabolic Health Cardiometabolic health is concerned with the distribution, risk factors, and frequency of vascular diseases, coronary artery disease and myocardial. Children’s Environmental Health Environmental health hazards directly influence the human health, social wellbeing and survival of children. Global Health Global health places a priority on improving health and achieving health equity for all people across the world. Health Disparities Health disparities are preventable differences in the incidence, prevalence, mortality and burden of disease on communities targeted by factors such as gender, residence, ethnicity and/or socioeconomic status. Infectious Disease Infectious disease epidemiology encompasses work on the epidemiology of emerging and re-emerging infections, global infectious disease threats, disease surveillance, disease detection, development of vaccines and other prevention methods, clinical trials, and the role of infectious pathogens in chronic non-communicable disease. Molecular Epidemiology Molecular epidemiology emphases on the influence of potential genetic and environmental risk factors, recognized at the molecular level, to the etiology, distribution and prevention of disease inside families and across populations. Obesity Epidemiology Obesity has become one of the most important public health problems in the United States and the world. As the prevalence of obesity has increased, so has the prevalence of the comorbidities associated with obesity. Pediatrics Pediatric epidemiology focuses on the determinants of health and disease in reproduction and childhood development. Perinatal & Reproductive Reproductive and perinatal epidemiology focuses on the determinants of health and disease in reproduction, labor, and birth. Psychiatric Epidemiology Psychiatric epidemiology studies the causes of mental disorders in society, as well as conceptualization and prevalence of mental illness. Quantitative Methods Quantitative methods are designed to precisely estimate population parameters and measure the association between biologic, social, environmental, and behavioral factors and health conditions in order to define the determinants of health and disease and to understand causal pathways. Social Determinants The study of social conditions and how these influence and determine the health situation of populations. Women’s Health Epidemiology of women's health covers chronic, infectious, autoimmune and psychological conditions as well as the health disparities and differences in health behaviors to give the reader a comprehensive understanding of the major female-specific needs that may be useful in developing effective public health programs. Research centers in Epidemiology Research centers which work with the Department of Epidemiology Find out about our research centers Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Twitter © Brown University School of Public Health Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Mission Statement Diversity and Inclusion Career Opportunities Academics Doctoral Program MPH Epidemiology Concentration Student Resources Research Fields of Research Research Centers Events Seminar Series People Leadership Faculty Research Staff Administrative Staff Ph.D. Students News This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Fields of Research Open details for Fields of Research Bookmark this Page