Skip to Main Content Brown University School of Public Health Brown University Department of Epidemiology Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Mission Statement Diversity and Inclusion Career Opportunities Academics Doctoral Program MPH Epidemiology Concentration Student Resources Research Fields of Research Research Centers Events Seminar Series People Leadership Faculty Research Staff Administrative Staff Ph.D. Students News Search Department of Epidemiology All News News Archive 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 59 Results based on your selections. The Providence Journal With COVID cases rising, CDC issues new guidance. What Rhode Islanders need to know. May 20, 2022 Cases are rising in Rhode Island. Professor Mark Lurie provides comments. Read Article Open details for With COVID cases rising, CDC issues new guidance. What Rhode Islanders need to know. News from Brown 2020 doctoral and master’s degree speakers to return to College Hill for in-person addresses May 19, 2022 Mira Nikolova and Abdullah Shihipar, who respectively earned a Ph.D. and master’s from Brown in 2020, will return to campus to address their fellow alumni during a dedicated Commencement ceremony on Saturday, May 28. Read Article Open details for 2020 doctoral and master’s degree speakers to return to College Hill for in-person addresses The Associated Press US deaths from COVID hit 1 million, less than 2 1/2 years in May 16, 2022 The US COVID-19 death toll has reached more than a million deaths. Professor Jennifer Nuzzo provides comments. Read Article Open details for US deaths from COVID hit 1 million, less than 2 1/2 years in News from Brown Epidemiology Max Krieger awarded Dean's Staff Award for Excellence in Innovation May 4, 2022 Program Manager at People, Place and Health Collective awarded Dean's Staff Award for Excellence in Innovation Read Article Open details for Max Krieger awarded Dean&#039;s Staff Award for Excellence in Innovation News from Brown Epidemiology Assistant Professor of Practice Jesse Yedinak Appointed Assistant Dean for Education April 27, 2022 Assistant Professor of the Practice of Epidemiology Appointed Assistant Dean for Education Read Article Open details for Assistant Professor of Practice Jesse Yedinak Appointed Assistant Dean for Education News from Brown Epidemiology Doctoral Student Meghan Cupp Inducted Into Delta Omega Honorary Society in Public Health April 20, 2022 Meghan Cupp, a second year doctoral student in Epidemiology was inducted into the Delta Omega Honorary Society in Public Health at a ceremony held on April 7th at the Faculty Club. Read Article Open details for Doctoral Student Meghan Cupp Inducted Into Delta Omega Honorary Society in Public Health Rhode Island PBS Weekly Harm Reduction April 10, 2022 Professor Brandon Marshall spoke to Rhode Island PBS Weekly about Rhode Island's efforts to open a harm reduction center. Read Article Open details for Harm Reduction Think Global Health Defanging COVID-19 in China April 6, 2022 Professor Simin Liu co-authored a piece in Think Global Health with Dr. Ali H. Mokdad and Dr. Eric L. Ding about China's management of the pandemic and where it goes from here. Read Article Open details for Defanging COVID-19 in China News from Brown Epidemiology New book by Professor Eric Loucks addresses mindfulness for college students March 31, 2022 New book by Professor Eric Loucks helps address mental and physical health by providing tips mindfulness habits for college students. Read Article Open details for New book by Professor Eric Loucks addresses mindfulness for college students MedPage Today More States Legalize Fentanyl Test Strips March 29, 2022 Can testing recreational drugs be an effective harm reduction strategy? Read Article Open details for More States Legalize Fentanyl Test Strips Rhode Island PBS Weekly Long COVID March 13, 2022 This RIPBS segment features commentary on long COVID by Francesca Beaudoin, an associate professor and interim chair of epidemiology at Brown. Read Article Open details for Long COVID News from Brown Suspending syringe services programs will result in an increase of HIV infections, study finds February 28, 2022 Using a simulation modeling approach, Brown researchers estimate that closing syringe services programs, even for one year, will cause cases of HIV to rise. Read Article Open details for Suspending syringe services programs will result in an increase of HIV infections, study finds News from Brown Rhode Island educators, students, parents gather to discuss pandemic’s impact on K-12 schools January 20, 2022 A virtual event hosted by the Annenberg Institute convened experts to discuss how Providence and Rhode Island can build stronger, healthier K-12 schools, both amid and following the COVID-19 pandemic. Read Article Open details for Rhode Island educators, students, parents gather to discuss pandemic’s impact on K-12 schools EcoRI News Data Show Widespread Toxic Chemical Contamination Across Rhode Island and Massachusetts January 17, 2022 Joseph Braun, an associate professor of epidemiology, is researching the links between gestational PFAS exposure and maladies such as cardiovascular disease, diabetes mellitus, and chronic renal failure. Read Article Open details for Data Show Widespread Toxic Chemical Contamination Across Rhode Island and Massachusetts Providence Journal Omicron has reached the US. Here's how Rhode Island prepares for its possible arrival. December 3, 2021 In this video, Associate Professor of Epidemiology Mark Lurie, a native of South Africa, discusses the omicron variant, vaccines, and prospects for Rhode Island and the world. Read Article Open details for Omicron has reached the US. Here&#039;s how Rhode Island prepares for its possible arrival. News from Brown Study shows how machine learning could improve COVID-19 predictive models December 1, 2021 With the help of an advanced machine learning technique, researchers from Brown University suggest strategies for improving the performance of epidemiological models used to predict the course of pandemics. Read Article Open details for Study shows how machine learning could improve COVID-19 predictive models News from Brown Epidemiology Chanelle Howe and Charles Eaton awarded grant to determine ways to reduce racial and ethnic disparities in heart failure November 5, 2021 What do health disparities along racial and ethnic lines look like when it comes to heart failure and how can we reduce them? Read Article Open details for Chanelle Howe and Charles Eaton awarded grant to determine ways to reduce racial and ethnic disparities in heart failure News from Brown Men, jobless and people with mental health diagnoses most vulnerable in 2020 overdose spike September 17, 2021 New findings about the causes and characteristics of overdose deaths during the COVID-19 pandemic may be used to inform policies that could lower death rates even after COVID-19 is under control. Read Article Open details for Men, jobless and people with mental health diagnoses most vulnerable in 2020 overdose spike The Samoa Observer Recent Doctoral Graduate Courtney Choy present recent findings: Early monitoring key to childhood obesity April 21, 2021 The Samoa Observer reports on the results of Courtney Choy's Brown University Department of Epidemiology doctoral dissertation, which finds a clear need for intervention before a child turns five, especially for Samoan children in urban areas, eating what has become the now-normal diet of imported and packaged foods. Read Article Open details for Recent Doctoral Graduate Courtney Choy present recent findings: Early monitoring key to childhood obesity The Harvard Gazette Professor Buka co-authors study finding that how we handle stress at 45 is linked to prenatal exposure April 19, 2021 Professor Stephen Buka of the Brown University Department of Epidemiology is a co-author of a long-term study, published by PNAS, that found that men and women whose mothers experienced stressful events during pregnancy regulate stress differently in the brain 45 years later. Read Article Open details for Professor Buka co-authors study finding that how we handle stress at 45 is linked to prenatal exposure Mother Jones PhD Student Alexandria Macmadu finds: Solitary Confinement Policies Could Make the Prison Pandemic Worse February 25, 2021 In a Mother Jones story on the virus' spread through prisons during the pandemic, Alexandria Macmadu, a PhD student in the Brown University Department of Epidemiology, says "Prisons and jails are not an island. People go in and out of them each day. Not only the people who are incarcerated, but also the staff members who return each day to their families." Read Article Open details for PhD Student Alexandria Macmadu finds: Solitary Confinement Policies Could Make the Prison Pandemic Worse News from Brown Epidemiology Chanelle Howe to serve as panelist in upcoming seminar "Epidemiology and Race: Why and How We Study Racial Health Disparities" February 9, 2021 Associate Epidemiology Professor Chanelle Howe, PhD will be serving as a panelist for Part 1 of the Boston University SPH 3 Part Series: Epidemiology and Race: Why and How We Study Racial Health Disparities on Thursday, February 25, 2021, 4:30 - 6:00 p.m. Read Article Open details for Chanelle Howe to serve as panelist in upcoming seminar &quot;Epidemiology and Race: Why and How We Study Racial Health Disparities&quot; News from Brown Clinical trial to evaluate whether topical medication can prevent common skin cancer January 25, 2021 A $34 million U.S. Veterans Affairs grant will enable Martin Weinstock, who directs dermatology research for the Providence V.A. and is a Brown professor, to evaluate the effectiveness of a common medication in preventing basal cell carcinoma. Read Article Open details for Clinical trial to evaluate whether topical medication can prevent common skin cancer News from Brown Amid pandemic, U.S. must reduce incarceration to protect public safety, report finds October 22, 2020 Dr. Josiah “Jody” Rich, a Brown professor of medicine and epidemiology, joined a panel of experts assembled by the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine to explore ways to combat coronavirus behind bars. Read Article Open details for Amid pandemic, U.S. must reduce incarceration to protect public safety, report finds Population Studies and Training Center Bengtson investigates risk of cardiometabolic disease amongst HIV-infected pregnant women in South Africa September 7, 2020 Through her upcoming research project on perinatal health and HIV, Angie Bengtson, PhD hopes to answer critical questions about the development and impact of cardiometabolic diseases – such as gestational diabetes, gestational hypertension, and pre-eclampsia – amongst pregnant women with HIV in South Africa. Read Article Open details for Bengtson investigates risk of cardiometabolic disease amongst HIV-infected pregnant women in South Africa American Journal of Epidemiology HIV and COVID-19: Intersecting Epidemics With Many Unknowns July 22, 2020 Angela Bengtson has recently published an article in the American Journal of Epidemiology discussing the intersecting HIV and COVID epidemics. Read Article Open details for HIV and COVID-19: Intersecting Epidemics With Many Unknowns The New York Times The Types of Plastics Families Should Avoid: If it seems like plastic is everywhere, that’s because it is. But there are easy ways to limit your exposure. April 17, 2020 Joseph Braun provides commentary in the New York Times on the safety of different types of chemicals found in plastics and how to avoid them. Read Article Open details for The Types of Plastics Families Should Avoid: If it seems like plastic is everywhere, that’s because it is. But there are easy ways to limit your exposure. 2021 Research Seed Awards Three Epidemiology Faculty Awarded Seed Awards January 28, 2020 Three teams of public health faculty have received these competitive awards in 2020 for their projects improving maternal and child health in South Africa, exploring the association between greenspace and mental and physical health among pregnant women, and investigating the effect of a driver's license suspension on access to health care. Congratulations to Angela Bengtson, Ph.D., Steven McGarvey, Ph.D., and Nina Joyce, Ph.D. Read Article Open details for Three Epidemiology Faculty Awarded Seed Awards SpringerLink Bengtson and Lurie coauthor recent paper examining an innovative way to track engagement in HIV care for women during the perinatal period in Malawi December 3, 2019 Sustained engagement in HIV care is critical to the success of Option B+ for HIV-infected pregnant women. However, monitoring women’s engagement in care across clinics and over time is challenging due to migration and clinic transfers. Read Article Open details for Bengtson and Lurie coauthor recent paper examining an innovative way to track engagement in HIV care for women during the perinatal period in Malawi News from Brown R.I. researchers, policymakers outline new framework for opioid use disorder treatment November 19, 2019 Aiming to reduce treatment gaps and guide state policy, a diverse set of voices from Brown University and the State of Rhode Island developed a cascade of care model for opioid use disorder. Read Article Open details for R.I. researchers, policymakers outline new framework for opioid use disorder treatment Environmental Factor Joseph Braun spoke at NIEHS brief updating congressional staff November 4, 2019 Professor Joseph Braun recently spoke to members of Congress and their staff during a National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS) briefing on children's environmental health. Braun described how even low levels of per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) may place children’s health at risk. Read Article Open details for Joseph Braun spoke at NIEHS brief updating congressional staff Eco RI News Intersection of Schools and Highways Produces Bad Air November 3, 2019 Providence alone has 24 schools within 1,000 feet of major roads, including three schools for students with special needs. About 8,000 public schools nationwide lie within 500 feet of highways, truck routes, and other roads with significant traffic, according to a joint investigation by the Center for Public Integrity and Reveal from The Center for Investigative Reporting. Read Article Open details for Intersection of Schools and Highways Produces Bad Air Environmental Research Silence is golden: Living in a noisy area may increase risk of more serious stroke October 31, 2019 The high levels of environmental noise we are subjected to in large cities can increase both the severity and consequences of an ischaemic stroke. Read Article Open details for Silence is golden: Living in a noisy area may increase risk of more serious stroke News from Brown In confronting opioid crisis, researchers to test neighborhood-based interventions, fentanyl test strips October 29, 2019 Nearly $6.8 million in new federal grants will enable researchers to collaborate with agencies across the state, including the Rhode Island Department of Health, to investigate innovative ways to tackle the opioid crisis. Read Article Open details for In confronting opioid crisis, researchers to test neighborhood-based interventions, fentanyl test strips National Academy of Medicine David Savitz recipient of the NAM 2019 David Rall Medal October 25, 2019 The National Academy of Medicine (NAM) honored Professor Savitz with the David Rall Medal, which is given to a member who has demonstrated distinguished leadership as chair of a study committee or other such activity, showing commitment that far exceeds the position’s responsibilities. During his 26 years of service to NAM, he has served on the Board on the Health of Select Populations and more than a dozen committees, five of which he chaired. Savitz’s reputation as a skilled judge of evidence, a rigorous critical thinker, and a careful communicator of scientific findings and their implications have made him a highly sought committee chair. His committees have often taken on contentious, scientifically challenging issues, including electromagnetic radiation, Agent Orange and burn pit exposures among veterans, contaminated drinking water at Camp Lejeune in North Carolina, and the public health ramifications of e-cigarettes. Notably, under his leadership as chair, the Committee on Contaminated Drinking Water at Camp Lejeune produced a report that helped inform legislation, which was signed by President Obama. Read Article Open details for David Savitz recipient of the NAM 2019 David Rall Medal American Journal of Psychiatry Maternal bacterial infection during pregnancy associated with offspring risk of psychoses October 4, 2019 Recent Brown Epi Alum, Young A "Heather" Lee is lead author on important new study: Maternal bacterial infection during pregnancy associated with offspring risk of psychoses, with odds increasing with infection severity and in males. Read Article Open details for Maternal bacterial infection during pregnancy associated with offspring risk of psychoses News from Brown For young athletes, sport specialization means increased risk of injury September 23, 2019 Specialization in a chosen sport is associated with a higher volume of activity — and it could increase young athletes’ risk of sustaining both traumatic- and overuse-based injuries, new study says. Read Article Open details for For young athletes, sport specialization means increased risk of injury News from Brown Epidemiology Gregory Wellenius receives Tony McMichael Mid-Term Career Award August 27, 2019 Congratulations to Gregory Wellenius, who was the receipient of the Tony McMichael Mid-Term Career Award at the 31st annual conference of the International Society for Environmental Epidemiology! Read Article Open details for Gregory Wellenius receives Tony McMichael Mid-Term Career Award News from Brown Epidemiology Simin Liu awarded Fulbright Distinguished Chair in Global Health August 22, 2019 Dr. Simin Liu has been selected by the Presidential Fulbright Board for a Distinguished Chair in Global Health award 2019-2020. The Fulbright Distinguished Chair Awards are widely considered as one of the most prestigious appointments, with approximately 40 eminent scholars selected from all disciplines across America's Universities each year. Read Article Open details for Simin Liu awarded Fulbright Distinguished Chair in Global Health The Public's Radio Rhode Islanders use less AC than the nation average, but will rising temperatures change that? August 1, 2019 Greg Wellenius is a climate scientist at Brown University. His work on long-term heat trends in Rhode Island was cited in the National Climate Assessment -- the federal government’s most comprehensive, authoritative report on how climate change will affect (and is affecting) the country. Wellenius says a big part of the problem is how quickly summers are getting longer and hotter. Today, Rhode Island gets about three more weeks of really hot days than they did in the 70s. The average number of dangerously hot days has also increased. Read Article Open details for Rhode Islanders use less AC than the nation average, but will rising temperatures change that? The Providence Journal A climate of suffering: Climate change brings a world of health problems, particularly for asthma sufferers July 23, 2019 Professor Gregory Wellenius and former postdoc Kate Weinberger discuss their environmental research with the Providence Journal, alongside child health experts from the School of Public Health. Read Article Open details for A climate of suffering: Climate change brings a world of health problems, particularly for asthma sufferers Philadelphia Magazine Recent study found Philadelphia's heat alert system to be making a life-saving impact July 23, 2019 A study conducted by Brown University and Harvard researchers found that the heat alerts issued by the National Weather Service can reduce heat related deaths by 4.4%. However, it is not the alert itself that saves lives, says Wellenius, “it’s what people and communities and governments do in response to those heat warnings.” Read Article Open details for Recent study found Philadelphia&#039;s heat alert system to be making a life-saving impact News from Brown Cold weather increases the risk of fatal opioid overdoses, study finds June 17, 2019 While the precise reasons are unclear, an analysis of overdose deaths in Rhode Island and Connecticut showed that cold snaps raised the risk of fatal opioid overdoses by 25 percent. Read Article Open details for Cold weather increases the risk of fatal opioid overdoses, study finds News from Brown Epidemiology Wellenius and Braun speak on climate change and environmental chemicals June 6, 2019 Researchers in the Brown University School of Public Health investigate the complex connections between our environment and our health. Read Article Open details for Wellenius and Braun speak on climate change and environmental chemicals ASPPH News Brandon Marshall awarded ASPPH Early Career Public Health Research Award May 14, 2019 Brandon Marshall, Associate Professor of Epidemiology, has been awarded the ASPPH Early Career Public Health Research Award. This award recognizes a graduate public health faculty member, who is within 10 years of their last formal training, and is an outstanding early-career investigator. Read Article Open details for Brandon Marshall awarded ASPPH Early Career Public Health Research Award PubMed Chanelle Howe and Andrew Cressman's paper recently published in AIDS and Behavior May 10, 2019 Chanelle Howe, Phd. and Andrew Cressman's recent paper titled: "The Relationship Between Discrimination and Missed HIV Care Appointments Among Women Living with HIV" has been published in AIDS and Behavior. Cressman is a recent Brown Epidemiology ScM graduate and this article was developed from his master's thesis. Their article was also recently highlighted by The Association of Schools & Programs of Public Health (ASPPH). Read Article Open details for Chanelle Howe and Andrew Cressman&#039;s paper recently published in AIDS and Behavior News from Brown Epidemiology Dr. Karl Kelsey was awarded the 2019 AACR - Johnson & Johnson Lung Cancer Innovation Science Grant April 2, 2019 Dr. Karl Kelsey was awarded the 2019 AACR - Johnson & Johnson Lung Cancer Innovation Science Grant at The American Association for Cancer Research 2019 Annual Meeting. Read Article Open details for Dr. Karl Kelsey was awarded the 2019 AACR - Johnson &amp; Johnson Lung Cancer Innovation Science Grant NBC News Brandon Marshall comments on harmful PrEP disparities March 7, 2019 Professor Brandon Marshall commented on a new CDC report that finds Black and Latino gay and bisexual men are less likely to be prescribed PrEP than white men, even when they talk about the medication with their doctor. A third of gay and bisexual men use PrEP for HIV prevention, and nine in 10 are aware of it, but the CDC says the drug is still underused. Read Article Open details for Brandon Marshall comments on harmful PrEP disparities News from Brown Confronting Opioids February 1, 2019 Jody Rich recalls sitting in the Rhode Island Medical Examiner’s office in Providence, a two-foot high stack of folders piled on the table in front of him. Read Article Open details for Confronting Opioids News from Brown Michigan team’s findings on PFAS contaminants could inform broader approach to mitigation December 19, 2018 Brown epidemiologist and associate dean David Savitz led the Michigan governor’s PFAS Science Advisory Committee, focusing on the health impacts of a class of toxic contaminants. Read Article Open details for Michigan team’s findings on PFAS contaminants could inform broader approach to mitigation Previous 1 2 Next Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Twitter © Brown University School of Public Health Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Mission Statement Diversity and Inclusion Career Opportunities Academics Doctoral Program MPH Epidemiology Concentration Student Resources Research Fields of Research Research Centers Events Seminar Series People Leadership Faculty Research Staff Administrative Staff Ph.D. Students News This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search All News Open details for All News Bookmark this Page