Skip to Main Content Brown University School of Public Health Brown University Department of Epidemiology Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Mission Statement Diversity and Inclusion Career Opportunities Academics Doctoral Program MPH Epidemiology Concentration Student Resources Research Fields of Research Research Centers Events Seminar Series People Leadership Faculty Research Staff Administrative Staff Ph.D. Students News Search Department of Epidemiology Mission Statement Breadcrumb Home About Sub Navigation In This Section Mission Statement Diversity and Inclusion Career Opportunities Stay Connected Follow us on social media. Facebook Twitter Contact Epidemiology Phone: 401-863-6459 Epidemiology@brown.edu Mission Statement The primary mission of the Department of Epidemiology is to pursue excellence in research, scholarship, teaching, training and service within the field of epidemiology. The primary mission of the Department of Epidemiology is to pursue excellence in research, scholarship, teaching, training and service within the field of epidemiology. We have 21 primary faculty and more than 30 affiliated faculty who work on health outcomes on diverse populations throughout the life course, from early pregnancy to end of life. Our faculty are world-renowned researchers whose expertise include cancer, environmental health, global health, mental health, infectious disease, maternal and child health, molecular, health disparities, obesity, substance use, mindfulness, and epidemiologic methods. Our department consists of faculty engaged in full time research and teaching, as well as importantly clinical faculty and faculty members jointly appointed with Brown University and the Rhode Island Health Department. The department is committed to fostering excellence in the next generation of epidemiologists. Across the department, our renowned faculty teach epidemiology driven courses to undergraduate and graduate students and provide critical mentorship to students as part of their training. Members of the People, Place and Health Collective (from L to R: Alexandra Collins, Brendan Jacka, Esther Moon and Roxxanne Newman and Brandon Marshall) outside the state house after a rally in support of expanding harm reduction services in Rhode Island. The department is also multidisciplinary and cross collaborative. We work with faculty in social sciences, basic biomedical sciences, and clinical departments at Alpert Medical School and its seven affiliated hospitals (e.g., Cardiology, Endocrinology, Obstetrics/Gynecology, Pediatrics, and Psychiatry). Members of our department are competitive and frequently successful in securing grants. We have high rates of F31 funding from NIH, with more than half of submitted grants being funded compared to the average of 27.8% across NIH institutes. Currently, we have over 130 active grants and each year more than 100 proposals are submitted. Our scholarship frequently takes us out of the classroom and into communities we work with; whether that is here in Rhode Island, or globally. Faculty and students collaborate with community members to inform research practices, conduct research and advocate for better evidence-based health policy based on findings." Stay Connected Follow us on social media. Facebook Twitter Contact Epidemiology Phone: 401-863-6459 Epidemiology@brown.edu Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Twitter © Brown University School of Public Health Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Mission Statement Diversity and Inclusion Career Opportunities Academics Doctoral Program MPH Epidemiology Concentration Student Resources Research Fields of Research Research Centers Events Seminar Series People Leadership Faculty Research Staff Administrative Staff Ph.D. Students News This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Mission Statement Open details for Mission Statement Bookmark this Page