Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search SEHD Home SEHD Home SEHD News Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning Undergraduate Bachelors Minors Graduate Master's Doctoral Certificates Faculty & Staff Research Students Undergraduate Graduate Organizations Well-Being Contact Us Undergraduate Graduate Certificates Faculty & Staff Research Students Contact Us Search Undergraduate Bachelors Minors Graduate Master's Doctoral Certificates Faculty & Staff Research Students Undergraduate Graduate Organizations Well-Being Contact Us GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply WELCOME Welcome to the Department of Educational and Psychological Studies! Intellectual stimulation and cooperation characterize the academic culture within the Department of Educational and Psychological Studies. Due to our School’s unique location, students can look forward to practical experiences working with diverse populations. Faculty and students create a community of scholars in which respect and professionalism are common goals. From this solid base of mutual support, students are encouraged to take risks to maximize learning. We generate knowledge and prepare reflective leaders, researchers, methodologists, and practitioners to improve psychological, educational, and community well-being. Soyeon Ahn, Ph.D. In Their Own Words Department Chair's Perspective Soyeon Ahn received her Ph.D. in Measurement and Quantitative Methods in the Department of Counseling, Educational Psychology and Special Education at Michigan State University in 2008. Dr. Ahn shares her thoughts on her department's diversity and depth of study. Professor Blaine J. Fowers, Ph.D. During the week of 16th May 2016, the Jubilee Centre was delighted to welcome Blaine Fowers as a Distinguished Visiting Professor for 2016. Blaine, who is Professor of Counseling Psychology at the University of Miami, focusses his work on the contributions of Aristotle's ethics to a richer understanding of research. Emaan Lehardy (Doctoral Candidate, Counseling Psychology) Shares her experience at the doctoral program in the EPS department. For University of Miami graduate student Kari Weiterschan, all roads have led to the Green Zone. Kari Weiterschan (Doctoral Candidate, Counseling Psychology) discusses characteristics of student veterans at the University of Miami. Learn more EPS - Kari Weiterschan from UM SEHD on Vimeo. Professor Guerda Nicolas, Ph.D Won the 2018 International Humanitarian Award from the American Psychological Association for her extraordinary mental health service and support to Caribbean immigrant populations, especially Haitians. Learn more Professor Ashmeet Oberoi, Ph.D The Impact of Deportations and Family Separations on Communities. Learn more Professor Ashmeet Oberoi, Ph.D from UM SEHD on Vimeo. FEATURED PROJECTS Our department has several research projects that our faculty and staff have developed. Below are just a few examples that we would like to highlight. Fun for Wellness Learn more The Kulula Project Learn more Partnership with Breakthrough Miami Learn more Strong Roots Parent and Caregiver Program Learn more RECENT PUBLICATIONS Differential Item Functioning Effect Size From the Multigroup Confirmatory Factor Analysis for a Meta-Analysis: A Simulation Study View Publication The impact of music on vehicular performance: A meta-analysis View Publication Stress and Resilience: Key Correlates of Mental Health and Substance Use in the Hispanic Community Health Study of Latino Youth View Publication Exploring the Impersonal Judgments and Personal Preferences of Raters in Rater-Mediated Assessments With Unfolding Models View Publication Does Ethnicity Moderate the Link Between Drinking Norms and Binge Drinking in College Students? View Publication The Qasgiq Model as an Indigenous Intervention: Using the Cultural Logic of Contexts to Build Protective Factors for Alaska Native Suicide and Alcohol Misuse Prevention View Publication An Expanded Theory of Alzheimer’s Caregiving View Publication ATTITUDES TOWARD CULTURAL DIVERSITY: A STUDY OF RUSSIAN TEACHERS View Publication Computation of the Response Similarity Index M4 in R under the Dichotomous and Nominal Item Response Models View Publication Detecting Examinees With Item Preknowledge in Large-Scale Testing Using Extreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost) View Publication EPS News University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Department of Educational and Psychological Studies 5202 University Drive Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-3711 305-284-3711 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices