Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site SEHD Home SEHD Home SEHD News Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning Undergraduate Bachelors Minors Graduate Master's Doctoral Certificates Faculty & Staff Research Students Undergraduate Graduate Organizations Well-Being Contact Us Undergraduate Graduate Certificates Faculty & Staff Research Students Contact Us Search Counseling M.S.Ed. Community and Social Change - M.S.Ed. Higher Education Administration M.S.Ed. Admission Requirements Required Coursework Faculty Student Outcomes Financial Higher Ed Practicum Alumni Reflections Track 1: Enrollment Management Track 2: Student Life & Development Track 3: Institutional Research & Policy Analysis Contacts Program History Research, Measurement & Evaluation M.S.Ed. Undergraduate Bachelors Minors Graduate Master's Doctoral Certificates Faculty & Staff Research Students Undergraduate Graduate Organizations Well-Being Contact Us SEHD Home SEHD Home SEHD News Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning Counseling M.S.Ed. Community and Social Change - M.S.Ed. Higher Education Administration M.S.Ed. Admission Requirements Required Coursework Faculty Student Outcomes Financial Higher Ed Practicum Alumni Reflections Track 1: Enrollment Management Track 2: Student Life & Development Track 3: Institutional Research & Policy Analysis Contacts Program History Research, Measurement & Evaluation M.S.Ed. About Us Listening Exercise Programs Communications History Contact Us Home Graduate Programs Masters Higher Education Administration M.S.Ed. AAA Higher Education Administration M.S.Ed. Counseling M.S.Ed. Community and Social Change - M.S.Ed. Higher Education Administration M.S.Ed. Admission Requirements Required Coursework Faculty Student Outcomes Financial Higher Ed Practicum Alumni Reflections Track 1: Enrollment Management Track 2: Student Life & Development Track 3: Institutional Research & Policy Analysis Contacts Program History Research, Measurement & Evaluation M.S.Ed. GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply Develop strategy, versatility, and confidence in one of three innovative tracks. Confront the Issues Skilled professionals emerge from our M.S.Ed. program well-prepared for diverse roles in college and university administration and ready to tackle today’s challenges from a broad-based, highly informed perspective. Working pros who already have master’s degrees can earn one of our certificates in Enrollment Management or Student Life & Development to extend skills and credentials. Shape the Future Because of our strong emphasis on research and theory, our graduates are highly prepared not only as practitioners but also as potential candidates for Ph.D. and other doctoral studies. We also are known for stressing communication skills, especially strong writing, and students are regularly required to write case-study analyses based in research and theory. Our track record is exemplified by our graduates: A great majority (89%) in 2017 acquired middle-management positions in higher education or advanced at their current institutions, and 11% pursued graduate studies. The University of Miami was a pioneer in strategic enrollment management and started the nation’s first EM-centered program two decades ago. Today, we’re the only higher education graduate program in which EM is at the base of every concentration – as well as the only program that focuses on predictive modeling. More than 90% of our master’s students add value to their M.S.Ed. by concurrently earning a certificate outside their chosen track. Choose Your Path Interested in enrollments? Student life? Research to guide policy? Here's a brief downloadable overview of all 3 tracks. Enrollment Management (33 credit hours) is an interdisciplinary collaboration of the School of Education & Human Development and the Division of Enrollment Management, integrating theory, research and effective communication with applications to daily practice. This track, which includes courses in the School of Business Administration, instills understanding of enrollments from first contact with prospective students through matriculation, graduation and beyond with an eye on today’s most pressing issues. Research, teamwork, strategic planning and a capstone project are emphasized. Student Life & Development (36 credit hours) provides a solid foundation for supporting undergraduate student success in the transition from high school and adjustment to college, and in how college ultimately affects students in psychosocial, cognitive, moral and other ways. This track instills deep understanding of diverse college students, their families and their communities, and promotes ways to enhance academic achievement and ensure persistence and graduation. A practicum is required; opportunities include student affairs, financial aid, career planning, academic advising and support, housing, dining, alumni and more. Institutional Research (33 credit hours) focuses on conducting research to increase the effectiveness of postsecondary institutions. Practitioners in this growing field serve colleges, universities and other educational systems in many different capacities. Studies extend beyond integrating research into administrative and policy initiatives to understanding state and federal policies, higher education foundations, statistics and data analytics. A hands-on practicum in institutional research completes the experience. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Department of Educational and Psychological Studies 5202 University Drive Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-3711 305-284-3711 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices