Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site SEHD Home SEHD Home SEHD News Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning Undergraduate Bachelors Minors Graduate Master's Doctoral Certificates Faculty & Staff Research Students Undergraduate Graduate Organizations Well-Being Contact Us Undergraduate Graduate Certificates Faculty & Staff Research Students Contact Us Search Counseling Psychology Ph.D. Community Well-Being Ph.D. Executive EdD in Higher Education Leadership Research, Measurement & Evaluation Ph.D. Career Outcomes Admission Requirements Required Coursework Financial Faculty Testimonials F.A.Q. Program Contact Undergraduate Bachelors Minors Graduate Master's Doctoral Certificates Faculty & Staff Research Students Undergraduate Graduate Organizations Well-Being Contact Us SEHD Home SEHD Home SEHD News Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning Counseling Psychology Ph.D. Community Well-Being Ph.D. Executive EdD in Higher Education Leadership Research, Measurement & Evaluation Ph.D. Career Outcomes Admission Requirements Required Coursework Financial Faculty Testimonials F.A.Q. Program Contact About Us Listening Exercise Programs Communications History Contact Us Home Graduate Programs Doctoral Research, Measurement & Evaluation Ph.D. AAA Research, Measurement & Evaluation Ph.D. Counseling Psychology Ph.D. Community Well-Being Ph.D. Executive EdD in Higher Education Leadership Research, Measurement & Evaluation Ph.D. Career Outcomes Admission Requirements Required Coursework Financial Faculty Testimonials F.A.Q. Program Contact GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply The RME Ph.D. Program is guided by the following vision and mission statements: The vision of the RME program is to be a central part of “putting methods into practice” in the social sciences and/or education. The mission of the RME Ph.D. program is to to provide students with the requisite training in the application of statistical and measurement methodologies to conduct original research in the fields of research and measurement methodology, and to serve as an expert in the areas of research design, measurement, statistics, and data analytics. The Ph.D. in Research, Measurement, and Evaluation (RME) program provides in-depth knowledge of intermediate and advanced statistical and measurement methodologies and prepares scholars to make original and innovative contributions to the fields of research methodology in education, psychology, and social sciences. The Ph.D. program in RME is designed to provide students with expertise in one or more specialized areas of measurement or statistical modeling and in-depth training in the intermediate and advanced statistical and measurement methodologies, as well as preparing individuals to make original contributions to the fields of measurement and pscyhometrics. The program aims to provide students with the necessary mentoring and experiences to produce innovative research that advances methodology used in education and social sciences. Students are encouraged to present research work in regional, national, and international conferences, and to publish their work in peer-reviewed journals. In this respect, students are being prepared to pursue influential positions in the field of research methodology, such as faculty positions at research-intensive universities and research scientist positions in research and testing organizations. The Ph.D. program places an emphasis on gaining hands-on skills with respect to the design and analysis of quantitative research studies and conducting research that advances our knowledge and application of research methodology. Beginning as early as the second year of training, students are involved in applied field experiences and mentored apprenticeships in which they actively conduct research using statistical and measurement methodology under the supervision of RME faculty. Beginning in their third year of the program, students are encouraged to present original research at regional and national conferences and to publish in peer-reviewed journals. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Department of Educational and Psychological Studies 5202 University Drive Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-3711 305-284-3711 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices