Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site SEHD Home SEHD Home SEHD News Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning Undergraduate Bachelors Minors Graduate Master's Doctoral Certificates Faculty & Staff Research Students Undergraduate Graduate Organizations Well-Being Contact Us Undergraduate Graduate Certificates Faculty & Staff Research Students Contact Us Search Counseling Psychology Ph.D. Community Well-Being Ph.D. Executive EdD in Higher Education Leadership Admission Financial Courses & Sample Program Faculty Student Outcomes Alumni Stories Contacts Higher Education Leadership Track Community Leadership Track Research, Measurement & Evaluation Ph.D. Undergraduate Bachelors Minors Graduate Master's Doctoral Certificates Faculty & Staff Research Students Undergraduate Graduate Organizations Well-Being Contact Us SEHD Home SEHD Home SEHD News Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning Counseling Psychology Ph.D. Community Well-Being Ph.D. Executive EdD in Higher Education Leadership Admission Financial Courses & Sample Program Faculty Student Outcomes Alumni Stories Contacts Higher Education Leadership Track Community Leadership Track Research, Measurement & Evaluation Ph.D. About Us Listening Exercise Programs Communications History Contact Us Home Graduate Programs Doctoral Executive Ed.D. in Higher Education Leadership AAA Executive Ed.D. in Higher Education Leadership Counseling Psychology Ph.D. Community Well-Being Ph.D. Executive EdD in Higher Education Leadership Admission Financial Courses & Sample Program Faculty Student Outcomes Alumni Stories Contacts Higher Education Leadership Track Community Leadership Track Research, Measurement & Evaluation Ph.D. GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply Become the Leader Who Listens, Understands, Inspires. The University of Miami Executive EdD in Higher Education Leadership offers a choice between two study concentrations for earning the Doctor of Education degree: Higher Education Leadership Community Leadership We prepare students for transformational leadership roles across influential components of American society, from colleges and universities and education-related organizations to community nonprofits, foundations, and public policy think tanks. The Executive EdD program’s intensive cohort model allows professionals to study while maintaining their jobs and careers and connect to a support network of fellow students. In monthly meetings for three years, the cohort comes together to focus on course content, engage in lively discussion and exchange, and respond to copious feedback. Dissertation proposals are written as part of coursework; and students study year round (with semester class breaks), which enables them to complete their coursework and dissertations within three to four years. Each of the two concentrations requires 60 credit hours beyond the master’s degree. The Higher Education Leadership Concentration Ours is the only program based in strategic enrollment management, a holistic approach that emphasizes effective communication and collaboration across office lines to effect student success and institutional vitality. Data-driven decision-making is central to all we do. Foundational courses instill clear understanding of higher education and its role in society with an emphasis on campus culture and equity; quantitative and qualitative research courses provide the tools for solving problems and taking advantage of opportunities at your institution; and concentration courses highlight today’s most pressing institutional needs and concerns. The Community Leadership Concentration Ours is the only program that combines training in community and educational leadership simultaneously. Students learn how to lead social justice initiatives and development and change in community organizations and in educational settings, gaining valuable skills in applied research, program development, program evaluation, social change, and community participation. Graduates also gain knowledge in the highly sought field of civic and community engagement and in diversity and equity promotion in university settings. Foundational courses instill clear understanding of the community engagement and social change processes that are essential to advancing diversity, equity, and inclusion in multiple sectors. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Department of Educational and Psychological Studies 5202 University Drive Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-3711 305-284-3711 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices