Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site SEHD Home SEHD Home SEHD News Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning Undergraduate Bachelors Minors Graduate Master's Doctoral Certificates Faculty & Staff Research Students Undergraduate Graduate Organizations Well-Being Contact Us Undergraduate Graduate Certificates Faculty & Staff Research Students Contact Us Search Counseling Psychology Ph.D. Community Well-Being Ph.D. Admission Requirements Program Requirements Faculty Financial Program Contact F.A.Q. Executive EdD in Higher Education Leadership Research, Measurement & Evaluation Ph.D. Undergraduate Bachelors Minors Graduate Master's Doctoral Certificates Faculty & Staff Research Students Undergraduate Graduate Organizations Well-Being Contact Us SEHD Home SEHD Home SEHD News Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning Counseling Psychology Ph.D. Community Well-Being Ph.D. Admission Requirements Program Requirements Faculty Financial Program Contact F.A.Q. Executive EdD in Higher Education Leadership Research, Measurement & Evaluation Ph.D. About Us Listening Exercise Programs Communications History Contact Us Home Graduate Programs Doctoral Community Well-Being Ph.D. AAA Community Well-Being Ph.D. Counseling Psychology Ph.D. Community Well-Being Ph.D. Admission Requirements Program Requirements Faculty Financial Program Contact F.A.Q. Executive EdD in Higher Education Leadership Research, Measurement & Evaluation Ph.D. GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply Purpose and Goals The vision of the program in Community Well-Being (CWB) is to be a hub for engaged scholarship in community well-being and social change. The mission of the program is to produce community-engaged scholars who promote individual, relational, and collective well-being through community-based research and action. The program in CWB trains community-engaged action-researchers committed to promoting social justice through rigorous theoretical analysis and community-based research. The program is grounded in the discipline of community psychology, and focuses on community-engaged scholarship that involves the researcher in a mutually beneficial partnership with the community. The program prepares scholars for careers in academia, research, and public policy. The Community Well Being program will next be accepting applications for admission for the Fall 2021 term. The application deadline will be January 1, 2021. For information please contact Professor Prilleltensky at isaac@miami.edu University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Department of Educational and Psychological Studies 5202 University Drive Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-3711 305-284-3711 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices