Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site SEHD Home SEHD Home SEHD News Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning Undergraduate Bachelors Minors Graduate Master's Doctoral Certificates Faculty & Staff Research Students Undergraduate Graduate Organizations Well-Being Contact Us Undergraduate Graduate Certificates Faculty & Staff Research Students Contact Us Search Counseling Psychology Ph.D. Program Description Admission Requirements Required Coursework Accreditation Information Faculty F.A.Q. Program Contact Community Well-Being Ph.D. Executive EdD in Higher Education Leadership Research, Measurement & Evaluation Ph.D. Undergraduate Bachelors Minors Graduate Master's Doctoral Certificates Faculty & Staff Research Students Undergraduate Graduate Organizations Well-Being Contact Us SEHD Home SEHD Home SEHD News Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning Counseling Psychology Ph.D. Program Description Admission Requirements Required Coursework Accreditation Information Faculty F.A.Q. Program Contact Community Well-Being Ph.D. Executive EdD in Higher Education Leadership Research, Measurement & Evaluation Ph.D. About Us Listening Exercise Programs Communications History Contact Us Home Graduate Programs Doctoral Counseling Psychology Ph.D. AAA Counseling Psychology Ph.D. Counseling Psychology Ph.D. Program Description Admission Requirements Required Coursework Accreditation Information Faculty F.A.Q. Program Contact Community Well-Being Ph.D. Executive EdD in Higher Education Leadership Research, Measurement & Evaluation Ph.D. GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply Welcome to our Website! We are pleased that you are interested in learning more about our doctoral program in Counseling Psychology. On this page you will find general information about our program as well as two important links. These allow you to see data about our admissions and other student outcomes for the past 7 years, and to download our e-packet. The e-packet is a document that provides more detail about the program, such as admissions criteria, required courses, financial aid, and program faculty. I invite you to visit our links, review the e-packet, and contact me for any additional information you may need to make an informed decision about applying to our program. Lydia P. Buki, Ph.D. Director of Training Vision We are dedicated to excellence in the development of multiculturally competent reflective researchers and practitioners in Counseling Psychology. Mission To nurture the development of counseling psychology graduate students and faculty as reflective researchers and scientist-practitioners committed to promoting psychological well-being in a multiculturally complex world. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Department of Educational and Psychological Studies 5202 University Drive Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-3711 305-284-3711 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices