Skip to content Department of Earth and Planetary SciencesMenu Close Search Undergraduate Program Graduate Program People Alumni Facilities Courses Projected Course Schedule All Active Courses Resources Research Centers Let your curiosity lead the way: Apply Today Home Recent News Upcoming Events Diversity & Inclusion How to Reach Us Arts & Sciences University College Graduate School Kun Wang Assistant Professor of Earth and Planetary Sciences PhD, Washington University in St. Louis Download CV Laboratory Website Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences McDonnell Center for the Space Sciences research interests: Isotope Geochemistry Cosmochemistry View All People contact info: Email: kunwang@levee.wustl.edu Phone: 314-935-3855 Fax: 314-935-7361 Office: Rudolph 327 mailing address: Washington University CB 1169 One Brookings Drive St. Louis, MO 63130-4899 Kun Wang applies non-traditional isotope tools (such as K, Fe, Ni, Cu, and Zn) to samples ranging from plants, water, terrestrial and lunar rocks to meteorites from Mars and asteroids. His research interests are to understand the origin of Solar System, planetary formations, core-mantle differentiation and crustal evolution. Professor Kun Wang and his Isotope Cosmochemistry Laboratory explore several major topics including the origin of the solar system, the early history of planetary formation, planetary differentiation, the extremely giant impact origin of the moon, and the lunar magma ocean differentiation. He works on a variety of samples including meteorites, lunar rocks, and rocks on the Earth in the course of the work to determine transition metal isotope geochemistry. He also works on the analytical development and application of high precision isotopic measurements using Multi Collector Inductively Coupled Plasma Mass Spectrometry (MC-ICP-MS). in the news: 1.11.22 Volatile bodies: Isotopic fingerprints reveal how planets gain and lose elements 9.22.21 NPR: Mars had liquid water on its surface. Here's why scientists think it vanished. 9.22.21 Forbes: Martian blues: Did planet's size affect its ability to hold onto water? 9.21.21 Time: Mars was always destined to die Read more news Quick Links People Facilities Research Centers Diversity & Inclusion Courses Our Alumni Room Calendar How to Reach Us Additional information Arts & Sciences University College Graduate School Copyright 2022 by:Arts & Sciences at Washington University in St. Louis Follow Us Instagram Flickr Facebook Twitter Contact Us: Earth and Planetary Sciences EPS@wustl.edu 314-935-5603 Visit the main Washington University in St. Louis website 1 Brookings Drive / St. Louis, MO 63130 / wustl.edu