Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site SEHD Home SEHD Home SEHD News Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning Undergraduate Bachelors Minors Graduate Master's Doctoral Certificates Faculty & Staff Research Students Undergraduate Graduate Organizations Well-Being Contact Us Undergraduate Graduate Certificates Faculty & Staff Research Students Contact Us Search Counseling M.S.Ed. Community and Social Change - M.S.Ed. Career Outcomes Admission Requirements Required Coursework Faculty Testimonials Program Costs & Financial Aid F.A.Q. Program Contact Higher Education Administration M.S.Ed. Research, Measurement & Evaluation M.S.Ed. Undergraduate Bachelors Minors Graduate Master's Doctoral Certificates Faculty & Staff Research Students Undergraduate Graduate Organizations Well-Being Contact Us SEHD Home SEHD Home SEHD News Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning Counseling M.S.Ed. Community and Social Change - M.S.Ed. Career Outcomes Admission Requirements Required Coursework Faculty Testimonials Program Costs & Financial Aid F.A.Q. Program Contact Higher Education Administration M.S.Ed. Research, Measurement & Evaluation M.S.Ed. About Us Listening Exercise Programs Communications History Contact Us Home Graduate Programs Masters Master’s degree program in Community & Social Change (CSC) AAA Master’s degree program in Community & Social Change (CSC) Counseling M.S.Ed. Community and Social Change - M.S.Ed. Career Outcomes Admission Requirements Required Coursework Faculty Testimonials Program Costs & Financial Aid F.A.Q. Program Contact Higher Education Administration M.S.Ed. Research, Measurement & Evaluation M.S.Ed. GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply The Master’s degree program in Community & Social Change (CSC) prepares globally aware leaders, researchers, and agents of change who create, inspire, and engage community organizations. The vision of the program centers on the philosophy that leaders in community organizations must be knowledgeable in research, theories, and practice. To create community-engaged leaders and social justice practitioners, we train students to translate knowledge of individual, organizational and community wellbeing into action, engaging in action, research and consultation with the community. The 30-credit master’s program in Community & Social Change includes training in research methods, program evaluation, community well-being, organizational change, and social change praxis. CSC courses are scheduled with sufficient flexibility to accommodate working professionals and students who cannot relocate to South Florida. The Core classes are small in size and held generally once a month on the weekend, giving students the liberty to explore career and volunteer options. Generally, full-time students are able to complete the program in 18 months to two years. We also offer a 36-credit Thesis Track that includes a master’s thesis research project to prepare interested students in becoming competitive candidates for potential Ph.D. and other doctoral studies. Graduates of the program receive a Master of Science in Education (M.S.Ed) degree. What We Do? The community and social change program title is multi-layered, peeling back to reveal the broad range of knowledge and experiences our students investigate. Community psychology is a distinctive approach to understanding and solving community, organizational, and societal problems. But, what is at its core? Communities are our office; the curriculum encourages students to engage and critique the complex systems influencing communities and act in a manner that best acknowledges and addresses needs. While others also are concerned with community welfare, what makes community psychologists distinctive is that we apply well-established psychological principles and techniques, tested and proven in practice, to improve well-being and effectiveness at individual, organizational, and community levels. Social change is our goal; combining theory, research, and action, the program encourages students to seize opportunities to create a transformative impact that lasts. We do so with an explicit concern for social and racial justice, inclusiveness and participation, the value of diversity, collaboration, and a focus on strengths. In the Community and Social Change Master’s Program, what we do here is anything but ambiguous — we are simply trying to change the world. Community psychologists work collaboratively with others to help strengthen systems, provide cost-effective services, increase access to resources, and optimize quality for individuals, private and governmental organizations, corporations, and community groups. Purpose and Goals The program is designed to enhance our students’ abilities to: Lead, administer, and inspire within educational and community settings; Lead group processes and consultations; Develop and evaluate programs; Engage in ethical practices; Develop collaborative efforts to address social issues; Think and act as advocates and agents of change; Think and act in ecological, multicultural, and global ways; Understand and utilize theory and research; Understand power dynamics, systems, and social sources of well-being; and Communicate well in oral, written, and electronic media formats. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Department of Educational and Psychological Studies 5202 University Drive Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-3711 305-284-3711 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices