Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site SEHD Home SEHD Home SEHD News Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning Undergraduate Bachelors Minors Graduate Master's Doctoral Certificates Faculty & Staff Research Students Undergraduate Graduate Organizations Well-Being Contact Us Undergraduate Graduate Certificates Faculty & Staff Research Students Contact Us Search Counseling M.S.Ed. Community and Social Change - M.S.Ed. Higher Education Administration M.S.Ed. Research, Measurement & Evaluation M.S.Ed. Career Outcomes Admission Requirements Required Coursework Faculty Testimonials Financial Program Contact Undergraduate Bachelors Minors Graduate Master's Doctoral Certificates Faculty & Staff Research Students Undergraduate Graduate Organizations Well-Being Contact Us SEHD Home SEHD Home SEHD News Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning Counseling M.S.Ed. Community and Social Change - M.S.Ed. Higher Education Administration M.S.Ed. Research, Measurement & Evaluation M.S.Ed. Career Outcomes Admission Requirements Required Coursework Faculty Testimonials Financial Program Contact About Us Listening Exercise Programs Communications History Contact Us Home Graduate Programs Masters Research, Measurement & Evaluation M.S.Ed. AAA Research, Measurement & Evaluation M.S.Ed. Counseling M.S.Ed. Community and Social Change - M.S.Ed. Higher Education Administration M.S.Ed. Research, Measurement & Evaluation M.S.Ed. Career Outcomes Admission Requirements Required Coursework Faculty Testimonials Financial Program Contact GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply The RME M.S. Ed. program is guided by the following vision and mission statements: The vision of the RME program is to be a central part of “putting methods into practice” in the social sciences and education. The mission of the RME M.S.Ed. program is to (a) promote and advance quantitative methodology in social sciences, and (b) provide students with the requisite training for them to become high-quality researchers, data analysts, research coordinators, and measurement advisors in a variety of industrial and academic setting. The objective of the Research, Measurement, and Evaluation (RME) program is to train individuals to become experts in the research methodology, measurement, and statistics used in conducting applied research, evaluations, and assessments related to educational, psychological, and health outcomes. As a STEM Designated Degree Program, the RME M.S.Ed. program aims to train students in research methodology, relevant statistical and measurement analyses, and statistical software required for data management and statistical analyses relevant to research and evaluations conducted in educational, psychological, health, and human service environments. To accomplish this goal, our curriculum provides students sufficient training in the relevant methodologies and statistical software through coursework and field experience. We provide a variety of courses that cover basic descriptive and inferential statistics, the general linear models, multivariate statistics, structural equation modeling, multilevel modeling, psychometric theory, data management, and statistical programming using R, SPSS, SAS, or Mplus. As an interdisciplinary program, our courses focus on the application of quantitative methods to solve real-world problems so that the theoretical knowledge and practical skills obtained in the classroom settings can be directly applied to the field work. The majority of courses related to statistics, measurement, and data management are delivered in the computer labs whereby students are actively engaged in using relevant statistical software to conduct the desired analyses. Students entering the M.S.Ed. program are expected to have an understanding of simple algebra, but are not required to have any specific background in mathematics or statistics. Students from a wide range of disciplines are encouraged to apply. The applied nature of the statistics coursework ensures that necessary mathematical operations are limited to simple algebra. No specific expertise in higher mathematical content areas (such as calculus) is required. As a result, students entering the program come from a wide range of disciplines. The graduates and current master students enrolled in the M.S.Ed. program have bachelor degrees in education, psychology, sociology, public health, and other social sciences. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Department of Educational and Psychological Studies 5202 University Drive Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-3711 305-284-3711 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices