Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site SEHD Home SEHD Home SEHD News Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning Undergraduate Bachelors Minors Graduate Master's Doctoral Certificates Faculty & Staff Research Students Undergraduate Graduate Organizations Well-Being Contact Us Undergraduate Graduate Certificates Faculty & Staff Research Students Contact Us Search Counseling M.S.Ed. Admission Requirements Required Coursework Program Contact Community and Social Change - M.S.Ed. Higher Education Administration M.S.Ed. Research, Measurement & Evaluation M.S.Ed. Undergraduate Bachelors Minors Graduate Master's Doctoral Certificates Faculty & Staff Research Students Undergraduate Graduate Organizations Well-Being Contact Us SEHD Home SEHD Home SEHD News Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning Counseling M.S.Ed. Admission Requirements Required Coursework Program Contact Community and Social Change - M.S.Ed. Higher Education Administration M.S.Ed. Research, Measurement & Evaluation M.S.Ed. About Us Listening Exercise Programs Communications History Contact Us Home Graduate Programs Masters Counseling M.S.Ed. AAA Counseling M.S.Ed. Counseling M.S.Ed. Admission Requirements Required Coursework Program Contact Community and Social Change - M.S.Ed. Higher Education Administration M.S.Ed. Research, Measurement & Evaluation M.S.Ed. GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply Programs offered in counseling are characterized by intensive clinical supervision by faculty members in an on-campus clinic, by strengths in the areas of family systems and couples' therapy, and by the rich multi-ethnic composition of the community, students and clients. Mission To prepare students for professional practice at the Master’s level in Mental Health Counseling (MHC), and Marriage and Family Therapy (MFT) through the integration of theory, research and skills derived from science-based education. Goals The Master’s program prepares students to function as culturally competent counselors to address the mental health needs of a diverse client population. Student Learning Outcomes Our counseling students will demonstrate knowledge of DSM-5 (Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders- 5th Edition) symptom criteria for mental disorders. They will accurately identify clinical symptoms and provide the corresponding diagnosis based on DSM-5 criteria. Students are expected to demonstrate competence in developing case conceptualizations. Specifically, students should be able to incorporate theories in developing comprehensive case conceptualizations of practicum patients (patients treated at our on-campus training clinic). Students will demonstrate knowledge in the application of ethical guidelines governing the practice of mental health counseling. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Department of Educational and Psychological Studies 5202 University Drive Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-3711 305-284-3711 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices