Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Office of Institutional Equity & Accessibility Discrimination & Harassment Faculty & Staff Accommodations Faculty Search Education & Training Meet the Staff Welcome The Office of Institutional Equity and Accessibility (OIEA) is responsible for ensuring Yale’s commitment to equitable and inclusive working and learning environments. This includes administering Yale’s Policy Against Discrimination and Harassment. OIEA plays a leadership role in the university’s efforts to provide equitable treatment and accessibility within Yale’s programs and activities. OIEA encourages any student, faculty member, staff member, or applicant for employment or programs at Yale who is concerned about discrimination, harassment, or retaliation to report their concern to the office. The office coordinates the university’s accommodations program for faculty and staff members with documented disabilities; moreover, applicants for employment at Yale who seek accommodations in the job application process due to a disability are encouraged to contact our office. Yale University is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer and values diversity among its students, faculty, and staff. Accordingly, OIEA collaborates with various campus departments on searches and hiring processes to ensure compliance with university policies and state and federal regulations. In compliance with state law, OIEA also facilitates sexual harassment prevention training for faculty and staff members. Departments that may be interested in a tailored and/or in-person training session should contact the office. The Office of Institutional Equity and Accessibility W.L. Harkness Hall, 3rd Floor, Room 303 100 Wall Street, New Haven CT 06511 203-432-0849 equity@yale.edu REPORT DISCRIMINATION OR HARASSMENT SUBMIT AN ACCOMMODATION REQUEST ACCOMMODATION REQUEST HEALTHCARE PROVIDER FORM Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Facebook Twitter iTunes YouTube Sina Weibo Tumblr