Skip to Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links UCLA Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Homepage UCLA Equity, Diversity & Inclusion About Us Mission Who We Are Priorities EDI Milestones EDI Events Reports & Policies Statements Funding Opportunities EDI Is Hiring Accountability Civil Rights Education EDI Education & Training Hub EDI Toolkits Faculty Search Process Partnerships American Indian and Pacific Islander x EDI Action Group at UCLA UCLA Committee on Disability (UCOD) UCLA Committee on LGBTQ Affairs UCLA Gender Recognition Updates UCLA Moreno Report Updates EDI @ UCLA Report an Incident MenuClose About Us Mission Who We Are Priorities EDI Milestones EDI Events Reports & Policies Statements Funding Opportunities EDI Is Hiring Accountability Civil Rights Education EDI Education & Training Hub EDI Toolkits Faculty Search Process Partnerships American Indian and Pacific Islander x EDI Action Group at UCLA UCLA Committee on Disability (UCOD) UCLA Committee on LGBTQ Affairs UCLA Gender Recognition Updates UCLA Moreno Report Updates EDI @ UCLA Search for: Search Support EDI Open Search Search for: Search × Support EDI Report an Incident VC Spain Bradley: EDI Quarterly Update - Spring 2022 News On May 16, 2022, VC for EDI Anna Spain Bradley issued the following Quarterly Update for Spring 2022 to the UCLA community. Read Update News Please join EDI in celebrating Asian American, Native Hawaiian & Pacific Islander Heritage Month (May 2022). Read More EDI Voices: UCLA’s First Responders (Part 2) News Read our latest issue of “EDI Voices” (Part 2 of 2), featuring insights from UCLA’s First Responders on how the EDI mission informs their work. Read Full Interview Statement from VC Gorden, VC Spain Bradley, and AVC Bhatnagar: Duty to Accommodate News An annual reminder of UCLA employees’ duty to provide appropriate accommodations for individuals with disabilities. Read Full Statement See All News & Events EDI Voices “ Being a member of a diverse department with individuals from different backgrounds and experiences, we collectively work as a team where we come together to achieve a common goal. Firefighter Glen Gibson (Deputy Fire Marshal, UCLA Fire) View All EDI Voices Articles Updates & Resources View All EDI Resources EDI Toolkit: Dismantling Racism Central to the EDI mission is the need to recognize, prevent, and dismantle all forms of racism within the UCLA community. This Toolkit offers resources, educational tools, and best practices as we engage university partners in this vital mission. Statement from Chancellor Block and VC Spain Bradley: Uniting Against Hatred On February 13, 2022, Chancellor Block and VC Spain Bradley issued the following statement in response to a hate-filler flyer sent to the Asian American Studies Center. Duty to Report Sexual Violence, Sexual Harassment and all Forms of Discrimination Annual reminder for all UCLA employees of the duty to report allegations of discrimination and/or harassment based on all protected categories as well as sexual violence and sexual harassment. Resources for Confronting Bias Want to learn about evidence-based methods for effectively confronting bias? Check out these insightful studies and publications. View All EDI Resources UCLA LogoEquity, Diversity and Inclusion UCLA's Office of Equity, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) leads and advances strategies for enhancing equity, diversity and inclusion; protecting civil rights; and upholding dignity for all in our community. As a land grant institution, the Office of Equity, Diversity and Inclusion at UCLA acknowledges the Gabrielino/Tongva peoples as the traditional land caretakers of Tovaangar (Los Angeles basin, So. Channel Islands). If you know of a valuable resource that we have overlooked on this website, please let us know at rklibaner@equity.ucla.edu. UCLA Homepage UC Diversity Terms of Use (310) 825-3935 Murphy Hall, Los Angeles, CA 90095-1405 UCLA Logo © 2022 UC Regents Terms of Use Accessibility Report an Incident Site Map Site by Use All Five Faculty Dashboards General Campus Faculty Demographics The General Campus Faculty Demographics Dashboard provides 5 years of data on the gender and racial/ethnic composition of UCLA faculty (Senate and non-Senate). Users have the option to filter the data by School/Division, Department, Academic Series, and Title. CLOSE Staff Dashboards Non-Academic Staff Demographics The Non-Academic Staff Demographics Dashboard provides 10 years of data on the gender and racial/ethnic composition of non-academic staff at UCLA. Data are presented as headcounts and FTE (full-time equivalents) counts. Users have the option to filter by Year, Personnel Subcategory, School/Organizational Unit, and Department. CLOSE Student Dashboards Student Enrollments Student Enrollments charts and data tables reflect the declared majors of enrolled students at the end of the third week of a term. Enrollments are reported as fall term snapshots and three-quarter averages (averaged across fall, winter, and spring quarters of an academic year). Undergraduate Admissions Undergraduate Admissions charts and data tables provide information on freshman and transfer applicants, admits, and enrollees. CLOSE Leadership Dashboards Leadership Demographics The Leadership Demographics Dashboard provides 9 years of data on the gender and racial/ethnic composition of UCLA Department Chairs, Deans, and Senior Administrators. CLOSE Leadership Dashboards Leadership Demographics The Leadership Demographics Dashboard provides 11 years of data on the gender and racial/ethnic composition of UCLA Department Chairs, Deans, and Senior Administrators. CLOSE Staff Dashboards Non-Academic Staff Demographics The Non-Academic Staff Demographics Dashboard provides 10 years of data on the gender and racial/ethnic composition of non-academic staff at UCLA. Data are presented as headcounts and FTE (full-time equivalents) counts. Users have the option to filter by Year, Personnel Subcategory, School/Organizational Unit, and Department. CLOSE Faculty Dashboards General Campus Faculty Demographics The General Campus Faculty Demographics Dashboard provides 5 years of data on the gender and racial/ethnic composition of UCLA faculty (Senate and non-Senate). Users have the option to filter the data by School/Division, Department, Academic Series, and Title. CLOSE