Office for Inclusion and Equity Division of Diversity and Community Engagement Search site: Policies University Policies and Procedure Guides Major Laws Title IX Resources UTS 178 Compliance Affirmative Action Plan EEO/AA Faculty Data Collection Guidelines Faculty & Staff Headcount IPEDS VETS 4212 Accommodations Employee Accommodation Request Forms Applicants with Disabilities Ergonomic Assessments Parking Options for People with Disabilities Frequently Asked Questions Funding Major Laws Terminology and Definitions Barriers on Campus Restorative Practices Welcome Mission The Office for Inclusion and Equity (OIE) provides compassionate guidance that advances a supportive university culture by inviting self-reflection and exploration of differences. We curate resources for educational solutions, restorative interventions, workforce diversification, and inclusive campus support. Purpose OIE serves as a resource to cultivate belonging throughout the university community. We encourage inclusive learning and dialogue among community members as they navigate identity-centered relationship dynamics. OIE is committed to promoting fairness, repairing harm, and prompting critical thinking about differences. OIE is excited to announce its four focus areas: Education, Development and Outreach OIE serves as a learning hub for diversity, equity, inclusion (DEI), and restorative justice practices. We offer tools to drive accessible and respectful discourse about differences and its implications for relationships. Our objective is to foster a core learning stance toward diversity and inclusion in all organizations within the University and the surrounding Texas community. Inclusive Campus Support Inclusive Campus Support provides an online anonymous mechanism for university community members to share their campus climate experiences that are helpful and/or concerning. Peer support is provided through consult without referral (unless required by law or institutional policy) and through sharing university/community resources. Visit the Inclusive Campus Support page to learn more. Restorative Pathways/Practices OIE offers a spectrum of services rooted in Restorative Practices, including processes that address behavioral concerns pertaining to race, color, religion, national origin, sex, pregnancy, age, disability, citizenship, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity or gender expression, and genetic information. In addition to addressing concerns, OIE simultaneously fosters healthy dialogue across differences. OIE is a central resource for the university community, offering educational opportunities in implementing Restorative Justice ideologies and practices and navigating identity-centered relationship dynamics through workshops for specific colleges, schools, and units. Workforce Diversification Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) and Affirmative Action (AA) are foundational components of the University’s work toward ensuring a diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace for its employees. They are also legally required due to the University’s status as a federal contractor. OIE serves as a resource in supporting the institutional responsibility for implementing EEO and AA across campus. Through our four focus areas, OIE looks forward to furthering our collaboration and support services designed to maintain a healthy learning and working environment for our community. Submit a Concern Submit A Concern Resources Student Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Contact Us Call 512-471-1849 or email equity@utexas.edu. Due to COVID-19 we’re not taking any office visits. Contact Us Call 512-471-1849 or email equity@utexas.edu. Visit our staff page or our office at SSB 3.212. What We Do About OIE Policies Investigations Education Faculty Diversity Employee Accommodations Diversity Planning Compliance Reporting Resources Students Faculty Staff Departmental Representatives & Administrators More Resources © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Emergency Information | Site Policies | Web Accessibility Policy | Web Privacy Policy Office of Inclusion and Equity Policies University Policies and Procedure Guides Major Laws Title IX Resources UTS 178 Compliance Affirmative Action Plan EEO/AA Faculty Data Collection Guidelines Faculty & Staff Headcount IPEDS VETS 4212 Accommodations Employee Accommodation Request Forms Applicants with Disabilities Ergonomic Assessments Parking Options for People with Disabilities Frequently Asked Questions Funding Major Laws Terminology and Definitions Barriers on Campus Restorative Practices ×