Skip to navigation Skip to content MU Logo University of Missouri Search search Office of Institutional Equity menu Contact & About Reporting & Policies Support Resources Reports & Data Education & Programming Sexual Violence Prevention for Students U GOT THIS! is an online video-based program that provides critical information about: consent sexual assault dating and domestic violence bystander intervention stalking much more You will learn what you can do to help make our campus safer. To successfully complete the program, you must earn a score of at least 80% on the post-test. All new Mizzou students are required to complete U GOT THIS! Take the Training Use a laptop or desktop computer. Mobile devices are discouraged. You can leave the program at any time and return later, where you left off. The training will take about one hour. You may retake the test until you achieve a score of at least 80%. Use the link below and log in using your university email address and password. Follow the directions on the landing page to select the correct program for your current status: choose “Undergrad Student Training” if you are an undergraduate, or “Graduate Student Training” if you are a graduate or professional student. Your completion will be reflected in MyZou within 24-48 hours. Undergrad Student Training Graduate Student Training Assistance For technical or accessibility support, you can contact Catharsis Productions directly: catharsisonlinetraining@catharsisproductions.com. For local support, if you require accommodations to complete this training due to disability, contact the MU Disability Center at 573-882-4696 or disabilitycenter@missouri.edu. For additional tech support, please call MU IT: 573-882-5000. To ask questions about the training and MU’s sexual violence prevention efforts, contact the Relationship and Sexual Violence Prevention (RSVP) Center at 573-882-6638. For information on policies and procedures regarding the topics covered by the training, contact the Office of Institutional Equity at 573-882-3880 or equity@missouri.edu. Sexual Violence Prevention for Students Sample Syllabus Statement MU Logo University of Missouri Contact us Office of Institutional Equity equity@missouri.edu 320 Jesse Hall and 145 Heinkel Building Columbia, MO 65211 Phone: 573-882-3880 MU is an equal opportunity/access/affirmative action/pro-disabled and veteran employer and does not discriminate on the basis of sex in our education programs or activities, pursuant to Title IX and 34 CFR Part 106. For more information, visit MU’s Nondiscrimination Policy or the Office of Institutional Equity. © 2022 — Curators of the University of Missouri. All rights reserved. DMCA and other copyright information. Privacy policy