Skip to Main Content UCLA has adopted the concept of FlexWork, which encourages our department to work in a hybrid environment. The ERRC has a small dynamic workforce dedicated to serve our constituents. Visit our Connecting During Covid section to start exploring virtual experiences, digital performances and resources that you can enjoy from home. We are still in this together. emeriti@errc.ucla.edu (310) 825 -7456 Email Updates Give Now Search WebsiteSearch Search WebsiteSearch About Bios Contact/Directions Director's Message History Marian Broome Release Form Events/Programs Open Enrollment Upcoming First Fridays Connecting During Covid UCLA Campus & Nationwide Info Food Resources Digital Activities Virtual Volunteering Financial Security Zoom tutorial Open Vaccines Information Retirement Toolkit Emeriti Association Retirees Association emeriti@errc.ucla.edu (310) 825 -7456 Email Updates Give Now Welcome to Emeriti/Retirees Relations Center The UCLA Emeriti/Retirees Relations Center serves the retired faculty and staff communities through advocacy, education and personalized services pre- and post- retirement, creates strategic partnerships between the university, emeriti and retirees, and seeks to enrich the quality of life in retirement at UCLA. The ERRC, an advocate and supporter of UCLA retirees since 1969. Discover UCLA Community Partnerships What's happening at ERRC About the Center In partnership with the UCLA Emeriti Association and the UCLA Retirees Association, the ERRC offers a variety of programs and services to support retiree involvement in campus and community initiatives. Events & Workshops Check out our events page to see what upcoming events we have in store and learn more about First Fridays. Connect During Covid The ERRC is working in a hybrid environment. Check out our Connecting During Covid pages to view a curated list of virtual resources you can explore from the comfort of your home. Staff and Faculty Retirement Resources Faculty Retirement Liaison Professor David Lopez advises faculty members who are considering retirement as well as those who have already retired. He helps Academic Senate faculty members develop Pathway to Retirement agreements with their department chairs. He works semi-autonomously from the Academic Personnel Office, and all his discussions with individual faculty members are confidential. David Lopez is available for consultation year-round. He meets privately with faculty individually on campus, and by Zoom, Skype or phone. Faculty Liaison Path Forward to Retirement for Faculty Faculty members who are considering retirement as well as those who have already retired can check out these links to learn about the path they can take to retirement. Faculty Workshops Path Forward to Retirement for Staff In partnership with UCLA’s Campus Human Resources, we are pleased to offer a new three-part workshop series to help UCLA staff navigate the road to this next life chapter Staff Workshops Quick Links ERRC e-Newsletter Sign up to receive ERRC e-Newsletters UC "New Dimensions" Newsletter New Dimensions is published by University of California Human Resources to provide news and information to UC retirees. Fidelity UC offers retirement services and tools to assist faculty and staff in career-long financial planning for retirement. You may register for financial education classes/workshops or you can schedule a one-on-one financial consultation with a Fidelity Investments Retirement Planner. Sister Campuses Retirement Center Contacts UC Retirement Centers serves the retired faculty and staff communities through advocacy, education and personalized services pre- and post- retirement, creates strategic partnerships between campuses and the Office of the President Retirement Administration Service Center (RASC) The Retirement Administration Service Center (RASC) at UC Office of the President (Oakland, CA) supports members of the University as they transition into retirement and with life events beyond work, including University of California Retirement Plan (UCRP) retirement income, UCRP disability income, survivor benefits, and UC-sponsored health and welfare benefits. RASC Contact You can contact RASC Customer Service by phone or online for help with benefits and retirement questions. The following is the contact information: 800-888-8267 (press 1 for assistance with UCRAYS and information on HIPAA privacy notice; press 3 if you're an active employee or have questions about retirement in process; press 4 for all other calls) 510-987-0200 (from outside the U.S.) Monday through Friday, 8:30 a.m.—4:30 p.m. (PT). To contact RASC click on this card. UCLA Parking Services Please refer to the below campus parking maps to find a parking structure convenient to your destination on campus, including accessible parking spaces. Campus Parking Map Interactive Campus Map Emeriti and Staff Retiree Instructions News & Media UCLA Office of Equity, Diversity and Inclusion | EDI Voices UCLA has taken strides to be inclusive of older adults and multigenerational efforts. Report shows UC retirees make valuable contributions to UC 2020 Survey: http://cucra.ucsd.edu/survey/2020/CUCRA-2020-Survey-Report.pdf 2016 Survey: http://cucra.ucsd.edu/survey/RetireeSurveyReport.pdf These surveys highlight the accomplishments and activities of University of California retirees who responded. The report describes the extent to which respondents remained committed to UC's mission, volunteering in their communities and for UC, providing professional services, publishing written works, caregiving and more. For many of these retirees, retirement did not signal a break from the University, but rather a shift in the relationship. How we can embrace our aging population during COVID-19 and beyond The current pandemic means members of our vulnerable aging population are more cut off than usual. Many are suffering from food insecurity, loneliness and isolation. Ayesha Dixon, Director of UCLA Emeriti/Retirees Relations Center, speaks with Dr. Brandon Koretz, co-chief of UCLA’s geriatric medicine division, about how we can come together to face these challenges, raise awareness and address disparities. They will also discuss the broad benefits of intergenerational societies that effectively integrate the aging population into communities. The current pandemic means members of our vulnerable aging population are more cut off than usual. Many are suffering from food insecurity, loneliness and isolation. Ayesha Dixon, Director of UCLA Emeriti/Retirees Relations Center, speaks with Dr. Brandon Koretz, co-chief of UCLA’s geriatric medicine division, about how we can come together to face these challenges, raise awareness and address disparities. They will also discuss the broad benefits of intergenerational societies that effectively integrate the aging population into communities. 6 feet apart: episode 6 This current moment of social distancing is particularly hard on the populations most vulnerable to isolation and loneliness like older adults, people with disabilities and those with mobility issues. Social isolation among older adults is a serious public health concern that we are even more worried about during this pandemic. For those most vulnerable to COVID-19, quarantine is a time of heightened vigilance Ayesha Dixon, director of the UCLA Emeriti/Retiree Relations Center, said the office prioritized education and combating elderly isolation. Contact Us 1116 Rolfe Hall Phone: 310-825-7456 Fax: 310-825-1572 Email: emeriti@errc.ucla.edu Stay in the know Twitter @AyeshaGero YouTube @ERRC \n Accessibility \n UCLA \n Maps, Directions, Parking \n Academic Calendar \n Campus Directory \n University of California \n Terms of Use \n