Email: dblp_columbia@eruditus.com Phone: +1 646 713 0918 (US) / +65 6871 4030 (Singapore) +971 44302011 (Dubai) / +52 55535 02404 (South America) +91 90290 07437 (India) / +86 400 100 8874 (China) Overview Program Journey Participant Testimonials Participant Profile Faculty Curriculum Alumni Benefits Dates and Fees FAQs Digital Business Leadership Program The Digital Business Leadership Program from Columbia Business School Executive Education is a comprehensive, six-month, multimodal program that prepares global executives to innovate new strategies and business models and lead their organizations to thrive in the digital age. Get the brochure Mr. Ms. Mrs. Dr. Prof. Country/Region Afghanistan Albania Algeria American Samoa Angola Anguilla Antartica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Ashmore and Cartier Island Australia Austria Azerbaijan Azores Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Brazil British Virgin Islands Brunei Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burma Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Canary Islands Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Clipperton Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the Cook Islands Costa Rica Cote d'Ivoire Croatia Cuba Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Europa Island Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas) Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern and Antarctic Lands Gabon Gambia, The Gaza Strip Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Glorioso Islands Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and McDonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City) Honduras Hong Kong Howland Island Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Ireland, Northern Israel Italy Jamaica Jan Mayen Japan Jarvis Island Jersey Johnston Atoll Jordan Juan de Nova Island Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Korea, North Korea, South Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macau Macedonia, Former Yugoslav Republic of Madagascar Madeira Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Man, Isle of Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia, Federated States of Midway Islands Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands Antilles Netherlands New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcaim Islands Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion Romania Russia Rwanda Saint Helena Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Martin Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and South Sandwich Islands Spain Spratly Islands Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syria Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand Tobago Toga Tokelau Tonga Trinidad Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela Vietnam Virgin Islands Wallis and Futuna West Bank Western Sahara Yemen Yugoslavia Zambia Zimbabwe Work Experience Greater Than 20 Years 16-20 Years 10-15 Years Less Than 10 Years By clicking the button below, you agree to receive communications from Columbia Business School & Eruditus about this program and other relevant programs. Privacy Policy DOWNLOAD BROCHURE A Comprehensive Program Journey Learn Balance theory and practical learning through interactive sessions with Ivy League faculty and industry practitioners. Get first-hand insights into digital strategies, emerging technologies, and rapid innovation. Engage Immerse yourself in the thriving tech hubs of San Francisco and New York and learn from people and organizations at the forefront of the digital revolution. Exchange insights with accomplished peers and build a lifelong global network. Implement Address real-world challenges through capstone projects and immediately apply learnings to your organization. David Rogers Faculty Director Faculty Director of Executive Education programs on digital transformation, strategy, and leadership A globally recognized leader on digital strategy and leadership known for his pioneering work on digital transformation Recent research focuses on business model design, asymmetric competition, customer data sharing, and digital transformation in legacy organizations Best-selling author of four books, including The Digital Transformation Playbook: Rethink Your Business for the Digital Age Founder of the Brite Conference, held at Columbia Business School since 2008, which brings together global leaders in branding, innovation, and technology Winner of the 2009 Award for Brand Leadership at the World Brand Congress Past board member of The Marketing Hall of Fame™ and past President of the American Marketing Association New York Program Highlights 40+ Nationalities provide a rich peer group experience 15+ Topics 10+ Faculty members and practitioners 6 Month learning journey 2 Live online modules 2 In-person immersions (San Francisco and New York City) 2 Capstone projects on digital transformation Note: Final schedule subject to change THE PROGRAM COHORT The Digital Business Leadership Program participant mix reflects diversity across functions, industries, backgrounds, companies, and life experiences. FUNCTIONS EXPERIENCE ORGANIZATIONS INDUSTRIES Others include: e-commerce, telecommunications, advertising, tourism/hospitality, human resources, service provider, energy, electronics/hardware, real estate, agriculture, civil construction GEOGRAPHIC LOCATIONS Hear from our alumni “The program is a great balance of theory and practical learnings as well as company visits and tours of innovative centers. Since the completion of the program, my views on digital have changed. I am much clearer on the many ways to define ‘digital.’ The pace of change is so fast that the old ways won't last in the future and therefore being open to a whole new paradigm is key.” — Kevin Brown Partner, Ernst & Young “What really drove me to choose this program was the opportunity to meet people who are top leaders going through change and facing challenges and share experiences and potential solutions to organizational problems. The faculty at Columbia Business School provide a wealth of knowledge bringing their firsthand experiences from advising top companies that have been facing disruption successfully.” — Gladys Morales CEO and Founder, GHMG Strategies “The program is structured in a way to enable us to take advantage of the interaction with our peers. We have people coming from all over the world with different experiences in the roles they have in their companies, industries, and countries.” — Angelo Gazzoni Country Manager, Hexagon Safety & Infrastructure “The Digital Business Leadership Program has taught me that digital business leadership is not just about technology, it's also about changing people’s attitudes and relationships. Before the program, I was talking to the same people and hearing from the same people, but now I am hearing from new people and with new ideas.” — Judia Black Founder and CEO, enJoie Who is this program for? Participants might come from large or medium-sized organizations that are focused on digital transformation and innovation. The Digital Business Leadership Program helps talented leaders prepare to take on larger digital transformation roles. All the key elements of the Digital Business Leadership Program experience — faculty, content, peer interaction, and application exercises — are designed specifically for participants with: A minimum of 10 years of work experience International exposure (preferred) Fluency in written and spoken English DOWNLOAD BROCHURE meet the faculty Bob Dorf Customer Development Expert Jeremy Kagan Adjunct Professor of Business Rita McGrath Faculty of Executive Education Oded Netzer Arthur J. Samberg Professor of Business Miklos Sarvary Carson Family Professor of Business Hitendra Wadhwa Professor of Professional Practice Note: Faculty is subject to change Guest Speakers and Site Visits* Learn from industry experts – startup founders, venture capitalists, chief digital officers, tech disruptors, and more – in San Francisco, New York City, and beyond. You will also get the opportunity to participate in site visits to accelerator labs, startups, and companies. *Subject to travel and gathering restrictions due to COVID-19. PAST SPEAKERS INCLUDE PAST VISITS INCLUDE Note: All product and company names are trademarks™ or registered® trademarks of their respective holders. Use of them does not imply any affiliation with or endorsement by them. Curriculum Digital Strategy The Five Domains of Digital Transformation Building Data as a Strategic Asset Platforms and Multi-Sided Business Models Leveraging Artificial Intelligence (AI) for Competitive Advantage Adapting Your Value Proposition Customer Networks and the New Path to Purchase Rapid Innovation Lean Startup: The Customer Development Method The Four Stages of Business Model Validation Innovating through Experimentation: A/B Tests, MVPs, Failing Smart Lessons from Agile and Scrum Innovation at Enterprise Scale: Structures, Boards, and Teams The Three Paths to Growth Organizational Transformation Designing Your Digital Transformation Road Map Why Most Transformations Fail Culture, People, and Digital Transformation Data-Driven Decision Making and Quantitative Intuition™ Bridging the Digital Capabilities Gap Leadership and Making the Case for Change Note: Topics and sessions are subject to change. DOWNLOAD CURRICULUM Capstone Project 1: Organizational Change Case Develop a draft road map for digital transformation in your organization Use a guided methodology to assess digital readiness and define the case for change, growth strategies, culture, capabilities, and management models Learn from fellow practitioners through peer mentoring Capstone Project 2: Team Innovation Project Work in teams on real-world innovation projects Apply the lean startup methodology of customer development to rapidly test, validate, and iterate your business model Learn rapid innovation by putting theory into practice Alumni Benefits Access to Columbia Business School's Alumni Career Services resources, including unique career content, a job board, an online networking platform, the alumni directory, and more Invitations to alumni events and programs around the world Eligibility to join Columbia Business School alumni clubs Lifetime Columbia Business School forwarding email address A 25 percent tuition benefit for you and up to four colleagues each year for full-price Executive Education in-person programs lasting up to seven days and all full-price online programs Global networking opportunities A subscription to our Columbia Business School alumni publication Columbia Business DOWNLOAD BROCHURE Program Schedule Module Date Location Pre-Program Preparation August 2022 Pre-work Module 1 September 12–23, 2022 Live online sessions Module 2 September–October 2022 Online Module 3 October 31–November 4, 2022 San Francisco Module 4 November–December 2022 Online Module 5 December 13–16, 2022 Live online sessions Module 6 January–February 2023 Online Module 7 February 20–24, 2023 New York City Note: Order of sessions is subject to change and based on faculty availability. In case you are unable to travel for the in-person module/s due to prevailing COVID-19 travel restrictions/concerns, there will be a live-streaming option available. Application Deadline and Fees Round Date Application Fees Round 1 Closed - Round 2 Closed - Round 3 Closed - Round 4 June 16, 2022 US$500 Note: Inclusions: program materials, coffee breaks, and lunches Exclusions: travel costs and accommodation Program Fee*: US$32,000 Application Round 4 Program Fee: US$29,000 *Tuition fee benefit available. DOWNLOAD BROCHURE Frequently Asked Questions What is the Columbia Business School Executive Education Digital Business Leadership Program? The Digital Business Leadership Program from Columbia Business School Executive Education is an intensive, six-month Ivy League learning journey that prepares global executives to innovate new strategies and business models and lead their organizations to thrive in the digital age. It equips digital leaders with the skills to drive digital transformation in their respective organizations. Upon completion of the program, participants receive select Columbia Business School alumni benefits. Who should consider this program? Participants in the Digital Business Leadership Program come from large- or medium-sized organizations focused on digital transformation and innovation within existing industries. The learning experience is designed specifically for participants with a minimum work experience of 10 years. How is the program structured? The Digital Business Leadership Program kicks off with an online introduction session, followed by five online modules interspersed with two in-person modules at the Columbia Business School campus in San Francisco and New York City. Will I receive a certification after completing this program? Upon completion of the Digital Business Leadership Program, participants will be awarded a Certificate in Business Excellence from Columbia Business School Executive Education. How do I apply for the program? Applications to the Digital Business Leadership Program can be made online and should include an updated resume/LinkedIn profile as well as professional references. The application fees vary by rounds — applying earlier helps your chances of being accepted into the program. Connect with a program advisor for a 1:1 session Email: dblp_columbia@eruditus.com Phone: +1 646 713-0918 (US) / +65 6871 4030 (Singapore) / +971 4430 2011 (Dubai) / +52 55535 02404 (South America) / +91 90290 07437 (India) / +86 400 100 8874 (China) For group enrollment benefits, write to us at enterprise@eruditus.com Program Partner DOWNLOAD BROCHURE