Explore Current Hours and Operations Skip to Content Barnes Center at The Arch Open Close primary navigation Search Search AboutExpand Collapse section How to Get to Us Facilities and HoursExpand Collapse section Stay Safe: Barnes Center at The Arch Barnes Center at The Arch North Campus South Campus Drumlins Country Club Meet the Staff Meet the Students Patient Portal Wellness Portal Forms and Requests Policies and Procedures Wellness Philosophy Confidentiality Privacy Billing and Fees ServicesExpand Collapse section Emergency Make an Appointment After-Hours Care Counseling Health CareExpand Collapse section Trans and Gender Affirming Services Immunizations Laboratory Medical Services Travel Honwadiyenawa’sek Student Health Insurance Nutrition Personal Training Pharmacy Psychiatry Referrals Sexual Health Sexual and Relationship Violence Substance Use Leave of Absence Be MindfulExpand Collapse section Crowley Family MindSpa Meditation Pet Therapy Sanvello Soul Series Yoga Be ActiveExpand Collapse section Aquatics Climbing Wall Cross Country Ski and Snowshoe Center Esports Fitness Centers Fitness Classes Golf and Tennis Ice Sports Intramural Sports Outdoor Adventure Personal Training Sport Clubs Be InvolvedExpand Collapse section Events Calendar Professional Development Peer Educators Programs Staff Employment Student Employment Volunteer Campus CommunityExpand Collapse section Help a Student Faculty and Staff Resources Education and Resources Wellness Leadership Institute Connect Give Emergency Contact Us Search Search Home Intramural Sports - Barnes Center at The Arch - Syracuse University Intramural Sports Intramural sports give the opportunity to be active and compete in a fun and supportive environment. The Barnes Center at The Arch hosts multiple intramural sport opportunities throughout the year. Intramural sports are open to Syracuse University and SUNY College of Environmental Science and Forestry (ESF) students, faculty and staff. Please bring your official Syracuse University or ESF I.D. to gain entry to facilities and to participate. Dates are subject to change. Please visit the IMLeagues website to register and for additional information. Registration Link Create an IM Leagues Account Link Syracuse University or SUNY College of Environmental Science and Forestry (Student, Faculty, Staff, Alumni) Link From the Wellness Portal, select “Intramurals.” This will connect you to IMLeagues. At the top right, select "Create Account." Complete the requested fields. When doing so, use your Syracuse University or ESF credentials (e.g. email address, I.D. Number) to create an IM Leagues account. Dependents Link If you are a dependent, please use a personal email during registration or complete the Request to Join Process. Questions Link For additional information or questions, please call 315.443.4386. Fall 2021 Registration Deadlines Link Each intramural sport has unique registration and team associated dates. If a team is not created by the deadline, individuals will be unable to participate in that particular intramural sport. Please visit the Wellness Portal and select "Intramurals" to register and for additional information. For questions, please call 315.443.4386. Leagues Registration Deadlines Link Flag Football: Wednesday, Sept. 8, by 2 p.m. Golf at Drumlins: Wednesday, Sept. 8, by 2 p.m. Outdoor Soccer: Wednesday, Sept. 8, by 2 p.m. Sand Volleyball: Wednesday, Sept. 8, by 2 p.m. Broomball: Monday, Sept. 20, by noon Curling: Monday, Sept. 20, by noon Ice Hockey: Monday, Sept. 20, by noon Spikeball Tournament: Tuesday, Sept. 21, by 2 p.m. Torneo De Futbol: Monday, Sept. 27, by 8 a.m. 3-v-3 Basketball: Monday, Oct. 18, by 10 a.m. Futsal: Monday, Oct. 18, by 10 a.m. Team Handball: Monday, Oct. 18, by 10 a.m. Volleyball: Monday, Oct. 18, by 10 a.m. Intramural Sports Officials Link Information coming soon! Related Pages Be Active Facilities and Hours Wellness Philosophy Wellness Portal Barnes Center at The Arch | 150 Sims Drive, Syracuse, NY 13244 | 315.443.8000 Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Instagram © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy