Explore Current Hours and Operations Skip to Content Barnes Center at The Arch Open Close primary navigation Search Search AboutExpand Collapse section How to Get to Us Facilities and HoursExpand Collapse section Stay Safe: Barnes Center at The Arch Barnes Center at The Arch North Campus South Campus Drumlins Country Club Meet the Staff Meet the Students Patient Portal Wellness Portal Forms and Requests Policies and Procedures Wellness Philosophy Confidentiality Privacy Billing and Fees ServicesExpand Collapse section Emergency Make an Appointment After-Hours Care Counseling Health CareExpand Collapse section Trans and Gender Affirming Services Immunizations Laboratory Medical Services Travel Honwadiyenawa’sek Student Health Insurance Nutrition Personal Training Pharmacy Psychiatry Referrals Sexual Health Sexual and Relationship Violence Substance Use Leave of Absence Be MindfulExpand Collapse section Crowley Family MindSpa Meditation Pet Therapy Sanvello Soul Series Yoga Be ActiveExpand Collapse section Aquatics Climbing Wall Cross Country Ski and Snowshoe Center Esports Fitness Centers Fitness Classes Golf and Tennis Ice Sports Intramural Sports Outdoor Adventure Personal Training Sport Clubs Be InvolvedExpand Collapse section Events Calendar Professional Development Peer Educators Programs Staff Employment Student Employment Volunteer Campus CommunityExpand Collapse section Help a Student Faculty and Staff Resources Education and Resources Wellness Leadership Institute Connect Give Emergency Contact Us Search Search Be Active Home Be Active - Barnes Center at The Arch - Syracuse University Be Active at the Barnes Center at The Arch! Link The Barnes Center at The Arch offers a variety of resources and services to meet the unique needs of your health and wellness journey. From climbing, to swimming, and exercising with state-of-the-art equipment, the selections and variety available are here to help you Be Active. Be Active Resources Link Aquatics Adventure Trips (Virtual resources!) Billing and Fees Challenge Course Climbing Wall Cross Country Skiing and Snowshoeing at Drumlins Country Club Drop-in Fitness Classes (Virtual resources!) Golf and Tennis at Drumlins Country Club Esports (Virtual resources!) Fitness Centers (Virtual resources!) Ice Sports and Recreation at Tennity Ice Skating Pavilion Intramural Sports (Virtual resources!) Personal Training (Virtual resources!) Outdoor Adventure Sport Clubs Wellness Portal (Virtual resources!) Related Pages Billing and Fees Confidentiality Facilities and Hours Policies and Procedures Meet the Staff Meet the Students Wellness Philosophy Wellness Portal Barnes Center at The Arch | 150 Sims Drive, Syracuse, NY 13244 | 315.443.8000 Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Instagram © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy