Explore Current Hours and Operations Skip to Content Barnes Center at The Arch Open Close primary navigation Search Search AboutExpand Collapse section How to Get to Us Facilities and HoursExpand Collapse section Stay Safe: Barnes Center at The Arch Barnes Center at The Arch North Campus South Campus Drumlins Country Club Meet the Staff Meet the Students Patient Portal Wellness Portal Forms and Requests Policies and Procedures Wellness Philosophy Confidentiality Privacy Billing and Fees ServicesExpand Collapse section Emergency Make an Appointment After-Hours Care Counseling Health CareExpand Collapse section Trans and Gender Affirming Services Immunizations Laboratory Medical Services Travel Honwadiyenawa’sek Student Health Insurance Nutrition Personal Training Pharmacy Psychiatry Referrals Sexual Health Sexual and Relationship Violence Substance Use Leave of Absence Be MindfulExpand Collapse section Crowley Family MindSpa Meditation Pet Therapy Sanvello Soul Series Yoga Be ActiveExpand Collapse section Aquatics Climbing Wall Cross Country Ski and Snowshoe Center Esports Fitness Centers Fitness Classes Golf and Tennis Ice Sports Intramural Sports Outdoor Adventure Personal Training Sport Clubs Be InvolvedExpand Collapse section Events Calendar Professional Development Peer Educators Programs Staff Employment Student Employment Volunteer Campus CommunityExpand Collapse section Help a Student Faculty and Staff Resources Education and Resources Wellness Leadership Institute Connect Give Emergency Contact Us Search Search Home Immunizations – Barnes Center at The Arch – Syracuse University Immunizations Immunization Requirements Link In accordance with New York Public Health Law Sections 2165 and 2167, all Syracuse University students who were born on or after Tuesday, January 1, 1957, and registered for six or more credit hours or residing in University housing, must demonstrate proof of immunization for measles, mumps, rubella and meningococcal disease prior to beginning classes. If applicable, only officially translated documents are accepted. The Barnes Center at The Arch health and wellness team must maintain a record of the following for each student: Documentation of two doses of measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) or proof of immunity. Documentation of one dose of meningococcal meningitis ACWY vaccine within the preceding five years and after the age of 16 or a completed waiver form declining the vaccination. For questions or additional information, please contact Medical Records by emailing health@syr.edu or by calling 315.443.2667. Immunization Information Link Immunization Requirement Exemptions Link The following students are not required to submit proof of immunization. Approval is at the discretion of the Barnes Center at The Arch Medical Director. Students born before Tuesday, January 1, 1957. Students who do not reside in University housing and are registered for less than six credit hours. Students exclusively matriculated in University online degree programs. In accordance with New York State Public Health Law, students who submit a medical exemption waiver from a licensed physician, physician’s assistant or nurse practitioner who certifies that such immunization may be detrimental to the person’s health or otherwise medically contraindicated or a religious exemption waiver due to their genuine and sincere religious beliefs which are contrary to the practices herein required. For questions or additional information, please contact Medical Records by emailing health@syr.edu or by calling 315.443.2667. Accessing Immunization Records Link You may acquire records by contacting your primary care physician, previous school or institution. The health and wellness team is available to assist students who have not been vaccinated or do not have vaccination records. Visit the Patient Portal webpage for detailed instructions. For questions or additional information, please contact Medical Records by emailing health@syr.edu or by calling 315.443.2667. Entering/Uploading Immunization Data Link Using your NetID and password, log into the Patient Portal to submit the needed health history and immunization record forms for review. Records may also be faxed to 315.443.9010. For instructions of how to submit records visit the Patient Portal webpage. New students cannot access housing assignments, class schedules, parking and/or arrival passes until health history and immunization record forms have been submitted. For questions or additional information, please contact Medical Records by emailing health@syr.edu or by calling 315.443.2667. Receiving Immunizations on Campus Link Schedule an Appointment Link Call 315.443.8000 Patient Portal Health Care Hours Link Explore the Facilities and Hours webpage for availability. The Barnes Center at The Arch health and wellness team offers a variety of vaccinations for students including the following: Hepatitis A and B HPV (Gardasil) Influenza Measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) Meningitis A and B Tetanus/Pertussis Varicella For questions or additional information, please contact Medical Records by emailing health@syr.edu or by calling 315.443.2667. COVID-19 Vaccination and Booster Link Syracuse University requires all students, faculty, and staff routinely accessing campus to be vaccinated against COVID-19. This includes receiving a booster shot. Students must submit a vaccination record demonstrating a completed vaccination series at least 14 days before arrival to campus. In addition, students must receive and submit documentation of a booster shot. Individuals who are not yet eligible to receive a booster by check-in and move-in, will be required to receive a booster shot during the academic semester, within one week of becoming eligible. The only exception to these requirements is an approved medical or religious exemption filed with the University. Learn more about the COVID-19 vaccine policy. Influenza Vaccination Link Syracuse University requires all students to receive the influenza vaccine (“flu shot”) or, alternatively, should have filed a medical or religious exemption with the University. Learn more on the Stay Safe Pledge webpage. PLEASE NOTE: Students must have an influenza vaccine or a documented exemption to attend in-person classes, participate in on-campus activities and use on-campus facilities. Programs Link Learn more about annual Flu Shot Clinics and Get Yourself Tested (GYT) events in programs and find details on the Events Calendar. Related Pages Confidentiality Facilities and Hours Patient Portal Policies and Procedures Meet the Staff Meet the Students Wellness Portal Wellness Philosophy Barnes Center at The Arch | 150 Sims Drive, Syracuse, NY 13244 | 315.443.8000 Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Instagram © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy