Explore Current Hours and Operations Skip to Content Barnes Center at The Arch Open Close primary navigation Search Search AboutExpand Collapse section How to Get to Us Facilities and HoursExpand Collapse section Stay Safe: Barnes Center at The Arch Barnes Center at The Arch North Campus South Campus Drumlins Country Club Meet the Staff Meet the Students Patient Portal Wellness Portal Forms and Requests Policies and Procedures Wellness Philosophy Confidentiality Privacy Billing and Fees ServicesExpand Collapse section Emergency Make an Appointment After-Hours Care Counseling Health CareExpand Collapse section Trans and Gender Affirming Services Immunizations Laboratory Medical Services Travel Honwadiyenawa’sek Student Health Insurance Nutrition Personal Training Pharmacy Psychiatry Referrals Sexual Health Sexual and Relationship Violence Substance Use Leave of Absence Be MindfulExpand Collapse section Crowley Family MindSpa Meditation Pet Therapy Sanvello Soul Series Yoga Be ActiveExpand Collapse section Aquatics Climbing Wall Cross Country Ski and Snowshoe Center Esports Fitness Centers Fitness Classes Golf and Tennis Ice Sports Intramural Sports Outdoor Adventure Personal Training Sport Clubs Be InvolvedExpand Collapse section Events Calendar Professional Development Peer Educators Programs Staff Employment Student Employment Volunteer Campus CommunityExpand Collapse section Help a Student Faculty and Staff Resources Education and Resources Wellness Leadership Institute Connect Give Emergency Contact Us Search Search Discover What Wellness Means to You Start by exploring the Barnes Center at The Arch Wellness Wheel today! Featured Pages Facilities and Hours May 16: Summer hours begin. Make an Appointment Call 315.443.8000 to schedule an appointment. Stay Safe: Barnes Center at The Arch COVID-19: Masking, Vaccinations, Testing and More Wellness Portal Explore Basketball Court Reservations, the Crowley Family MindSpa and more! Student Employment Work at the Barnes Center! Deadlines begin Sunday, May 22, 2022. Previous slide Next slide Recent News Link Meditation and Mindfulness Platform Coming to Barnes Center at The Arch by News Staff on May 11, 2022 at 9:01 pm Working to enhance the health and wellness resources available to students, beginning in the 2022-23 academic year, the Barnes Center at The Arch will start piloting Headspace, a meditation and […] Supporting Student Wellness: Personalized Wellness Education by Gabrielle Lake on May 10, 2022 at 1:13 pm Placing student health and wellness needs forefront, free Wellness Leadership Institute workshops are built to cultivate empowerment through education of resources, sharpening skills and experiences, […] Supporting Student Wellness: Overcoming Challenges at New Heights by Gabrielle Lake on April 26, 2022 at 5:53 pm Stepping out of comfort zones and facing challenges often results in personal growth, self-discovery and empowerment. We see this take shape as students navigate the rigors of the classroom and now […] More News Barnes Center at The Arch | 150 Sims Drive, Syracuse, NY 13244 | 315.443.8000 Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Instagram © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy