Menu About About Us Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Policy Statement Ecosystem Milestones Awards Governing Board Advisory Council Corporate Sponsor Partnerships News and Media News Newsletters Books and Blogs Alumni eShip Books Video Library Startup Cornell Podcast Discover Entrepreneurship Ecosystem Accelerators and Incubators Co-working spaces Competitions Funding and Fellowships Internships Legal, Accounting and Library Services Licensing and Technology Resources Mentorship and Training Networking Regional Resources Social Entrepreneurship Programs Student Clubs and Related Organizations Across the Colleges Entrepreneurship Courses and Minors College of Agriculture and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Arts and Sciences College of Engineering College of Human Ecology College of Veterinary Medicine Cornell Bowers CIS Cornell Tech ILR School Law School SC Johnson College of Business Weill Cornell Medicine Cornell Startups How to Launch a Startup at Cornell Cornell Startup List Featured Alumni Startups High Profile Cornell Startups Startup Job Opportunities Events Our EaC Events Celebration Entrepreneurship Kickoff Eclectic Convergence, Cornell Entrepreneurship Summit Hackathons NY Product Conference Calendar Competitions Submit an Event Contact Donate Big Idea Competition An idea is all that’s required to compete in the Big Idea Competition. Undergraduates (only) from all of Cornell’s schools and colleges are eligible to compete for cash prizes. More info on the Big Idea Competition arrow_forward_ios eLab eLab is our intense student business accelerator that launches approximately 20 real businesses each year. eLab is run as a course with a great group of faculty taking a team-teaching approach. More info on eLab arrow_forward_ios Internship Program Summer internships provide entrepreneurial students with opportunities to gain essential experience in small to mid-sized businesses located throughout the US and abroad. Participate in the internship program arrow_forward_ios Hackathons Our hackathons utilize the skills of students from all the degrees, majors, and programs to form diverse teams, which ideate and create fast solutions to real problems over a weekend! See upcoming hackathons arrow_forward_ios Celebration This 2-day entrepreneurship conference is held every spring in Ithaca, and brings together students, alumni, faculty, staff and community participants. More event information arrow_forward_ios eHub eHub is EaC’s open, flexible co-working space available to entrepreneurially minded students for their businesses and eship projects. We have 2 locations, namely the first floor of Kennedy Hall and 409 College Avenue. eHub Collegetown arrow_forward_ios eHub Kennedy Hall arrow_forward_ios Blackstone LaunchPad at Cornell Whether you need help taking an idea to fruition or need a mentor to run ideas past Blackstone LaunchPad can help. More on Blackstone Launchpad arrow_forward_ios Discover, Create, Build, Do! Cornell has been empowering entrepreneurs since 1865 Entrepreneurship at Cornell (EaC) is a university-wide program that energizes Cornell’s entrepreneurship ecosystem. Sure, we run a lot of our own programming activities — like big conferences, hackathons, internship and mentorship programs, webinars, a business accelerator, and wonderful co-working spaces and competitions — but we also support and amplify all of the amazing entrepreneurship activity that is happening across our campus… and there is so much activity! Cornell is a special place for entrepreneurially-minded students, faculty, staff and alumni. We look forward to engaging with you. Explore the Entrepreneurship Ecosystem View all of our programs and resources by category Accelerators and Incubators Co-working Spaces Competitions Funding and Fellowships Internships Legal, Accounting and Library Services Licensing and Technology Resources Mentorship and Training Networking Regional Resources Social Entrepreneurship Programs Student Clubs and Related Organizations Read more about eLab eLab An accelerator program for students ready to launch real businesses. In addition to receiving academic credit, students have access to a robust set of resources Accelerators and Incubators Read more about Cornell Entrepreneur Network Cornell Entrepreneur Network (CEN) Offers events throughout the country and globally, networking opportunities and online webinars featuring alumni industry leaders as speakers Networking Read more about W.E. Cornell W.E. Cornell Helps STEM women commercialize their innovations and overcome the challenges of leading a growing technology-based business Mentorship and Training Student Clubs and Related Organizations Read more about EaC Internship Program EaC Internship Program Matches Cornell students with internships at startup companies Internships See all resources in the Entrepreneurship Ecosystem Check out our upcoming entrepreneurship events Want to know what’s happening in the entrepreneurship community at Cornell and beyond? Our events calendar includes networking events, career fairs, conferences, workshops, and more. View all upcoming events Entrepreneurship at Cornell Discover, Create, Build, Do! Cornell has been empowering entrepreneurs since 1865 1st Floor Kennedy Hall / eHub Space Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 Phone: (607) 255-1576 E-Mail: eship@cornell.edu Quick Links Donate Discover the Entrepreneurship Ecosystem Launch a startup at Cornell Find an internship Join the Advisory Council Become a Corporate Sponsor Join our Listserv Select your school/collegeA&SAAPCALS – non DysonDysonCornell TechENGHuman EcologyILRJohnsonLAWSHAVETWCMCOther Select your affiliationStudentAlumniFaculty/StaffAngel InvestorVC InvestorMentorCompany FounderOther Δ YouTube LinkedIn © 2021 Copyright Entrepreneurship at Cornell. All rights reserved.