Skip to content Menu Close Home Find Your Program Summer Programs and Short-Term Courses Intensive English Program Professional Communication Custom Programs Online Basic English GTLI Student Resources Future Students Current Students GT Campus Support International Graduate Students International Undergraduate Students International Visiting Scholars & Research Scientists Custom Courses English Proficiency Assessments About Us The World Comes Together at GTLI Faculty & Staff GTLI FAQ Announcements Our Location Directions and Parking Apply to a Program Marketplace Contact Us GT Home Map Directory Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Search Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Find Your Program Custom Programs Small to Large Groups The Language Institute at the Georgia Institute of Technology offers customized programs and study options for groups of international students and professionals from around the world. The Language Institute can customize any of its programs to meet the needs of learners at varying English language levels and for a wide range of specific course content needs. Customized programs can vary in duration from 2-3 weeks to multiple months. The length of the program will depend on the starting level of the learners, the learning objectives, and availability of the learner. Types of Programs Offered Business/Professional English Cross-cultural communication English teacher training Professional/Faculty development Academic/Technical writing University/College preparation programs Conversation and cultural exchange programs Interested? Email Us. One-on-One Coaching The Language Institute can also provide customized instruction and coaching for individuals. The course of study can be designed to meet the learning objectives, proficiency level, and availability of the learner. Unique features of the program include: individual instruction tailored to meet the communication needs of the client flexibility in scheduling time, frequency, and location of coaching sessions (including virtual sessions) ability to add on one-on-one coaching for individuals participating in our other programs Interested? Email Us. Components of Our Custom Programs Needs assessment to help clients discover and articulate their needs Proficiency assessment of starting point of learner(s) Development of a program targeted to meet those needs Delivery and modification of program through ongoing assessment of the learner's/learners' achievement Final assessment for how well participant/participants met learning outcomes of the program Post-program check-ins' and tune-ups as needed Interested? Email Us. Custom Program Successes The Language Institute has developed and delivered customized programs for a large number of global partners. Government Organizations Universities Companies Gyeonggi-do Office of Education (Korea) Emory University’s Goizueta Business School Pfizer Turkish Ministry of the Interior J.F. Oberlin University (Japan) OM Partners Proyecta (Mexico) National Cheng-Chi University (China) Russell Athletics German Fulbright Commission Inha Technical College (Korea) Newell Rubbermaid Korea Hydro-Nuclear Power King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (Saudi Arabia) SunTrust Panama Bilingue Korea Advanced Institute of Science & Technology (Korea) Bennett Thrasher CAPES (Brazil) Grupo Argos (Colombia) IFARHU (Pamana) Bain & Co. SABIC Americas, Inc. Interested? Email Us. Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Tech Language Institute Intensive English Program Additional Programs Current Students Future Students About Us Contact Us The Language Institute 151 6th St NW Atlanta, GA 30332-0374 Phone: 404-894-2425 Fax: 404-894-8755 GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology