Skip to content Menu Close Home Find Your Program Summer Programs and Short-Term Courses Intensive English Program Professional Communication Custom Programs Online Basic English GTLI Student Resources Future Students Current Students GT Campus Support International Graduate Students International Undergraduate Students International Visiting Scholars & Research Scientists Custom Courses English Proficiency Assessments About Us The World Comes Together at GTLI Faculty & Staff GTLI FAQ Announcements Our Location Directions and Parking Apply to a Program Marketplace Contact Us GT Home Map Directory Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Search Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Find Your Program Online Basic English Improve your Basic English with these convenient and engaging on-demand, self-paced, online courses. Course access includes specialized feedback from a GTLI learning coach. These courses are designed for non-native English learners at the beginner level. The cost for 1 course is $175 USD. Take both courses for the total price of $350 USD. The current course access dates are June 7 – December 10, 2021. Register any time before November 10, 2021. Learn more about each course below then click ‘Register Now’ to enroll. All of our online courses: Have been created by highly-professional instructors Can be completed in just a few weeks Provide informative video lectures to guide your learning Have useful assignments that target specific business communication skills Offer a variety of practice and resource materials Basics in English 1 Course Description Online Basic English Course 1 is for you if you are a beginning English language learner. As you go through the 5 modules of the course, you will improve your grammar, writing, reading and oral skills to build a foundation for further English language learning. The modules focus on everyday topics such as spending time with friends, working, and shopping and introduce grammar topics such as the verb be, prepositions in, on, at, and adjectives to describe people. Modules 1-4 include vocabulary flashcards, video lessons, extra resources with follow-up activities, quizzes, pronunciation activities, and a final assessment. In Module 5, you will review everything you learned in the course. The video lessons are in story form with different characters and situations. Watch the first video to meet Alex, your virtual instructor. With the help of some of her friends, she will be your guide on your English language learning journey. Learning Outcomes When you finish this course, you should be able to: Understand words and expressions related to everyday topics such as friends, food, clothing, work, and shopping. Show limited control of simple grammatical structures and sentence patterns. Reproduce correctly a limited range of individual sounds as well as basic sentence stress and intonation patterns. Register Now Basics in English 2 Course Description Online Basic English Course 2 is for you if you are a beginning English language learner and builds on the skills you learned in Online Basic English Course 1. As you go through the 5 modules of the course, you will improve your grammar, writing, reading and oral skills to build a foundation for further English language learning. The modules focus on everyday topics such as taking a class, going to the doctor, and taking a trip and introduce grammar topics such as present tense verbs, the modal can, and possessive adjectives such as my, your, our. Modules 1-4   include vocabulary flashcards, video lessons, extra resources with follow-up activities, quizzes, pronunciation activities, and a final assessment. In Module 5, you will review everything you learned in the course. The video lessons are in story form with different characters and situations. Watch the first video to meet Andy, your virtual instructor. With the help of some of his friends, he will be your guide on your English language learning journey.  Learning Outcomes When you finish this course, you should be able to: Understand  words and expressions related to everyday topics school, family, health, and travel. Show  limited control of simple grammatical structures and sentence patterns. Reproduce correctly a limited range of individual sounds and word stress. Register Now How To Register Are you ready to sign up? See below for course start dates and more details about each of the courses. 2021 Access Dates: June 7, 2021 – December 10, 2021* *Register at any time before November 10, 2021. These are self-paced online courses. You may register anytime while registration is open and have access to the course during the published "Access Period" dates. To Register: Complete the registration form using the ‘Register Now’ button, linked here and above. Wait for an email with next step information. NOTE: It could take 24-72 hours for this email to process. We appreciate your patience. Follow email instructions regarding payment and GT account set up. How to Access Your Course Content Claim your Georgia Tech (GT) account, set up your GT account password and view your GT account username. Claim your Georgia Tech (GT) account after you have received the registration confirmation email. Take note of your GT username and password. You will need both to access your course materials. Canvas is the course delivery platform. Log in to your course with the course platform delivery link: https://gatech.instructure.com Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Tech Language Institute Intensive English Program Additional Programs Current Students Future Students About Us Contact Us The Language Institute 151 6th St NW Atlanta, GA 30332-0374 Phone: 404-894-2425 Fax: 404-894-8755 GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology