Skip to content Menu Close Home Find Your Program Summer Programs and Short-Term Courses Intensive English Program Professional Communication Custom Programs Online Basic English GTLI Student Resources Future Students Current Students GT Campus Support International Graduate Students International Undergraduate Students International Visiting Scholars & Research Scientists Custom Courses English Proficiency Assessments About Us The World Comes Together at GTLI Faculty & Staff GTLI FAQ Announcements Our Location Directions and Parking Apply to a Program Marketplace Contact Us GT Home Map Directory Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Search Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Meet Taehwan Yang After completing a bachelor’s degree in biotechnology and bioscience in South Korea, Taehwan Yang decided to pursue a master’s degree in biology in the United States. His top priority was finding a university that also offered courses in English as a Second Language. When he researched programs online and found Georgia Tech, he contacted a family friend living in Georgia to ask about the program. “That sealed it for me,” Yang said. “I decided to come here to learn English and major in biology.” Established in 1958, the Language Institute – part of Georgia Tech Professional Education – helps international students, professionals and visitors improve their English proficiency for jobs, academics or social reasons. The institute offers short courses, summer classes and semester-long programs in English as a Second Language. “Although I had studied English for years in Korea, I couldn’t use it fluently or practically,” he said. “Here I could learn how to become familiar with English, step-by-step.” For the first few months, Yang had a hard time understanding what the professors were saying. But after hard work and hours of practice, everything began to fall into place. “It was very challenging and fascinating because I thought I should have been able to understand clearly, but at first, I didn’t,” he said. “After several months, I could feel my speaking, listening and writing improve greatly.” Yang credits the Language Institute’s intensive atmosphere for the quick progress. He threw himself into the assignments and studied hard for the exams, often spending a few hours each day devoted to practice. “I didn’t know how to read, listen and write in a complex way, but that changed,” he said. “The curriculum forces you to study and focus on the assignments.” Yang took advantage of the supportive social atmosphere as well. He attended weekly conversation events to meet undergraduate students and practice English. The regular sessions evolved into long-term friendships. “I enjoyed making friends with native English speakers,” he said. “I added them on Facebook and had a lot of opportunities to communicate with them online and offline in English.” In his second year as a master’s student, Yang plans to apply to Georgia Tech’s doctoral program in biology. His ultimate goal is to earn a Ph.D. and work in the biology field — a dream he couldn’t have fulfilled without English proficiency. Learn more about Georgia Tech Language Institute’s courses and programs that help international students, professionals and visitors improve their English proficiency. Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Tech Language Institute Intensive English Program Additional Programs Current Students Future Students About Us Contact Us The Language Institute 151 6th St NW Atlanta, GA 30332-0374 Phone: 404-894-2425 Fax: 404-894-8755 GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology