Skip to content Menu Close Home Find Your Program Summer Programs and Short-Term Courses Intensive English Program Professional Communication Custom Programs Online Basic English GTLI Student Resources Future Students Current Students GT Campus Support International Graduate Students International Undergraduate Students International Visiting Scholars & Research Scientists Custom Courses English Proficiency Assessments About Us The World Comes Together at GTLI Faculty & Staff GTLI FAQ Announcements Our Location Directions and Parking Apply to a Program Marketplace Contact Us GT Home Map Directory Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Search Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home GTLI Student Resources Future Students As a newly accepted student to the Intensive English Program (IEP), you may feel overwhelmed by or unsure of the steps you should to take to prepare for your first session in the program. You will have questions and will need answers. The Language Institute staff is happy to help you make the preparation process as smooth as possible, and that help begins on this page. The following pages contain documents and information that is important for any newly accepted student preparing to enroll in our IEP. Be sure to carefully review all documents to learn as much as possible about many aspects of the IEP, including registration, housing, immunization records, paying for tuition, and much more. If your plans change and you need to cancel or defer your enrollment to a later session, please let us know as soon as possible by completing our online Change of Plans Form. Acceptance for New F-1 Student Visa Holders Click below if you are a student who will be studying in the U.S. for the first time on an F-1 student visa. Learn More Acceptance for All Other U.S. Visa Holders and Status Types Click below if you... have an F-1 student visa and are transferring your SEVIS record from another U.S. program. have a U.S. visa other than an F-1 student visa. are a U.S. citizen. are a U.S. permanent resident. are an asylee. Learn More Housing Language Institute students choose a variety of housing options. Off-campus housing: Apartments, hostels, etc. Learn More Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Tech Language Institute Intensive English Program Additional Programs Current Students Future Students About Us Contact Us The Language Institute 151 6th St NW Atlanta, GA 30332-0374 Phone: 404-894-2425 Fax: 404-894-8755 GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology