Skip to content Menu Close Home Find Your Program Summer Programs and Short-Term Courses Intensive English Program Professional Communication Custom Programs Online Basic English GTLI Student Resources Future Students Current Students GT Campus Support International Graduate Students International Undergraduate Students International Visiting Scholars & Research Scientists Custom Courses English Proficiency Assessments About Us The World Comes Together at GTLI Faculty & Staff GTLI FAQ Announcements Our Location Directions and Parking Apply to a Program Marketplace Contact Us GT Home Map Directory Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Search Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home GT Campus Support International Visiting Scholars & Research Scientists There are no Visiting Scholar Course opportunities at this time. Please check the Short Course page for more part time English study options. These short courses are designed especially to meet the needs of international visiting scholars and research scientists who are involved in academic research at Georgia Tech. Although many scholars have studied English formally for years in their home countries, they may not have the communication skills in English needed to function comfortably in an American academic environment. Visiting scholars and research scientists often spend much of their time in laboratories, where few opportunities exist to develop their communication skills in English. These courses help scholars break through some of the language and culture barriers and learn effective communication strategies so that they can take full advantage of opportunities to participate in the Georgia Tech academic community. Short courses for Georgia Tech J-1 visiting scholars and research scientists are available during the Fall and Spring semesters. Fees and Requirements Each course is $110. Payment is due in full at the time of application. Tuition is non-refundable after the application deadline. To complete the application, applicants must submit the following required documents: Application form Copy of passport Copy of J-1 visa Copy of DS-2019 Copy of BuzzCard (if applicable) Acceptable file types include .pdf, .jpg, .jpeg, .png, .doc. To ensure successful processing of your uploaded document, your file must be named in the following format: Your Family Name, Your Given Name - Document Type Examples: Kim, Woo-jin - Passport Smith, James - Visa Alharbi, Mohammed - DS-2019 Garcia Lopez, Miguel Angel - Buzzcard A course may be canceled due to low enrollment. The Language Institute will notify applicants immediately by email if a course is canceled, and applicants will receive a full refund. Choose the Right Level of Study The Language Institute does not provide a placement exam for short courses and allows applicants to select their own level of study. Applicants are strongly advised to use our Level Self-Assessment information to help determine which level is best for their current level of English proficiency. There will be no refunds after each sessions deadline. Schedule Each class meets on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 3:30 PM to 5:45 PM for four weeks All classes meet in the O'Keefe Building. (Note that the April 2020 course will be held online.) Apply Now Click the yellow box below to access the schedule and application for each upcoming session. Currently Unavailable Application Deadlines: Email katie.beccue@pe.gatech.edu for more information. Dates High Intermediate to Advanced TBD TBD* This course will be conducted online. See Short Courses Course Descriptions Everyday Conversation Beginning to Intermediate In this course, students will improve their communication skills for everyday life. They will practice common words and expressions used in personal conversations and also improve pronunciation skills to help listeners understand their message. Students will participate in role-plays to develop both their abilities and confidence in everyday conversational situations. American Pronunciation High Intermediate to Advanced In this course, learners will learn what aspects of their pronunciation may be interfering with how well listeners understand them. Participants will practice mastering the physical processes required to make specific sounds and learn how American English speakers use pausing, phrasing, intonation, linking, and stress in their pronunciation. They will learn strategies and techniques that can make their pronunciation more comprehensible to listeners who may not be familiar with international accents. Improving Oral Skills High Intermediate to Advanced In this course, participants will improve their ability to participate effectively in class discussions and classroom debates on a variety of topics. They will also learn conversational skills that will enhance their oral as well as nonverbal communication. Academic Presentation Skills High Intermediate to Advanced In this course, participants will learn the basic expectations regarding how speakers present themselves and their information in formal academic presentations in the U.S. They will learn and practice techniques and strategies for preparing and presenting successful oral presentations. In addition, they will learn and practice strategies and skills for managing interactions with the audience. The ultimate goals of the course are to increase participants’ knowledge of how to give oral presentations and their confidence in giving oral presentations. Questions? Email Us. Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Tech Language Institute Intensive English Program Additional Programs Current Students Future Students About Us Contact Us The Language Institute 151 6th St NW Atlanta, GA 30332-0374 Phone: 404-894-2425 Fax: 404-894-8755 GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology