Skip to content Menu Close Home Find Your Program Summer Programs and Short-Term Courses Intensive English Program Professional Communication Custom Programs Online Basic English GTLI Student Resources Future Students Current Students GT Campus Support International Graduate Students International Undergraduate Students International Visiting Scholars & Research Scientists Custom Courses English Proficiency Assessments About Us The World Comes Together at GTLI Faculty & Staff GTLI FAQ Announcements Our Location Directions and Parking Apply to a Program Marketplace Contact Us GT Home Map Directory Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Search Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home About Us Our Location The Georgia Tech Language Institute and the Intensive English Program are located on the campus of the Georgia Institute of Technology in the Midtown district in the center of Atlanta, Georgia. The Georgia Institute of Technology, also known as Georgia Tech, is a top-ranked public college and one of the leading research universities in the USA. Georgia Tech provides a technologically focused education to more than 25,000 undergraduate and graduate students in fields ranging from engineering, computing, and sciences, to business, design, and liberal arts. Georgia Tech History and Traditions Rankings, Facts, and Figures Academics Fact Book Atlanta is the capital of the state of Georgia and is a world-class, modern city with a rich history. It is an international city where many students from all over the world come to study. With a population of 5 million in the metropolitan area, Atlanta is the largest city in the state and the 9th largest metropolitan area in the US. Atlanta has a moderate climate which enables students to enjoy many outdoor activities such as walking, biking, and exploring local parks. Atlanta About Atlanta Why Choose Atlanta? Things To Do in Atlanta Fly to Atlanta The Language Institute is conveniently located along Interstates 75 and 85 in Midtown Atlanta in the O'Keefe Building. Pay parking is available near O'Keefe, and it is also within walking distance of public transportation. Language Institute Directions and Parking Atlanta Public Transportation Georgia Tech Campus Transportation Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Tech Language Institute Intensive English Program Additional Programs Current Students Future Students About Us Contact Us The Language Institute 151 6th St NW Atlanta, GA 30332-0374 Phone: 404-894-2425 Fax: 404-894-8755 GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology