Skip to content Menu Close Home Find Your Program Summer Programs and Short-Term Courses Intensive English Program Professional Communication Custom Programs Online Basic English GTLI Student Resources Future Students Current Students GT Campus Support International Graduate Students International Undergraduate Students International Visiting Scholars & Research Scientists Custom Courses English Proficiency Assessments About Us The World Comes Together at GTLI Faculty & Staff GTLI FAQ Announcements Our Location Directions and Parking Apply to a Program Marketplace Contact Us GT Home Map Directory Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Search Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Georgia Tech Campus Support As Georgia Tech expands its global reach, its need to support English as an additional language grows. As part of its mission, the Language Institute helps Georgia Tech provide that support. If you are part of the Georgia Tech community and you need communication support for yourself, your international students, an international visiting scholar, or any other member of the Georgia Tech global community, please let us know. We can point you to one of the programs or services listed below, or we can create a customized option for you or your department. Question? Email Us. Custom Courses The communication needs of the students in each department on campus may differ. The Georgia Tech Language Institute can work with your department to tailor a course that can meet the needs and schedule of your department. Check out our Custom Courses page to find out about some of the past courses and workshops we have offered. Learn More English Proficiency Assessments for Prospective J-1 Scholars and Interns The Language Institute supports the Georgia Tech international campus by providing English proficiency assessments for prospective J-1 scholars and interns. All prospective J-1 visa holders must provide proof of English proficiency in order to be eligible to receive a DS-2019 and apply for a J-1 visa. The Language Institute can provide this assessment virtually throughout the year. Check out our English Proficiency Assessments for Prospective J-1 Scholars and Interns page for more information about our assessment. Learn More Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Tech Language Institute Intensive English Program Additional Programs Current Students Future Students About Us Contact Us The Language Institute 151 6th St NW Atlanta, GA 30332-0374 Phone: 404-894-2425 Fax: 404-894-8755 GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology