Skip to content Menu Close Home Find Your Program Summer Programs and Short-Term Courses Intensive English Program Professional Communication Custom Programs Online Basic English GTLI Student Resources Future Students Current Students GT Campus Support International Graduate Students International Undergraduate Students International Visiting Scholars & Research Scientists Custom Courses English Proficiency Assessments About Us The World Comes Together at GTLI Faculty & Staff GTLI FAQ Announcements Our Location Directions and Parking Apply to a Program Marketplace Contact Us GT Home Map Directory Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Search Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home About Us Mission Statement The mission of the GTLI is to provide high quality learning experiences for English language learners to help them develop the linguistic and cultural competence they need to reach their academic, professional, and personal goals in the 21st century. It is my pleasure to welcome you to Georgia Tech's Language Institute, a unit of Georgia Tech Professional Education. Since 1958, the Language Institute has offered high-quality English language training for: Students preparing for academic work in the United States Professionals looking for career improvement through better language skills Other individuals who would like to better their language skills for social reasons No matter what your goal is for learning English, we are confident that you will find the right program at the Language Institute. The success of our programs comes from our strong commitment to providing our students with the best academic curricula and instructors, a helpful support staff to make applying and registration simple, and a wide range of special services and extracurricular activities. Our goal is to give you an exceptional educational experience from start to finish. Our programs have helped thousands of students from more than 100 countries reach their goals. Please use our Web site to find the program or course that is best for you. You may also view our digital brochure to learn more. If you have any questions about any program or the application process, let us know. We are always ready to help. We look forward to meeting you and helping you move closer to your academic and professional goals. Best Wishes, Karen Tucker Director, Language Institute Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Tech Language Institute Intensive English Program Additional Programs Current Students Future Students About Us Contact Us The Language Institute 151 6th St NW Atlanta, GA 30332-0374 Phone: 404-894-2425 Fax: 404-894-8755 GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology