Skip to content Menu Close Home Find Your Program Summer Programs and Short-Term Courses Intensive English Program Professional Communication Custom Programs Online Basic English GTLI Student Resources Future Students Current Students GT Campus Support International Graduate Students International Undergraduate Students International Visiting Scholars & Research Scientists Custom Courses English Proficiency Assessments About Us The World Comes Together at GTLI Faculty & Staff GTLI FAQ Announcements Our Location Directions and Parking Apply to a Program Marketplace Contact Us GT Home Map Directory Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Search Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home GTLI Operational Plans to Safely Return to Campus UPDATE: April 6, 2021 Georgia Tech has announced that classes will be 100% in person for Fall 2021, except for specific online programs, and the Language Institute will follow this example beginning with the Fall 1 IEP session. For the Summer IEP session, the Language Institute will begin the transition back to in-person classes. Classes will meet four days each week (Monday through Thursday) during the summer, with no class meetings on Friday. For the first four weeks of instruction (June 7-July 2), we plan to be 25% in person, with each class spending one day in the O'Keefe Building each week and doing the three other days online. After the break, we plan to move to 50% in person (two days per week in the building) for the remaining four weeks (July 12-August 6). Summer activities will be primarily in person. All students who are currently enrolled are encouraged to consider obtaining the Covid-19 vaccine, which is available by appointment through the student health center, to support a safe return to in-person classes. Visit the student health center's website to learn more about receiving the vaccine on campus. View sample class schedules for the Summer, Fall 1, and Fall 2 IEP sessions. View frequently asked questions regarding our transition back to campus. Do you have additional questions? Email your questions to askGTLI@pe.gatech.edu. Following guidance from the University System of Georgia and Georgia Tech, the Language Institute faculty and staff have been working remotely to deliver courses and programs to serve our students. Since March 15, 2020, all of the Language Institute’s courses have been virtual or hybrid. With effort by each one of us and some adjustments in the way we teach, learn, and interact with one another in classrooms and labs, workspaces, and everywhere else on campus, we are able to maintain our activities and deliver on our mission while minimizing the risk for our community. The GT Language Institute is currently holding most classes and business operations remotely. The building is not open to visitors. Students, please check Canvas and your GT email for updates. You may also contact your instructor for information about your classes. All other inquiries may be submitted by email to eslinfo@pe.gatech.edu Please monitor the TECH Moving Forward website for the most current information on campus best practices and student FAQs. What to Expect The Covid-19 situation is fluid, and guidance will likely change over time, but our priorities will stay the same: to protect the health and safety of the campus community and to communicate clearly and consistently. Classes We are committed to providing a safe study option that will include hybrid learning opportunities. Classes will be offered virtually with some in-person options as circumstances permit. Planning for fall is underway and additional details on what this looks like will be shared soon. Safety & Prevention As we move toward reopening of campus, we ask you to take all recommended safety precautions including maintaining a six foot physical distance from others. Everyone is required to wear a cloth face covering while on campus. Cloth face coverings are important in preventing transmission from asymptomatic individuals who have Covid-19. Sanitization & Cleaning Building managers and Facilities Management will adhere to numerous cleaning procedures intended to limit the spread of Covid-19 and promote a healthy and safe campus. We are excited to see all of our students but know the current situation poses concerns and risks. We are here to help you make the best decision for your goals! Again, please monitor the TECH Moving Forward website for the most up to date campus information, and the GTLI website for our current plans. When you have questions or require support, please email the following contacts: Immigration & Registration: english@pe.gatech.edu Refunds: katie.beccue@pe.gatech.edu Medical and Insurance: adria.motiwalla@pe.gatech.edu Student Life and Housing: adria.motiwalla@pe.gatech.edu General Inquires: english@pe.gatech.edu GTLI remains committed to providing excellent service to all of our stakeholders. We look forward to working with you virtually to continue supporting GT's global mission. Thank you for your support, patience, and understanding as we test our pandemic continuity of operations plan. If you have any questions or need additional support, please do not hesitate to contact us. GTLI Operations Communications to Students GTLI will continue to use the In The Know course in Canvas as the primary channel of communication with IEP students. Students should check the Announcements tab in In The Know and check their GT email accounts for communications sent through Canvas. Social Media GTLI will continue to share information and suggestions for students through social media. Follow GTLI on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, and LinkedIn. As the Covid-19 situation continues to be fluid, Georgia Tech will continue to follow developments closely and keep you updated as additional guidance is made available from the state and federal government. Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Tech Language Institute Intensive English Program Additional Programs Current Students Future Students About Us Contact Us The Language Institute 151 6th St NW Atlanta, GA 30332-0374 Phone: 404-894-2425 Fax: 404-894-8755 GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology