Skip to content Menu Close Home Find Your Program Summer Programs and Short-Term Courses Intensive English Program Professional Communication Custom Programs Online Basic English GTLI Student Resources Future Students Current Students GT Campus Support International Graduate Students International Undergraduate Students International Visiting Scholars & Research Scientists Custom Courses English Proficiency Assessments About Us The World Comes Together at GTLI Faculty & Staff GTLI FAQ Announcements Our Location Directions and Parking Apply to a Program Marketplace Contact Us GT Home Map Directory Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Search Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home About Us Our Location Directions and Parking The Language Institute has offices and classrooms located in the O'Keefe Building building. The O'Keefe building is an easy 5-10 minute walk from the Technology Square, the Georgia Tech student bookstore, as well as several other stores, and restaurants. Please refer to the location and contact information and Google Maps below for directions to find the O'Keefe Building. You may explore the interactive Georgia Tech campus map to find other on-campus buildings. Find Us Public transportation Driving directions Parking Finding the Language Institute from the Technology Square Parking Deck O'Keefe Building Main Faculty/Staff Offices and Classrooms Phone: +1-404-894-2425 Address: 151 6th Street NW, Atlanta, GA 30332-0374 Driving directions: Click "View larger map" in the map below to entering your starting point Public Transportation (MARTA) Should I take the train? Yes. We encourage all students and visitors to take MARTA if possible. Georgia Tech’s complimentary shuttle, the Tech Trolley, provides transportation for students and visitors arriving and departing from MARTA's Midtown Station. The Tech Trolley runs 5:45 a.m. until 10:30 p.m. Monday through Friday at different time intervals throughout the day. Learn more about the Tech Trolley schedule before you visit. Exit Midtown Station onto Peachtree Place (south side) to get on the trolley. The closest trolley stop to the Language Institute is at the intersection of Techwood Drive and 5th Street (one block from the O'Keefe Building). Driving I will be driving from the south side of Atlanta What are the directions? Take 85/75 North to Exit #249D (Spring Street/West Peachtree) Stay in the left lane as you exit onto Linden Ave. Continue straight for a block and turn left onto West Peachtree Street. Travel 0.3 miles and turn left onto 5th Street. Go one block and turn left onto Spring Street. Proceed half a block and turn right at the next light into the Technology Square Parking Deck. Park on the second level. Exit the parking garage, and walk down 5th Street over the interstate. Turn right on Techwood Drive. Techwood intersects 6th Street NW, and the Language Institute is in front of you (in the O'Keefe Building). See details below. I will be driving from the north side of Atlanta What are the directions? Take 85/75 South to the 17th Street exit. Turn left on 17th Street. Travel 0.3 mile and turn right on Spring Street. Travel about 1 mile on Spring to 5th Street. Proceed half a block and turn right at the next light into the Technology Square Parking Deck. Park on the second level. Exit the parking garage, and walk down 5th Street over the interstate. Turn right on Techwood Drive. Techwood intersects 6th Street NW, and the Language Institute is in front of you (in the O'Keefe Building). See details below. Parking When I get to 5th Street, where do I enter the Technology Square Parking Deck? The Technology Square Parking Deck is located at 770 Spring Street NW, Atlanta, GA 30308-1031. The Spring Street entrance for the parking deck is at the traffic light between 5th and 4th Streets. *If you miss the Spring Street entrance, continue to the next intersection (no traffic light) and turn right onto 4th Street. There is a 2nd entrance to the parking deck on 4th Street. What are the parking fees? The closest Georgia Tech visitor lot to O'Keefe is the Technology Square Parking Deck. Parking in this deck is available on a first-come, first-served basis. Rates are $2.00 for less than an hour to $15 per day, and $20 for a lost ticket. There is also on-street parking near O'Keefe on 5th Street NE in Tech Square at $2 per hour. The closest on-street parking beside O'Keefe is on 8th Street NW at $2 per hour. Use the ParkMobile App to pay for most on-street parking. There is no free parking at Georgia Tech. Information on additional visitor parking can be found here. Where can I park after I complete my registration and start classes? Parking and Transportation Services manages all on-campus parking at Georgia Tech. Campus parking information for areas other than the visitor lots will be included in the orientation materials you receive on the first day of the session. To be assigned a parking lot, vehicle registration is required and parking permits must be purchased. Parking assignments are authorized by the Georgia Tech Parking Office. Parking fees are determined by the type of parking area assigned (i.e. deck, lot, or street parking). Finding the Language Institute How do I get from the Technology Square Parking Deck to the Language Institute? Enter the Georgia Tech Global Learning Center from the 2nd level. Walk down the stairs to the 1st floor and exit directly outside through the front doors. Continue walking straight to 5th Street. Turn left onto 5th Street, cross Williams Street and continue 1 block to Techwood Drive. Turn right onto Techwood Drive at the first traffic light. Walk 1 block north to the intersection of Techwood Drive and 6th Street NW. Cross 6th Street NW. The Language Institute will be directly in front of you. Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Tech Language Institute Intensive English Program Additional Programs Current Students Future Students About Us Contact Us The Language Institute 151 6th St NW Atlanta, GA 30332-0374 Phone: 404-894-2425 Fax: 404-894-8755 GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology