Skip to content Menu Close Home Find Your Program Summer Programs and Short-Term Courses Intensive English Program Professional Communication Custom Programs Online Basic English GTLI Student Resources Future Students Current Students GT Campus Support International Graduate Students International Undergraduate Students International Visiting Scholars & Research Scientists Custom Courses English Proficiency Assessments About Us The World Comes Together at GTLI Faculty & Staff GTLI FAQ Announcements Our Location Directions and Parking Apply to a Program Marketplace Contact Us GT Home Map Directory Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Search Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home GT Campus Support International Graduate Students Communication: Your Key to Success One of the keys to your success as a graduate student at Georgia Tech is having the ability to communicate confidently in English with your professors and peers in the classroom and in your research. You will be expected to collaborate on projects, write about and present your research, and network with members of the Georgia Tech community. The Georgia Tech Language Institute is here to help you build the communication skills you need for success in your graduate work. Check out our classes and workshops to see how we can help you enhance your communication and increase your confidence Option 1: Semester Courses for Credit Every semester, the Center for Teaching and Learning (CTL) and the Language Institute offer credit courses to help non-native English-speaking graduate students improve their communication skills in English. These courses are a semester-long combination of synchronous instruction and individual one-on-one virtual meetings with the instructor. Spring Semester 2022 (January 10-May 6, 2022) CETL 8723: Academic Writing for International Graduate Students (M/W 8:25-9:15 a.m.) In this class, students learn the cultural aspects of academic and technical writing, as well as the principles of organizing ideas clearly, completely, and cohesively. In addition, students will analyze common errors in both non-native and native advanced academic writing. Students will practice independent proofreading and editing, and also meet one-on-one with the instructor. Students will write biographies, perfect their resumes, learn American-style email correspondence, and have the option to write acknowledgments, teaching and research statements, and journal paper reviews. CETL 8796: Presentation Skills for International Graduate Students (W 11:00 a.m.-12:55 p.m.) In this advanced oral presentation skills class, students will improve their presentation skills in order to be more successful in spoken interactions in academic and professional situations. Students in this class are required to attend an assessment/planning meeting and are also provided opportunities for individual tutorials throughout the semester. CETL 8797: Oral Communication for International Graduate Students (W 2:00-3:55 p.m.) This 2-credit class is designed to help graduate students become more accurate and fluent in both verbal and nonverbal English communication. The course is designed for students to work on fluency, accuracy, and appropriateness of spoken communication in order to help them participate more effectively and confidently in personal, academic, and professional situations. How to Register for Semester Courses for Credit Students can register for these classes like they do all other credit courses on the GT OSCAR website and search by semester and then by subject code CTL (Center for Teaching and Learning). Register on OSCAR Option 2: Short Courses Four-week remotely-delivered short courses to help you polish your language skills and gain confidence in your English communication abilities. Learn more about short courses, https://esl.gatech.edu/additional-programs/short-courses Email Us. Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Tech Language Institute Intensive English Program Additional Programs Current Students Future Students About Us Contact Us The Language Institute 151 6th St NW Atlanta, GA 30332-0374 Phone: 404-894-2425 Fax: 404-894-8755 GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology