Skip to content Menu Close Home Find Your Program Summer Programs and Short-Term Courses Intensive English Program Professional Communication Custom Programs Online Basic English GTLI Student Resources Future Students Current Students GT Campus Support International Graduate Students International Undergraduate Students International Visiting Scholars & Research Scientists Custom Courses English Proficiency Assessments About Us The World Comes Together at GTLI Faculty & Staff GTLI FAQ Announcements Our Location Directions and Parking Apply to a Program Marketplace Contact Us GT Home Map Directory Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Search Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home About Us GTLI FAQ How many classes do I need to take to maintain my F-1 student status? You are required to take four courses in the intensive English program each session. How long can I study in the intensive English program? How long you stay depends on your level and your progress. If you begin the program at the 400 level and make normal progress, you would study in the IEP four sessions. In some cases, a student will need to re-take a course/courses and will need more than 4 sessions. If you have questions about your particular case, you should make an appointment to talk to the Associate Director. Can I take a session off while I am studying at the GTLI? You will need to be eligible for an authorized break. Students who have successfully completed four IEP sessions can request an authorized break for one session only if they register for the session following their authorized break. Example Authorized Break Scenario: Alfredo successfully completes the following sessions: Summer 2021, Fall 1 2021, Fall 2 2021, Spring 1 2022 (4 sessions) He registers to return for the Summer 2022 session. This requires a $500 non-refundable deposit that will be used for the Summer session tuition. He is eligible to take an authorized break for the following session: Spring 2 2022. He returns to full-time study in the Summer 2022 session. What happens if I decide not to return after an authorized break? You must transfer immediately to a new school. Your SEVIS record will be terminated and you must leave the country. (In either case, the deposit will not be refunded). What do I need to do if I want to transfer to a new school? You need to complete a transfer out form in iStart. You need to get an acceptance letter from the new school. The new school will normally request the DSO at the GTLI to complete a status verification form. The DSO will report your academic progress and attendance record to the new school. Your record should be transferred within 30 days from the end date of the last session at GTLI. You need to start the next available session/semester at your new school. This needs to happen within 5 months of the end date of the last session at GTLI. How long can I stay in the U.S. after I successfully complete an IEP session at the GTLI? You can stay up to 60 days. You need to be sure you leave the country no later than 60 days after the end date of your last session at the GTLI. In what situation could my SEVIS record be terminated? If you have excessive absences from your classes (10 or more in any class) and/or you have successive sessions in the intensive English program with a GPA lower than 2.0. What happens if I need to travel outside the United States during my study at GTLI? You need to request a travel authorization in iStart. What happens when I request a travel authorization? Be sure to submit this request in iStart at least 2-3 days before your travel. You will need to drop off a paper copy of your I-20 with your signature. You will also need to submit a travel itinerary with your departure date from the U.S. and your return date to the U.S. The DSO will review your travel authorization request and supporting documents. If you have submitted the required documents, the DOS will sign the travel authorization section of your I-20. You can pick up your I-20 with the travel authorization 3 days after you submitted your request. You will need to take your signed I-20 with the travel authorization with you during your travel from and to the U.S. What happens if my F-1 visa expires during my studies at the Language Institute? You need a valid F-1 student visa to enter the U.S. After you are in the U.S. you do not need to have a valid F-1 student. You need to have a valid I-20 that indicates you are a current student at the GTLI in good status. If you need to travel outside the United States, you will need to have a valid visa to return to the U.S. What happens if my passport expires during my studies at the Language Institute? You must not let your passport expire. You need to have a valid passport to stay in the U.S. GTLI and C21U Launch Mobile App The Georgia Tech Language Institute and Center for 21st Century Universities (C21U) have collaborated with Onlea to design a language-learning app that will launch in the Apple App Store in June 2018. The app is called, “Speak English Professionally” and will provide a mobile-based course that non-native English speakers can take to boost their English speaking skills. This course is based on Georgia Tech’s preexisting Coursera MOOC. Learn more in a news release from the Georgia Tech Language Institute and C21U. GTLI Turns 60 In 2018, the Georgia Tech Language Institute is celebrating 60 years of supporting international learners from around the world to meet their goals of communicating more effectively in English. On Wednesday, July 18, Georgia Tech faculty, staff, and students gathered for a community celebration in the courtyard of the O’Keefe Building to mark this milestone. Learn more about the history of the Language Institute, see a timeline of the last 60 years, and read some success stories from our students. Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Tech Language Institute Intensive English Program Additional Programs Current Students Future Students About Us Contact Us The Language Institute 151 6th St NW Atlanta, GA 30332-0374 Phone: 404-894-2425 Fax: 404-894-8755 GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology