Skip to content Menu Close Home Find Your Program Summer Programs and Short-Term Courses Intensive English Program Professional Communication Custom Programs Online Basic English GTLI Student Resources Future Students Current Students GT Campus Support International Graduate Students International Undergraduate Students International Visiting Scholars & Research Scientists Custom Courses English Proficiency Assessments About Us The World Comes Together at GTLI Faculty & Staff GTLI FAQ Announcements Our Location Directions and Parking Apply to a Program Marketplace Contact Us GT Home Map Directory Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Search Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home On-Demand Business English The Language Institute currently has 4 online courses to help you improve your professional communication in English for successful business interactions. Each course focuses on a particular area of communication in English and consist of 4-5 modules. Each module should take you no more than a week to complete. All of our online courses: Have been created by highly-professional instructors Can be completed in just a few weeks Provide informative video lectures to guide your learning Have useful assignments that target specific business communication skills Offer a variety of practice and resource materials Are you ready to sign up? See below for course start dates and more details about each of the courses. Summer through Fall 2022 Access Dates: June 6, 2022 - December 16, 2022* *Register at any time This is a self-paced online course. You may register anytime while registration is open and will have access to the course during the published "Access Period" dates. How to Register: Click on the 'Apply Now' button for the course that you would like to study. On the new webpage, find and click the 'Register' button. This adds the course to your cart. Repeat step 1 and 2 to add more courses to your cart. Go to your Cart. Click the 'Checkout' button. Click 'Create Attendee Account.' Enter your information and click the 'Create Attendee Account' button at the bottom fo the form. Submit payment for your course(s). After you complete your registration follow the "How to Access Your Course Content." How to Access Your Course Content Claim your Georgia Tech (GT) account, set up your GT account password and view your GT account username. This account is different from your account and password on the PE registration website. Claim your Georgia Tech (GT) account OR Check your inbox for an email with a direct link. NOTE: It may take up to an hour from registration for your GT account to be established and the email to be sent. We appreciate your patience. Note your GT username and password. You will need both to access your course materials. Log in to your course with the course platform delivery link below. Course Delivery Platform Canvas: https://gatech.instructure.com APPLY NOW Click the yellow boxes below to learn more about each course and apply. Write Professional Emails in English (5 Modules) Write effective emails and correct errors Learn about tone and formality in emails Increase grammar and vocabulary Gain cross-cultural knowledge Apply Now Speak English Professionally: In Person, Online and On the Phone (5 Modules) Boost your professional speaking skills Practice agreeing/disagreeing, clarifying, summarizing, and restating Engage in group discussions, presentations, and interviews Demonstrate appropriate and effective body language Apply Now Better Business Writing in English (4 Modules) Learn specific English writing skills for different types of business communications Write cover letters, mission/vision statements, proposals, processes and reports Organize, design and write clear text for powerful slide presentations Apply Now Take Your English Communication Skills to the Next Level (4 Modules) This course was designed to help you advance professional English communication skills that you may already have or that you have learned through our online courses Writing Professional Emails in English and Speak English Professionally. If you do not have much experience in professional communication, we recommend that you complete those two courses first before proceeding with this one. Study cultural influences on communication more thoroughly Develop your email accuracy and style to enhance engagment Polish and perfect your pronunciation through more connected speech Apply Now Speak English Professionally Mobile App The Georgia Tech Language Institute and Center for 21st Century Universities (C21U) have collaborated with Onlea to design a language-learning app that is available in the Apple App Store and Google Play. The app is called “Speak English Professionally” and provides a mobile-based course that non-native English speakers can take to boost their English speaking skills. This course is based on Georgia Tech’s preexisting Coursera MOOC. Life is busy, and many people don’t have time to attend English courses in a classroom. Georgia Tech now provides the option to take a “Speak English Professionally” course on the go through our new mobile app. The “Speak English Professionally” app guides users through English lessons via educational videos, quizzes, and other interactive activities. The app is free to all users! MOOCs on Coursera The Language Institute also offers MOOCs (Massive Open Online Courses) through our partner Coursera. Visit Coursera to find out more. Contact us Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Tech Language Institute Intensive English Program Additional Programs Current Students Future Students About Us Contact Us The Language Institute 151 6th St NW Atlanta, GA 30332-0374 Phone: 404-894-2425 Fax: 404-894-8755 GTPE EU GDPR Privacy Notice Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology