Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Environmental Studies Program myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link About Contact Us Academics Select to follow link Degrees Select to follow link Environmental Studies BA Environmental Studies BGS Environmental Studies BS Environmental Studies Minor Environmental Studies Professional Science Masters Learning Pathways Advising Honors Admission Research Select to follow link Undergraduate Research People Select to follow link Faculty GTAs Staff Advisors Courtesy & Adjunct Lecturers Alumni & Friends Select to follow link Giving Back Resources Select to follow link Projects Career Resources Internships Community Organizations Student Groups ESSA Scholarships Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Environmental Studies Program Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search KU Environmental Studies The Environmental Studies Program provides students with the tools they need to investigate environmental phenomena, including soil sampling and freshwater ecology to policy-making and social science. Students Learning Pathways Research Projects Internships Support Virtual Tour Due to COVID-19 concerns, campus tours are currently restricted. However, you can still connect with us here. Virtual Tour "I firmly believe that my experience in a multi-disciplinary undergrad program changed the game for me at KU." Alex Murray News from the Department Environmental Studies Students win awards at online Undergraduate Research Symposium LAWRENCE — The University of Kansas Center for Undergraduate Research has announced the winners of its 24th annual Undergraduate Research Symposium. The event took place online this year and went live April 24. Pacific Northwest’s ‘forest gardens’ were deliberately planted by Indigenous people For decades, First Nations people in British Columbia knew their ancestral homes—villages forcibly emptied in the late 1800s—were great places to forage for traditional foods like hazelnuts, crabapples, cranberries, and hawthorn. Two students selected for Beckman Scholars Program University of Kansas students Claire Dopp and Sarah Noga have been selected to participate in the 2021 Beckman Scholars Program. Environmental Studies Students discuss climate crisis on KKFI KU Environmental Studies students Madisen K. Hane, Eleanor Read Walsh, Hannah Nuest, and Sloan M. View all news ESSA Club Info Learn more about ESSA 215 Lindley Hall 1475 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 envstudies@ku.edu 785-864-5355 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Learning Pathways Degrees Give to Environmental Studies Become a GTA Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.