Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search FACULTY OF ARTS AND SCIENCES | HARVARD.EDU Environmental Science & Public Policy Useful Links Visit Contact Search HOME Academics Concentration Requirements Advising ESPP Secondary Field Energy & Environment Secondary Field Courses Field Trips Forms Alumni & Student Profiles People Faculty Board of Tutors Instructional Faculty Administrative Staff Resources ESPP Offices Libraries Allied Institutions and Centers Research Useful Links News & Events News Upcoming Events About Contact Directions ZESPP Connect Join our community and form lasting connections with students and faculty from interdisciplinary academic interests Explore Field Work Immerse yourself in local culture, sail a vessel under the Gulf Coast sky, explore the flora and fauna of Florida, and much more Learn Interact with Harvard faculty through coursework, seminars, events, and field trips Engage The ESPP concentration encompasses a wide breadth of subjects, allowing you to immerse yourself in your academic interests. Discover Become well-versed in the broad, interconnected issues of environment and public policy through coursework and seminars Welcome! The concentration in Environmental Science and Public Policy is designed to provide a multi-disciplinary introduction to current problems of the environment. It is founded on the premise that the ability to form rational judgments concerning many of the complex challenges confronting society today involving the environment requires both an understanding of the underlying scientific and technical issues and an appreciation for the relevant economic, political, legal, historical and ethical dimensions. Information for Prospective Concentrators Watch this video for a faculty message about choosing ESPP as a concentration. Visit the Board of Tutors page to find a list of ESPP faculty which includes their home department, research interests, and email address. ESPP faculty are happy to be contacted via email by prospective students. Note drop-in office hours listed on our home page, please stop by one of these sessions with questions. Happy to meet other times that may be more convenient: please email Lorraine at maffeo@fas.harvard to arrange an alternate time. Still not sure? Reach out to one of our current students to hear first hand about ESPP! Watch this video for a student message about choosing ESPP as a concentration The current concentrators listed below all agreed to be contacted by prospective students to answer questions about ESPP and share their stories and interest. Emilly Fan '22 Email: e_fan@college.harvard.edu House: Quincy ESPP interests: the intersection between the public and private sectors in meeting decarbonisation goals. I am particularly interested in clean energy, sustainable development, and U.S./China/New Zealand climate policy. Outside of class, I have been involved with the Harvard Undergraduate Clean Energy Group and the Office for Sustainability. Happy to chat! Nathan Oalican '22 Email: noalican@college.harvard.edu House: Adams ESPP Interests: Energy markets and renewables integration, plant biology, and urban design/ecology. ESPP has allowed me to better understand and appreciate the world around me from research pursuits in the Harvard Forest and backpacking trips in the Sierras to the urban fabric of Tokyo. Happy to talk anytime! Morgan Whitten ‘21 Email: morganwhitten@college.harvard.edu House: Adams She/her/hers ESPP Interests: I love all things ESPP but am particularly interested in the sustainable development and the impact of climate change on conflict and migration. I’d be happy to talk about classes, cities, hiking, beekeeping, or anything else. Alumni Spotlight Danny Bicknell - The J-Term sailing trip aboard the Sea Education Association's Corwith Cramer served as a capstone experience to the knowledge gained through the diverse ESPP course offerings. Danny Bicknell '13 The J-Term sailing trip aboard the Sea Education Association's Corwith Cramer served as a capstone experience to the knowledge gained through the diverse ESPP course offerings. Basil Williams '14 The intimate size of the program has encouraged me to form relationships with both professors and students with whom I share common interests and passions. Hannah Morrill '14 The social side of ESPP appealed to me more when I decided to be an ESPP concentrator but over the last three years, I have appreciated the importance of the scientific aspects and enjoyed the challenge of getting to grips with them. Jakob Lindaas '13 From the fun-loving and awesome classmates that became close friends, to the great TFs that became mentors, to the Professors who took us under their wing and helped cultivate passions, to our wonderful administrator Lorraine who cared about everyone and made everything run smoothly, the people I was so fortunate to be around definitely made ESPP the right choice for me! Julia Mason '13 ESPP is valuable because it brings together different types of thinking and knowledge necessary to address complex global problems, and the people who are passionate about solving them. Ethan Addicott '14 The small, focused ESPP classes have afforded me the opportunity to interact with guest lecturers from across the globe—experts in innovation and technology, genetically modified organisms, environmental health, particulate air pollution, superfund sites, and indoor air quality. In addition to their work, these experts discussed their experiences and career paths, providing advice that was as valuable as the cutting-edge research they shared with us. Isabella Wechsler '13 The ESPP concentration gave me a series of frameworks to think about change, and through an emphasis on case studies and success stories, taught me that the most overwhelming obstacles can be tackled despite their daunting scope. Lisa Coffman '97, Attorney, United States Courts I would encourage students to treat ESPP not as a program that teaches you material/facts, but as a program that teaches you how to think about problems and how to learn about new ones. Juliet Lamb '05, Ph.D. Candidate, Clemson University I have encountered many other graduate students and professionals in conservation biology who do not have any academic background in policy or law. In a field as integrative and interdisciplinary as fisheries and wildlife biology, I feel that I am at a huge advantage in having a solid understanding of the economic, legal, and governance aspects of conservation in addition to its scientific components. Jaclyn Hatala Matthes '07, Assistant Professor, Dartmouth College I found the process of developing, researching, and writing a Senior Thesis and the mentorship that I received during this experience particularly enjoyable, and it inspired me to pursue a career in environmental research. Joseph Lynch '98, Orthopedic Surgeon, U.S. Navy For those pursing medicine, ESPP was an ideal concentration as it facilitates completion of the typical "pre-med" requirements, but more importantly it affords an opportunity to explore one's talents in the sciences as applied to other fields. Claire Broido Johnson '95, Chief of New Markets and Services, Next Step Living, Inc. I have worked in the energy and environment space since I graduated from Harvard undergrad, and I think my undergraduate education was incredibly helpful in preparing me for my current position. Commencement Celebrations Class of 2022 Reception Wednesday, May 25th from 10:30-Noon HUCE Lounge, 26 Oxford street Class of 2020 & 2021 Reception Sunday, May 29th from 2:30-4:00pm HUCE Lounge, 26 Oxford Street We look forward to celebrating with our graduates and their family in the coming days. Alumni in Cambridge are of course most welcome to join as well! Featured News Professor Sheila Jasanoff wins prestigious Holberg Prize March 14, 2022 Sheila Jasanoff, the Pforzheimer Professor of Science and Technology Studies at Harvard Kennedy School, has been awarded the 2022 Holberg Prize, among the world’s most prestigious awards for academic work in the humanities and social sciences.... Read more about Professor Sheila Jasanoff wins prestigious Holberg Prize View All News Student Spotlight Four Conversations on Climate Futures A podcast hosted by Annelisa Kingsbury Lee (ESPP ’23) Topics include solar geoengineering, climate lawsuits on behalf of future generations, carbon blockchain and space-based solar polar. Listen here or on Spotify or Apple Music Spring 2022 Courses ESPP 90E Marine Conservation Biology (R. Hoelzel) Mondays 3:00-5:30pm ESPP 90O Climate (In)Justice (D. Schrag) Mondays 3:00-5:30pm ESPP 90S The Technology, Economics, and Public Policy of Renewable Energy (G. Baker) Tu 3-5:30pm ESPP 173 Water Resources in Developing Countries (K. Thomas) MW 12-1:15pm Environmental Science and Public Policy Harvard University Center for the Environment Museum of Comparative Zoology 26 Oxford Street, 4th Floor, Room 444a Cambridge, MA 02138 Tel: (617) 496-6995 Fax: (617) 496-0425 3d94f03c7abcbfabb26c1ac1f19b5f4b 7d41670bf6eb74ea304a789dfa850fde Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement