Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Join our mailing list Search Home About Ethics at Harvard Notes from the Founding Director What is Practical Ethics? Benefactors Community Profiles For the Record Reports Get Involved Opportunities Support Contact Us People Fellowships For Academics and Professionals Fellows-in-Residence Visiting Fellowships For Graduate Students Graduate Fellowships Ethics Pedagogy Fellows For Undergraduates Undergraduate Fellowship Intercollegiate Civil Disagreement Fellowship Initiatives & Themes JHD Impact Initiative The Design Studio Democratic Knowledge Project National Ethics Project Ethics Pedagogy Initiative Research Themes A New Social Compact? Ethics of Technological and Biomedical Innovation Political Economy and Justice Diversity, Justice, and Democracy Institutional Corruption Project on Public Narrative Past workshops News & Events News Events Recording of Seth Lazar's lecture now available! Open Student and Postgraduate Job Opportunities Click here to learn about our DKP Equity and Engagement post-grad fellow position! The Edmond J. Safra Center for Ethics seeks to strengthen teaching and research about pressing ethical issues; to foster sound norms of ethical reasoning and civic discussion; and to share the work of our community in the public interest. Learn more › Latest News Announcing our Name Change: Edmond and Lily Safra Center for Ethics May 19, 2022 It is our pleasure to announce that we are changing our name to honor the incredible generosity of our long-term benefactor, Mrs. Lily Safra. As many of you know, Mrs. Lily Safra has been a constant friend of the Center. From the beginning, she recognized the importance of our mission, both at Harvard and beyond, and has encouraged its activities both financially and with her presence. Mrs. Safra's late husband, Edmond J. Safra, for whom our Center has been named, was a prominent international banker and a dedicated philanthropist who supported a number of... Read more about Announcing our Name Change: Edmond and Lily Safra Center for Ethics New Article by Jamie Martin in The New York Times April 28, 2022 Former Visiting Fellow, Jamie Martin, has a new article published in The New York Times. The opinion piece discusses high inflation and interest rates as they could relate to a possible recession. The article, "America’s Inflation Solution Could Become the World’s Problem" can be found here. Read more about New Article by Jamie Martin in The New York Times Announcing our 2022-23 Fellows! April 28, 2022 The Edmond J. Safra Center for Ethics is delighted to announce our new cohorts of fellows for 2022-23 and looks forward to welcoming them this fall. They are an exciting group and we are thrilled to have them join our community. Fellows-in-Residence Yael Assor (Tel Aviv University Exchange Fellow) is a socio-cultural and medical anthropologist who studies how culturally-dependent moral views shape medical policy tools. Assor's doctoral research (UCLA, 2020) explored how the ideal of "objectivity" as ethically appropriate conduct shapes the... Read more about Announcing our 2022-23 Fellows! Martha Minow to Chair Implementation Committee for Harvard and the Legacy of Slavery Report April 26, 2022 Former Acting Director and Faculty Associate, Martha Minow, will be chairing the implementation committee for the Harvard and the Legacy of Slavery report. President Bacow has announced a commitment of $100 million as a resource for this implementation. Read the full Report of the Presidential Committee on Harvard & the Legacy of Slavery here. Minow is the 300th Anniversary University Professor, former dean of... Read more about Martha Minow to Chair Implementation Committee for Harvard and the Legacy of Slavery Report London Vallery Pursuing MPhil at the University of Cambridge April 26, 2022 Former Undergraduate Fellow, London Vallery has accepted an offer of admission to the University of Cambridge to pursue an MPhil in the History and Philosophy of Science. She will be studying the role of colonial and imperialist thought in the modern global aerospace industry. More Community Profiles Our “Community Profiles” interview series highlights the longstanding members of our community at the Edmond J. Safra Center for Ethics. An Interview with Postdoctoral Fellow in Technology and Democracy Josh Simons By: Alexis Jimenez Maldonado Josh Simons is a Postdoctoral Fellow in Technology and Democracy at the Edmond J. Safra Center for Ethics and the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy at Harvard Kennedy School. His research explores the political character of predictive tools like AI and machine learning and how those tools should be governed to support the flourishing of democracy. He focuses on two areas of law and policy: equality and civil rights law, and the regulation of technology companies through anti-monopoly and public law. He has written widely on equality and discrimination, platform regulation, privacy and digital rights, and public understanding of technology.  Alexis Jimenez Maldonado: You joined the Center in 2019 as a Graduate Fellow but had been in the Center’s orbit before that. What drew you towards pursuing a fellowship with the Center? How did your fellowship influence your graduate work? Josh Simons: What was there not to love about the Center? One of the things that drew me to it, among many, was the interdisciplinary mode of conversation that the Center hosts. I had watched a Fellows in Residence seminar and thought the interdisciplinary conversation was awesome and could be much more widely used. I was able to subject my own work to that kind of interdisciplinary conversation and scrutiny in such a positive and supportive environment. The goal isn’t to make the respondents or the other people in the room feel big and important, but instead to really interrogate the substance of the work in an empathetic and thoughtful way. AJM: You are now a Postdoctoral Fellow with our JHD Impact Initiative and the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy at HKS. Can you tell me about the work that you are doing this year? I know that you have a couple of projects underway. JS: My PhD was about how democracies should govern and regulate the design and use of predictive tools. One of the things that I found in writing my PhD is that it's a space that both requires multidisciplinary work, but it also requires conversation and engagement across different sectors. Scholars need to sit down with decision makers and both of them need to sit down with policy experts. Because if you have a particular institution that's thinking about using a machine learning system or an AI system, they have to figure out how to design it, how to use it, and how to integrate it into their existing systems. To do that, you need to get the right people around the table, having the right kind of conversation, and asking the right kinds of questions. That requires both multidisciplinary work and also cross sectoral work. Read more Recent Tweets HarvardEthics Congrats, @jamiemartin2! We can't wait to add you to our office bookshelf! t.co/soDkbdXIw5 1 week 5 days ago. Follow us https://www.facebook.com/harvardethics/Facebook https://twitter.com/HarvardEthicsTwitter https://www.linkedin.com/company/harvardethics/LinkedIn https://www.instagram.com/harvardethics/?hl=enInstagram https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC1T37IKJEl5Yt_Xwet2b98A?view_as=publicYouTube https://www.flickr.com/photos/harvardethics/Flickr 124 Mount Auburn Street Suite 520N Cambridge, MA 02138 ethics@harvard.edu p: 617.495.1336 f: 617.496.6104 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement