Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Ethics and Compliance Main navigation Export Control and Trade International Collaboration, Trade and Export Control Who do I contact? Technology Control Plans Forms and Procedures Definitions and Resources Export Control FAQs Home About Us Privacy Disclosures and Conflicts of Interests Speaking Up and Reporting Concerns Ethics First Ethics Week Code of Ethics Ethics Training & Resources Open Search Search Search Breadcrumb Home Ethics Week Below you will find a schedule of events for Ethics Awareness Week ("Ethics Week") 2021. Visit an Ethics Table 11 a.m. – 1 p.m. Before and during Ethics Week, the Office of Ethics and Compliance will answer questions, provide resources, and hand out Ethics First giveaways. Stop by and pick up a webcam cover, coffee mug, water bottle, or phone holder and register for Ethics Week events! The Exhibition Hall and Harrison Square: 10/26, 10/28, 11/2, 11/4, 11/8, 11/9, 11/10 GTRI Headquarters: 9.27, 9/28, 10/28, 11/4, 11/8, 11/9 GTRI Cobb County: 10/26, 11/2, 11/8, 11/9 See locations on map.gatech.edu. Game Time Mashup With Executive Leadership Monday, Nov. 8 10:30 – 11:30 a.m. Hybrid (Academy of Medicine) President Ángel Cabrera and Executive Vice Presidents Steven McLaughlin, Chaouki Abdallah, and Kelly Fox will go head to head playing familiar games with an ethical twist. In-person attendees will receive Ethics First giveaways and enjoy coffee and pastries.This event is for our Georgia Tech campus community. Register Here Sticker Blitz with the Ramblin' Reck Monday, Nov. 8 11 a.m. – 1 p.m. and Tuesday, Nov. 9, 11 – 11:45 a.m. In Person (Exhibition Hall) Visit the Ramblin’ Wreck, take photos, collect vinyl stickers, and receive Ethics First giveaways. Predatory Publication and Issues in Authorship Monday, Nov. 8 Noon – 1 p.m. Hybrid (Dalney Conference Room 180) In this interactive session, explore power dynamics, fraud, and diversity issues in publication and authorship practices. Cassidy Sugimoto, professor and Tom and Marie Patton School Chair in the School of Public Policy, will provide practical tips for both authors and assigners of authorship to address and ensure equity in publication. Attendees will receive Ethics First giveaways and enjoy cold beverages and snacks. We invite all those interested, both within and outside of our Georgia Tech community, to attend this event. Register Here A "Google Chat" With Google's Chief Compliance Officer, Spyro Karetsos Tuesday, Nov. 9 10 – 11 a.m. Hybrid (GTRI Auditorium) Our keynote speaker, Google Chief Compliance Officer Spyro Karetsos, will share insight about expectations and best practices at Google. In-person attendees will receive Ethics First giveaways. We invite all those interested, both within and outside of our Georgia Tech community, to attend virtually. We limit in-person attendance to the Tech community. GT Campus Community Register Here Others (and GT wishing to join virtually) Register Here for Livestream Access Ethics in K-12 Education, Outreach, and Research Tuesday, Nov. 9 11 a.m. – noon Virtual Join CEISMC’s (Center for Education Integrating Science, Mathematics, and Computing) executive leadership as they share their experiences conducting research in K-12 schools and affiliated communities. They will focus on navigating the ethical standards involved in conducting research with K-12 students. Topics will include informed consent, balancing the benefit-risk ratio, preserving voluntary participation, and conducting diverse participant recruitment. Panelists: Lizanne DeStefano, executive director of CEISMC Meltem Alemdar, associate director of CEISMC Register Here Safe Space Training Tuesday, Nov. 9 12:30 – 4:30 p.m. In Person We are responsible for building a culture where we can be honest and respect one another.Ethical leaders create safe spaces for all. Learn to create safe spaces for all in this interactive session hosted by the LGBTQIA Resource Center. Attendees will receive Ethics First giveaways. Register Here Atlanta Compliance and Ethics Roundtable Best Practices Workshop 9:30 a.m. – 2 p.m. Virtual – By Invitation Only Preparing Future Leaders for Ethical Challenges Wednesday, Nov. 10 11 a.m. – noon Virtual Join ETHICx for an interdisciplinary panel of faculty in biological sciences, civil and environmental engineering, business, and public policy as they discuss teaching ethics and preparing students for ethical challenges in their future careers. Moderator: Michael Goodisman, associate professor, School of Biological Sciences Panelists: Adjo Amekudzi-Kennedy, associate chair for Global Engineering Leadership and Entrepreneurship and Professor, School of Civil and Environmental Engineering Karie Davis-Nozemack, associate professor, Scheller College of Business Bob Kirkman, associate professor and director of Graduate Studies, School of Public Policy Two attendees will receive tickets to see Georgia Tech men's basketball take on Wisconsin on Wednesday, Dec. 1. We invite all those interested, both within and outside of our Georgia Tech community, to attend this event. Register Here Incenting Integrity: Aligning Values and Incentives Thursday, Nov. 11 10 – 11 a.m. In Person (Exhibition Hall, Centennial Room) Join the Alumni Association as they share innovative ways to recognize people for incorporating our values into their daily work and encourage your team to practice our mission, vision, and values. Attendees will receive Ethics First giveaways and enjoy coffee and pastries. We invite all those interested, both within and outside of our Georgia Tech community, to attend this event. Register Here A Person or a Number? Multiple Perspectives on Collecting and Using Human Subject Data Thursday, Nov. 11 Noon – 1 p.m. Virtual A panel of multiple perspectives about the tension between what we can do and what we ought to do in human subject research and with human subject data. In the advancement of the human condition, how do we weigh potential consequences? What does it look like to be a model leader in this area? The panel approaches these topics with the background of research and data collection in the global pandemic. This event is for our Georgia Tech campus community. Moderator: Macy Fennell, legal counsel, Office of the General Counsel Panelists: Jason Borenstein, principle academic professional, director of Graduate Research Ethics Programs Aaron Levine, associate dean for Research and Outreach, associate professor Kelly Winn, director, HRPP and Regulatory Affairs Office of Research Integrity Assurance Register Here USG Ethics and Compliance Best Practices in Higher Education* Friday, Nov. 12 10 – 11 a.m. Virtual The University System of Georgia will host a panel of ethics experts from industry, the USG, and Georgia Tech about accountability in higher education. *Registration Link Coming Soon Gender Equity From the Perspective of Military Leadership 1:30 – 2:30 p.m. Hybrid (Exhibition Hall, Room Midtown V) Join the Veterans Resource Center for a panel examining gender equality in the military through the experiences of two U.S. military members and current Georgia Tech students. They will discuss gender bias and equity, stereotypes, sexism, and how these challenges affect veterans transitioning to civilian life. Panelists: Chelsea Selby, U.S. Air Force Reserve member, Student Veterans Group president Hannah Bembry – U.S. Army veteran, ROTC cadet Attendees will receive Ethics First giveaways and enjoy cold beverages and snacks. This event is for our Georgia Tech campus community. Register Here Faculty and Staff Reminders: 2021 Annual Compliance Training The 2021 Annual Compliance Training will help define Living Our Values, reinforce the University System of Georgia’s (USG) ethical standards and cybersecurity requirements, and remind us all about the importance of research integrity, reporting external activities, and navigating foreign influence. All employees (faculty, staff, Tech Temps, and student employees) hired before October 1, 2021, are required to visit the Georgia Tech Learner Dashboard to complete the following by midnight EST Nov. 19, 2021: University System of Georgia (USG) Ethics Training Information Security/Cybersecurity Training Georgia Tech Foreign Influence, Research Integrity, and Conflict of Interest Training Conflict of Interest Certification You may submit your questions or request assistance at Annual Compliance Help or visit the FAQ page. Ethics Week Resources Ethics Week Home Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN