Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Ethics and Compliance Main navigation Export Control and Trade International Collaboration, Trade and Export Control Who do I contact? Technology Control Plans Forms and Procedures Definitions and Resources Export Control FAQs Home About Us Privacy Disclosures and Conflicts of Interests Speaking Up and Reporting Concerns Ethics First Ethics Week Code of Ethics Ethics Training & Resources Open Search Search Search Breadcrumb Home Privacy International Data Privacy Day! January 28, 2022 "An International effort to create awareness about the importance of respecting privacy, safeguarding data, and establishing trust." At the start of every New Year, many of us take time to set goals, make plans, clean out our closets, and generally reset for the year. However, in our planning for the New Year, we don’t always think to include reflecting on the privacy of our personal information. When was the last time you checked your privacy settings on social media? Have you thought about who has your personal information and how is it being used? Data Privacy Day is a globally recognized day each year on January 28th. It comes at the perfect time to help remind us at the start of each year that our personal information has value, and we need to take steps to protect it. Therefore, this is a friendly nudge to take 5 minutes to check your privacy settings on your most-utilized digital platforms. We have rounded up the instructions right here to make it easy! Take a second and protect your personal information. It is arguably one of your most valuable assets. Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/help/193677450678703/?helpref=related_articles Instagram: https://help.instagram.com/116024195217477 Twitter: https://help.twitter.com/en/safety-and-security/twitter-privacy-settings Google: https://safety.google/privacy/privacy-controls/ TikTok: https://support.tiktok.com/en/account-and-privacy/account-privacy-settings Discord: https://discord.com/safety/360043857751-Four-steps-to-a-super-safe-account Snapchat: https://support.snapchat.com/en-US/a/privacy-settings2 Brought to you by the following Institute teams: • Privacy: privacy@gatech.edu • Data Governance: datagovernance@gatech.edu • Cybersecurity: ask@security.gatech.edu Mission The mission of the Privacy Program is to balance the collection, sharing, and use of Institute personal data assets and the appropriate level of privacy afforded to individuals who trust the Institute with their personal data, while also taking into consideration the Georgia Tech community's legitimate business need to collect, share, and use personal data. The Privacy Program must also ensure compliance with applicable data privacy laws and regulations and University System of Georgia requirements. Vision and Goals Ensure the Institute's compliance with all applicable legal requirements and University System of Georgia requirements concerning data privacy. Establish a data privacy culture that allows for the creative and innovative uses of data for Institute business while respecting the individuals who trust us with their information. Create awareness and educate the Georgia Tech community about the importance and value of privacy, the ethics of privacy, compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and that privacy is everyone's responsibility. Create a process where data subjects can engage with the Institute concerning their privacy inquiries and understand and execute their rights concerning their data. Click here to download the privacy infographic Policies General Privacy Notice EU GDPR Privacy Policy Cyber Security Policy Data Access Policy Data Privacy Policy Acceptable Use Policy Report a Privacy Incident security.gatech.edu GDPR eugdpr.gatech.edu/home Training and Resources (More to come in this section) Data Subject Requests  privacy@gatech.edu Privacy Contact Have a question about privacy? Contact us.  privacy@gatech.edu Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN