Skip to content Et. Seq: The Harvard Law School Library Blog Main Menu About Et Seq.Menu Toggle Privacy Policy HLSL Homepage Subscribe to Et Seq. Legal Research Databases: Summer 2022 and new grad access policies 1 Comment / Announcements, E-Resources, Legal Research & Research Skills, Student Channel / By Catherine Biondo Time flies, and summer is almost here. Whether you’re looking forward to a great summer job opportunity or you’re about to graduate from HLS, there are online research resources available to you. Here’s what you need to know about access to your Bloomberg Law, Lexis, and Westlaw accounts … plus a bit more. BLOOMBERG LAW RETURNING STUDENTS’ SUMMER USE: You may use your HLS Bloomberg Law account for any purpose, including research for employers. If you haven’t already signed up for a Bloomberg Law account, go to www.bloomberglaw.com/activate (use your Harvard email. No activation code is necessary). Don’t forget that you also have access to Bloomberg Law Certification Courses. These provide on-demand virtual learning to develop key research skills, demonstrate the power of effective litigation and transactional tools, and can help you more efficient and successful in legal practice. Sign up for a free Bloomberg Industry Learning account to access Certification Courses, and then sign in to the Certification platform. Then, keep improving your research and practice skills while you are working through your Certification by using your regular Bloomberg Law username and password to access the Skills Center. NEW GRADUATES: You may continue to use your HLS Bloomberg Law account for six months after graduation. If you have any questions, please contact our representative, Warda Khan. LEXIS NEXIS RETURNING STUDENTS’ SUMMER USE: You will automatically have free unlimited use of your law school Lexis+ ID this summer. This includes workplace related research (but check with your employer first; many firms prefer summer associates use a firm-issued Lexis ID for client work). You can also take advantage of Lexis’s on-demand Prepare to Practice Resources, focusing on practical skills – including a new module on legal analytics – that summer associates and new associates have identified as especially valuable: LexisNexis Prepare to Practice Microsite LexisNexis Certification Registry NEW GRADUATES: After graduation, you have automatic extended access to your HLS Lexis+ account for six months, through December 31, 2022. No registration is required; just sign into your account as usual and your ID will change over to a graduate ID on July 10. Whether you are preparing for the bar or conducting a legal job search, you can enjoy access to the same content you had in law school (with the exception of public records). If you have any questions, please contact our representative, Adam Masarek. WESTLAW RETURNING STUDENTS’ SUMMER USE: You can use Thomson Reuters products, including Westlaw, Practical Law, and the Practice Ready solutions, over the summer for non-commercial research. You can turn to these resources to gain understanding and build confidence in your research skills, but you cannot use them in situations where you are billing a client. Examples of permissible uses for your academic password include the following: Summer coursework Research assistant assignments Law Review or Journal research Moot Court research Non-Profit work (either required for graduation or as part of a class) Clinical work Externship sponsored by the school You do not have to do anything to gain access to these tools over the summer. NEW GRADUATES: You have access to Thomson Reuters products, including Westlaw and Practical Law, for six months after graduation by registering for “Grad Elite” access here. “Grad Elite” access gives you 60-hours of usage on these products per month to gain understanding and build confidence in your research skills. While you cannot use it in situations where you are billing a client, Thomson Reuters encourages you to use these tools to build your knowledge of the law and prepare for your bar exam. If you have any questions, please contact our representative, Mark Frongillo. OTHER DATABASES Continuing students have full access over the summer to most other online library resources at Harvard simply by using your HUIDs and PINs. So if you need JSTOR, HeinOnline, Academic Search Premier or most other databases, you’re all set! New alumni continue to have access to some databases, including HeinOnline’s Law Journal Library and the CQ Press Library, a great source for information and data on government and politics. Visit our guide to Library Services for HLS Alumni for information about how to claim your Harvard Key and get access, plus learn about other resources for alumni and how to stay connected from afar. QUESTIONS? Don’t hesitate to ask. Feel free to contact us with any questions about summer access, alumni access, or any research-related questions over the summer and beyond. Current contact information is available at Ask a Librarian. Post navigation ← Previous Post Next Post → 1 thought on “Legal Research Databases: Summer 2022 and new grad access policies” Eakub sheik May 8, 2022 at 9:30am These sites are the best legal sites I have visited for legal research. Many thanks to the authority. Comments are closed. Subscribe to our mailing list Search Et Seq. Search for: Library TweetsMy Tweets Library Links Ask a Librarian Student Research Support Faculty Research Support HLS Library Research Guides Harvard Law School | The Case Studies Library Innovation Lab Perma.cc [email protected] Follow us! Twitter Facebook Instagram LIL Twitter LIL Blog Perma Twitter Perma Blog HLSL Youtube Channel Categories Categories Select Category 2015 Roof Project (5) Accessibility Services (4) Announcements (773) Book Talks (132) Business and Corporate Law Research (12) Caselaw Access Project (8) Constitutional Law (6) Cool (269) Criminal Law and Procedure (5) Diversity and Inclusion (4) E-Resources (144) Empiricism (28) Events (49) Exams (2) Faculty Channel (414) Foreign Jurisdictions (69) Government Information (60) Harvard Law School Library News (96) Historical & Special Collections (241) History (196) International Law (49) Languages (10) Law Schools/Study of Law (43) Legal Research & Research Skills (198) Libraries (57) Library Hours and Access (24) Library Innovation lab (3) Library Research Guides (13) Local (11) New Books and Journals (86) Online Information Privacy (5) Open Access (47) Scholarly Communication (57) Series: 852 RARE (134) Series: Did You Know (2) Series: English Manor Rolls (4) Series: In Ruhleben Camp (18) Series: Library Renovations (3) Series: Scanning Nuremberg (35) Services for Military Veterans (1) Sports (3) Student Channel (483) Zotero (1) Follow Us Et Seq. posts (RSS) Blog: The Case Studies Blog: Library Innovation Lab Blog: Perma.cc Facebook: HLS Library Facebook: HLS Case Studies Facebook: Library Innovation Lab Flickr: Library Innovation Lab Instagram: hlslibrary Twitter: @hlslib Twitter: @HLSCaseStudies Twitter: @permacc Twitter: @HarvardLIL YouTube: HLS Library Channel Library Links Ask a Librarian Student Research Support Faculty Research Support HLS Library Research Guides Harvard Law School | The Case Studies Library Innovation Lab Perma.cc [email protected] Search Et Seq. Search for: Categories Categories Select Category 2015 Roof Project (5) Accessibility Services (4) Announcements (773) Book Talks (132) Business and Corporate Law Research (12) Caselaw Access Project (8) Constitutional Law (6) Cool (269) Criminal Law and Procedure (5) Diversity and Inclusion (4) E-Resources (144) Empiricism (28) Events (49) Exams (2) Faculty Channel (414) Foreign Jurisdictions (69) Government Information (60) Harvard Law School Library News (96) Historical & Special Collections (241) History (196) International Law (49) Languages (10) Law Schools/Study of Law (43) Legal Research & Research Skills (198) Libraries (57) Library Hours and Access (24) Library Innovation lab (3) Library Research Guides (13) Local (11) New Books and Journals (86) Online Information Privacy (5) Open Access (47) Scholarly Communication (57) Series: 852 RARE (134) Series: Did You Know (2) Series: English Manor Rolls (4) Series: In Ruhleben Camp (18) Series: Library Renovations (3) Series: Scanning Nuremberg (35) Services for Military Veterans (1) Sports (3) Student Channel (483) Zotero (1) Scroll to Top