Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today European Studies Program Center for Global & International Studies College of Liberal Arts & Sciences Search form Search Home About Contact Us Events Past Events Academics Degrees Degrees Co-Major Overview Requirements Languages Minor Overview Requirements Languages Undergraduate Undergraduate MA FAO Overview Co-Major Minor Undergraduate Advising Study Abroad Internships Careers Admissions Financial Aid People Staff Research Research Guide KU Scholar Works Alumni WWI Events Past Events Planning Committee WWI Resources #KU_WWI Twitter Project WWI Digital Poetry Project KU WWI Lecture Series Menu Home About Contact Us Events Past Events Academics Degrees Degrees Co-Major Overview Requirements Languages Minor Overview Requirements Languages Undergraduate Undergraduate MA FAO Overview Co-Major Minor Undergraduate Advising Study Abroad Internships Careers Admissions Financial Aid People Staff Research Research Guide KU Scholar Works Alumni WWI Events Past Events Planning Committee WWI Resources #KU_WWI Twitter Project WWI Digital Poetry Project KU WWI Lecture Series Search Search form Search Paris café life by night. A quiet moment on a Venetian canal. The Watkins Museum of History hosted the event "The Great War at 100: The KU WWI Centennial Commemoration" in fall of 2016. Presenters included (from left to right) Dr. Lorie A. Vanchena, Professor of German and Academic Director of the European Studies Program; Drew Burks, PhD candidate in History; Dr. Nathan Wood, Professor of History. More about the KU WWI Centennial Commemoration here. Colorful architecture in Bayreuth, Germany. The Alhambra Palace in Granada,Spain is a stunning example of Moorish architecture. The Spanish Steps in the Piazza di Spagna in Rome are a popular social gathering space. Sweets for sale outside a cafe in Gothenburg, Sweden. "As an undergraduate in European Studies I was able to combine my interests in English and Italian Renaissance literature with majors in English and Italian with the co-major in European Studies. I will use the valuable cultural, social and political context the EURS program provided me to enhance my graduate studies in literary criticism." -Bernadette Myers, European Studies Co-Major, class of 2013. European Studies recently presented a scholarly panel discussion on the recent "Brexit" decision. This was the inaugural "Global Headline Series" event co-sponsored by the Center for Global & International Studies. A research project at KU will create a digital archive of World War I poetry, supported by a seed grant through the KU Institute for Digital Research in the Humanities. Read more here. A colorful selection of "Trabi" cars line a Berlin street. In the former East Germany, these were the single model of car available. Today they are refurbished and serve as a fun attraction. KU's Spencer Museum of Art holds a rich collection of European Masterworks, such as this stunning Pre-Raphaelite painting, La Pia de' Tolomei by Dante Gabriel Rossetti (1868-1880.) Detail shown above. The European Studies Program The European Studies Program provides a vibrant community for research, teaching, and related activities that explore historical and contemporary European cultures, societies, states, economies, natural resources, and environments. Seeking to serve students, faculty, and staff at the University of Kansas as well as the broader local, regional, national, and international communities, the European Studies Program generates grant activity and develops research, curricular, and outreach projects that support the mission of the University. Quick Links Email List Sign Up Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * First Name * Last Name * I am: * A studentKU Facultya non-KU Educatora Community MemberOther Calendar of Events Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Give to KU » Why KU Apply » One of 34 U.S. public institutions in the prestigious Association of American Universities 44 nationally ranked graduate programs. —U.S. News & World Report Top 50 nationwide for size of library collection. —ALA 5th nationwide for service to veterans —"Best for Vets: Colleges," Military Times Contact European Studies Program europeanst@ku.edu 785-864-1120 European Studies 1440 Jayhawk Blvd. Bailey Hall 201 University of Kansas Lawrence, KS 66045 Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login