Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Russian, East European, & Eurasian Studies | European Union Studies | Baltic Studies | Reading/Working Groups | Hellenic Studies | Iberian Connections About Contact Academics Master's Degree Undergraduate Major Related Courses People Council Faculty Staff Council Affiliates MA Graduate Students European Studies Graduate Fellows 2021-22 Conference European Studies Undergraduate Fellows Alumni Visiting Scholars Events Conferences Videos News Grants & Fellowships Faculty Grants Student Grants and Fellowships Student Grant Reports Blog Resources On the Ground Perspectives Bookshelf Join Email List Welcome News Yale Insights: "Will the EU’s New Law Remake Big Tech?" Interview with Fiona Scott Morton, the Theodore Nierenberg Professor of Economics, originally published by Yale Insights of the Yale School of Management Last week, European... Supporting the War Effort in Ukraine One Loaf of Bread at a Time Article first published in Yale School of Medicine News Irina Esterlis, PhD, felt a range of emotions after war broke out in herhomeland of Ukraine, where she still has... Yale Experts on the War in Ukraine Professors Jim Levinsohn and Tim Snyder discuss with President Salovey the crisis in Ukraine, international response to Putin’s war of aggression, and teaching students... Professor Koh Helps Win World Court Ruling Ordering Russia to Halt Ukraine Invasion On March 16, by a vote of 13–2, the International Court of Justice (ICJ) in the Hague issued a landmark ruling ordering the Russian Federation and its paramilitary forces to... Yale sociologist Phil Gorski on the threat of white Christian nationalism The January 6 insurrection at the U.S. Capitol was a hodgepodge of conflicting symbols. The protestors erected a large wooden cross and gallows. Some waved Rebel battle flags... The Life and Works of Huldrych Zwingli The latest installment of an ongoing interview series with contributing editor Mark Bauerlein. F. Bruce Gordon joins the podcast to discuss his book... Marci Shore on Nine Books to Read to Understand the War in Ukraine These books—memoir, fiction, and nonfiction—offer a glimpse into a century of historical context in Eastern Europe. By Marci Shore Kyiv is burning. I am struggling to... More news... Upcoming Events No events to display. More Video Features May 6, 2022 Rafał Trzaskowski on War in Ukraine and a New Transatlantic Agenda View All Videos Stay Connected Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved European Studies Council at the Whitney and Betty MacMillan Center for International and Area Studies at Yale.