Events at UCF Log In Events By Category: “Workshop/Conference” Application Deadline: Summer Research Academy June 1, 2022 at 9 a.m. until 10 p.m. Virtual Participants in the Summer Research Academy will: Learn&nbsp;about the nature of university research and how it can expand your undergraduate experience. Meet&nbsp;with research faculty and other students active in research. Explore&nbsp;research opportunities available to undergraduate students at UCF. Prepare&nbsp;professionally for future research, internships/careers, and advanced degrees. Earn&nbsp;1-credit hour for completing the Introduction to Research (IDS 3913) course. Learn more about … Events at UCF Interviewing Strategies, presented by OCPS #CRMSummer22 June 1, 2022 at 10 a.m. until 11 a.m. Virtual Orange County Public Schools will share helpful tips for virtual and in-person interviews! Participate in Career Readiness, May 31 &ndash; June 7. Sign-up for Career Readiness Summer Series events at ucf.joinhandshake.com. Login, click on events and search #CRMSummer22. RSVP for any and all events to learn how to: Build winning resumes and prepare for virtual and in-person interviews Engage and … Events at UCF Statewide Job Fair Virtual Ready Room #CRMSummer22 June 1, 2022 at 1:30 p.m. until 4:30 p.m. Virtual Planning to attend the Statewide Job Fair on 6/2? Not sure what to expect? Participate in our virtual Ready Room to prepare and practice your Elevator Pitch, learn effective strategies for connecting with employers, and discover how best to maximize your experience at the Summer 2022 Virtual Statewide Job Fair. Attend all or any of the following sessions: 1:30-2:00pm | … Events at UCF Violence Prevention Certificate Series: Title IX (Recurring Event) June 1, 2022 at 2 p.m. until 3 p.m. Virtual Let&rsquo;s Be Clear is offering a series of virtual and in person leadership opportunities through our Violence Prevention Certificate Series to teach students how to support and care for fellow Knights. This series of workshops provides students with an understanding of topics related to interpersonal violence, Title IX, safety, and how to connect students who may be impacted. Students who … Events at UCF UNITY STAR: Understanding Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DIV 008) June 1, 2022 at 2:30 p.m. until 4:30 p.m. Barbara Ying Center: 140 As the foundational workshop facilitated by UCF&rsquo;s Office of Diversity and Inclusion, this workshop explores three key concepts &ndash; diversity, inclusion, and equity. Discussions and activities develop the following ideas: &nbsp; human diversity is broad and includes all the ways in which we differ, understanding our similarities is key to developing connections, inclusion involves creating and maintaining safe and respectful … Events at UCF Violence Prevention Certificate Series: Title IX (Recurring Event) June 2, 2022 at 10 a.m. until 11 a.m. Virtual Let&rsquo;s Be Clear is offering a series of virtual and in person leadership opportunities through our Violence Prevention Certificate Series to teach students how to support and care for fellow Knights. This series of workshops provides students with an understanding of topics related to interpersonal violence, Title IX, safety, and how to connect students who may be impacted. Students who … Events at UCF Thesis and Dissertation Formatting with Word June 2, 2022 at 1 p.m. until 2:30 p.m. Graduate Student Center: Trevor Colbourn Hall: 213 Attend this workshop to learn about setting up Microsoft Word Styles to format a thesis or dissertation. Students are strongly encouraged to attend this session in their final term if they are completing a thesis or dissertation. It is recommended that attendees bring their laptop and thesis/dissertation file. Please review Module 3 of the Thesis and Dissertation Webcourse prior to … Events at UCF Finding & Using Academic Sources - Online (Recurring Event) June 2, 2022 at 3 p.m. until 4 p.m. Virtual This session highlights time-saving strategies to help you locate academic sources for upcoming course assignments and literature reviews. Learn how to find peer-reviewed articles, identify subject-related databases, locate related sources for topics, and how citation management apps can help you save, manage, and cite sources. Please note: Students will receive a link to participate online upon registration in myUCF.&nbsp; This … Events at UCF UNITY STAR: Setting Boundaries in the Workplace: You Can Do this! (DIV 589) June 3, 2022 at 10 a.m. until 11:30 a.m. Virtual It is important to have healthy boundaries, especially in the workplace.&nbsp; This can be challenging at best.&nbsp;&nbsp; The concept of setting boundaries may not be a common practice for many people nor something that is often discussed or encouraged.&nbsp;&nbsp; Everything we are experiencing right now is contributing to our stress levels.&nbsp; This session will look at the importance of healthy … Events at UCF Job Search Strategies, presented by Florida Auditor General #CRMSummer22 June 3, 2022 at 10 a.m. until 11 a.m. Virtual Learn tips and techniques for an effective job search! Participate in Career Readiness, May 31 &ndash; June 7. Sign-up for Career Readiness Summer Series events at ucf.joinhandshake.com. Login, click on events and search #CRMSummer22. RSVP for any and all events to learn how to: Build winning resumes and prepare for virtual and in-person interviews Engage and meet with employers to … Events at UCF Communicate with Confidence: Effective Verbal and Non-Verbal Communication Skills #CRMSummer22 June 3, 2022 at 12 p.m. until 1 p.m. Virtual How do you communicate effectively with employers at networking events, conferences, or interviews? Attend this workshop to learn effective strategies, both verbal and non-verbal, to help you successfully navigate a conversation with an employer or recruiter. Participate in Career Readiness, May 31 &ndash; June 7. Sign-up for Career Readiness Summer Series events at ucf.joinhandshake.com. Login, click on events and search … Events at UCF Intensive Reading Camp June 6, 2022 at 8:30 a.m. until June 13, 2022, noon UCF Communication Sciences and Disorders Clinic: 3280 Progress Drive Suite 500 The School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Clinic at the University of Central Florida will host an Intensive Reading Camp with UCF literacy experts from June 6 to June 30. All materials are included. To sign up, email csdclinic@ucf.edu. This intensive reading intervention camp is for nonreaders or struggling readers entering the 3rd or 4th grade.The camp will be held … Events at UCF Financial Literacy, presented by Fisher Investments #CRMSummer22 June 6, 2022 at 11 a.m. until noon Virtual Attend this workshop to learn more about Financial Literacy. Include and understand your student loans, personal budgeting, and what to do with your first paycheck. Participate in Career Readiness, May 31 &ndash; June 7. Sign-up for Career Readiness Summer Series events at ucf.joinhandshake.com. Login, click on events and search #CRMSummer22. RSVP for any and all events to learn how to: … Events at UCF UNITY STAR: Intent vs. Impact (DIV 585) June 6, 2022 at 3 p.m. until 4:30 p.m. Barbara Ying Center: 140 This workshop will provide participants with awareness of the ways biased practices unconsciously and consciously communicate derogatory and/or hurtful messages to others. It will provide ways to help make sure the intention behind our statements, questions and actions match our impact. Registration Information Faculty, A&amp;P, USPS, OPS: Register online at myUCF.edu &gt; Employee Self Service &gt; Learning &amp; Development &gt; … Events at UCF LinkedIn Made Easy - Webinar June 7, 2022 at 12 p.m. until 1 p.m. Virtual Attend this workshop to learn how you can leverage your profile to promote your brand and connect with professionals in your network. Follow along to update your profile and experiment with LinkedIn resources! This workshop is offered through the College of Graduate Studies Pathways to Success professional development program for graduate students. See https://graduate.ucf.edu/pathways-to-success for details. Events at UCF Summer 2022 GKT Math Study Group (Recurring Event) June 7, 2022 at 4 p.m. until 5 p.m. Virtual These sessions allow students to work on the GKT in small groups or independently with the aid of a tutor.&nbsp; Bring your own study material(s) with specific questions or work with others on the test example provided by the FTCE website. Events at UCF Violence Prevention Certificate Series: Title IX (Recurring Event) June 8, 2022 at 1 p.m. until 2 p.m. Virtual Let&rsquo;s Be Clear is offering a series of virtual and in person leadership opportunities through our Violence Prevention Certificate Series to teach students how to support and care for fellow Knights. This series of workshops provides students with an understanding of topics related to interpersonal violence, Title IX, safety, and how to connect students who may be impacted. Students who … Events at UCF UNITY STAR: Religious, Secular, and Spiritual Literacy for Beginners (DIV 442) June 8, 2022 at 2:30 p.m. until 3:30 p.m. Barbara Ying Center: 140 Have you said before "Well that isn't my area of expertise"? This session is designed for individuals who do not have extensive advanced degrees in religious studies but are still very interested in supporting students and their diverse identities. Using the framework of BRIDGE Interfaith Youth Core curriculum, we will identify strategies for increasing one's interfaith literacy. Registration Information Faculty, … Events at UCF UNITY STAR: Inclusive Communication (DIV 053) June 9, 2022 at 1:30 p.m. until 4:30 p.m. Barbara Ying Center: 140 Inclusive Communication, as facilitated by UCF&rsquo;s Office of Diversity and Inclusion, explores the concept that as we interact in diverse environments and strive to enhance inclusion and equity, it is important to be welcoming, appreciative, valuing, and respectful in our communications with one another. Discussions and activities develop the following ideas: inclusive communication involves words, tone of voice, body language, … Events at UCF Zotero Citation Management - Online (Recurring Event) June 9, 2022 at 3 p.m. until 4 p.m. Virtual This session will lead you through Zotero citation management features. Zotero is a free tool, and&nbsp;similar to other&nbsp;citation managers it allows you to organize sources for projects, import citations from databases, catalogs, and webpages, save PDFs, format citations and bibliographies in Word, and create groups for resource sharing. &nbsp; Please note: Students will receive a link to participate online upon … Events at UCF EndNote Citation Management (Recurring Event) June 10, 2022 at 12 p.m. until 1 p.m. Graduate Student Center: Trevor Colbourn Hall: 213 Citation management tools allow you to dedicate more time to research. Join us to learn how to export citations from library databases, organize citations, generate bibliographies, and format citations in a Word document. EndNote can help make managing your references and formatting citations easy.&nbsp;&nbsp; This workshop is offered through the College of Graduate Studies Pathways to Success professional development program … Events at UCF Violence Prevention Certificate Series: Title IX (Recurring Event) June 13, 2022 at 11 a.m. until noon RWC: 249 Let&rsquo;s Be Clear is offering a series of virtual and in person leadership opportunities through our Violence Prevention Certificate Series to teach students how to support and care for fellow Knights. This series of workshops provides students with an understanding of topics related to interpersonal violence, Title IX, safety, and how to connect students who may be impacted. Students who … Events at UCF Apps To Help Organize Your Research Life June 13, 2022 at 12 p.m. until 1 p.m. Graduate Student Center: Trevor Colbourn Hall: 213 Need help staying on task, keeping track of research sources, or organizing your time? There's an app for that! Join us as we cover how mobile apps can help you organize your graduate school life. Be sure to have&nbsp;your mobile device ready to test drive&nbsp;apps during the presentation. This workshop is offered through the College of Graduate Studies Pathways to … Events at UCF The Practical Coach - LDR008 (Faculty & Staff Supervisors Only) June 14, 2022 at 9 a.m. until 10:30 a.m. Virtual Coaching is part of the performance management process and strengthens your abilities as a supervisor. During this 90-minute workshop, participants will learn keys to effectively coach employees when they are doing well, when they are doing poorly, and when they are heading down a dead-end road. The workshop consists of a 25-minute video and facilitated practice to reinforce the methods … Events at UCF The Academic Job Search - Webinar June 14, 2022 at 12 p.m. until 1 p.m. Virtual Are you prepared to begin the job search process? This workshop will provide a comprehensive overview of the academic job search. We will discuss the job search timeline, pre-application and application process, as well as expectations of faculty interviews. This workshop is offered through the College of Graduate Studies Pathways to Success professional development program for graduate students. See https://graduate.ucf.edu/pathways-to-success … Events at UCF Previous 1 2 Next Categories: Academic Arts Exhibit Career/Jobs Concert/Performance Entertainment Health Holiday Meeting Open Forum Recreation & Exercise Service/Volunteer Social Event Speaker/Lecture/Seminar Sports Tour/Open House/Information Session Uncategorized/Other Workshop/Conference Feeds: Apple iCal Feed (ICS) Microsoft Outlook Feed (ICS) RSS Feed XML Feed JSON Feed © University of Central Florida UCF Announcements Help & Documentation Contact