Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Event Management Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Affiliations Events Venues Services Policies & Forms Reserve/Request A Quote About Us Columbia Students Faculty & Staff Guests Browse Event Possibilities Filming on Campus Meetings & Conferences Performances Student Events Weddings & Social Events Event Gallery Accessibility Our Venues View All Venues Butler Hall Earl Hall Faculty House Low Library Lerner Hall Saint Paul’s Chapel Outdoor Spaces Residence Hall Lounges Classrooms Partner Venues Other Columbia Venues AV/Technical Services Explore AV/Technical Services Request AV/Technical Services Catering Services Explore Catering Services Request Catering Services Event Logistics Access & Security Custodial Services Electrical & Carpentry Support Vendor Recommendations Event Setup & Additional Services Specialty Events Barbecue Events on Campus Events with Alcohol Filming on Campus View All Services All Policies & Forms Quick View of Our Forms First-Time Customers & Guests Request a Quote for Event Space Request AV/Technical Services Quote Request Catering Services Quote Faculty, Staff & Students Log-in to EMS Request an EMS Account Our Service Promise Our Team News Sustainability Work With Us Event Management You are here: Home Events Browse Event Possibilities Performances Performances Productions Fit for the Big Apple Columbia Event Management helps organizers execute performances and productions that are on par with events found on Broadway and all over New York City. From theatrical events and concerts to fashion shows and dance performances, our team can help you book space, understand policy, and plan out the most technical needs like lighting, sound and effects. This option is for guests or Columbia affiliates without an EMS Account. Columbia Affiliates with an EMS Account should submit requests through EMS. Possibilities Depending on your affiliation, review our helpful guides to securing space, understanding the process, and navigating policy before you get started. Students Students plan amazing performances! Make sure to consult with your adviser before you get started, then work with our team to request space and plan services. Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff host performances for the Columbia community and beyond in our venues. Learn how our team can help you orchestrate your next work of art. Guests Guests to Columbia are able to make use of our historic venues for events of all scales. Get to know our venues and services, then talk to our team about how to get planning. AV and Technical Services Our Technical Services team provides audio, visual, lighting expertise and equipment for productions and performances of all scales. Lighting Whether it's dramatic stage lighting or custom spotlights, our team can help you plan how this effect can make your event extra special. Sound Music, amplified sound, and other audio effects are an important component to any production. Our team of experts audio and visual technicians are here to support. Visual Whether it's a projection or another visual effect, our team can help you plan and execute to enhance the impact of your performance. Columbia University Event Management2920 Broadway, Lerner Hall 7th floor · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-5800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close