Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Event Management Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Affiliations Events Venues Services Policies & Forms Reserve/Request A Quote About Us Columbia Students Faculty & Staff Guests Browse Event Possibilities Filming on Campus Meetings & Conferences Performances Student Events Weddings & Social Events Event Gallery Accessibility Our Venues View All Venues Butler Hall Earl Hall Faculty House Low Library Lerner Hall Saint Paul’s Chapel Outdoor Spaces Residence Hall Lounges Classrooms Partner Venues Other Columbia Venues AV/Technical Services Explore AV/Technical Services Request AV/Technical Services Catering Services Explore Catering Services Request Catering Services Event Logistics Access & Security Custodial Services Electrical & Carpentry Support Vendor Recommendations Event Setup & Additional Services Specialty Events Barbecue Events on Campus Events with Alcohol Filming on Campus View All Services All Policies & Forms Quick View of Our Forms First-Time Customers & Guests Request a Quote for Event Space Request AV/Technical Services Quote Request Catering Services Quote Faculty, Staff & Students Log-in to EMS Request an EMS Account Our Service Promise Our Team News Sustainability Work With Us Event Management You are here: Home Services Vendor Recommendations Vendor Recommendations Need a photographer, DJ, or special occasion cake? We can help. We know some of the best in the business and can recommend vendors for every budget and need. Just let your event planner know what you need and we can connect you with trusted vendors and even book services on your behalf. Below are just a few of the ways we can help: Entertainment If your special occasion calls for entertainment or production effects, your event planner can help you brainstorm ideas and recommend vendors. There is a wide variety of options for you to consider, including DJs and bands for music, novelty games, specialty artists for graffiti or caricatures, and event production companies for lighting and staging. Talk with your event planner to bring your ideas to life. After assessing your needs, they can make vendor recommendations or can facilitate bookings on your behalf. Floral Arrangements Floral and plant arrangements are an important part of the environment of your event. Our planning team can recommend trusted vendors and manage the order, delivery and set up for you. We can provide creative ideas and solutions for any budget, from simple bud vases dotting reception tables and plants accenting the podium to ornamental arrangements adorning the bar and freestanding trees lining the room. Talk to your event planner about the subject matter, colors, and room set up of your event to identify what flowers or plants may work best. Photographer/Videographer Our team knows Columbia and understands our event spaces. We can recommend photographers or videographers to capture the best shots and footage of your event. If you are holding a meeting on campus and need the event recorded, you can also contact the Center for Digital Research and Scholarship at 212-851-2838 or email [email protected]. If you are making your own arrangements, we’ll work with you to coordinate support from our Technical Services team for things like lighting and power sources, as needed. Speciality Cakes & Desserts We work with some of New York's finest pastry chefs, including the amazing Ron Ben-Israel. Whatever the needs, and whatever you can imagine, we can help make it a reality. Guests or Columbia Affiliates Without an EMS Account: We're looking forward to working with you to put together an amazing event! Complete the quote request form. We'll get back to you within 48 hours of your request. Request a Quote Columbia Affiliates with EMS Accounts: As always, we're here to assist you in finding the perfect space for your meetings and events. Log into the Event Management System (EMS) to begin the process. Log In To EMS Additional Information View Our Catering Menus View Our Event Gallery Applies To Student Events Weddings & Social Events Meetings & Conferences Performances Filming on Campus Venue Low Library Lerner Hall St. Paul's Chapel Earl Hall Outdoor Spaces Residence Hall Lounges Classrooms Faculty House Other Columbia Venues Provider Columbia University Event Management Columbia University Event Management2920 Broadway, Lerner Hall 7th floor · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-5800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close