Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Event Management Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Affiliations Events Venues Services Policies & Forms Reserve/Request A Quote About Us Columbia Students Faculty & Staff Guests Browse Event Possibilities Filming on Campus Meetings & Conferences Performances Student Events Weddings & Social Events Event Gallery Accessibility Our Venues View All Venues Butler Hall Earl Hall Faculty House Low Library Lerner Hall Saint Paul’s Chapel Outdoor Spaces Residence Hall Lounges Classrooms Partner Venues Other Columbia Venues AV/Technical Services Explore AV/Technical Services Request AV/Technical Services Catering Services Explore Catering Services Request Catering Services Event Logistics Access & Security Custodial Services Electrical & Carpentry Support Vendor Recommendations Event Setup & Additional Services Specialty Events Barbecue Events on Campus Events with Alcohol Filming on Campus View All Services All Policies & Forms Quick View of Our Forms First-Time Customers & Guests Request a Quote for Event Space Request AV/Technical Services Quote Request Catering Services Quote Faculty, Staff & Students Log-in to EMS Request an EMS Account Our Service Promise Our Team News Sustainability Work With Us Event Management You are here: Home Affiliations Resources for Faculty & Staff Resources for Faculty & Staff YOUR EVENT'S SUCCESS IS OUR FOCUS As members of the Columbia Community, our priority is to help you conduct the very best events. To make the process easier, we've collected everything you need to know to prepare and plan here on this resources page, and our staff is ready to help you succeed. This option is for guests or Columbia affiliates without an Event Management System (EMS) Account. Columbia Affiliates with an EMS Account should submit requests through EMS. Venue Availability calendar icon During the Academic Year Faculty and staff can book meeting space and services at any time during the calendar year, in all our venues with the exception of Lerner Hall, Columbia's dedicated student center. During the Academic Year, spaces within Lerner Hall can only be reserved by faculty and staff between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., Monday - Friday. sun icon During Academic Recesses All venue spaces are available to faculty and staff during academic recesses, including Lerner Hall, which can be booked Monday - Sunday during Winter and Spring recess periods (inquire for operating hours). What You're Saying "I want to commend your team for their amazing support and service. They promptly responded and addressed any issues that arose. Their support was invaluable to ensuring that our event was a success." ~ A Columbia Faculty Member “Columbia Event Management is a pleasure to work with -- they have created lovely, memorable events for the Libraries -- from our staff recognition celebrations, holiday parties, to lectures with seated dinners. The managers and staff are wonderfully responsive to our needs, and they make the planning process so easy. I greatly appreciate their professionalism and commitment to excellence!” ~ Columbia Libraries "We could not have done it without your team! Please, relay my appreciation to all your colleagues both at Faculty House and Low Library." ~ Columbia School of International and Public Affairs How To Get Started Event Planning Guide for Faculty & Staff Review our step-by-step guide for planning a successful event to ensure you don't miss any important policies or procedures. Event Policies & Guidelines See all policies and guidelines that are related to faculty and staff events. It'll help you avoid problems and get the most out of your events. How to Reserve Space & Request Services This brief step-by-step guide explains how to reserve space within our venues as well as request additional services. Leverage Our University Event Partners The University has a team of partners with the expertise to help you execute your event successfully and safely. Make sure to work with your event planner to involve these offices or reach out directly for support. Conference Housing During the summer, Columbia Housing opens its residence halls and meeting spaces to academic-related groups and conferences if your summer event requires guest accommodations in New York City. Columbia University Information Technology Based on the scale of your event and the location, Event Management may suggest you work with Columbia University Information Technology (CUIT) for additional services like extra phone and fax lines, configuring wireless access, or setting up ethernet ports. Disability Services Columbia makes every effort to accommodate individuals needing assistance. If you have guests that require disability accommodations to attend an event at Columbia University or want to ensure there are no access issues, we will help you coordinate with Disability Services. Facilities and Operations Columbia University Facilities and Operations is a critical part of many events on campus. From building and grounds maintenance to equipment rental and event construction, Facilities and Operations has the expertise to consult with you on even the most complex logistics. Print Services Columbia Print provides printing, graphic design, bulk mail and copier services and can support almost every need. Contact the Print team to help you imagine and produce customized materials for your event, from large-format banners to invitations and programs. Public Affairs & News Media If you plan to invite press or expect media interest at your event, the Columbia University Office of Communications and Public Affairs can provide guidance during the event planning process. Please also be aware of and adhere to the News Media Policies and Filming at Columbia. Public Safety Events meeting certain criteria may require security. In these cases, we will involve Columbia University Public Safety for added support. Public Safety will consult with you on best practices involving occupancy and crowd control, entrance and exit procedures, fire safety and preparing for any potential sensitive circumstances. Columbia Transportation Columbia Transportation can coordinate bus and van rental services to help with guest or participant travel for your event. Vehicles range from 11-passenger vans to 49-passenger coaches. Contact the Transportation team for quotes and reservations. Our Venues The following venues can be reserved through our team. Classrooms A number of Columbia classrooms can be reserved for meetings and seminars (food and catering not permitted.) Though managed by the University Registrar, our team can help you find the ideal classroom space based on your event capacity and needs, as well as help you book your reservation if necessary. Earl Hall Earl Hall is home to Columbia's religious and community service activity. It also provides spaces suitable for film screenings, performances, conferences, seminars, meetings, and lectures. Faculty House Faculty House is our premiere event space and the perfect place to host weddings and other special events, as well as upscale seminars, meetings, events and banquets. Lerner Hall As Columbia's Student Center, Lerner Hall offers 24,000 square feet of meeting, performance and event space for Columbia University students throughout the academic year. Spaces at Lerner are available to faculty and staff between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. during the academic term, and any time the building is open during recesses. Low Library Low Library, one of the most iconic buildings on Columbia's Morningside Campus, provides a gorgeous backdrop to any event. Outdoor Spaces Columbia University's campus is the perfect backdrop for your event. From open-air plazas, to shady, tree-lined courtyards, we have a space for every need. Saint Paul's Chapel This beautifully detailed and recently-restored chapel will provide a beautiful backdrop to any religious ceremony. The Chapel provides Catholic, Episcopal, and Hindu services throughout the academic year. Our Services Below are the additional services that Event Management provides outside of reserving event spaces on campus. From catering to AV/technical services, to furniture rental, security services and more, we can provide everything you need to hold an event that truly impresses. Catering Events with Alcohol Access and Security Custodial Services Electrical and Carpentry Services Event Setup & Additional Services Vendor Recommendations Barbecue Events on Campus AV/Technical Services Filming on Campus Sort Applies To Venue Provider Keyword filter: Filter Filter Filter AllLetter Services, showing - Clear filtersFilterFilterFilter edit edit edit edit Columbia University Event Management2920 Broadway, Lerner Hall 7th floor · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-5800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close