Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Give to UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap Search Tools People Search Course Search Cane Link myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Give to UM Schools Alumni Roadmap Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links News and Events Center People Search Canelink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Search All Events Academics Athletics Arts Events for... Undergrad Students Grad Students Alumni Faculty/Staff Prospective Students Share Feedback All Events Academics Athletics Alumni Arts Student Life Events for... All Events Academics Athletics Arts Events for... Undergrad Students Grad Students Alumni Faculty/Staff Prospective Students Search Search Places Events Groups Departments Log in Sign up University of Miami Friday, June 3 32nd Annual Bankruptcy Skills Workshop , June 3, 2022 32nd Annual Bankruptcy Skills Workshop , June 3, 2022 Buy Tickets Clear message 32nd Annual Bankruptcy Skills Workshop , June 3, 2022 Friday, June 3, 2022 - Friday, June 3, 2022 Buy Tickets Share 32nd Annual Bankruptcy Skills Workshop , June 3, 2022 Share 32nd Annual Bankruptcy Skills Workshop , June 3, 2022 on Facebook Share 32nd Annual Bankruptcy Skills Workshop , June 3, 2022 on Twitter Share 32nd Annual Bankruptcy Skills Workshop , June 3, 2022 on LinkedIn I'm Interested Buy Tickets About this Event University of Miami School of Law, E352 Add to calendar Save to Google Calendar Save to iCal Save to Outlook 1311 Miller Drive, Coral Gables, FL 33146 https://www.law.miami.edu/academics/continuing-legal-education-cle/bankruptcy-skills-workshop #BSWMiami Add to calendar Get the latest information on consumer bankruptcy practice in the Southern District of Florida. PROGRAM: 8:00 AM – 8:30 AM Registration 8:30 AM – 9:30 AM Chapter 7 Practice Topics include: Best practices for knowing your client, preparing a case for filing and for the 341 meeting with the trustee, and what feedback to expect from the trustee and creditors. Recent trends in chapter 7 practice. Barry Mukamal, Co-Managing Partner, KapilaMukamal, LLP and Chapter 7 Panel Trustee for the Southern District of Florida Zach Shelomith, JD '97, Partner at LSS Law Gerard M. Kouri, JD '83, Founder of Gerard M. Kouri, Jr., P.A. Steven D. Schneiderman, Esq., trial counsel for the Office of the United States Trustee Moderated by: Scott Brown, Partner at Bast Amron and Chapter 7 Panel Trustee 9:30 AM – 10:15 AM Effective and Persuasive Legal Writing for Bankruptcy Lawyers Topics include: The tension between high-quality legal writing and time constraints can force bankruptcy attorneys to draft complicated motions and legal documents on a tight schedule. This program will include examples of cogent drafting, quick tips for improving writing skills at all levels of practice, and pointers for drafting effective legal papers without blowing the budget. Hon. Erik P. Kimball of the Southern District of Florida Tara Trevorrow, Law Clerk to The Honorable Mindy A. Mora, United States Bankruptcy Judge for the Southern District of Florida Bernice C. Lee is Of Counsel at Kozyak Tropin & Throckmorton Moderated by: Nicole McLemore, Law Clerk to The Honorable Mindy A. Mora, United States Bankruptcy Judge for the Southern District of Florida 10:30 AM – 12:00 PM Bankruptcy Judges’ View from the Bench—Panel Discussion Topics include: Emerging issues in consumer bankruptcy. United States Bankruptcy Court Judges for the Southern District of Florida: The Hon. Laurel M. Isicoff, JD '82, Chief Judge The Hon. A. Jay Cristol, JD '59 The Hon. Erik P. Kimball The Hon. Scott M. Grossman The Hon. Robert A. Mark The Hon. Peter D. Russin Moderated by: Patricia A. Redmond, Esq., JD '79, Director, Bankruptcy Assistance Clinic; Adjunct Faculty, J.D. Program & Robert Traurig-Greenberg Traurig LL.M. in Real Property Development, Miami Law 12:45 – 1:45 PM Practice in the Southern District of Florida from the Perspective of the Clerk of Court and Courtroom Deputies Topics include: Updates on statistics, budget, space and facilities; court operations; recent administrative orders; CM/ ECF NextGeneration; common efiling deficiencies; and clerk’s office initiatives. A courtroom deputy panel will also review calendaring tips, submission of proposed orders, and digital-audio recording pointers. Featuring: Joe Falzone, Clerk of Court and Courtroom Deputies 2:00 – 3:00 PM Chapter 13 Practice Topics include: Chapter 13 procedures, plan, how to treat claims, what to do when claims change during the life of the plan, and how to get a chapter 13 plan confirmed quickly. Robin R. Weiner, Esq., JD '73, Standing Chapter 13 Trustee for Broward and West Palm Beach County Division Jeffrey Fraser, JD '10, Partner at Albertelli Law Justin Lefko, Hoskins Turco Lloyd & Lloyd 3:00 – 4:00 PM Show me the Crypto! What to do with Digital Assets in Bankruptcy Cases Topics include: An overview of the blockchain, cryptocurrency, NFT’s, and other digital assets, including tips for identifying and securing cryptocurrency assets, and the importance of disclosure. Alan Rosenberg, JD '11, Partner at Markowitz Ringel Trusty + Hartog Ido Alexander, JD '07, Founder of AlignX Law James Feltman, co-founder and CFO of an NFT company called Jupiter Group *Program may be subject to change Event Details Event Type Lecture/Conference Topics Law and Social Justice Audience Alumni General Public Faculty Prospective Students Admitted Students Students Staff Tags school of law Bankruptcy Website https://www.law.miami.edu/academics/c... Department School of Law Hashtag #BSWMiami Schedule My Agenda Log in to save your agenda! User Activity No recent activity Sign up to post University of Miami Event Types Ceremony/Reception Community Outreach Dates/Deadlines Education/Training Exhibit Facility Operations/Closures Information Session Lecture/Conference Meeting Performance/Screening Virtual Topics Academic Calendar Academics Admissions Arts and Culture Careers Climate and Environment Community Diversity and Inclusion Health and Wellness Hemispheric and Global Impact Innovation and Entrepreneurship Law and Social Justice Medical Philanthropy Research Science and Technology Social and Entertainment Audience Alumni Faculty General Public Prospective Students Staff Students Activity All events All groups All places Sign up Login Submit an event University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-2211 Office of Conference Services 1280 Stanford Drive, Office 1M056 Coral Gables, FL 33146 ecms@miami.edu Conference Services Planning Your Event Meeting Spaces and Rates Events and Calendar Help Contact Conference Services UM Network News@TheU Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2019 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices University of Miami Powered by the Localist Community Event Platform © All rights reserved Log in Log in with CaneID or Email Address is required. Password is required. I forgot my password I don't have an account yet