Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search University of Notre Dame Office of Public Affairs and Communications Notre Dame Events Menu Search Search Home > Submit an Event Submit an Event Faculty and staff: to submit an event, go to the Events list on your Conductor site and select "Request Import" on the right-hand side (under "Actions") of the individual event you want to submit, and then select or type in "events.nd.edu". Click the "Submit Event for Import" button. It wil be sent to the events.nd.edu administrator for approval. If you do not have a Conductor site, contact calendar@nd.edu to be added to the Conductor sharing site: conductorshare.nd.edu, where you can create and submit an event. Before submitting a public event, check the website to see if it has already been entered, especially if the event is co-sponsored by multiple academic departments or student clubs/groups. Be sure to include the following in the Content section of your event: Event URL Room number Contact information: (e.g.: Department name; phone number; email; department URL.) Who your audience is (students, faculty, staff, the public?) For canceled, postponed, or rescheduled events: Please do not delete the entry entirely — some readers download individual events to their personal calendars. Instead, add the word "CANCELED", "POSTPONED" or "RESCHEDULED" to the beginning of the title field. Thank you. Home Submit an Event View upcoming events Architecture, School of Arts and Entertainment Literary Events Performing Arts Snite Museum of Art Visual Arts Arts and Letters, College of Business, Mendoza College of Centers and Institutes Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Engineering, College of Faculty and Staff Global Affairs, Keough School of Graduate School Health and Recreation Hesburgh Libraries Law School Lectures and Conferences Notre Dame Research Official Academic Calendar Ongoing Open to the Public Privately-sponsored events Religious and Spiritual Science, College of Service Student Life Concerts and Comedy Free Food and Giveaways Informational Meetings, Fairs and Openhouses Lectures and Conferences, Student Life Movies Nightclub or Dance Plays and Other Performances Student Activities Office Student Life, Health and Recreation Student Life, Religious and Spiritual Student Life, Service Trips Workshops Other Calendars Alumni external-link Registrar external-link Athletics external-link Game Day external-link Copyright © 2022 University of Notre Dame Notre Dame Events 500 Grace Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA calendar@nd.edu Accessibility Information