Skip to contentSkip to ongoing events UC Berkeley EventsToggle navigation Browse by date Critic's choice All events Academic Lectures Sports Performing arts Films Exhibits Other Event detail Documenting the Japanese American Incarceration Through Narratives and Data: An in-person and online symposium Conference/Symposium | June 2 | 2-4 p.m. | Doe Library, Morrison Library Sponsor: Bancroft Library Session 1: Japanese American Intergenerational Narratives Oral History Project: Is Healing Possible? 2:00 pm - 3:00 pm This session explores the Oral History Center's ongoing Japanese American Intergenerational Narratives Oral History Project that documents and disseminates the ways in which intergenerational trauma and healing occurred after the U.S. government's incarceration of Japanese Americans during World War II. This project examines and compares how private memory, creative expression, place, and public interpretation intersect at the Manzanar and Topaz prison camps in California and Utah. This panel will include discussion with interviewers, and it will feature conversations with a clinical psychologist and specialist in intergenerational trauma who advises on the project and leads healing circles for narrators, as well as a narrator who was interviewed for the project. Roger Eardley-Pryor, Interviewer, the Oral History Center Shanna Farrell, Interviewer, the Oral History Center Dr. Lisa Nakamura, clinical psychologist and Topaz descendant Ruth Sasaki, Topaz Stories Editor Amanda Tewes, Interviewer, the Oral History Center Session 2: Giving Data Back to the Community through Computational Scholarship: Two Case Studies Focused on Japanese American Incarceree Records from World War II 3:00 pm - 4:00 pm This session brings together two in-process projects that are working to encourage computational and ethical access to collections and data. Presenters from The Bancroft Library and Densho will discuss their projects related to records surrounding the forced removal and incarceration of 120,000 persons of Japanese ancestry during World War II. The intersectional and positional work of these projects highlights the importance of building new partnerships outside of the archives to create new content and implement community co-curation models to support on-going inquiry, knowledge-building, and exploration around this topic, with implications for vulnerable communities today. Mary Elings, Interim Deputy Director, The Bancroft Library Marissa Friedman, Digital Project Archivist, The Bancroft Library Brian Niiya, Content Director, Densho Geoff Froh, Deputy Director, Densho Vijay Singh, CEO, Doxie.AI These events will be recorded. Funding for this event was made possible, in part, by grants from the U.S. Department of the Interior, National Park Service, Japanese American Confinement Sites Grant Program and The Henri and Tomoye Takahashi Charitable Foundation. Covid Protocols We ask that participants comply with all health and safety guidelines and protocols recommended by UC Berkeley. This includes wearing a mask while indoors. Open to audience: All Audiences Registration not required Registration info: Click link for virtual participation. Register online Event contact: bancroft@library.berkeley.edu, 510-642-3781 Access Coordinator: Amber Lawrence, libraryevents@berkeley.edu, 510-459-9108 Photo by Dorothea Lange, WRA C-492 Set email reminder Email to a friend Add to my Google calendar (bCal) Download to my calendar << June 2022 >> S M T W T F S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 Today's eventsRSS This week's eventsRSS This month's eventsRSS Subscribe to Critics Choice Browse Other campus calendars Academic calendar Webcasts & podcasts Event news stories Follow Us Subscribe to critic’s choice email list Critic’s choice RSS Resources Campus map Parking and directions Disability access Campus event facilities About Admin login Submit or edit an event Event submission guidelines Critic’s choice submission Contact us Copyright © 2022 UC Regents; all rights reserved Accessibility Nondiscrimination Privacy