Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Give to UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap Search Tools People Search Course Search Cane Link myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Give to UM Schools Alumni Roadmap Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links News and Events Center People Search Canelink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Search All Events Academics Athletics Arts Events for... Undergrad Students Grad Students Alumni Faculty/Staff Prospective Students Share Feedback All Events Academics Athletics Alumni Arts Student Life Events for... All Events Academics Athletics Arts Events for... Undergrad Students Grad Students Alumni Faculty/Staff Prospective Students Search Search Places Events Groups Departments Log in Sign up University of Miami Places to Go Clear message Places to Go Filter Filter results Layout small Layout medium Layout big Sort by Name Popularity Place Types Academic/Research (67)Clinical/Medical (37)Speciality (33)Administrative (17)Student Life (16)Residential Areas (8)Arts (6)Dining (4) Cancel Apply filters Albenga Garage 1525 Albenga Ave, Coral Gables, FL 33146 Speciality Alex Rodriguez Park at Mark Light Field 6201 San Amaro Dr, Coral Gables, FL 33146 Located on the school's main campus in Coral Gables, Alex Rodriguez Park at Mark Light Field is home to the University of Miami Hurricanes baseball team. Winners of four National Championships (1982, 1985, 1999, 2001), the ballpark has produced Major League Baseball players such as Ryan Braun, Pat Burrell, Greg Vaughn, Charles Johnson and Yasmani Grandal. Within the last couple of years, renovations to Alex Rodriguez Park were implemented due in large part to a $3.9 million contribution by former New York Yankees third baseman and 14-time MLB All-Star Alex Rodriguez. The gift - the largest ever to the University of Miami baseball program - has assisted in the continued development of first-class facilities for the student-athletes and fans. The $3.9 million dollar gift for Alex Rodriguez Park allowed for UM to install state-of-the-art modifications such as a new concession area, new dugouts, new stadium lighting and new restrooms. Even with the modifications to the new concession area, fans are still able to enjoy the famous Mark Light Shakes that feature perfectly blended milkshakes coming in a variety of different flavors and toppings. The ballpark also saw an addition of a new clubhouse, weight room, training room, meeting room, video room and academic area. Further, a new press box, along with four VIP suites, were added for media members and guests. Lastly, a brand new locker room was built for UM baseball players. The new renovations have made Alex Rodriguez Park at Mark Light Field a fun, enjoyable and exciting venue for Miami Hurricanes and baseball fans alike. Speciality Allen Hall 5050 Brunson Dr, Coral Gables, FL 33146 Academic/Research Alpha Epsilon Pi 6000 San Amaro Dr, Coral Gables, FL 33146 Student Life Alpha Sigma Pi 5800 San Amaro Dr, Coral Gables, FL 33146 Student Life Applebaum MRI Ctr 1115 NW 14th St, Miami, FL 33136 Clinical/Medical Architecture 48 1223 Dickinson Dr, Coral Gables, FL 33146 Academic/Research Architecture 49 1217 Dickinson Dr, Coral Gables, FL 33146 Academic/Research Aresty 5250 University Dr, Coral Gables, FL 33146 Academic/Research 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … 21 University of Miami Event Types Ceremony/Reception Community Outreach Dates/Deadlines Education/Training Exhibit Facility Operations/Closures Information Session Lecture/Conference Meeting Performance/Screening Virtual Topics Academic Calendar Academics Admissions Arts and Culture Careers Climate and Environment Community Diversity and Inclusion Health and Wellness Hemispheric and Global Impact Innovation and Entrepreneurship Law and Social Justice Medical Philanthropy Research Science and Technology Social and Entertainment Audience Alumni Faculty General Public Prospective Students Staff Students Activity All events All groups All places Sign up Login Submit an event University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-2211 Office of Conference Services 1280 Stanford Drive, Office 1M056 Coral Gables, FL 33146 ecms@miami.edu Conference Services Planning Your Event Meeting Spaces and Rates Events and Calendar Help Contact Conference Services UM Network News@TheU Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2019 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices University of Miami Powered by the Localist Community Event Platform © All rights reserved Log in Log in with CaneID or Email Address is required. Password is required. I forgot my password I don't have an account yet