louisville.edu My Accounts Email Blackboard ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Calendar Event Calendar Search UofL Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA Donate Campuses Belknap Campus Health Sciences Center ShelbyHurst Campus Online & Distance Learning International Online louisville.edu log in University of Louisville › Places to Go Mobile Navigation Login Search Places to Go ← → 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 620 Garage Support Services This parking structure has 1,711 parking spaces for faculty, staff and students. Abell Administration Center Administration The Abell Administration Center houses the Office of the Executive Vice President for Health Affairs, the administrative offices of the School of Medicine,... Administrative Annex Administration The Administrative Annex is an office building that houses the Institute for International Development, UofL's Women's Center, the Commission on the Status... Ambulatory Care Building Healthcare The Ambulatory Care Building is primarily used for health care, clinics and medical faculty offices. Ambulatory Surgery Center Healthcare Amelia Place Amelia Place is the official home of the University of Louisville president. It is used for parties, banquets and meetings. Archives/Surplus Property Physical Plant Archives/Surplus Property is an office building for contract administration, risk management and procurement card auditors. It also provides storage for... Arthur Keeney House Administration The Keeney House has the administrative offices for the Office of University Advancement at the Health Sciences Center. Baptist Campus Center Student Activities Baptist Campus Center serves as a chapel for religious services, a student study/lounge area and the Baptist Campus Ministry office. Bass Rudd Tennis Center Athletics Bass-Rudd Tennis Center is home to the intercollegiate men and womenÕs tennis program. It has six indoor tennis courts, eight outdoor tennis courts and... Belknap Academic Building Academic Belknap Residence Hall Housing Beta Theta Pi Fraternity Housing Greek chapter house. Bettie Johnson Hall Housing Bettie Johnson Hall is apartment style student housing with a game room, study area, pool, lounge and workout space. Bingham Humanities Building Academic Bingham Humanities Building is classroom space and also houses Einstein Bros. Bagels and administrative and faculty offices for departments such as English,... Brandeis School of Law Academic Constructed in 1939, Wyatt Hall houses School of Law classroom space and offices as well as the Law Library. Brigman Hall Academic Brigman Hall is a classroom and faculty office building for justice administration. Brodschi Hall Support Services Brodschi Hall houses the International Center, the International Studies Program and administrative offices. Brown Cancer Center Health Care Burhans Hall Academic Burhans Hall houses the Kentucky Pollution Prevention Center, FBI Computer Forensics Lab, Family Therapy Child Welfare Training Program, and the Department... ← → 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Submit an Event All Events Places to Go Groups Sort by Name Popularity Community All Communities Belknap Campus Health Sciences Center Shelby Campus Experience All Experiences In-Person Virtual Type All Types Academic (43) Housing (24) Support Services (19) Athletics (14) Healthcare (7) Research (6) Student Activities (6) Administration (4) Education/Gallery (2) Dining (1) Health Care (1) Information Technology (1) Parking (1) Physical Plant (1) Reseach (1) Show More University of Louisville 2301 S. 3rd St. University of Louisville Louisville, Kentucky 40292 Get in touch (502) 852-6171 Contact us More Information Calendar FAQs What is this? Visitor Parking Campus Visits iPhone app UofL News Other Calendars Academic Calendars University Holidays Registration Schedules Exam Schedules Room Scheduling © University of Louisville Contact Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email Blackboard ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Calendar Events calendar powered by Localist software. Login to University of Louisville Login to interact with events, personalize your calendar, and get recommendations. Username Password