Events at UCF Log In Manage Edit Events Manager View Edit Calendar Users & Permissions Calendar Info Subscriptions Subscribe to Calendar Search events, calendars Search Day View Week View Month View Year View Upcoming View By... Day View Week View Month View Year View Upcoming Upcoming Events Presentation Skills (Recurring Event) June 22, 2022 at 3 p.m. until 4 p.m. Graduate Student Center: Trevor Colbourn Hall: 213 Come to this calm workshop about a nerve-wracking experience: giving a presentation. For many individuals, the prospect of giving a presentation causes anxiety, and you might find yourself anxious and overwhelmed. Presentations may be inevitable, but there are ways to bolster your skills and confidence. This interactive workshop includes ways to prepare for your presentation, techniques while you practice your … Events at UCF Recharge to Charge On - Yoga for Faculty and Staff (Recurring Event) June 22, 2022 at 4 p.m. until 5 p.m. Education Complex and Gymnasium: ED176 Relax and unwind with UCF faculty and staff during a free midweek afternoon yoga session, hosted by the Wellness Research Center from 4:00 to 5:00pm in the Education Complex and Gym, ED176. The session will be led by Violette Gibbs, a Yoga Alliance certified instructor. Participants are encouraged to bring a yoga mat or beach towel.&nbsp; Events at UCF Narcotics Anonymous (Recurring Event) June 22, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 8 p.m. Trevor Colbourn Hall: 351: 351 NA is a non-profit fellowship of men and women for whom drugs have become a major problem. We meet regularly to help each other live drug-free. There are no dues or fees, the only requirement for membership is a desire to stop using. Our fellowship focuses primarily on recovery from the disease of addiction. Anyone may join us regardless of … Events at UCF UCF/SSC Concurrent Virtual Information Session, BSN degree (via ZOOM) (Recurring Event) June 23, 2022 at 10 a.m. until noon Virtual To register for this Virtual Information Session, please visit http://ucfnursing.eventbrite.com/&nbsp;or https://www.seminolestate.edu/nursing/info-sessions -- This information session will only cover the SSC/UCF Concurrent ASN to BSN Program. This information session is designed to help nursing-pending students understand the process and steps for applying to UCF's limited-access Concurrent ASN to BSN program. In this interactive information session, ask questions and find out what … Events at UCF Application Deadline: Student Research Grant (Recurring Event) June 24, 2022 at 9 a.m. until 10 p.m. Virtual Applications for Summer funds due Mar. 25. Applications for Fall funds due Jun. 24. Application and submission details can be found here: https://academicsuccess.ucf.edu/our/research-grants/ Events at UCF SVAD In-Person Info Session & Tour (Recurring Event) June 24, 2022 at 9:30 a.m. until 11:45 a.m. Visual Arts Building We're offering in-person information sessions and tours again!Interested in studying visual arts at UCF? Join us for a in-person information session! Our SVAD Advising team will give an overview of the programs offered in UCF's School of Visual Arts and Design (SVAD) and a short Q&amp;A session will follow the presentation. After the info session, a walking tour of select … Events at UCF Online Information Session for UCF's Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) Program (Recurring Event) June 24, 2022 at 10 a.m. until noon Virtual Join us online for an information session on the&nbsp;Bachelor of Science in Nursing degree at UCF&nbsp;and learn about the unique admission requirements for each BSN program track. In this interactive information session, ask questions and find out what you need to know to successfully prepare your BSN program application. --- UCF&rsquo;s Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) Information Sessions&nbsp;are designed … Events at UCF Online Information Session for UCF's Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) Program (Recurring Event) June 24, 2022 at 10 a.m. until noon Virtual Join us online for an information session on the&nbsp;Bachelor of Science in Nursing degree at UCF&nbsp;and learn about the unique admission requirements for each BSN program track. In this interactive information session, ask questions and find out what you need to know to successfully prepare your BSN program application. --- UCF&rsquo;s Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) Information Sessions&nbsp;are designed … Events at UCF Camp Connect I (Recurring Event) June 27, 2022 at 8 a.m. until 4:30 p.m. L3Harris Engineering Center: 101 Camp Connect is a week-long day camp that introduces students to a variety of Engineering disciplines &mdash;Electrical, Computer, Industrial, Mechanical, Civil, Environmental, Construction, Aerospace &mdash; &amp; Computer Science. It immerses students in engineering integrated activities and provides tips on how to prepare for college &amp; networking! Rising 8th to 11th grade students are immersed in engineering and computer science through … Events at UCF Al-Anon: Serenity Now (Recurring Event) June 27, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 8 p.m. Trevor Colbourn Hall: 351 *This group meets every Monday except for on the following University holidays: Monday, May 30th - Memorial Day Monday, July 4th - Fourth of July The Al-Anon Family Groups are a fellowship of relatives and friends of alcoholics who share their experience, strength, and hope in order to solve their common problems. We believe alcoholism is a family illness, and … Events at UCF Camp Connect I (Recurring Event) June 28, 2022 at 8 a.m. until 4:30 p.m. L3Harris Engineering Center: 101 Camp Connect is a week-long day camp that introduces students to a variety of Engineering disciplines &mdash;Electrical, Computer, Industrial, Mechanical, Civil, Environmental, Construction, Aerospace &mdash; &amp; Computer Science. It immerses students in engineering integrated activities and provides tips on how to prepare for college &amp; networking! Rising 8th to 11th grade students are immersed in engineering and computer science through … Events at UCF Summer 2022 GKT Math Study Group (Recurring Event) June 28, 2022 at 4 p.m. until 5 p.m. Virtual These sessions allow students to work on the GKT in small groups or independently with the aid of a tutor.&nbsp; Bring your own study material(s) with specific questions or work with others on the test example provided by the FTCE website. Events at UCF Alcoholics Anonymous (Recurring Event) June 28, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 8 p.m. Trevor Coulborn Hall 351: 351 ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS is a fellowship of people who share their experience, strength, and hope with each other that they may solve their common problem and help others to recover from alcoholism. The only requirement for membership is a desire to stop drinking. There are no dues or fees for A.A. membership; we are self-supporting through our own contributions. A.A. is … Events at UCF Camp Connect I (Recurring Event) June 29, 2022 at 8 a.m. until 4:30 p.m. L3Harris Engineering Center: 101 Camp Connect is a week-long day camp that introduces students to a variety of Engineering disciplines &mdash;Electrical, Computer, Industrial, Mechanical, Civil, Environmental, Construction, Aerospace &mdash; &amp; Computer Science. It immerses students in engineering integrated activities and provides tips on how to prepare for college &amp; networking! Rising 8th to 11th grade students are immersed in engineering and computer science through … Events at UCF How to Get a Good Knights Sleep June 29, 2022 at 4 p.m. until 5 p.m. Health Center: Conference Room C (206) Over 80% of UCF students reported feeling they don't get enough sleep on a regular basis! Join us for a workshop and learn from Student Health Services' resident sleep expert, Kristina Grabnickas, MSN, APRN. You will gain a better understanding of the sleep cycle and why it's important for our health, as well as learn tips and tricks on how … Events at UCF Narcotics Anonymous (Recurring Event) June 29, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 8 p.m. Trevor Colbourn Hall: 351: 351 NA is a non-profit fellowship of men and women for whom drugs have become a major problem. We meet regularly to help each other live drug-free. There are no dues or fees, the only requirement for membership is a desire to stop using. Our fellowship focuses primarily on recovery from the disease of addiction. Anyone may join us regardless of … Events at UCF Camp Connect I (Recurring Event) June 30, 2022 at 8 a.m. until 4:30 p.m. L3Harris Engineering Center: 101 Camp Connect is a week-long day camp that introduces students to a variety of Engineering disciplines &mdash;Electrical, Computer, Industrial, Mechanical, Civil, Environmental, Construction, Aerospace &mdash; &amp; Computer Science. It immerses students in engineering integrated activities and provides tips on how to prepare for college &amp; networking! Rising 8th to 11th grade students are immersed in engineering and computer science through … Events at UCF Big Skills for Leading Small: Building Great Teams June 30, 2022 at 10 a.m. until 11 a.m. Virtual It&rsquo;s no secret we are facing new challenges as small business owners. The current labor market has put employees in a position of power and, for the first time in decades, the pool of eligible employees is declining. The incentives to work with larger companies is increasing with offers of free tuition, signing bonuses, and even cash for just applying!&nbsp; … Events at UCF Camp Connect I (Recurring Event) July 1, 2022 at 8 a.m. until 4:30 p.m. L3Harris Engineering Center: 101 Camp Connect is a week-long day camp that introduces students to a variety of Engineering disciplines &mdash;Electrical, Computer, Industrial, Mechanical, Civil, Environmental, Construction, Aerospace &mdash; &amp; Computer Science. It immerses students in engineering integrated activities and provides tips on how to prepare for college &amp; networking! Rising 8th to 11th grade students are immersed in engineering and computer science through … Events at UCF Al-Anon: Serenity Now (Recurring Event) July 4, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 8 p.m. Trevor Colbourn Hall: 351 *This group meets every Monday except for on the following University holidays: Monday, May 30th - Memorial Day Monday, July 4th - Fourth of July The Al-Anon Family Groups are a fellowship of relatives and friends of alcoholics who share their experience, strength, and hope in order to solve their common problems. We believe alcoholism is a family illness, and … Events at UCF Violence Prevention Certificate Series: Title IX (Recurring Event) July 5, 2022 at 10 a.m. until 11 a.m. Virtual Let&rsquo;s Be Clear is offering a series of virtual and in person leadership opportunities through our Violence Prevention Certificate Series to teach students how to support and care for fellow Knights. This series of workshops provides students with an understanding of topics related to interpersonal violence, Title IX, safety, and how to connect students who may be impacted. Students who … Events at UCF Summer 2022 GKT Math Study Group (Recurring Event) July 5, 2022 at 4 p.m. until 5 p.m. Virtual These sessions allow students to work on the GKT in small groups or independently with the aid of a tutor.&nbsp; Bring your own study material(s) with specific questions or work with others on the test example provided by the FTCE website. Events at UCF Alcoholics Anonymous (Recurring Event) July 5, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 8 p.m. Trevor Coulborn Hall 351: 351 ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS is a fellowship of people who share their experience, strength, and hope with each other that they may solve their common problem and help others to recover from alcoholism. The only requirement for membership is a desire to stop drinking. There are no dues or fees for A.A. membership; we are self-supporting through our own contributions. A.A. is … Events at UCF Government Contracting: Overview (Recurring Event) July 6, 2022 at 9 a.m. until noon Virtual Federal, state and local government procurement is the largest target market in the world. The question is usually not &ldquo;Does the government buy what you are selling?&rdquo;...it is more &ldquo;Can you be competitive enough and relentless enough to position your business to win government contracts?&rdquo; If you think you can be competitive, then government contracting may be a good growth … Events at UCF EndNote Citation Management (Recurring Event) July 6, 2022 at 12 p.m. until 1 p.m. Virtual Citation management tools allow you to dedicate more time to research. Join us to learn how to export citations from library databases, organize citations, generate bibliographies, and format citations in a Word document. EndNote can help make managing your references and formatting citations easy.&nbsp;&nbsp; This workshop is offered through the College of Graduate Studies Pathways to Success professional development program … Events at UCF 1 Previous 3 4 5 6 7 Next 10 May 2022 April June Su M Tu W Th F Sa 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 1 2 3 4 Filter by Category: Academic Arts Exhibit Career/Jobs Concert/Performance Entertainment Health Holiday Meeting Open Forum Recreation & Exercise Service/Volunteer Social Event Speaker/Lecture/Seminar Sports Tour/Open House/Information Session Uncategorized/Other Workshop/Conference Feeds: Apple iCal Feed (ICS) Microsoft Outlook Feed (ICS) RSS Feed XML Feed JSON Feed © University of Central Florida UCF Announcements Help & Documentation Contact