Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Event Management Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Affiliations Events Venues Services Policies & Forms Reserve/Request A Quote About Us Columbia Students Faculty & Staff Guests Browse Event Possibilities Filming on Campus Meetings & Conferences Performances Student Events Weddings & Social Events Event Gallery Accessibility Our Venues View All Venues Butler Hall Earl Hall Faculty House Low Library Lerner Hall Saint Paul’s Chapel Outdoor Spaces Residence Hall Lounges Classrooms Partner Venues Other Columbia Venues AV/Technical Services Explore AV/Technical Services Request AV/Technical Services Catering Services Explore Catering Services Request Catering Services Event Logistics Access & Security Custodial Services Electrical & Carpentry Support Vendor Recommendations Event Setup & Additional Services Specialty Events Barbecue Events on Campus Events with Alcohol Filming on Campus View All Services All Policies & Forms Quick View of Our Forms First-Time Customers & Guests Request a Quote for Event Space Request AV/Technical Services Quote Request Catering Services Quote Faculty, Staff & Students Log-in to EMS Request an EMS Account Our Service Promise Our Team News Sustainability Work With Us Event Management You are here: Home Events Browse Event Possibilities Meetings & Conferences Meetings & Conferences Flexibility in the City Space in New York City is tough to find, but our venues offer a variety of flexible options. From small meeting rooms for breakout sessions to premiere spaces for hosting large events, our venues have something to offer everyone. No detail is too small or challenge too great, our team provides an unmatched experience in planning to ensure seamless execution. Allow us to tend to all of the details. Complete Meeting Packages are available for Faculty House and Lerner Hall, providing all that you need to make your next meeting a success. This option is for guests or Columbia affiliates without an EMS Account. Columbia Affiliates with an EMS Account should submit requests through EMS. A large conference conducted in the Roone Arledge Auditorium in Lerner Hall. Possibilities Our rooms are designed to go with the flow and accommodate events of all scale and sizes, from private meetings to public events of notable interest. Customized set ups including adjustable airwalls allow many of our rooms to be configured in a number of ways to accommodate your guests and meet the needs of your event. Meetings and Conferences Spaces in our venues provide options for meetings for 10 people to conferences with hundreds of attendees. Talk to our event planning team about your programming needs and how to use our flexible spaces to execute your event. Panels and Expos Our spaces well equipped to host panel discussions, lectures, expos, or other special events that require flexible spaces with a variety of options based on the presentation, attendees, and event logistics. Supporting Events In addition to the main event, you may want to host break out sessions, a post-event reception, or other programming. Our team can help you think through the best way to bring it all together in our campus venues. Additional Offerings Beyond the space - logistics to help you execute a five-star meeting or conference. Catering Packages Coffee, Breakfast, Lunch, Breaks, Dinner -- you name it, we’ve got you covered! Order from our menus or let us help you customize your catering offerings to fit your needs and budget. On Campus Support We'll help you navigate on campus services to support your event, from security and access to custodial support and outside vendors. A member of our planning team can help you to understand protocols and services to guarantee your program's success. AV and Technical Services Most of our meeting spaces offer built-in audio visual equipment and feature the latest in presentation technology. From a simple presentation, polycom, or panels to live streaming and complex lighting options, our Technical Service team can help facilitate it all. We know technology is an important component of events and provide the tools to ensure an exceptional experience. Columbia University Event Management2920 Broadway, Lerner Hall 7th floor · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-5800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close