Skip to content Cornell University Search toggle menu close About Cornell About Cornell Overview University Facts Maps & Directions Mission & Vision Core Values Locations Ithaca New York City Related Links Diversity Indigenous Engagement Economic Impact Sustainability Global Cornell Leadership Admissions Overview Undergraduate Apply Admissions Dates and Deadlines Costs and Aid Graduate Admissions Fields of Study Financial Support Continuing Education & Summer Sessions Summer Sessions Winter Sessions Part-time Study Academics Academics Overview Fields of Study Colleges & Schools Departments Library Continuing Education Related Links Office of the Provost Academic Calendar Course Catalog Global Learning Learning Goals Research Overview Explore Cornell Research Extreme Talent. Radical Collaboration. Results That Matter. Related Links Vice President for Research and Innovation Centers & Institutes Technology Licensing (CTL) Graduate Research Undergraduate Research OVPRI Research Publications Public Engagement Overview Featured CCE helps Buffalo get school food truck rolling Related Links Cornell Cooperative Extension Engaged Cornell Hub Land Grant to New York State New York State Impact Life at Cornell Life at Cornell Overview Athletics & Recreation Arts & Culture Health & Safety Live, Work, Travel Student Life Related Links Find Your Networks Center for First-Year Students Clubs & Student Groups More Toggle navigation Apply Undergraduate Graduate Visit Give Students Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Search Search Login Search Search events.cornell.edu › Event Details Inequalities, Identities, and Justice - International Studies Summer Institute 2022 Tuesday, June 28, 2022 at 9:00am to 4:30pm Physical Science Building, 401 245 East Avenue, Ithaca, NY The 2022 International Studies Summer Institute (ISSI), a professional development workshop for practicing and pre-service K–12 teachers hosted annually by the Cornell University Einaudi Center for International Studies in collaboration with the Syracuse University South Asia Center, will be exploring inequalities, identities, and justice. During this cross-curriculum workshop, educators will engage in activities that integrate world-area knowledge from regions such as South Asia, Southeast Asia, Latin America, and Africa by exploring inequalities, identities, and justice, both historical and contemporary issues. Teachers will explore ideas on how to use the experience of the protests against racism and structural inequality, which crescendoed in the United States and more than 60 countries around the world in 2020. Doing so will grant them extensive knowledge about intersectional inequalities worldwide where marginalized groups struggle to access resources, health, rights, security, and well-being. Topics will address inequalities experienced across the globe, including cleavages in a society like race, religion, gender and sexuality, class, caste, language, and ethnicity. The nature of this theme, the 2022 ISSI, will be suitable for elementary, middle, and high school teachers from various disciplinary backgrounds. Participating teachers will complete a lesson plan that incorporates content from the workshop with the support and guidance of our outreach staff. Topics and list of presenters: Social injustices vulnerabilities and climate change in the Brazilian Amazon, by Fabio Zuker. Fábio will present how climate change exacerbates already existing inequalities, injustices, and vulnerabilities, taking as a departing point his own fieldwork at the Tapajós River (Pará Brazilian amazon), and the questions around the denial of indigenous identity by soy farmers. He will also mention other examples of how environmental conflicts and soybean expansion in the savannah-like biome named cerrado have exacerbated the sanitary vulnerabilities of the Xavante people during the Covid-19 pandemic. Teaching ‘the East’ in ‘the West’: From Postcolonial Theory to Pedagogical Practice, by Dr. Andrew Harding One of the major criticisms levelled at area studies disciplines over the last twenty years is that the division of the globe into distinct geo-political regions (e.g. “East Asia”) was initially undertaken in the interest of U.S. national security, rather than with a mind to greater cross-cultural understanding and collaboration. As a result, flagship Area Studies classes such as “Introduction to Japan” have tended to posit the target culture as an object “over there” which requires analysis precisely because it is distinct from “our” way of life “over here”. In a world in which border- and culture-crossing is increasingly the normal experience however, this assumed affinity between region and identity is becoming rapidly out of date and, from the perspective of students, largely irrelevant to their experience of the world as a single global continuum. In this presentation, I foreground a pedagogical approach in which I center authorial positionality, rather than national positionality, in relation to East Asian histories and societies. Rather than assuming that an author speaks for Japan, for example, what might it mean to think of them writing from or even to Japan? Why limit area studies to a study of those we assume to be from or representative of the “area” at all? By thus foregrounding an approach to “area” from a social, rather than national-cultural positionality, students are encouraged to consider social relations as a global operation, rather than one that is nationally or even culturally confined. Hindu Exceptionalism in India, by Mona Bhan Education and Social Transformation of Africa: Historical and Contemporary Factors of Inequality in Human Capacity Building, with a Focus on Gender by N’Dri Assie-Lumumba The contemporary European-inherited systems of formal education that were introduced to African societies during the colonial era, were at their inception imbued with inequality on various grounds. Among the grounds of inequality, the gender-based imbalance was the most persistent, with typical patterns of female under-representation in education. In the 20th century, after independence, there was considerable progress in female enrolment, due to robust policies. However, in many countries, a plateau had peaked dating decades back. However, numerous reforms that are in place, lack either consistent implementation or tend to reproduce and intensify gender inequality. The gaps, which exist at the basic level, tend to generally widen in higher education. Furthermore, post-secondary education tends to be characterized by gender-based disciplinary clusters that have negative implications for the female population. These distortions impede access to education for girls and women, a basic human right. Furthermore, considering the centrality of formal education that translates to socio-economic attainments of individuals, families, and ultimately national development of the State, it is imperative to undertake educational policies that are transformational. Registration is required https://bit.ly/22ISSI Sponsored by Syracuse University, Moynihan Institute for Global Affairs, South Asia Center, Cornell University’s Mario Einaudi Center for International Studies, Southeast Asia Program, South Asia Program, Institute for African Development, East Asia Program, Latin American Studies Program, Cornell Institute for European Studies, TST-BOCES, U.S. Department of Education Title VI Program Tweet Share Subscribe Google Calendar iCal Outlook Event Type Conference/Workshop Departments Mario Einaudi Center for International Studies, Reppy Institute for Peace and Conflict Studies, East Asia Program, Southeast Asia Program, Latin American and Caribbean Studies, Institute for African Development, South Asia Program Cost Informaiton in registration link Contact E-Mail outreach@einaudi.cornell.edu Contact Name Gloria Lemus-Chavez Contact Phone 607-253-2038 Disability Access Information Please contact Gloria for more information or to request accessibility arrangements Open To K-12 Teachers Recent Activity Comment Review Photo No recent activity Submit an Event Create your own custom weekly events email All Events Featured Events Places to Go Groups Buy Tickets Watch This I'm Interested Invite Friends People Interested No activity yet Getting Here <p>Your browser does not support iframes.</p> You're not going yet! This event requires registration. Buy Tickets Helpful Links expand menu Academic Calendar Leadership Careers Events News Title IX Emergency Preparedness Visiting Cornell expand menu Campus Tours Maps & Directions Ithaca-NYC Travel Johnson Museum Botanic Gardens Ithaca Ithaca Today expand menu Live View Weather Ithaca, New York University Privacy Web Accessibility Assistance Copyright Site Information Contact Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube This event content is powered by the Localist Event CMS. Login to Cornell Login to interact with events, personalize your calendar, and get recommendations. Login with NetID