Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search University of Notre Dame Office of Public Affairs and Communications Notre Dame Events Menu Search Search Home > Events > Conversation — "The Patient Revolution: Seeking Careful and Kind Healthcare" Conversation — "The Patient Revolution: Seeking Careful and Kind Healthcare" Time: Fri Jun 3, 2022, 2:00 pm - 3:00 pm Location: Geddes Hall, Coffee House How can we infuse industrial healthcare with compassion? What can be done to ensure that evidence-based and safe medical treatment is available for all? Join the Center for Social Concerns for a conversation about careful and kind medical care with Victor Montori, MD. Reception with drinks and hors d'oeuvres to follow. All are welcome. Books will be available. About the speaker Victor M. Montori, MD is aprofessor of medicine at Mayo Clinic. An endocrinologist, health services researcher, and care activist, Dr. Montori is the author of more than 700 peer-reviewed publications and is among the most cited researchers in clinical medicine and in social science. He is a recognized expert in evidence-based medicine, shared decision making, and minimally disruptive medicine. He works in Rochester, Minnesota, at Mayo Clinic's KER Unit, to advance person-centered care for patients with diabetes and other chronic conditions. He is the author of the book Why We Revolt, and leads the Patient Revolution, a movement for careful and kind care for all. Posted In: Centers and Institutes, Lectures and Conferences, and Open to the Public Add to Google Calendar Download Event Home Submit an Event View upcoming events Architecture, School of Arts and Entertainment Literary Events Performing Arts Snite Museum of Art Visual Arts Arts and Letters, College of Business, Mendoza College of Centers and Institutes Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Engineering, College of Faculty and Staff Global Affairs, Keough School of Graduate School Health and Recreation Hesburgh Libraries Law School Lectures and Conferences Notre Dame Research Official Academic Calendar Ongoing Open to the Public Privately-sponsored events Religious and Spiritual Science, College of Service Student Life Concerts and Comedy Free Food and Giveaways Informational Meetings, Fairs and Openhouses Lectures and Conferences, Student Life Movies Nightclub or Dance Plays and Other Performances Student Activities Office Student Life, Health and Recreation Student Life, Religious and Spiritual Student Life, Service Trips Workshops Other Calendars Alumni external-link Registrar external-link Athletics external-link Game Day external-link Copyright © 2022 University of Notre Dame Notre Dame Events 500 Grace Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA calendar@nd.edu Accessibility Information