Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Give to UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap Search Tools People Search Course Search Cane Link myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Give to UM Schools Alumni Roadmap Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links News and Events Center People Search Canelink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Search All Events Academics Athletics Arts Events for... Undergrad Students Grad Students Alumni Faculty/Staff Prospective Students Share Feedback All Events Academics Athletics Alumni Arts Student Life Events for... All Events Academics Athletics Arts Events for... Undergrad Students Grad Students Alumni Faculty/Staff Prospective Students Search Search Places Events Groups Departments Log in Sign up University of Miami Community Outreach Events Clear message Community Outreach Events June 1 - 30, 2022 Filter Filter results Hide recurring events Layout small Layout medium Layout big Sort by Date Name Popularity When Experience All Experiences In-Person Virtual Event Types Education/Training (24)Virtual (19)Community Outreach (13)Lecture/Conference (9)Performance/Screening (7)Meeting (3)Ceremony/Reception (2)Exhibit (2)Information Session (2)Dates/Deadlines (0)Facility Operations/Closures (0) Topics Health and Wellness (7)Community (6)Arts and Culture (3)Climate and Environment (2)Social and Entertainment (2)Diversity and Inclusion (1)Academic Calendar (0)Academics (0)Admissions (0)Careers (0)Hemispheric and Global Impact (0)Innovation and Entrepreneurship (0)Law and Social Justice (0)Medical (0)Philanthropy (0)Research (0)Science and Technology (0) Audience Alumni (7)Faculty (6)General Public (5)Staff (5)Students (4) Students - Grad/Professional (0) Students - International (0) Students - Undergrad (0)Prospective Students (0) Admitted Students (0) Athletics & Sports Athletics (0)Intramural/Club Sports (0)Men's Sports (0) Baseball (M) (0) Basketball (M) (0) Cross Country (M) (0) Diving (M) (0) Football (M) (0) Tennis (M) (0) Track and Field (M) (0)Women's Sports (0) Basketball (W) (0) Cross Country (W) (0) Golf (W) (0) Rowing (W) (0) Soccer (W) (0) Swimming and Diving (W) (0) Tennis (W) (0) Track and Field (W) (0) Volleyball (W) (0) Campaign Theme Ever Brighter (1) Brighter Arts (0) Brighter Champions (0) Brighter Education (0) Brighter Health (0) Brighter Opportunities (0) Brighter Planet (0) Brighter Science (0) Subscribe to Displayed Results Save to Google Calendar Save to iCal Save to Outlook Save to RSS Cancel Apply filters Subscribe Close Monday, June 6 Online Support Group for Parents/ Family Members of Adults with ASD Mon, Jun 6, 2022 7pm to 8pm Virtual Event Community Outreach I'm Interested Share Online Support Group for Parents/ Family Members of Adults with ASD Share Online Support Group for Parents/ Family Members of Adults with ASD on Facebook Share Online Support Group for Parents/ Family Members of Adults with ASD on Twitter Share Online Support Group for Parents/ Family Members of Adults with ASD on LinkedIn Tuesday, June 7 Hurricane Preparedness: Weathering the Storm Tue, Jun 7, 2022 12pm to 1pm Virtual Event Community Outreach I'm Interested Share Hurricane Preparedness: Weathering the Storm Share Hurricane Preparedness: Weathering the Storm on Facebook Share Hurricane Preparedness: Weathering the Storm on Twitter Share Hurricane Preparedness: Weathering the Storm on LinkedIn The Art of Mindfulness Tue, Jun 7, 2022 1pm to 2pm Virtual Event New Community Outreach Register Share The Art of Mindfulness Share The Art of Mindfulness on Facebook Share The Art of Mindfulness on Twitter Share The Art of Mindfulness on LinkedIn Monday, June 13 High School Teen Time Mon, Jun 13, 2022 4:30pm to 5:30pm Virtual Event Community Outreach I'm Interested Share High School Teen Time Share High School Teen Time on Facebook Share High School Teen Time on Twitter Share High School Teen Time on LinkedIn Middle School Teen Time Mon, Jun 13, 2022 5:45pm to 6:45pm Virtual Event Community Outreach I'm Interested Share Middle School Teen Time Share Middle School Teen Time on Facebook Share Middle School Teen Time on Twitter Share Middle School Teen Time on LinkedIn Tuesday, June 14 University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! Tue, Jun 14, 2022 10am to 12pm Don Soffer Clinical Research Center New Community Outreach I'm Interested Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! on Facebook Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! on Twitter Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! on LinkedIn The Art of Mindfulness Tue, Jun 14, 2022 1pm to 2pm Virtual Event New Community Outreach Register I'm Interested Share The Art of Mindfulness Share The Art of Mindfulness on Facebook Share The Art of Mindfulness on Twitter Share The Art of Mindfulness on LinkedIn Wednesday, June 15 Garden Volunteers Wanted! Wed, Jun 15, 2022 4pm to 5pm Sustainability Garden in the Gifford Arboretum New Community Outreach Register I'm Interested Share Garden Volunteers Wanted! Share Garden Volunteers Wanted! on Facebook Share Garden Volunteers Wanted! on Twitter Share Garden Volunteers Wanted! on LinkedIn University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! Wed, Jun 15, 2022 6:30pm to 8:30pm Don Soffer Clinical Research Center New Community Outreach I'm Interested Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! on Facebook Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! on Twitter Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! on LinkedIn Friday, June 17 Juneteenth Fri, Jun 17, 2022 11am to 12:30pm Virtual Event New Ceremony/Reception Register Share Juneteenth Share Juneteenth on Facebook Share Juneteenth on Twitter Share Juneteenth on LinkedIn Tuesday, June 21 University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! Tue, Jun 21, 2022 10am to 12pm Don Soffer Clinical Research Center New Community Outreach I'm Interested Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! on Facebook Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! on Twitter Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! on LinkedIn Wednesday, June 22 Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) for Newbies Wed, Jun 22, 2022 10am to 11am Virtual Event Community Outreach I'm Interested Share Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) for Newbies Share Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) for Newbies on Facebook Share Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) for Newbies on Twitter Share Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) for Newbies on LinkedIn University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! Wed, Jun 22, 2022 6:30pm to 8:30pm Don Soffer Clinical Research Center New Community Outreach I'm Interested Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! on Facebook Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! on Twitter Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! on LinkedIn Sunday, June 26 'Canes Community Day with the Rays Sun, Jun 26, 2022 1:40pm Tropicana Field New Community Outreach Buy Tickets Share 'Canes Community Day with the Rays Share 'Canes Community Day with the Rays on Facebook Share 'Canes Community Day with the Rays on Twitter Share 'Canes Community Day with the Rays on LinkedIn Tuesday, June 28 University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! Tue, Jun 28, 2022 10am to 12pm Don Soffer Clinical Research Center New Community Outreach I'm Interested Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! on Facebook Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! on Twitter Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! on LinkedIn Wednesday, June 29 Gardening and Cooking at Miller Wed, Jun 29, 2022 4pm to 5:30pm Food and Herb Garden at MIller - Calder Library New Community Outreach Register I'm Interested Share Gardening and Cooking at Miller Share Gardening and Cooking at Miller on Facebook Share Gardening and Cooking at Miller on Twitter Share Gardening and Cooking at Miller on LinkedIn University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! Wed, Jun 29, 2022 6:30pm to 8:30pm Don Soffer Clinical Research Center New Community Outreach I'm Interested Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! on Facebook Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! on Twitter Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! on LinkedIn 1 University of Miami Event Types Ceremony/Reception Community Outreach Dates/Deadlines Education/Training Exhibit Facility Operations/Closures Information Session Lecture/Conference Meeting Performance/Screening Virtual Topics Academic Calendar Academics Admissions Arts and Culture Careers Climate and Environment Community Diversity and Inclusion Health and Wellness Hemispheric and Global Impact Innovation and Entrepreneurship Law and Social Justice Medical Philanthropy Research Science and Technology Social and Entertainment Audience Alumni Faculty General Public Prospective Students Staff Students Activity All events All groups All places Sign up Login Submit an event University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-2211 Office of Conference Services 1280 Stanford Drive, Office 1M056 Coral Gables, FL 33146 ecms@miami.edu Conference Services Planning Your Event Meeting Spaces and Rates Events and Calendar Help Contact Conference Services UM Network News@TheU Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2019 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices University of Miami Powered by the Localist Community Event Platform © All rights reserved Log in Log in with CaneID or Email Address is required. Password is required. I forgot my password I don't have an account yet