Events at UCF Log In Events By Category: “Health” Big Red Bus - Donate Blood Today! June 1, 2022 at 11 a.m. until 5 p.m. UCF Memory Mall Help us maintain a safe and ready blood supply for cancer patients, trauma patients or for when unexpected tragedies occur. The OneBlood bus will park on Memory Mall near the Veterans Memorial. Walk-ups welcomed, appointments appreciated!&nbsp; Events at UCF Narcotics Anonymous (Recurring Event) June 1, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 8 p.m. Trevor Colbourn Hall: 351: 351 NA is a non-profit fellowship of men and women for whom drugs have become a major problem. We meet regularly to help each other live drug-free. There are no dues or fees, the only requirement for membership is a desire to stop using. Our fellowship focuses primarily on recovery from the disease of addiction. Anyone may join us regardless of … Events at UCF Koru Basic Mindfulness Course (Recurring Event) June 3, 2022 at 1 p.m. until 2:30 p.m. Virtual Become part of the Koru movement! This free interactive mindfulness course is offered to enrolled UCF students. Learn different meditations and mindfulness techniques to become more calm and focused in your day-to-day life! Class dates are Fridays, 5/27, 6/3, 6/10&nbsp;and 6/17 from 1:00&ndash;2:30 p.m.,&nbsp;attendance at all 4 classes is requested, classes are on zoom.&nbsp;To register follow the&nbsp;link&nbsp;or email pamela.mills@ucf.edu&nbsp;for more … Events at UCF Narcotics Anonymous (Recurring Event) June 8, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 8 p.m. Trevor Colbourn Hall: 351: 351 NA is a non-profit fellowship of men and women for whom drugs have become a major problem. We meet regularly to help each other live drug-free. There are no dues or fees, the only requirement for membership is a desire to stop using. Our fellowship focuses primarily on recovery from the disease of addiction. Anyone may join us regardless of … Events at UCF Big Red Bus - Donate Blood Today! June 9, 2022 at 11 a.m. until 5 p.m. UCF Memory Mall Help us maintain a safe and ready blood supply for cancer patients, trauma patients or for when unexpected tragedies occur. The OneBlood bus will park on Memory Mall near the Veterans Memorial. Walk-ups welcomed, appointments appreciated!&nbsp; Events at UCF Koru Basic Mindfulness Course (Recurring Event) June 10, 2022 at 1 p.m. until 2:30 p.m. Virtual Become part of the Koru movement! This free interactive mindfulness course is offered to enrolled UCF students. Learn different meditations and mindfulness techniques to become more calm and focused in your day-to-day life! Class dates are Fridays, 5/27, 6/3, 6/10&nbsp;and 6/17 from 1:00&ndash;2:30 p.m.,&nbsp;attendance at all 4 classes is requested, classes are on zoom.&nbsp;To register follow the&nbsp;link&nbsp;or email pamela.mills@ucf.edu&nbsp;for more … Events at UCF Big Red Bus - Donate Blood Today! June 13, 2022 at 11 a.m. until 5 p.m. UCF Memory Mall Help us maintain a safe and ready blood supply for cancer patients, trauma patients or for when unexpected tragedies occur. The OneBlood bus will park on Memory Mall near the Veterans Memorial. Walk-ups welcomed, appointments appreciated!&nbsp; Events at UCF Narcotics Anonymous (Recurring Event) June 15, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 8 p.m. Trevor Colbourn Hall: 351: 351 NA is a non-profit fellowship of men and women for whom drugs have become a major problem. We meet regularly to help each other live drug-free. There are no dues or fees, the only requirement for membership is a desire to stop using. Our fellowship focuses primarily on recovery from the disease of addiction. Anyone may join us regardless of … Events at UCF Koru Basic Mindfulness Course (Recurring Event) June 17, 2022 at 1 p.m. until 2:30 p.m. Virtual Become part of the Koru movement! This free interactive mindfulness course is offered to enrolled UCF students. Learn different meditations and mindfulness techniques to become more calm and focused in your day-to-day life! Class dates are Fridays, 5/27, 6/3, 6/10&nbsp;and 6/17 from 1:00&ndash;2:30 p.m.,&nbsp;attendance at all 4 classes is requested, classes are on zoom.&nbsp;To register follow the&nbsp;link&nbsp;or email pamela.mills@ucf.edu&nbsp;for more … Events at UCF Big Red Bus - Donate Blood Today! June 21, 2022 at 11 a.m. until 5 p.m. UCF Memory Mall Help us maintain a safe and ready blood supply for cancer patients, trauma patients or for when unexpected tragedies occur. The OneBlood bus will park on Memory Mall near the Veterans Memorial. Walk-ups welcomed, appointments appreciated!&nbsp; Events at UCF Narcotics Anonymous (Recurring Event) June 22, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 8 p.m. Trevor Colbourn Hall: 351: 351 NA is a non-profit fellowship of men and women for whom drugs have become a major problem. We meet regularly to help each other live drug-free. There are no dues or fees, the only requirement for membership is a desire to stop using. Our fellowship focuses primarily on recovery from the disease of addiction. Anyone may join us regardless of … Events at UCF How to Get a Good Knights Sleep June 29, 2022 at 4 p.m. until 5 p.m. Health Center: Conference Room C (206) Over 80% of UCF students reported feeling they don't get enough sleep on a regular basis! Join us for a workshop and learn from Student Health Services' resident sleep expert, Kristina Grabnickas, MSN, APRN. You will gain a better understanding of the sleep cycle and why it's important for our health, as well as learn tips and tricks on how … Events at UCF Narcotics Anonymous (Recurring Event) June 29, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 8 p.m. Trevor Colbourn Hall: 351: 351 NA is a non-profit fellowship of men and women for whom drugs have become a major problem. We meet regularly to help each other live drug-free. There are no dues or fees, the only requirement for membership is a desire to stop using. Our fellowship focuses primarily on recovery from the disease of addiction. Anyone may join us regardless of … Events at UCF Narcotics Anonymous (Recurring Event) July 6, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 8 p.m. Trevor Colbourn Hall: 351: 351 NA is a non-profit fellowship of men and women for whom drugs have become a major problem. We meet regularly to help each other live drug-free. There are no dues or fees, the only requirement for membership is a desire to stop using. Our fellowship focuses primarily on recovery from the disease of addiction. Anyone may join us regardless of … Events at UCF Narcotics Anonymous (Recurring Event) July 13, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 8 p.m. Trevor Colbourn Hall: 351: 351 NA is a non-profit fellowship of men and women for whom drugs have become a major problem. We meet regularly to help each other live drug-free. There are no dues or fees, the only requirement for membership is a desire to stop using. Our fellowship focuses primarily on recovery from the disease of addiction. Anyone may join us regardless of … Events at UCF Narcotics Anonymous (Recurring Event) July 20, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 8 p.m. Trevor Colbourn Hall: 351: 351 NA is a non-profit fellowship of men and women for whom drugs have become a major problem. We meet regularly to help each other live drug-free. There are no dues or fees, the only requirement for membership is a desire to stop using. Our fellowship focuses primarily on recovery from the disease of addiction. Anyone may join us regardless of … Events at UCF Narcotics Anonymous (Recurring Event) July 27, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 8 p.m. Trevor Colbourn Hall: 351: 351 NA is a non-profit fellowship of men and women for whom drugs have become a major problem. We meet regularly to help each other live drug-free. There are no dues or fees, the only requirement for membership is a desire to stop using. Our fellowship focuses primarily on recovery from the disease of addiction. Anyone may join us regardless of … Events at UCF Narcotics Anonymous (Recurring Event) Aug. 3, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 8 p.m. Trevor Colbourn Hall: 351: 351 NA is a non-profit fellowship of men and women for whom drugs have become a major problem. We meet regularly to help each other live drug-free. There are no dues or fees, the only requirement for membership is a desire to stop using. Our fellowship focuses primarily on recovery from the disease of addiction. Anyone may join us regardless of … Events at UCF Narcotics Anonymous (Recurring Event) Aug. 10, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 8 p.m. Trevor Colbourn Hall: 351: 351 NA is a non-profit fellowship of men and women for whom drugs have become a major problem. We meet regularly to help each other live drug-free. There are no dues or fees, the only requirement for membership is a desire to stop using. Our fellowship focuses primarily on recovery from the disease of addiction. Anyone may join us regardless of … Events at UCF Narcotics Anonymous (Recurring Event) Aug. 17, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 8 p.m. Trevor Colbourn Hall: 351: 351 NA is a non-profit fellowship of men and women for whom drugs have become a major problem. We meet regularly to help each other live drug-free. There are no dues or fees, the only requirement for membership is a desire to stop using. Our fellowship focuses primarily on recovery from the disease of addiction. Anyone may join us regardless of … Events at UCF Mighty Knights Self Defense (Recurring Event) Aug. 30, 2022 at 5 p.m. until 7 p.m. UCF Rosen Campus Our instructors are UCF police officers who are experienced and knowledgeable on topics of personal safety and threat awareness. This course primarily focuses on topics of mindset, preparation and safety awareness, but also utilizes defensive tactics instructors, certified by the Florida Department of Law Enforcement to demonstrate basic physical defense techniques. Our courses are designed to provide attendees with information, … Events at UCF Categories: Academic Arts Exhibit Career/Jobs Concert/Performance Entertainment Health Holiday Meeting Open Forum Recreation & Exercise Service/Volunteer Social Event Speaker/Lecture/Seminar Sports Tour/Open House/Information Session Uncategorized/Other Workshop/Conference Feeds: Apple iCal Feed (ICS) Microsoft Outlook Feed (ICS) RSS Feed XML Feed JSON Feed © University of Central Florida UCF Announcements Help & Documentation Contact