Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Event Management Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Affiliations Events Venues Services Policies & Forms Reserve/Request A Quote About Us Columbia Students Faculty & Staff Guests Browse Event Possibilities Filming on Campus Meetings & Conferences Performances Student Events Weddings & Social Events Event Gallery Accessibility Our Venues View All Venues Butler Hall Earl Hall Faculty House Low Library Lerner Hall Saint Paul’s Chapel Outdoor Spaces Residence Hall Lounges Classrooms Partner Venues Other Columbia Venues AV/Technical Services Explore AV/Technical Services Request AV/Technical Services Catering Services Explore Catering Services Request Catering Services Event Logistics Access & Security Custodial Services Electrical & Carpentry Support Vendor Recommendations Event Setup & Additional Services Specialty Events Barbecue Events on Campus Events with Alcohol Filming on Campus View All Services All Policies & Forms Quick View of Our Forms First-Time Customers & Guests Request a Quote for Event Space Request AV/Technical Services Quote Request Catering Services Quote Faculty, Staff & Students Log-in to EMS Request an EMS Account Our Service Promise Our Team News Sustainability Work With Us Event Management You are here: Home About Us Staff Directory Staff Directory We Look Forward to Working With You Columbia Event Management is the primary organization at Columbia University to support event planning and execution. Our team of dedicated professionals is here to support you. We manage a variety of on-campus event venues, including Lerner Hall, Low Library, Saint Paul’s Chapel, and Faculty House. Learn more about our promise to the clients with whom we work and the community in which we are a part. phone icon Phone 212-854-5800 fax icon Fax 212-854-5840 paper-plane icon Online Columbia affiliates may login via EMS. Guests may submit an inquiry form on our website at icon Email Student Events: [email protected] General Event Services: [email protected] AV/Technical Services: [email protected] envelope icon Mail Columbia University Event Management 2920 Broadway Lerner Hall 7th floor New York, NY, 10027 Team Directory: Steve Francis Self-employed as a music producer and studio owner for over 30 years, Steve brings an entrepreneurial spirit to Event Management. He has designed, built and operated three recording studios in New York City and has a dogged commitment to quality and customer service. Never satisfied with mediocrity, Steve strives for every endeavor to be succinct and executed flawlessly. Scott Buonomo A graduate of the Culinary Institute of America, Scott’s passion for the hospitality industry extends beyond the dining room. As General Manager of Faculty House Scott oversees hundreds of events each year ranging from weddings and social events to student groups and corporate functions. Scott loves the family feel provided by the Columbia Community and the ability to interact with every client that comes to Faculty House. Before joining Columbia, Scott worked for the prestigious Harvard Club of New York and the Metropolitan Museum of Art. He was able to build his culinary knowledge while working in the kitchens of The Park Avenue Café in New York City and Knickerbocker Country Club in New Jersey. Sanjay Mahajan Sanjay brings to the table 27 years of versatile hospitality experience, planning and executing events ranging from large conventions to galas and weddings. He enjoys producing customized offerings, using locally sourced vendors and foods. Sanjay is passionate about collaborating with events and meeting planners within and outside Columbia University. Before joining Columbia, Sanjay worked with Hyatt, Hilton, Millennium and Hotel Plaza Athénée in New York City. Columbia event management supports over 35K events a year for student groups, industry events, meetings and more. Michael DeMartino Chef Mike is responsible for the overall operations and culinary experience at Columbia University. Born in Brooklyn and raised in Staten Island, he grew up in a home where good food was integral to daily life. He started cooking himself at an early age and later pursued his professional culinary degree at Johnson and Wales University for Culinary Arts in Providence, RI. His experience includes the Intercontinental Hotel in New York City, where he also traveled the hotel’s Asia network; Corporate Foods providing service to clients like Citibank, US Today, and Entertainment Weekly; and Fordham University where he served as the Dining Services Executive Chef for 18 years. Leo Michel A driven Chef who thrives on challenges, Leo Michel crafts innovative dishes to complement each event. He instills in others a passion for excellent cuisine, inspiring his team to pursue perfection. His discipline for the arts can be attributed to the French Culinary Institute and the mentorship of several renowned culinarians. Leo offers more than three decades of experience in the hotel industry and executive dining. Emerald Currie Emerald has been a part of the Event Management team for over nine years and currently oversees social events on campus. She is a graduate of Columbia’s School of the Arts and uses her creative background to ensure that every campus event is memorable and unique. Born and raised in Connecticut, Emerald began her career in commercial real estate before moving to New York City and transitioning to event planning. David J. Martin David has been with Columbia for over 10 years, having first joined the university as General Manager of Faculty House. In his current role, David oversees events of all sizes and varieties across the Columbia campus. With his extensive knowledge in managing luxury properties around New York City, David provides a critical eye and looks to continue to elevate the guest experience at the thousands of events he oversees each year. David holds a degree in Hotel Restaurant Management from Johnson and Wales University. Before joining Columbia, David gained operational experience at The Drake Swiss Hotel, the Ritz-Carlton and The Righa Hotel as well as serving as Assistant General Manager of the famed Club Macanudo. Sort Applies To Event Type Service Provider Keyword filter: Filter Filter Filter Filter AllLetter Profiles, showing - Clear filtersFilterFilterFilterFilter no photo photo of edit edit Columbia University Event Management2920 Broadway, Lerner Hall 7th floor · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-5800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close