Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search University of Notre Dame Office of Public Affairs and Communications Notre Dame Events Menu Search Search Home > Events > Arts and Entertainment Events Subscribe to Arts and Entertainment Events Southold Dance Theatre presents “Cinderella” Time: Fri, Jun 3, 2022, 7:00 pm - 9:00 pm Location: Patricia George Decio Theatre, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Southold Dance Theatre’s Youth Ballet School presents “Cinderella.” Calin Radulescu’s choreography, performed by talented local youth dancers to Sergei Prokofiev’s score, will bring life and magic to the stage. Tickets… Read More about Southold Dance Theatre presents “Cinderella” Posted In: Arts and Entertainment, Open to the Public, Performing Arts, and Privately-sponsored events Southold Dance Theatre presents “Cinderella” Time: Sat, Jun 4, 2022, 2:00 pm - 4:00 pm Location: Patricia George Decio Theatre, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Southold Dance Theatre’s Youth Ballet School presents “Cinderella.” Calin Radulescu’s choreography, performed by talented local youth dancers to Sergei Prokofiev’s score, will bring life and magic to the stage. Tickets… Read More about Southold Dance Theatre presents “Cinderella” Posted In: Arts and Entertainment, Open to the Public, Performing Arts, and Privately-sponsored events Southold Dance Theatre presents “Cinderella” Time: Sat, Jun 4, 2022, 7:00 pm - 9:00 pm Location: Patricia George Decio Theatre, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Southold Dance Theatre’s Youth Ballet School presents “Cinderella.” Calin Radulescu’s choreography, performed by talented local youth dancers to Sergei Prokofiev’s score, will bring life and magic to the stage. Tickets… Read More about Southold Dance Theatre presents “Cinderella” Posted In: Arts and Entertainment, Open to the Public, Performing Arts, and Privately-sponsored events Southold Dance Theatre presents “Cinderella” Time: Sun, Jun 5, 2022, 2:00 pm - 4:00 pm Location: Patricia George Decio Theatre, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Southold Dance Theatre’s Youth Ballet School presents “Cinderella.” Calin Radulescu’s choreography, performed by talented local youth dancers to Sergei Prokofiev’s score, will bring life and magic to the stage. Tickets… Read More about Southold Dance Theatre presents “Cinderella” Posted In: Arts and Entertainment, Open to the Public, Performing Arts, and Privately-sponsored events (New date): Billy Joel in Concert Time: Sat, Jun 25, 2022, 8:00 pm - 10:00 pm Location: Notre Dame Stadium The upcoming Billy Joel concert at Notre Dame Stadium has been rescheduled to Saturday, June 25, 2022. Tickets purchased for the previous date will be honored on the rescheduled date. Ticketmaster contacted via email all who purchased tickets with refund options for those... Read More about (New date): Billy Joel in Concert Posted In: Arts and Entertainment, Open to the Public, and Performing Arts Home Submit an Event View upcoming events Architecture, School of Arts and Entertainment Literary Events Performing Arts Snite Museum of Art Visual Arts Arts and Letters, College of Business, Mendoza College of Centers and Institutes Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Engineering, College of Faculty and Staff Global Affairs, Keough School of Graduate School Health and Recreation Hesburgh Libraries Law School Lectures and Conferences Notre Dame Research Official Academic Calendar Ongoing Open to the Public Privately-sponsored events Religious and Spiritual Science, College of Service Student Life Concerts and Comedy Free Food and Giveaways Informational Meetings, Fairs and Openhouses Lectures and Conferences, Student Life Movies Nightclub or Dance Plays and Other Performances Student Activities Office Student Life, Health and Recreation Student Life, Religious and Spiritual Student Life, Service Trips Workshops Other Calendars Alumni external-link Registrar external-link Athletics external-link Game Day external-link Copyright © 2022 University of Notre Dame Notre Dame Events 500 Grace Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA calendar@nd.edu Accessibility Information