Events at UCF Log In Manage Edit Events Manager View Edit Calendar Users & Permissions Calendar Info Subscriptions Subscribe to Calendar Search events, calendars Search Day View Week View Month View Year View Upcoming View By... Day View Week View Month View Year View Upcoming Events This Week Sunday, May 29, 2022 Pegasus PlayLab Workshop 'The Body' (Recurring Event) May 29, 2022 at 2:30 p.m. until 4:30 p.m. Theatre UCF: Black Box: TH 6 While mom is away, Abby and her stepdad Joe spend a week together for the first time. Then anunusual crate appears on their doorstep, and they work to unravel the meaning of its contents&mdash;alife-sized doll with no face, and an instruction manual with no words. The deeper they delve into the secrets of this package, the more it threatens their … Events at UCF NAUI Open Water SCUBA Certification (Recurring Event) May 29, 2022 at 5 p.m. Outdoor Adventure Center: RWC 154 About Outdoor Adventure is proud to partner with Ranger Rick's SCUBA Adventure, one of the most experienced SCUBA DIVE outfitters, for our entry-level NAUI SCUBA certification course. This course is available for students who are currently enrolled and taking classes at UCF, and to currently active UCF Recreation and Wellness Center members. Current UCF Faculty and UCF Staff can enroll … Events at UCF Monday, May 30, 2022 Al-Anon: Serenity Now (Recurring Event) May 30, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 8 p.m. Trevor Colbourn Hall: 351 *This group meets every Monday except for on the following University holidays: Monday, May 30th - Memorial Day Monday, July 4th - Fourth of July The Al-Anon Family Groups are a fellowship of relatives and friends of alcoholics who share their experience, strength, and hope in order to solve their common problems. We believe alcoholism is a family illness, and … Events at UCF Tuesday, May 31, 2022 Pathways 2022: The Carlos Malamud Prize Exhibition May 31, 2022 at 10 a.m. until 11:59 p.m. UCF Art Gallery This exhibition is the result of a collaborative partnership between the UCF Art Gallery at the University of Central Florida and the Rollins Museum of Art to celebrate and support emerging professional artists working in Florida. Juried by an external panel of three professionals from various areas of the art world, this year&rsquo;s edition of the exhibition features six artists … Events at UCF Kick-off: Coffee Chat with CS Staff #CRMSummer22 May 31, 2022 at 10 a.m. until 11 a.m. Virtual Knights welcome to the Kick-off: Coffee Chat with CS Staff! At this event, you will be able to get all of your questions answered at the start of Summer Career Readiness month. Participate in Career Readiness, May 31 &ndash; June 7. Sign-up for Career Readiness Summer Series events at ucf.joinhandshake.com. Login, click on events and search #CRMSummer22. RSVP for any … Events at UCF Resume Workshop by Lake County Public School #CRMSummer22 May 31, 2022 at 11 a.m. until noon Virtual Please join Lake County Public Schools in this resume workshop. This resume workshop provides detailed explanations, as well step-by-step processes, for creating an effective resume for your future in employment. Participate in Career Readiness, May 31 &ndash; June 7. Sign-up for Career Readiness Summer Series events at ucf.joinhandshake.com. Login, click on events and search #CRMSummer22. RSVP for any and all … Events at UCF Alcoholics Anonymous (Recurring Event) May 31, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 8 p.m. Trevor Coulborn Hall 351: 351 ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS is a fellowship of people who share their experience, strength, and hope with each other that they may solve their common problem and help others to recover from alcoholism. The only requirement for membership is a desire to stop drinking. There are no dues or fees for A.A. membership; we are self-supporting through our own contributions. A.A. is … Events at UCF Wednesday, June 1, 2022 Pathways 2022: The Carlos Malamud Prize Exhibition June 1, 2022 at 12 a.m. until 11:59 p.m. UCF Art Gallery This exhibition is the result of a collaborative partnership between the UCF Art Gallery at the University of Central Florida and the Rollins Museum of Art to celebrate and support emerging professional artists working in Florida. Juried by an external panel of three professionals from various areas of the art world, this year&rsquo;s edition of the exhibition features six artists … Events at UCF Application Deadline: Peer Mentor for Summer Research Academy June 1, 2022 at 12 a.m. until 11:45 p.m. Virtual Summer Research Academy (SRA)&nbsp;is a fast-paced, 3-day event in July. It is a 1-credit course (IDS 3913) that runs during Summer B term, but most of the work will be completed during the event in July. SRA is ideal for transfer students or current students who want to begin research in the fall.SRA Peer Mentors work with small groups of … Events at UCF Application Deadline: Summer Research Academy June 1, 2022 at 9 a.m. until 10 p.m. Virtual Participants in the Summer Research Academy will: Learn&nbsp;about the nature of university research and how it can expand your undergraduate experience. Meet&nbsp;with research faculty and other students active in research. Explore&nbsp;research opportunities available to undergraduate students at UCF. Prepare&nbsp;professionally for future research, internships/careers, and advanced degrees. Earn&nbsp;1-credit hour for completing the Introduction to Research (IDS 3913) course. Learn more about … Events at UCF Government Contracting: Overview (Recurring Event) June 1, 2022 at 9 a.m. until noon Virtual Federal, state and local government procurement is the largest target market in the world. The question is usually not &ldquo;Does the government buy what you are selling?&rdquo;...it is more &ldquo;Can you be competitive enough and relentless enough to position your business to win government contracts?&rdquo; If you think you can be competitive, then government contracting may be a good growth … Events at UCF Interviewing Strategies, presented by OCPS #CRMSummer22 June 1, 2022 at 10 a.m. until 11 a.m. Virtual Orange County Public Schools will share helpful tips for virtual and in-person interviews! Participate in Career Readiness, May 31 &ndash; June 7. Sign-up for Career Readiness Summer Series events at ucf.joinhandshake.com. Login, click on events and search #CRMSummer22. RSVP for any and all events to learn how to: Build winning resumes and prepare for virtual and in-person interviews Engage and … Events at UCF Big Red Bus - Donate Blood Today! June 1, 2022 at 11 a.m. until 5 p.m. UCF Memory Mall Help us maintain a safe and ready blood supply for cancer patients, trauma patients or for when unexpected tragedies occur. The OneBlood bus will park on Memory Mall near the Veterans Memorial. Walk-ups welcomed, appointments appreciated!&nbsp; Events at UCF Preparing for Statewide Job Fair, presented by Coastal Group - #CRMSummer22 June 1, 2022 at 12 p.m. until 1 p.m. Virtual Learn how virtual career fairs differ from in-person ones and what you can do to successfully prepare for and navigate tomorrow's Statewide Job Fair through the Career Fair Plus app. Learn more about the upcoming Statewide Job Fair at https://floridacareercenters.org/statewide-job-fair-students// Participate in Career Readiness, May 31 &ndash; June 7. Sign-up for Career Readiness Summer Series events at ucf.joinhandshake.com. Login, click … Events at UCF Statewide Job Fair Virtual Ready Room #CRMSummer22 June 1, 2022 at 1:30 p.m. until 4:30 p.m. Virtual Planning to attend the Statewide Job Fair on 6/2? Not sure what to expect? Participate in our virtual Ready Room to prepare and practice your Elevator Pitch, learn effective strategies for connecting with employers, and discover how best to maximize your experience at the Summer 2022 Virtual Statewide Job Fair. Attend all or any of the following sessions: 1:30-2:00pm | … Events at UCF Violence Prevention Certificate Series: Title IX (Recurring Event) June 1, 2022 at 2 p.m. until 3 p.m. Virtual Let&rsquo;s Be Clear is offering a series of virtual and in person leadership opportunities through our Violence Prevention Certificate Series to teach students how to support and care for fellow Knights. This series of workshops provides students with an understanding of topics related to interpersonal violence, Title IX, safety, and how to connect students who may be impacted. Students who … Events at UCF UNITY STAR: Understanding Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DIV 008) June 1, 2022 at 2:30 p.m. until 4:30 p.m. Barbara Ying Center: 140 As the foundational workshop facilitated by UCF&rsquo;s Office of Diversity and Inclusion, this workshop explores three key concepts &ndash; diversity, inclusion, and equity. Discussions and activities develop the following ideas: &nbsp; human diversity is broad and includes all the ways in which we differ, understanding our similarities is key to developing connections, inclusion involves creating and maintaining safe and respectful … Events at UCF UCF Counselor Education Program: Information Session June 1, 2022 at 4 p.m. until 6 p.m. Virtual Are you interested in pursuing a graduate degree in counseling? The nationally ranked and accredited Counseling Program&nbsp;at the University of Central Florida offers master&rsquo;s degrees in mental health counseling, marriage &amp; family therapy, and school counseling, and a doctoral degree in counselor education. To meet the needs of interested parties and applicants, the Program holds virtual information sessions every other … Events at UCF Recharge to Charge On - Yoga for Faculty and Staff (Recurring Event) June 1, 2022 at 4 p.m. until 5 p.m. Education Complex and Gymnasium: ED176 Relax and unwind with UCF faculty and staff during a free midweek afternoon yoga session, hosted by the Wellness Research Center from 4:00 to 5:00pm in the Education Complex and Gym, ED176. The session will be led by Violette Gibbs, a Yoga Alliance certified instructor. Participants are encouraged to bring a yoga mat or beach towel.&nbsp; Events at UCF Narcotics Anonymous (Recurring Event) June 1, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 8 p.m. Trevor Colbourn Hall: 351: 351 NA is a non-profit fellowship of men and women for whom drugs have become a major problem. We meet regularly to help each other live drug-free. There are no dues or fees, the only requirement for membership is a desire to stop using. Our fellowship focuses primarily on recovery from the disease of addiction. Anyone may join us regardless of … Events at UCF Thursday, June 2, 2022 Pathways 2022: The Carlos Malamud Prize Exhibition June 2, 2022 at 12 a.m. until 11:59 p.m. UCF Art Gallery This exhibition is the result of a collaborative partnership between the UCF Art Gallery at the University of Central Florida and the Rollins Museum of Art to celebrate and support emerging professional artists working in Florida. Juried by an external panel of three professionals from various areas of the art world, this year&rsquo;s edition of the exhibition features six artists … Events at UCF How to Start Your Business (Recurring Event) June 2, 2022 at 9 a.m. until noon National Entrepreneur Center: Venture Training Room If you&rsquo;re thinking of starting a business, it&rsquo;s important to take the right steps. This course will give you an overview of what to know, actions to take, and how to avoid common missteps to give your company its greatest chance of success. Events at UCF Violence Prevention Certificate Series: Title IX (Recurring Event) June 2, 2022 at 10 a.m. until 11 a.m. Virtual Let&rsquo;s Be Clear is offering a series of virtual and in person leadership opportunities through our Violence Prevention Certificate Series to teach students how to support and care for fellow Knights. This series of workshops provides students with an understanding of topics related to interpersonal violence, Title IX, safety, and how to connect students who may be impacted. Students who … Events at UCF Thesis and Dissertation Formatting with Word June 2, 2022 at 1 p.m. until 2:30 p.m. Graduate Student Center: Trevor Colbourn Hall: 213 Attend this workshop to learn about setting up Microsoft Word Styles to format a thesis or dissertation. Students are strongly encouraged to attend this session in their final term if they are completing a thesis or dissertation. It is recommended that attendees bring their laptop and thesis/dissertation file. Please review Module 3 of the Thesis and Dissertation Webcourse prior to … Events at UCF Finding & Using Academic Sources - Online (Recurring Event) June 2, 2022 at 3 p.m. until 4 p.m. Virtual This session highlights time-saving strategies to help you locate academic sources for upcoming course assignments and literature reviews. Learn how to find peer-reviewed articles, identify subject-related databases, locate related sources for topics, and how citation management apps can help you save, manage, and cite sources. Please note: Students will receive a link to participate online upon registration in myUCF.&nbsp; This … Events at UCF Previous 1 2 Next May 2022 April June Su M Tu W Th F Sa 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 1 2 3 4 Filter by Category: Academic Arts Exhibit Career/Jobs Concert/Performance Entertainment Health Holiday Meeting Open Forum Recreation & Exercise Service/Volunteer Social Event Speaker/Lecture/Seminar Sports Tour/Open House/Information Session Uncategorized/Other Workshop/Conference Feeds: Apple iCal Feed (ICS) Microsoft Outlook Feed (ICS) RSS Feed XML Feed JSON Feed © University of Central Florida UCF Announcements Help & Documentation Contact