Skip to Content Happening @ Michigan Happening@Michigan The University of Michigan Events Calendar Menu Search Home Today This Week This Month All Events Map Create Event Sign In Find amazing things to do: Close Sponsors No results Tags No results Types No results Search Results Events No results Advanced Search Search events using: keywords, sponsors, locations or event type When / Where Free Livestream / Virtual Presented By: Kelsey Museum of Archaeology Flash Talk | In Search of Hamzeh Carr Terry Wilfong, University of Michigan watercolor of a mural from ancient Karanis In 1925, the University of Michigan's archaeological expedition to Egypt commissioned artist Hamzeh Carr to make facsimiles of the colorful murals they were discovering, and these images have been widely reproduced ever since. But who was Hamzeh Carr? In preparation for a future exhibition and publication of the Kelsey Museum's Hamzeh Carr paintings, curator Terry Wilfong has been tracing the amazing career of this mysterious artist and will share some of his surprising findings. Kelsey Museum Flash Talks are 15-minute Zoom lectures by Kelsey curators, staff members, researchers, and graduate students talking about their recent research or current projects. Each presentation is followed by 15 minutes of Q&A. Flash Talks are free and open to all visitors. They take place at noon on the first Friday of every month. Join us via Zoom at: https://umich.zoom.us/j/93006917065 Meeting ID: 930 0691 7065 Passcode: Kelsey watercolor of a mural from ancient Karanis Related Links Kelsey Museum of Archaeology Co-Sponsored By Museum Studies Program Interdepartmental Program in Classical Art and Archaeology Kelsey Museum of Archaeology Lectures Share Event E-Mail this event Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Tumblr Share on Linkedin Livestream Information Zoom June 3, 2022 (Friday) 12:00pm Meeting ID: 93006917065 Meeting Password: Kelsey Join In Browser Join in Zoom Explore Similar Events Loading Similar Events... Tags Art History Contact Event Organizers: Kelsey Museum of Archaeology Comments Email Verification Send Comments Report Event As Inappropriate Contact Event Organizers Back to Main Content 0 upcoming occurrences 0 expired occurrences COVID-19 Information Before attending events in person be sure to read the Campus Maize & Blueprint When and Where Virtual June 2022 iCal Google Fri, Jun 3 2022 12:00pm - 12:30pm About Help Terms of Use Event Feeds Import Events Contact Us Contact Us Comments User email Submit Thank you for contacting us, we will review it shortly. Feedback could not be saved, please be sure to fill out all the fields. Close