louisville.edu My Accounts Email Blackboard ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Calendar Event Calendar Search UofL Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA Donate Campuses Belknap Campus Health Sciences Center ShelbyHurst Campus Online & Distance Learning International Online louisville.edu log in University of Louisville › Health Sciences Center › Cardiovascular Innovation Institute Mobile Navigation Login Search Cardiovascular Innovation Institute 302 E. Muhammad Ali Blvd , Louisville, Kentucky 40202 Place Type Healthcare Website cv2i.org Upcoming Events Transplant Research Working Group (TRWG) The TRWG is a monthly forum to promote collaboration between groups interested in transplantation and transplant research at the University of Louisville... 6/1 6pm Transplant Research Working Group (TRWG) The TRWG is a monthly forum to promote collaboration between groups interested in transplantation and transplant research at the University of Louisville... 7/6 6pm Transplant Research Working Group (TRWG) The TRWG is a monthly forum to promote collaboration between groups interested in transplantation and transplant research at the University of Louisville... 8/3 6pm Transplant Research Working Group (TRWG) The TRWG is a monthly forum to promote collaboration between groups interested in transplantation and transplant research at the University of Louisville... 9/7 6pm Transplant Research Working Group (TRWG) The TRWG is a monthly forum to promote collaboration between groups interested in transplantation and transplant research at the University of Louisville... 10/5 6pm View full calendar... Recent Events Environmental Medicine Grand Rounds 5/26/2022 Transplant Research Working Group (TRWG) 5/4/2022 Transplant Research Working Group (TRWG) 4/6/2022 Environmental Medicine Grand Rounds 3/24/2022 Transplant Research Working Group (TRWG) 3/2/2022 Recent Activity Cardiovascular Innovation Institute posted a photo 10/29/2013 Follow Followers (2) Getting Here <p>Your browser does not support iframes.</p> University of Louisville 2301 S. 3rd St. University of Louisville Louisville, Kentucky 40292 Get in touch (502) 852-6171 Contact us More Information Calendar FAQs What is this? Visitor Parking Campus Visits iPhone app UofL News Other Calendars Academic Calendars University Holidays Registration Schedules Exam Schedules Room Scheduling © University of Louisville Contact Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email Blackboard ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Calendar Events calendar powered by Localist software. Login to University of Louisville Login to interact with events, personalize your calendar, and get recommendations. Username Password