Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Event Management Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Affiliations Events Venues Services Policies & Forms Reserve/Request A Quote About Us Columbia Students Faculty & Staff Guests Browse Event Possibilities Filming on Campus Meetings & Conferences Performances Student Events Weddings & Social Events Event Gallery Accessibility Our Venues View All Venues Butler Hall Earl Hall Faculty House Low Library Lerner Hall Saint Paul’s Chapel Outdoor Spaces Residence Hall Lounges Classrooms Partner Venues Other Columbia Venues AV/Technical Services Explore AV/Technical Services Request AV/Technical Services Catering Services Explore Catering Services Request Catering Services Event Logistics Access & Security Custodial Services Electrical & Carpentry Support Vendor Recommendations Event Setup & Additional Services Specialty Events Barbecue Events on Campus Events with Alcohol Filming on Campus View All Services All Policies & Forms Quick View of Our Forms First-Time Customers & Guests Request a Quote for Event Space Request AV/Technical Services Quote Request Catering Services Quote Faculty, Staff & Students Log-in to EMS Request an EMS Account Our Service Promise Our Team News Sustainability Work With Us Event Management You are here: Home Services Barbecue Events on Campus Barbecue Events on Campus Event Management is responsible for the planning and setup of barbecues, which are permitted in specific areas of the Morningside campus. Overview Recognized Student Groups looking to hold a barbecue must receive prior authorization from their group's Advisor. The following is a brief overview of procedural guidelines. For complete details on barbecue set up and disposal, and fire safety, please read and adhere to the guidelines in this section, as well as the University Event and Outdoor Space Policy. Requesting a Barbecue on Campus Faculty, Staff & Guests: Faculty, staff, or guests with a Columbia affiliate sponsor who would like to coordinate a barbecue should submit a request to our team and we will work through the details with you. Faculty & staff with existing Event Management System (EMS) accounts can submit a request through that system. All others, please submit a Request A Quote form and we will respond to you as quickly as possible. Recognized Student Groups: Any Recognized Student Group wishing to barbecue on campus should: Seek Advisor’s approval for the event. Submit a request to Event Management for outdoor space. Attend an event review if determined necessary. Contact Facilities to rent barbecue equipment; personal grills are not permitted. Choose between: Hiring Columbia to cook Hiring a Licensed Vendor to cook Designating an event manager who must receive fire and safety training Your Event Manager must receive Barbecue training and sign acknowledgement of responsibilities. Use the disposal kit, provided by Facilities, at the end of the event. BBQ Kit Contents Students are not permitted to bring their own grills or equipment. Barbecue kits ordered through Facilities contain the following contents: Wagon 2 Galvanized Cans with Lids and Sand 2 ½ Gallon Pressurized Fire Extinguisher Set of BBQ Tools (spatula, fork, tongs) Coal Shovel 3 Bags of “#18 MatchLight” Charcoal NOTE: One cart can service two grills. Locations Barbecues are permitted in the following approved outdoor campus locations: • Revson Plaza • Ancell Plaza • Low Plaza • Paved area between Butler Library and the Sundial • Van Am Quad • Wien Courtyard • Pupin Courtyard Fire Safety Training (Required for Student Events) Recognized Student Groups who will be conducting a barbecue must attend a fire safety training session led by our team and the University's Fire Safety team. Fire Safety training sessions will be held regularly when classes are in session. Students must register for training at least 24 hours in advance of the training date to reserve a space and must have completed the training to Event Management's satisfaction prior to their event. Guests or Columbia Affiliates Without an EMS Account: We're looking forward to working with you to put together an amazing event! Complete the quote request form. We'll get back to you within 48 hours of your request. Request a Quote Columbia Affiliates with EMS Accounts: As always, we're here to assist you in finding the perfect space for your meetings and events. Log into the Event Management System (EMS) to begin the process. Log In To EMS Additional Information View Our Catering Menus View Our Event Gallery Applies To Student Events Weddings & Social Events Venue Outdoor Spaces Provider Columbia University Event Management Columbia University Event Management2920 Broadway, Lerner Hall 7th floor · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-5800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close