Events at UCF Log In Manage Edit Events Manager View Edit Calendar Users & Permissions Calendar Info Subscriptions Subscribe to Calendar Search events, calendars Search Day View Week View Month View Year View Upcoming View By... Day View Week View Month View Year View Upcoming Wednesday, May 25, 2022 Pathways 2022: The Carlos Malamud Prize Exhibition (Recurring Event) May 25, 2022 at 10 a.m. until 5 p.m. UCF Art Gallery This exhibition is the result of a collaborative partnership between the UCF Art Gallery at the University of Central Florida and the Rollins Museum of Art to celebrate and support emerging professional artists working in Florida. Juried by an external panel of three professionals from various areas of the art world, this year&rsquo;s edition of the exhibition features six artists … Events at UCF Understanding the Role of the United States in Expos May 25, 2022 at 11 a.m. until noon Virtual Join us for a conversation on a groundbreaking oral history project to explore the future of International Expositions and the United States&rsquo; role in them. Oral historians, sponsored by the National Endowment for the Humanities and State Department, will discuss their findings from interviews with U.S. host city organizers and participants, as well as with Youth Ambassadors and Cultural Performers … Events at UCF Workday Procurement Support Lab (In-Person) May 25, 2022 at 11 a.m. until noon Refer to Registration Confirmation Event Description: Join us to practice in Workday! This session allows you to bring your questions and learn more about basic procurement functionality in our Workday Procurement category, to include: Create a Supplier/Supplier Request Create a Requisition Manage Receipts About Supplier Invoice Requests Dates/Times: This session will be offered both virtual and in-person. See the session schedule below: May 25 … Events at UCF UNITY STAR: Lunch with TED: The Link Between Climate Change, Health, and Poverty (DIV 586) May 25, 2022 at 12 p.m. until 1 p.m. Barbara Ying Center: 140 Ordinarily hot temperatures, disease-carrying mosquitoes and climate gentrification threaten those with existing health conditions, particularly poor and vulnerable, while wealthier people move to higher ground. In her talk, physician Cheryl Holder proposes ways clinicians can protect their patients from climate-related health challenges all sectors of the community to build a care system that incorporates economic and social justice. Registration Information … Events at UCF Conflict Resolution and Analysis Graduate Certificate Virtual Information Session May 25, 2022 at 12 p.m. until 1 p.m. Virtual Join Faculty and Staff from UCF's Department of Legal Studies for a webinar to learn more about the&nbsp;Conflict Resolution &amp; Analysis Graduate Certificate&nbsp;at UCF!This certificate, which can be completed fully online,&nbsp;will provide students with the opportunity to dig deeper into the theories behind conflict and uncover what causes disputes. Events at UCF Financial Reporting & FDM ILT (virtual) May 25, 2022 at 2 p.m. until 4 p.m. Virtual Event Description: The purpose of this instructor-led training session is to provide foundational understanding of the new Foundation Data Model and how it applies to Workday. In addition, participants will learn about the basics of financial reporting and accounting tasks in Workday. Dates/Times: This session will be offered both virtual and in-person. See the session schedule below: May 18 (2 … Events at UCF Recharge to Charge On - Yoga for Faculty and Staff (Recurring Event) May 25, 2022 at 4 p.m. until 5 p.m. Education Complex and Gymnasium: ED176 Relax and unwind with UCF faculty and staff during a free midweek afternoon yoga session, hosted by the Wellness Research Center from 4:00 to 5:00pm in the Education Complex and Gym, ED176. The session will be led by Violette Gibbs, a Yoga Alliance certified instructor. Participants are encouraged to bring a yoga mat or beach towel.&nbsp; Events at UCF Narcotics Anonymous (Recurring Event) May 25, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 8 p.m. Trevor Colbourn Hall: 351: 351 NA is a non-profit fellowship of men and women for whom drugs have become a major problem. We meet regularly to help each other live drug-free. There are no dues or fees, the only requirement for membership is a desire to stop using. Our fellowship focuses primarily on recovery from the disease of addiction. Anyone may join us regardless of … Events at UCF May 2022 April June Su M Tu W Th F Sa 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 1 2 3 4 Filter by Category: Academic Arts Exhibit Career/Jobs Concert/Performance Entertainment Health Holiday Meeting Open Forum Recreation & Exercise Service/Volunteer Social Event Speaker/Lecture/Seminar Sports Tour/Open House/Information Session Uncategorized/Other Workshop/Conference Feeds: Apple iCal Feed (ICS) Microsoft Outlook Feed (ICS) RSS Feed XML Feed JSON Feed © University of Central Florida UCF Announcements Help & Documentation Contact