Events at UCF Log In Events By Tag: “Summer Research” Application Deadline: Peer Mentor for Summer Research Academy June 1, 2022 at 12 a.m. until 11:45 p.m. Virtual Summer Research Academy (SRA)&nbsp;is a fast-paced, 3-day event in July. It is a 1-credit course (IDS 3913) that runs during Summer B term, but most of the work will be completed during the event in July. SRA is ideal for transfer students or current students who want to begin research in the fall.SRA Peer Mentors work with small groups of … Events at UCF Application Deadline: Summer Research Academy June 1, 2022 at 9 a.m. until 10 p.m. Virtual Participants in the Summer Research Academy will: Learn&nbsp;about the nature of university research and how it can expand your undergraduate experience. Meet&nbsp;with research faculty and other students active in research. Explore&nbsp;research opportunities available to undergraduate students at UCF. Prepare&nbsp;professionally for future research, internships/careers, and advanced degrees. Earn&nbsp;1-credit hour for completing the Introduction to Research (IDS 3913) course. Learn more about … Events at UCF Event: Summer Research Academy (Recurring Event) July 21, 2022 at 8 a.m. until 8 p.m. UCF Main Campus Do you want to learn how to get started in undergraduate research? Apply to this three-day long course that can be taken either for credit or not for credit. Participants in the Summer Research Academy will: Learn&nbsp;about the nature of university research and how it can expand your undergraduate experience. Meet&nbsp;with research faculty and other students active in research. Explore&nbsp;research … Events at UCF Event: Summer Research Academy (Recurring Event) July 22, 2022 at 8 a.m. until 8 p.m. UCF Main Campus Do you want to learn how to get started in undergraduate research? Apply to this three-day long course that can be taken either for credit or not for credit. Participants in the Summer Research Academy will: Learn&nbsp;about the nature of university research and how it can expand your undergraduate experience. Meet&nbsp;with research faculty and other students active in research. Explore&nbsp;research … Events at UCF Event: Summer Research Academy (Recurring Event) July 23, 2022 at 8 a.m. until 8 p.m. UCF Main Campus Do you want to learn how to get started in undergraduate research? Apply to this three-day long course that can be taken either for credit or not for credit. Participants in the Summer Research Academy will: Learn&nbsp;about the nature of university research and how it can expand your undergraduate experience. Meet&nbsp;with research faculty and other students active in research. Explore&nbsp;research … Events at UCF Categories: Academic Arts Exhibit Career/Jobs Concert/Performance Entertainment Health Holiday Meeting Open Forum Recreation & Exercise Service/Volunteer Social Event Speaker/Lecture/Seminar Sports Tour/Open House/Information Session Uncategorized/Other Workshop/Conference Feeds: Apple iCal Feed (ICS) Microsoft Outlook Feed (ICS) RSS Feed XML Feed JSON Feed © University of Central Florida UCF Announcements Help & Documentation Contact