Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Event Management Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Affiliations Events Venues Services Policies & Forms Reserve/Request A Quote About Us Columbia Students Faculty & Staff Guests Browse Event Possibilities Filming on Campus Meetings & Conferences Performances Student Events Weddings & Social Events Event Gallery Accessibility Our Venues View All Venues Butler Hall Earl Hall Faculty House Low Library Lerner Hall Saint Paul’s Chapel Outdoor Spaces Residence Hall Lounges Classrooms Partner Venues Other Columbia Venues AV/Technical Services Explore AV/Technical Services Request AV/Technical Services Catering Services Explore Catering Services Request Catering Services Event Logistics Access & Security Custodial Services Electrical & Carpentry Support Vendor Recommendations Event Setup & Additional Services Specialty Events Barbecue Events on Campus Events with Alcohol Filming on Campus View All Services All Policies & Forms Quick View of Our Forms First-Time Customers & Guests Request a Quote for Event Space Request AV/Technical Services Quote Request Catering Services Quote Faculty, Staff & Students Log-in to EMS Request an EMS Account Our Service Promise Our Team News Sustainability Work With Us Event Management You are here: Home Services AV/Technical Services AV/Technical Services AV/Technical Services RAISE THE VOLUME OF YOUR EVENT Our Technical Services team provides audio, visual, lighting expertise and equipment for events ranging from small conferences to large theatrical productions with modern equipment for every need, including but not limited to microphones, projectors, laptop computers and stage lighting. We also provide a full suite of services to enable virtual events & conferences to support physical distancing and to reach a broader audience. This option is for guests or Columbia affiliates without an Event Management System (EMS) Account. If you'd also like a quote on reserving event space at Columbia, complete our general Request A Quote form. Columbia Affiliates with an EMS Account should submit requests through EMS. Faculty House is a Columbia Event Management venue, but has a separate reservations team, catering and technical services. Visit the Faculty House website to see all the possibilities. We're here and ready to support your virtual events. STAY HOME AND CONNECT As the world has changed Technical Services has changed with it. We offer a wide range of services from completely virtual conferences, to hybrid events (a mix of remote and live elements,) to hosting Zoom meetings and webinars. Safely host your event from home or from one of our venues with LiveStreaming services from Event Management. Submit our Request a Quote form and we'll contact you to discuss your needs and provide solutions. LIGHTS. CAMERA. EXPERIENCE. Our team of experienced lighting and sound engineers is ready to start making your ideas a reality. In addition to our own services, we can connect you with Columbia's award-winning information technology team for computer networking services, and one or more of our trusted and skilled partner vendors if you'll need photography or videography services. In addition to more traditional audio visual needs, we have brought together the skills and expertise of our team and the latest technologies to ensure that we are prepared to enable your guests to celebrate your special day or for your audience to hear your important message regardless of location, physical or virtual. Bill Gates & Warren Buffett presenting as part of a panel at the World Leaders Forum here at Columbia. SOLUTIONS FOR EVERY EVENT Whether you're hosting an intimate performance, a seminar for 30 attendees, a lecture to 1,000, or broadcasting to tens of thousands, we have the technology and expertise to meet your needs. LIGHTS, SOUND, MEMORIES Our team can provide equipment and support to events across the entire campus, not only within our own venues, but others on campus too, as well as virtual platforms. Illuminate the Night Reach Your Audience Make an Impact Dance the Night Away Technical Services Information & Policies Please make sure to review the following information related to our technical services. file-powerpoint icon Technical Services Late Orders & Cancellations Policy Our policy regarding late orders, cancellations, which may result associated fees and delays that can impact your event success and budget. credit-card icon Technical Services Pricing for Student Events These pricing guidelines apply to Student Events only. Faculty, staff, and outside guests will receive a customized price quote based on the services requested. Columbia University Event Management2920 Broadway, Lerner Hall 7th floor · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-5800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close