Events at UCF Log In Events By Tag: “AA” Alcoholics Anonymous (Recurring Event) May 31, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 8 p.m. Trevor Coulborn Hall 351: 351 ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS is a fellowship of people who share their experience, strength, and hope with each other that they may solve their common problem and help others to recover from alcoholism. The only requirement for membership is a desire to stop drinking. There are no dues or fees for A.A. membership; we are self-supporting through our own contributions. A.A. is … Events at UCF Alcoholics Anonymous (Recurring Event) June 7, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 8 p.m. Trevor Coulborn Hall 351: 351 ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS is a fellowship of people who share their experience, strength, and hope with each other that they may solve their common problem and help others to recover from alcoholism. The only requirement for membership is a desire to stop drinking. There are no dues or fees for A.A. membership; we are self-supporting through our own contributions. A.A. is … Events at UCF Alcoholics Anonymous (Recurring Event) June 14, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 8 p.m. Trevor Coulborn Hall 351: 351 ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS is a fellowship of people who share their experience, strength, and hope with each other that they may solve their common problem and help others to recover from alcoholism. The only requirement for membership is a desire to stop drinking. There are no dues or fees for A.A. membership; we are self-supporting through our own contributions. A.A. is … Events at UCF Alcoholics Anonymous (Recurring Event) June 21, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 8 p.m. Trevor Coulborn Hall 351: 351 ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS is a fellowship of people who share their experience, strength, and hope with each other that they may solve their common problem and help others to recover from alcoholism. The only requirement for membership is a desire to stop drinking. There are no dues or fees for A.A. membership; we are self-supporting through our own contributions. A.A. is … Events at UCF Alcoholics Anonymous (Recurring Event) June 28, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 8 p.m. Trevor Coulborn Hall 351: 351 ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS is a fellowship of people who share their experience, strength, and hope with each other that they may solve their common problem and help others to recover from alcoholism. The only requirement for membership is a desire to stop drinking. There are no dues or fees for A.A. membership; we are self-supporting through our own contributions. A.A. is … Events at UCF Alcoholics Anonymous (Recurring Event) July 5, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 8 p.m. Trevor Coulborn Hall 351: 351 ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS is a fellowship of people who share their experience, strength, and hope with each other that they may solve their common problem and help others to recover from alcoholism. The only requirement for membership is a desire to stop drinking. There are no dues or fees for A.A. membership; we are self-supporting through our own contributions. A.A. is … Events at UCF Alcoholics Anonymous (Recurring Event) July 12, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 8 p.m. Trevor Coulborn Hall 351: 351 ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS is a fellowship of people who share their experience, strength, and hope with each other that they may solve their common problem and help others to recover from alcoholism. The only requirement for membership is a desire to stop drinking. There are no dues or fees for A.A. membership; we are self-supporting through our own contributions. A.A. is … Events at UCF Alcoholics Anonymous (Recurring Event) July 19, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 8 p.m. Trevor Coulborn Hall 351: 351 ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS is a fellowship of people who share their experience, strength, and hope with each other that they may solve their common problem and help others to recover from alcoholism. The only requirement for membership is a desire to stop drinking. There are no dues or fees for A.A. membership; we are self-supporting through our own contributions. A.A. is … Events at UCF Alcoholics Anonymous (Recurring Event) July 26, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 8 p.m. Trevor Coulborn Hall 351: 351 ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS is a fellowship of people who share their experience, strength, and hope with each other that they may solve their common problem and help others to recover from alcoholism. The only requirement for membership is a desire to stop drinking. There are no dues or fees for A.A. membership; we are self-supporting through our own contributions. A.A. is … Events at UCF Alcoholics Anonymous (Recurring Event) Aug. 2, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 8 p.m. Trevor Coulborn Hall 351: 351 ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS is a fellowship of people who share their experience, strength, and hope with each other that they may solve their common problem and help others to recover from alcoholism. The only requirement for membership is a desire to stop drinking. There are no dues or fees for A.A. membership; we are self-supporting through our own contributions. A.A. is … Events at UCF Alcoholics Anonymous (Recurring Event) Aug. 9, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 8 p.m. Trevor Coulborn Hall 351: 351 ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS is a fellowship of people who share their experience, strength, and hope with each other that they may solve their common problem and help others to recover from alcoholism. The only requirement for membership is a desire to stop drinking. There are no dues or fees for A.A. membership; we are self-supporting through our own contributions. A.A. is … Events at UCF Alcoholics Anonymous (Recurring Event) Aug. 16, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 8 p.m. Trevor Coulborn Hall 351: 351 ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS is a fellowship of people who share their experience, strength, and hope with each other that they may solve their common problem and help others to recover from alcoholism. The only requirement for membership is a desire to stop drinking. There are no dues or fees for A.A. membership; we are self-supporting through our own contributions. A.A. is … Events at UCF Categories: Academic Arts Exhibit Career/Jobs Concert/Performance Entertainment Health Holiday Meeting Open Forum Recreation & Exercise Service/Volunteer Social Event Speaker/Lecture/Seminar Sports Tour/Open House/Information Session Uncategorized/Other Workshop/Conference Feeds: Apple iCal Feed (ICS) Microsoft Outlook Feed (ICS) RSS Feed XML Feed JSON Feed © University of Central Florida UCF Announcements Help & Documentation Contact