Events at UCF Log In Events By Category: “Concert/Performance” Pegasus PlayLab Workshop 'Spells of the Sea' (Recurring Event) June 4, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 9 p.m. Theatre UCF: Black Box: TH 6 By Guinevere Govea and Anna Pickett | Directed by Julia Flood (Guest Artist)This musical tale follows a fifteen-year-old fisherwoman named Finley Frankfurter and an old lighthouse keeper named H.S. Crank as they journey through the ocean to find the Elixir of Life to cure Finley&rsquo;s terminally ill father.This workshop is a collaboration with UT Austin&rsquo;s Drama and Theatre for Youth … Events at UCF Pegasus PlayLab Workshop 'Spells of the Sea' (Recurring Event) June 5, 2022 at 2:30 p.m. until 4:30 p.m. Theatre UCF: Black Box: TH 6 By Guinevere Govea and Anna Pickett | Directed by Julia Flood (Guest Artist)This musical tale follows a fifteen-year-old fisherwoman named Finley Frankfurter and an old lighthouse keeper named H.S. Crank as they journey through the ocean to find the Elixir of Life to cure Finley&rsquo;s terminally ill father.This workshop is a collaboration with UT Austin&rsquo;s Drama and Theatre for Youth … Events at UCF Pegasus PlayLab Festival: Affinity Lunch Minutes (Recurring Event) June 10, 2022 at 7:30 p.m. until 9:30 p.m. Theatre UCF: Main Stage: TH 6 By Nick Malakhow | Directed by Roberta EmersonBen and Jasmine are the only two Black teachers at Penn Valley, a private Quaker school. Jasmine is passionate and boundary pushing, while Ben has worked his way up the ranks at the school to be Diversity Dean thanks to his &ldquo;agreeable&rdquo; nature. A racially charged discipline decision ignites a divide at the … Events at UCF Pegasus PlayLab Workshop 'Race to Infinity' (Recurring Event) June 11, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 9 p.m. Theatre UCF: Black Box: TH 6 By Gian Arellano (UCF student playwright) | Directed by Edmarie Montes (Guest Artist) All her life, Sara recalls being second to her brother, Samuel, due to the love their judgmental mother shows him. However, when senior year rolls around, Sara discovers a new version of the video game she used to play with Samuel growing up, and this helps launch … Events at UCF Pegasus PlayLab Festival: Affinity Lunch Minutes (Recurring Event) June 11, 2022 at 7:30 p.m. until 9:30 p.m. Theatre UCF: Main Stage: TH 6 By Nick Malakhow | Directed by Roberta EmersonBen and Jasmine are the only two Black teachers at Penn Valley, a private Quaker school. Jasmine is passionate and boundary pushing, while Ben has worked his way up the ranks at the school to be Diversity Dean thanks to his &ldquo;agreeable&rdquo; nature. A racially charged discipline decision ignites a divide at the … Events at UCF Pegasus PlayLab Festival: Affinity Lunch Minutes (Recurring Event) June 12, 2022 at 2 p.m. until 4 p.m. Theatre UCF: Main Stage: TH 6 By Nick Malakhow | Directed by Roberta EmersonBen and Jasmine are the only two Black teachers at Penn Valley, a private Quaker school. Jasmine is passionate and boundary pushing, while Ben has worked his way up the ranks at the school to be Diversity Dean thanks to his &ldquo;agreeable&rdquo; nature. A racially charged discipline decision ignites a divide at the … Events at UCF Pegasus PlayLab Workshop 'Race to Infinity' (Recurring Event) June 12, 2022 at 2:30 p.m. until 4:30 p.m. Theatre UCF: Black Box: TH 6 By Gian Arellano (UCF student playwright) | Directed by Edmarie Montes (Guest Artist) All her life, Sara recalls being second to her brother, Samuel, due to the love their judgmental mother shows him. However, when senior year rolls around, Sara discovers a new version of the video game she used to play with Samuel growing up, and this helps launch … Events at UCF Pegasus PlayLab Festival: Affinity Lunch Minutes (Recurring Event) June 16, 2022 at 7:30 p.m. until 9:30 p.m. Theatre UCF: Main Stage: TH 6 By Nick Malakhow | Directed by Roberta EmersonBen and Jasmine are the only two Black teachers at Penn Valley, a private Quaker school. Jasmine is passionate and boundary pushing, while Ben has worked his way up the ranks at the school to be Diversity Dean thanks to his &ldquo;agreeable&rdquo; nature. A racially charged discipline decision ignites a divide at the … Events at UCF Pegasus PlayLab Festival: Affinity Lunch Minutes (Recurring Event) June 17, 2022 at 7:30 p.m. until 9:30 p.m. Theatre UCF: Main Stage: TH 6 By Nick Malakhow | Directed by Roberta EmersonBen and Jasmine are the only two Black teachers at Penn Valley, a private Quaker school. Jasmine is passionate and boundary pushing, while Ben has worked his way up the ranks at the school to be Diversity Dean thanks to his &ldquo;agreeable&rdquo; nature. A racially charged discipline decision ignites a divide at the … Events at UCF Pegasus PlayLab Festival: Affinity Lunch Minutes (Recurring Event) June 18, 2022 at 7:30 p.m. until 9:30 p.m. Theatre UCF: Main Stage: TH 6 By Nick Malakhow | Directed by Roberta EmersonBen and Jasmine are the only two Black teachers at Penn Valley, a private Quaker school. Jasmine is passionate and boundary pushing, while Ben has worked his way up the ranks at the school to be Diversity Dean thanks to his &ldquo;agreeable&rdquo; nature. A racially charged discipline decision ignites a divide at the … Events at UCF Categories: Academic Arts Exhibit Career/Jobs Concert/Performance Entertainment Health Holiday Meeting Open Forum Recreation & Exercise Service/Volunteer Social Event Speaker/Lecture/Seminar Sports Tour/Open House/Information Session Uncategorized/Other Workshop/Conference Feeds: Apple iCal Feed (ICS) Microsoft Outlook Feed (ICS) RSS Feed XML Feed JSON Feed © University of Central Florida UCF Announcements Help & Documentation Contact