Events at UCF Log In Manage Edit Events Manager View Edit Calendar Users & Permissions Calendar Info Subscriptions Subscribe to Calendar Search events, calendars Search Day View Week View Month View Year View Upcoming View By... Day View Week View Month View Year View Upcoming Upcoming Events Intensive Reading Camp June 6, 2022 at 8:30 a.m. until June 13, 2022, noon UCF Communication Sciences and Disorders Clinic: 3280 Progress Drive Suite 500 The School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Clinic at the University of Central Florida will host an Intensive Reading Camp with UCF literacy experts from June 6 to June 30. All materials are included. To sign up, email csdclinic@ucf.edu. This intensive reading intervention camp is for nonreaders or struggling readers entering the 3rd or 4th grade.The camp will be held … Events at UCF 2022 Computer Science Summer Institute June 6, 2022 at 9 a.m. until June 24, 2022, 5 p.m. Engineering 2 Atrium The Summer Institute is an intensive three-week program (June 6-24) for students who have interest in learning the foundations of computer science and computer technology. The program offers a mix of activities designed to maximize learning through interactive, individualized instruction with outstanding instructors. It is also designed to expose students to broader topics in computer science through the distinguished lectures … Events at UCF Pathways 2022: The Carlos Malamud Prize Exhibition June 6, 2022 at 10 a.m. until June 10, 2022, 5 p.m. UCF Art Gallery This exhibition is the result of a collaborative partnership between the UCF Art Gallery at the University of Central Florida and the Rollins Museum of Art to celebrate and support emerging professional artists working in Florida. Juried by an external panel of three professionals from various areas of the art world, this year&rsquo;s edition of the exhibition features six artists … Events at UCF Financial Literacy, presented by Fisher Investments #CRMSummer22 June 6, 2022 at 11 a.m. until noon Virtual Attend this workshop to learn more about Financial Literacy. Include and understand your student loans, personal budgeting, and what to do with your first paycheck. Participate in Career Readiness, May 31 &ndash; June 7. Sign-up for Career Readiness Summer Series events at ucf.joinhandshake.com. Login, click on events and search #CRMSummer22. RSVP for any and all events to learn how to: … Events at UCF UNITY STAR: Intent vs. Impact (DIV 585) June 6, 2022 at 3 p.m. until 4:30 p.m. Barbara Ying Center: 140 This workshop will provide participants with awareness of the ways biased practices unconsciously and consciously communicate derogatory and/or hurtful messages to others. It will provide ways to help make sure the intention behind our statements, questions and actions match our impact. Registration Information Faculty, A&amp;P, USPS, OPS: Register online at myUCF.edu &gt; Employee Self Service &gt; Learning &amp; Development &gt; … Events at UCF Al-Anon: Serenity Now (Recurring Event) June 6, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 8 p.m. Trevor Colbourn Hall: 351 *This group meets every Monday except for on the following University holidays: Monday, May 30th - Memorial Day Monday, July 4th - Fourth of July The Al-Anon Family Groups are a fellowship of relatives and friends of alcoholics who share their experience, strength, and hope in order to solve their common problems. We believe alcoholism is a family illness, and … Events at UCF LinkedIn Made Easy - Webinar June 7, 2022 at 12 p.m. until 1 p.m. Virtual Attend this workshop to learn how you can leverage your profile to promote your brand and connect with professionals in your network. Follow along to update your profile and experiment with LinkedIn resources! This workshop is offered through the College of Graduate Studies Pathways to Success professional development program for graduate students. See https://graduate.ucf.edu/pathways-to-success for details. Events at UCF Online Information Session for UCF's Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) Program (Recurring Event) June 7, 2022 at 2 p.m. until 4 p.m. Virtual Join us online for an information session on the&nbsp;Bachelor of Science in Nursing degree at UCF&nbsp;and learn about the unique admission requirements for each BSN program track. In this interactive information session, ask questions and find out what you need to know to successfully prepare your BSN program application. --- UCF&rsquo;s Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) Information Sessions&nbsp;are designed … Events at UCF Summer 2022 GKT Math Study Group (Recurring Event) June 7, 2022 at 4 p.m. until 5 p.m. Virtual These sessions allow students to work on the GKT in small groups or independently with the aid of a tutor.&nbsp; Bring your own study material(s) with specific questions or work with others on the test example provided by the FTCE website. Events at UCF Student Green Dot Training June 7, 2022 at 5 p.m. until 8 p.m. Virtual Green Dot is a bystander intervention training program that aims to reduce power based personal violence on campus by training students, faculty, and staff how to become active bystanders. Green Dot&nbsp;uses the concept of displacing Red Dots (potential/real acts of violence) with Green Dots (actions taken to eliminate/ prevent Red Dots). Actions could be reactive or proactive. Green Dot Bystander … Events at UCF Virtual Artist Panel with Ivan Riascos, Channing Gray, and Aimee Jones June 7, 2022 at 6 p.m. until 8 p.m. Virtual This virtual artist panel is the result of a collaborative partnership between the UCF Art Gallery at the University of Central Florida and the Rollins Museum of Art to celebrate and support emerging professional artists working in Florida. Juried by an external panel of three professionals from various areas of the art world, this year&rsquo;s edition of Pathways 2022: The … Events at UCF Alcoholics Anonymous (Recurring Event) June 7, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 8 p.m. Trevor Coulborn Hall 351: 351 ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS is a fellowship of people who share their experience, strength, and hope with each other that they may solve their common problem and help others to recover from alcoholism. The only requirement for membership is a desire to stop drinking. There are no dues or fees for A.A. membership; we are self-supporting through our own contributions. A.A. is … Events at UCF SBA Workshop: Joint Ventures 101 – How to Build a Successful Package June 8, 2022 at 1 p.m. until 4 p.m. Virtual Overview of how to build a successful Joint Venture package. Events at UCF Violence Prevention Certificate Series: Title IX (Recurring Event) June 8, 2022 at 1 p.m. until 2 p.m. Virtual Let&rsquo;s Be Clear is offering a series of virtual and in person leadership opportunities through our Violence Prevention Certificate Series to teach students how to support and care for fellow Knights. This series of workshops provides students with an understanding of topics related to interpersonal violence, Title IX, safety, and how to connect students who may be impacted. Students who … Events at UCF UNITY STAR: Religious, Secular, and Spiritual Literacy for Beginners (DIV 442) June 8, 2022 at 2:30 p.m. until 3:30 p.m. Barbara Ying Center: 140 Have you said before "Well that isn't my area of expertise"? This session is designed for individuals who do not have extensive advanced degrees in religious studies but are still very interested in supporting students and their diverse identities. Using the framework of BRIDGE Interfaith Youth Core curriculum, we will identify strategies for increasing one's interfaith literacy. Registration Information Faculty, … Events at UCF Recharge to Charge On - Yoga for Faculty and Staff (Recurring Event) June 8, 2022 at 4 p.m. until 5 p.m. Education Complex and Gymnasium: ED176 Relax and unwind with UCF faculty and staff during a free midweek afternoon yoga session, hosted by the Wellness Research Center from 4:00 to 5:00pm in the Education Complex and Gym, ED176. The session will be led by Violette Gibbs, a Yoga Alliance certified instructor. Participants are encouraged to bring a yoga mat or beach towel.&nbsp; Events at UCF Women's EmTowerment! (Recurring Event) June 8, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 9 p.m. Recreation and Wellness Center Looking for a new way to challenge yourself? This is a perfect event for anyone who is looking to try indoor rock climbing in a fun, comfortable, and supportive environment. At this female-focused climbing event, gear will be provided and all skill levels are encouraged to attend! Registration is NOT required, and you are able to show up any time … Events at UCF Narcotics Anonymous (Recurring Event) June 8, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 8 p.m. Trevor Colbourn Hall: 351: 351 NA is a non-profit fellowship of men and women for whom drugs have become a major problem. We meet regularly to help each other live drug-free. There are no dues or fees, the only requirement for membership is a desire to stop using. Our fellowship focuses primarily on recovery from the disease of addiction. Anyone may join us regardless of … Events at UCF Health Meets Food: The Culinary Medicine Conference June 9, 2022 at 9 a.m. until June 12, 2022, 4 p.m. Rosen College: Darden Auditorium, Room 101 Register today for the 8TH annual HEALTH MEETS FOOD: THE CULINARY MEDICINE CONFERENCE. The conference will take place in-person Thursday, June 9 through Sunday, June 12, 2022, in Orlando, FL at UCF Rosen College of Hospitality Management. &nbsp;There will also be an online streaming option using a virtual conference platform that will allow for the full conference experience including lectures, … Events at UCF Marketing for Business Success (Recurring Event) June 9, 2022 at 10 a.m. until noon Virtual A webinar providing an overview of the marketing process for small business, as well as a close look at all elements of a marketing plan. Marketing is the driver of revenue growth and an imperative for small business success. Topics include the traditional four &ldquo;P&rsquo;s&rdquo; of marketing &mdash; product, place, promotion and price &mdash; as well as three new &ldquo;P&rsquo;s&rdquo; … Events at UCF Big Red Bus - Donate Blood Today! June 9, 2022 at 11 a.m. until 5 p.m. UCF Memory Mall Help us maintain a safe and ready blood supply for cancer patients, trauma patients or for when unexpected tragedies occur. The OneBlood bus will park on Memory Mall near the Veterans Memorial. Walk-ups welcomed, appointments appreciated!&nbsp; Events at UCF UNITY STAR: Inclusive Communication (DIV 053) June 9, 2022 at 1:30 p.m. until 4:30 p.m. Barbara Ying Center: 140 Inclusive Communication, as facilitated by UCF&rsquo;s Office of Diversity and Inclusion, explores the concept that as we interact in diverse environments and strive to enhance inclusion and equity, it is important to be welcoming, appreciative, valuing, and respectful in our communications with one another. Discussions and activities develop the following ideas: inclusive communication involves words, tone of voice, body language, … Events at UCF Zotero Citation Management - Online (Recurring Event) June 9, 2022 at 3 p.m. until 4 p.m. Virtual This session will lead you through Zotero citation management features. Zotero is a free tool, and&nbsp;similar to other&nbsp;citation managers it allows you to organize sources for projects, import citations from databases, catalogs, and webpages, save PDFs, format citations and bibliographies in Word, and create groups for resource sharing. &nbsp; Please note: Students will receive a link to participate online upon … Events at UCF EndNote Citation Management (Recurring Event) June 10, 2022 at 12 p.m. until 1 p.m. Graduate Student Center: Trevor Colbourn Hall: 213 Citation management tools allow you to dedicate more time to research. Join us to learn how to export citations from library databases, organize citations, generate bibliographies, and format citations in a Word document. EndNote can help make managing your references and formatting citations easy.&nbsp;&nbsp; This workshop is offered through the College of Graduate Studies Pathways to Success professional development program … Events at UCF Koru Basic Mindfulness Course (Recurring Event) June 10, 2022 at 1 p.m. until 2:30 p.m. Virtual Become part of the Koru movement! This free interactive mindfulness course is offered to enrolled UCF students. Learn different meditations and mindfulness techniques to become more calm and focused in your day-to-day life! Class dates are Fridays, 5/27, 6/3, 6/10&nbsp;and 6/17 from 1:00&ndash;2:30 p.m.,&nbsp;attendance at all 4 classes is requested, classes are on zoom.&nbsp;To register follow the&nbsp;link&nbsp;or email pamela.mills@ucf.edu&nbsp;for more … Events at UCF Previous 1 2 3 4 5 Next 10 May 2022 April June Su M Tu W Th F Sa 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 1 2 3 4 Filter by Category: Academic Arts Exhibit Career/Jobs Concert/Performance Entertainment Health Holiday Meeting Open Forum Recreation & Exercise Service/Volunteer Social Event Speaker/Lecture/Seminar Sports Tour/Open House/Information Session Uncategorized/Other Workshop/Conference Feeds: Apple iCal Feed (ICS) Microsoft Outlook Feed (ICS) RSS Feed XML Feed JSON Feed © University of Central Florida UCF Announcements Help & Documentation Contact