Events at UCF Log In Events By Tag: “Government contracting” Government Contracting: Overview (Recurring Event) June 1, 2022 at 9 a.m. until noon Virtual Federal, state and local government procurement is the largest target market in the world. The question is usually not &ldquo;Does the government buy what you are selling?&rdquo;...it is more &ldquo;Can you be competitive enough and relentless enough to position your business to win government contracts?&rdquo; If you think you can be competitive, then government contracting may be a good growth … Events at UCF SBA Workshop: Joint Ventures 101 – How to Build a Successful Package June 8, 2022 at 1 p.m. until 4 p.m. Virtual Overview of how to build a successful Joint Venture package. Events at UCF Government Contracting: Overview (Recurring Event) July 6, 2022 at 9 a.m. until noon Virtual Federal, state and local government procurement is the largest target market in the world. The question is usually not &ldquo;Does the government buy what you are selling?&rdquo;...it is more &ldquo;Can you be competitive enough and relentless enough to position your business to win government contracts?&rdquo; If you think you can be competitive, then government contracting may be a good growth … Events at UCF Federal Small Business Certifications Managed by SBA July 13, 2022 at 1 p.m. until 4 p.m. Virtual This presentation provides an understanding of the various certifications impacted by SBA and discussed eligibility criteria and the application process. To aid your business to make effective connections with the government your business should obtain the proper certifications, if available. SBA small business certifications document a special capability or status that will help your small business compete in the federal … Events at UCF Government Contracting: Overview (Recurring Event) Aug. 3, 2022 at 9 a.m. until noon Virtual Federal, state and local government procurement is the largest target market in the world. The question is usually not &ldquo;Does the government buy what you are selling?&rdquo;...it is more &ldquo;Can you be competitive enough and relentless enough to position your business to win government contracts?&rdquo; If you think you can be competitive, then government contracting may be a good growth … Events at UCF Government Contracting: Overview (Recurring Event) Sept. 7, 2022 at 9 a.m. until noon Virtual Federal, state and local government procurement is the largest target market in the world. The question is usually not &ldquo;Does the government buy what you are selling?&rdquo;...it is more &ldquo;Can you be competitive enough and relentless enough to position your business to win government contracts?&rdquo; If you think you can be competitive, then government contracting may be a good growth … Events at UCF Government Contracting: Overview (Recurring Event) Oct. 5, 2022 at 9 a.m. until noon Virtual Federal, state and local government procurement is the largest target market in the world. The question is usually not &ldquo;Does the government buy what you are selling?&rdquo;...it is more &ldquo;Can you be competitive enough and relentless enough to position your business to win government contracts?&rdquo; If you think you can be competitive, then government contracting may be a good growth … Events at UCF Government Contracting: Overview (Recurring Event) Nov. 2, 2022 at 9 a.m. until noon Virtual Federal, state and local government procurement is the largest target market in the world. The question is usually not &ldquo;Does the government buy what you are selling?&rdquo;...it is more &ldquo;Can you be competitive enough and relentless enough to position your business to win government contracts?&rdquo; If you think you can be competitive, then government contracting may be a good growth … Events at UCF Government Contracting: Overview (Recurring Event) Dec. 7, 2022 at 9 a.m. until noon Virtual Federal, state and local government procurement is the largest target market in the world. The question is usually not &ldquo;Does the government buy what you are selling?&rdquo;...it is more &ldquo;Can you be competitive enough and relentless enough to position your business to win government contracts?&rdquo; If you think you can be competitive, then government contracting may be a good growth … Events at UCF Categories: Academic Arts Exhibit Career/Jobs Concert/Performance Entertainment Health Holiday Meeting Open Forum Recreation & Exercise Service/Volunteer Social Event Speaker/Lecture/Seminar Sports Tour/Open House/Information Session Uncategorized/Other Workshop/Conference Feeds: Apple iCal Feed (ICS) Microsoft Outlook Feed (ICS) RSS Feed XML Feed JSON Feed © University of Central Florida UCF Announcements Help & Documentation Contact