Events at UCF Log In Manage Edit Events Manager View Edit Calendar Users & Permissions Calendar Info Subscriptions Subscribe to Calendar Search events, calendars Search Day View Week View Month View Year View Upcoming View By... Day View Week View Month View Year View Upcoming Upcoming Events Alcoholics Anonymous (Recurring Event) May 31, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 8 p.m. Trevor Coulborn Hall 351: 351 ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS is a fellowship of people who share their experience, strength, and hope with each other that they may solve their common problem and help others to recover from alcoholism. The only requirement for membership is a desire to stop drinking. There are no dues or fees for A.A. membership; we are self-supporting through our own contributions. A.A. is … Events at UCF Application Deadline: Peer Mentor for Summer Research Academy June 1, 2022 at 12 a.m. until 11:45 p.m. Virtual Summer Research Academy (SRA)&nbsp;is a fast-paced, 3-day event in July. It is a 1-credit course (IDS 3913) that runs during Summer B term, but most of the work will be completed during the event in July. SRA is ideal for transfer students or current students who want to begin research in the fall.SRA Peer Mentors work with small groups of … Events at UCF Application Deadline: Summer Research Academy June 1, 2022 at 9 a.m. until 10 p.m. Virtual Participants in the Summer Research Academy will: Learn&nbsp;about the nature of university research and how it can expand your undergraduate experience. Meet&nbsp;with research faculty and other students active in research. Explore&nbsp;research opportunities available to undergraduate students at UCF. Prepare&nbsp;professionally for future research, internships/careers, and advanced degrees. Earn&nbsp;1-credit hour for completing the Introduction to Research (IDS 3913) course. Learn more about … Events at UCF Government Contracting: Overview (Recurring Event) June 1, 2022 at 9 a.m. until noon Virtual Federal, state and local government procurement is the largest target market in the world. The question is usually not &ldquo;Does the government buy what you are selling?&rdquo;...it is more &ldquo;Can you be competitive enough and relentless enough to position your business to win government contracts?&rdquo; If you think you can be competitive, then government contracting may be a good growth … Events at UCF Interviewing Strategies, presented by OCPS #CRMSummer22 June 1, 2022 at 10 a.m. until 11 a.m. Virtual Orange County Public Schools will share helpful tips for virtual and in-person interviews! Participate in Career Readiness, May 31 &ndash; June 7. Sign-up for Career Readiness Summer Series events at ucf.joinhandshake.com. Login, click on events and search #CRMSummer22. RSVP for any and all events to learn how to: Build winning resumes and prepare for virtual and in-person interviews Engage and … Events at UCF Big Red Bus - Donate Blood Today! June 1, 2022 at 11 a.m. until 5 p.m. UCF Memory Mall Help us maintain a safe and ready blood supply for cancer patients, trauma patients or for when unexpected tragedies occur. The OneBlood bus will park on Memory Mall near the Veterans Memorial. Walk-ups welcomed, appointments appreciated!&nbsp; Events at UCF Preparing for Statewide Job Fair, presented by Coastal Group - #CRMSummer22 June 1, 2022 at 12 p.m. until 1 p.m. Virtual Learn how virtual career fairs differ from in-person ones and what you can do to successfully prepare for and navigate tomorrow's Statewide Job Fair through the Career Fair Plus app. Learn more about the upcoming Statewide Job Fair at https://floridacareercenters.org/statewide-job-fair-students// Participate in Career Readiness, May 31 &ndash; June 7. Sign-up for Career Readiness Summer Series events at ucf.joinhandshake.com. Login, click … Events at UCF Statewide Job Fair Virtual Ready Room #CRMSummer22 June 1, 2022 at 1:30 p.m. until 4:30 p.m. Virtual Planning to attend the Statewide Job Fair on 6/2? Not sure what to expect? Participate in our virtual Ready Room to prepare and practice your Elevator Pitch, learn effective strategies for connecting with employers, and discover how best to maximize your experience at the Summer 2022 Virtual Statewide Job Fair. Attend all or any of the following sessions: 1:30-2:00pm | … Events at UCF Violence Prevention Certificate Series: Title IX (Recurring Event) June 1, 2022 at 2 p.m. until 3 p.m. Virtual Let&rsquo;s Be Clear is offering a series of virtual and in person leadership opportunities through our Violence Prevention Certificate Series to teach students how to support and care for fellow Knights. This series of workshops provides students with an understanding of topics related to interpersonal violence, Title IX, safety, and how to connect students who may be impacted. Students who … Events at UCF UNITY STAR: Understanding Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DIV 008) June 1, 2022 at 2:30 p.m. until 4:30 p.m. Barbara Ying Center: 140 As the foundational workshop facilitated by UCF&rsquo;s Office of Diversity and Inclusion, this workshop explores three key concepts &ndash; diversity, inclusion, and equity. Discussions and activities develop the following ideas: &nbsp; human diversity is broad and includes all the ways in which we differ, understanding our similarities is key to developing connections, inclusion involves creating and maintaining safe and respectful … Events at UCF UCF Counselor Education Program: Information Session June 1, 2022 at 4 p.m. until 6 p.m. Virtual Are you interested in pursuing a graduate degree in counseling? The nationally ranked and accredited Counseling Program&nbsp;at the University of Central Florida offers master&rsquo;s degrees in mental health counseling, marriage &amp; family therapy, and school counseling, and a doctoral degree in counselor education. To meet the needs of interested parties and applicants, the Program holds virtual information sessions every other … Events at UCF Recharge to Charge On - Yoga for Faculty and Staff (Recurring Event) June 1, 2022 at 4 p.m. until 5 p.m. Education Complex and Gymnasium: ED176 Relax and unwind with UCF faculty and staff during a free midweek afternoon yoga session, hosted by the Wellness Research Center from 4:00 to 5:00pm in the Education Complex and Gym, ED176. The session will be led by Violette Gibbs, a Yoga Alliance certified instructor. Participants are encouraged to bring a yoga mat or beach towel.&nbsp; Events at UCF Narcotics Anonymous (Recurring Event) June 1, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 8 p.m. Trevor Colbourn Hall: 351: 351 NA is a non-profit fellowship of men and women for whom drugs have become a major problem. We meet regularly to help each other live drug-free. There are no dues or fees, the only requirement for membership is a desire to stop using. Our fellowship focuses primarily on recovery from the disease of addiction. Anyone may join us regardless of … Events at UCF How to Start Your Business (Recurring Event) June 2, 2022 at 9 a.m. until noon National Entrepreneur Center: Venture Training Room If you&rsquo;re thinking of starting a business, it&rsquo;s important to take the right steps. This course will give you an overview of what to know, actions to take, and how to avoid common missteps to give your company its greatest chance of success. Events at UCF Violence Prevention Certificate Series: Title IX (Recurring Event) June 2, 2022 at 10 a.m. until 11 a.m. Virtual Let&rsquo;s Be Clear is offering a series of virtual and in person leadership opportunities through our Violence Prevention Certificate Series to teach students how to support and care for fellow Knights. This series of workshops provides students with an understanding of topics related to interpersonal violence, Title IX, safety, and how to connect students who may be impacted. Students who … Events at UCF Thesis and Dissertation Formatting with Word June 2, 2022 at 1 p.m. until 2:30 p.m. Graduate Student Center: Trevor Colbourn Hall: 213 Attend this workshop to learn about setting up Microsoft Word Styles to format a thesis or dissertation. Students are strongly encouraged to attend this session in their final term if they are completing a thesis or dissertation. It is recommended that attendees bring their laptop and thesis/dissertation file. Please review Module 3 of the Thesis and Dissertation Webcourse prior to … Events at UCF Finding & Using Academic Sources - Online (Recurring Event) June 2, 2022 at 3 p.m. until 4 p.m. Virtual This session highlights time-saving strategies to help you locate academic sources for upcoming course assignments and literature reviews. Learn how to find peer-reviewed articles, identify subject-related databases, locate related sources for topics, and how citation management apps can help you save, manage, and cite sources. Please note: Students will receive a link to participate online upon registration in myUCF.&nbsp; This … Events at UCF UNITY STAR: Setting Boundaries in the Workplace: You Can Do this! (DIV 589) June 3, 2022 at 10 a.m. until 11:30 a.m. Virtual It is important to have healthy boundaries, especially in the workplace.&nbsp; This can be challenging at best.&nbsp;&nbsp; The concept of setting boundaries may not be a common practice for many people nor something that is often discussed or encouraged.&nbsp;&nbsp; Everything we are experiencing right now is contributing to our stress levels.&nbsp; This session will look at the importance of healthy … Events at UCF Job Search Strategies, presented by Florida Auditor General #CRMSummer22 June 3, 2022 at 10 a.m. until 11 a.m. Virtual Learn tips and techniques for an effective job search! Participate in Career Readiness, May 31 &ndash; June 7. Sign-up for Career Readiness Summer Series events at ucf.joinhandshake.com. Login, click on events and search #CRMSummer22. RSVP for any and all events to learn how to: Build winning resumes and prepare for virtual and in-person interviews Engage and meet with employers to … Events at UCF Communicate with Confidence: Effective Verbal and Non-Verbal Communication Skills #CRMSummer22 June 3, 2022 at 12 p.m. until 1 p.m. Virtual How do you communicate effectively with employers at networking events, conferences, or interviews? Attend this workshop to learn effective strategies, both verbal and non-verbal, to help you successfully navigate a conversation with an employer or recruiter. Participate in Career Readiness, May 31 &ndash; June 7. Sign-up for Career Readiness Summer Series events at ucf.joinhandshake.com. Login, click on events and search … Events at UCF Koru Basic Mindfulness Course (Recurring Event) June 3, 2022 at 1 p.m. until 2:30 p.m. Virtual Become part of the Koru movement! This free interactive mindfulness course is offered to enrolled UCF students. Learn different meditations and mindfulness techniques to become more calm and focused in your day-to-day life! Class dates are Fridays, 5/27, 6/3, 6/10&nbsp;and 6/17 from 1:00&ndash;2:30 p.m.,&nbsp;attendance at all 4 classes is requested, classes are on zoom.&nbsp;To register follow the&nbsp;link&nbsp;or email pamela.mills@ucf.edu&nbsp;for more … Events at UCF Learn to Surf - 6/4/2022 June 4, 2022 at 7 a.m. until 5 p.m. Ormond Beach Trip Date: 6/4/2022 Trip Location: Ormond Beach, FL Trip Cost: $15.00 Registration Lottery Opens: 5/18/2022 - 12:00pm Registration Lottery Closes: 5/19/2022 - 12:00pm Registration Closes: 5/31/2022 - 12:00pm To register for this trip, complete the Adventure Trip Registration Form. All trips will be registered via lottery system. The lottery is open for 24 hours from the registration open date and … Events at UCF Thesis and Departures Exhibition June 4, 2022 at 12 p.m. until 5 p.m. Southeast Museum of Photography The graduating seniors in the B.S. in Photography program will present their work at the Southeast Museum of Photography in Daytona Beach. The Thesis Exhibition will open on May 3, with a reception on Thursday, May 5, 6 - 7 p.m. The exhibition will run through July 19. The Southeast Museum of Photography is located at 1200 West International Speedway … Events at UCF Pegasus PlayLab Workshop 'Spells of the Sea' (Recurring Event) June 4, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 9 p.m. Theatre UCF: Black Box: TH 6 By Guinevere Govea and Anna Pickett | Directed by Julia Flood (Guest Artist)This musical tale follows a fifteen-year-old fisherwoman named Finley Frankfurter and an old lighthouse keeper named H.S. Crank as they journey through the ocean to find the Elixir of Life to cure Finley&rsquo;s terminally ill father.This workshop is a collaboration with UT Austin&rsquo;s Drama and Theatre for Youth … Events at UCF Pegasus PlayLab Workshop 'Spells of the Sea' (Recurring Event) June 5, 2022 at 2:30 p.m. until 4:30 p.m. Theatre UCF: Black Box: TH 6 By Guinevere Govea and Anna Pickett | Directed by Julia Flood (Guest Artist)This musical tale follows a fifteen-year-old fisherwoman named Finley Frankfurter and an old lighthouse keeper named H.S. Crank as they journey through the ocean to find the Elixir of Life to cure Finley&rsquo;s terminally ill father.This workshop is a collaboration with UT Austin&rsquo;s Drama and Theatre for Youth … Events at UCF Previous 1 2 3 4 5 Next 10 May 2022 April June Su M Tu W Th F Sa 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 1 2 3 4 Filter by Category: Academic Arts Exhibit Career/Jobs Concert/Performance Entertainment Health Holiday Meeting Open Forum Recreation & Exercise Service/Volunteer Social Event Speaker/Lecture/Seminar Sports Tour/Open House/Information Session Uncategorized/Other Workshop/Conference Feeds: Apple iCal Feed (ICS) Microsoft Outlook Feed (ICS) RSS Feed XML Feed JSON Feed © University of Central Florida UCF Announcements Help & Documentation Contact