Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Event Management Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Affiliations Events Venues Services Policies & Forms Reserve/Request A Quote About Us Columbia Students Faculty & Staff Guests Browse Event Possibilities Filming on Campus Meetings & Conferences Performances Student Events Weddings & Social Events Event Gallery Accessibility Our Venues View All Venues Butler Hall Earl Hall Faculty House Low Library Lerner Hall Saint Paul’s Chapel Outdoor Spaces Residence Hall Lounges Classrooms Partner Venues Other Columbia Venues AV/Technical Services Explore AV/Technical Services Request AV/Technical Services Catering Services Explore Catering Services Request Catering Services Event Logistics Access & Security Custodial Services Electrical & Carpentry Support Vendor Recommendations Event Setup & Additional Services Specialty Events Barbecue Events on Campus Events with Alcohol Filming on Campus View All Services All Policies & Forms Quick View of Our Forms First-Time Customers & Guests Request a Quote for Event Space Request AV/Technical Services Quote Request Catering Services Quote Faculty, Staff & Students Log-in to EMS Request an EMS Account Our Service Promise Our Team News Sustainability Work With Us Event Management You are here: Home News Students Preview the New Wallach ESPORTS Room Students Preview the New Wallach ESPORTS Room May 04, 2022 Set to officially open in Fall 2022. The Wallach Hall lounge has gotten a major upgrade. Thanks to a generous donation made by University Trustee Shirley Wang BUS’93 and Walter Wang, the lounge has been transformed to a state-of-the-art e-gaming room for undergraduate students. Members of Intramural and ESPORTS clubs were recently invited for a sneak peek. Students got to check-out the impressive space and test drive the equipment which includes: Two 75 inch 4K resolution screens with game system plug in capabilities One 4 panel, 4K resolution video wall for streaming and events 18 Lenovo Legion T7 gaming PCs with Intel Core i9 processor, 32GB RAM, NVidia GeForce RTX 3080 all with a Lenovo Legion 27-inch WLED Gaming Monitor Ambient LED lighting for an immersive playing experience Valorant, Minecraft, Apex Legends, League of Legends, CS:GO, & Destiny games installed with more to be added to the library The room features 18 Lenovo Legion T7 gaming PCs. Photo by Michael DiVito. The space will be coordinated by Event Management and officially opens for the 2022-23 academic year. It will be reservable for Intramural and ESPORTS groups, while at other times open to the undergraduate residential community. More information about the schedule will be made available through student activities, Event Management, and Housing in the fall. The project is part of an initiative to support community at Columbia through the renovation of shared social spaces for undergraduates on the Morningside campus. In addition to the ESPORTS Room in Wallach Hall, the project includes the completed John Jay lounge refresh and the planned Wang Odeon, to be located in Lerner Hall. Image Carousel with 7 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: Students were invited to a preview of the room on April 29 before the end of the semester. Photo by Michael DiVito Slide 2: The room features 18 Lenovo Legion T7 gaming PCs. Photo by Michael DiVito Slide 3: The room features individual and group gaming stations. Photo by Michael DiVito Slide 4: A 4 panel, 4K resolution video wall provides for streaming and event viewing. Photo by Michael DiVito Slide 5: The room features different areas for individual and group gaming. Photo by Michael DiVito Slide 6: The room has two 75 inch 4K resolution screens with game system plug in capabilities. Photo by Barbara Alper Slide 7: Ambient LED lighting in the room provides for an immersive playing experience. Photo by Barbara Alper Students were invited to a preview of the room on April 29 before the end of the semester. Photo by Michael DiVito The room features 18 Lenovo Legion T7 gaming PCs. Photo by Michael DiVito The room features individual and group gaming stations. Photo by Michael DiVito A 4 panel, 4K resolution video wall provides for streaming and event viewing. Photo by Michael DiVito The room features different areas for individual and group gaming. Photo by Michael DiVito The room has two 75 inch 4K resolution screens with game system plug in capabilities. Photo by Barbara Alper Ambient LED lighting in the room provides for an immersive playing experience. Photo by Barbara Alper Previous Next News May 04, 2022 Students Preview the New Wallach ESPORTS Room February 11, 2022 Updates to Tents on Campus January 28, 2022 Event Management Newsletter: January, 2022 July 07, 2021 Columbia Event Management Creates Gourmet Reception and Dinner Boxes for the Annual 25 Year Club Celebration July 21, 2020 Event Management Year in Review FY 2020 Columbia University Event Management2920 Broadway, Lerner Hall 7th floor · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-5800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close