Events at UCF Log In Events By Category: “Tour/Open House/Information Session” Preparing for Statewide Job Fair, presented by Coastal Group - #CRMSummer22 June 1, 2022 at 12 p.m. until 1 p.m. Virtual Learn how virtual career fairs differ from in-person ones and what you can do to successfully prepare for and navigate tomorrow's Statewide Job Fair through the Career Fair Plus app. Learn more about the upcoming Statewide Job Fair at https://floridacareercenters.org/statewide-job-fair-students// Participate in Career Readiness, May 31 &ndash; June 7. Sign-up for Career Readiness Summer Series events at ucf.joinhandshake.com. Login, click … Events at UCF UCF Counselor Education Program: Information Session June 1, 2022 at 4 p.m. until 6 p.m. Virtual Are you interested in pursuing a graduate degree in counseling? The nationally ranked and accredited Counseling Program&nbsp;at the University of Central Florida offers master&rsquo;s degrees in mental health counseling, marriage &amp; family therapy, and school counseling, and a doctoral degree in counselor education. To meet the needs of interested parties and applicants, the Program holds virtual information sessions every other … Events at UCF Online Information Session for UCF's Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) Program (Recurring Event) June 7, 2022 at 2 p.m. until 4 p.m. Virtual Join us online for an information session on the&nbsp;Bachelor of Science in Nursing degree at UCF&nbsp;and learn about the unique admission requirements for each BSN program track. In this interactive information session, ask questions and find out what you need to know to successfully prepare your BSN program application. --- UCF&rsquo;s Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) Information Sessions&nbsp;are designed … Events at UCF DirectConnect to UCF® Online Information Session June 15, 2022 at 12 p.m. until 1 p.m. Virtual Join us online for an information session on DirectConnect to UCF and learn about what guaranteed admission is all about. In this interactive information session, ask questions, and find out what you need to know to make your transition to UCF easy. Reserve Your Spot Topics Covered: What is DirectConnect to UCF? How does the program work? The benefits of … Events at UCF UCF/SSC Concurrent Virtual Information Session, BSN degree (via ZOOM) (Recurring Event) June 23, 2022 at 10 a.m. until noon Virtual To register for this Virtual Information Session, please visit http://ucfnursing.eventbrite.com/&nbsp;or https://www.seminolestate.edu/nursing/info-sessions -- This information session will only cover the SSC/UCF Concurrent ASN to BSN Program. This information session is designed to help nursing-pending students understand the process and steps for applying to UCF's limited-access Concurrent ASN to BSN program. In this interactive information session, ask questions and find out what … Events at UCF SVAD In-Person Info Session & Tour (Recurring Event) June 24, 2022 at 9:30 a.m. until 11:45 a.m. Visual Arts Building We're offering in-person information sessions and tours again!Interested in studying visual arts at UCF? Join us for a in-person information session! Our SVAD Advising team will give an overview of the programs offered in UCF's School of Visual Arts and Design (SVAD) and a short Q&amp;A session will follow the presentation. After the info session, a walking tour of select … Events at UCF Online Information Session for UCF's Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) Program (Recurring Event) June 24, 2022 at 10 a.m. until noon Virtual Join us online for an information session on the&nbsp;Bachelor of Science in Nursing degree at UCF&nbsp;and learn about the unique admission requirements for each BSN program track. In this interactive information session, ask questions and find out what you need to know to successfully prepare your BSN program application. --- UCF&rsquo;s Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) Information Sessions&nbsp;are designed … Events at UCF Online Information Session for UCF's Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) Program (Recurring Event) June 24, 2022 at 10 a.m. until noon Virtual Join us online for an information session on the&nbsp;Bachelor of Science in Nursing degree at UCF&nbsp;and learn about the unique admission requirements for each BSN program track. In this interactive information session, ask questions and find out what you need to know to successfully prepare your BSN program application. --- UCF&rsquo;s Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) Information Sessions&nbsp;are designed … Events at UCF Online Information Session for UCF's Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) Program (Recurring Event) July 6, 2022 at 2 p.m. until 4 p.m. Virtual Join us online for an information session on the&nbsp;Bachelor of Science in Nursing degree at UCF&nbsp;and learn about the unique admission requirements for each BSN program track. In this interactive information session, ask questions and find out what you need to know to successfully prepare your BSN program application. --- UCF&rsquo;s Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) Information Sessions&nbsp;are designed … Events at UCF Online Information Session for UCF's Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) Program (Recurring Event) July 6, 2022 at 2 p.m. until 4 p.m. Virtual Join us online for an information session on the&nbsp;Bachelor of Science in Nursing degree at UCF&nbsp;and learn about the unique admission requirements for each BSN program track. In this interactive information session, ask questions and find out what you need to know to successfully prepare your BSN program application. --- UCF&rsquo;s Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) Information Sessions&nbsp;are designed … Events at UCF Online Information Session for UCF's Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) Program (Recurring Event) July 20, 2022 at 2 p.m. until 4 p.m. Virtual Join us online for an information session on the&nbsp;Bachelor of Science in Nursing degree at UCF&nbsp;and learn about the unique admission requirements for each BSN program track. In this interactive information session, ask questions and find out what you need to know to successfully prepare your BSN program application. --- UCF&rsquo;s Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) Information Sessions&nbsp;are designed … Events at UCF Online Information Session for UCF's Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) Program (Recurring Event) July 20, 2022 at 2 p.m. until 4 p.m. Virtual Join us online for an information session on the&nbsp;Bachelor of Science in Nursing degree at UCF&nbsp;and learn about the unique admission requirements for each BSN program track. In this interactive information session, ask questions and find out what you need to know to successfully prepare your BSN program application. --- UCF&rsquo;s Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) Information Sessions&nbsp;are designed … Events at UCF SVAD In-Person Info Session & Tour (Recurring Event) Sept. 30, 2022 at 9:30 a.m. until 11:45 a.m. Visual Arts Building We're offering in-person information sessions and tours again!Interested in studying visual arts at UCF? Join us for a in-person information session! Our SVAD Advising team will give an overview of the programs offered in UCF's School of Visual Arts and Design (SVAD) and a short Q&amp;A session will follow the presentation. After the info session, a walking tour of select … Events at UCF SVAD In-Person Info Session & Tour (Recurring Event) Nov. 18, 2022 at 9:30 a.m. until 11:45 a.m. Visual Arts Building We're offering in-person information sessions and tours again!Interested in studying visual arts at UCF? Join us for a in-person information session! Our SVAD Advising team will give an overview of the programs offered in UCF's School of Visual Arts and Design (SVAD) and a short Q&amp;A session will follow the presentation. After the info session, a walking tour of select … Events at UCF Categories: Academic Arts Exhibit Career/Jobs Concert/Performance Entertainment Health Holiday Meeting Open Forum Recreation & Exercise Service/Volunteer Social Event Speaker/Lecture/Seminar Sports Tour/Open House/Information Session Uncategorized/Other Workshop/Conference Feeds: Apple iCal Feed (ICS) Microsoft Outlook Feed (ICS) RSS Feed XML Feed JSON Feed © University of Central Florida UCF Announcements Help & Documentation Contact