Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Calendar of Events Menu Schools, Colleges and Departments Calendar Home // Olufemi Oyebade Doctoral Defense Olufemi Oyebade Doctoral Defense College of Liberal Arts Friday, June 17, 2022 // 9:30 am Friday, June 17, 2022 // 9:30 am Online Only: Visit Host Site Olufemi Oyebade Doctoral Defense: Friday, June 17th at 9:30 AM via Zoom Committee: Joyce Joyce (Advisory Chair), Roland Williams (Defense Chair), Katherine Henry, and Gregory Rutledge (University of Nebraska-Lincoln) Title: African-American Utopian Literature: A Tradition Largely Lost and Forgotten, yet Pertinent in the Pursuit of Revolutionary Change Abstract: This dissertation seeks to contribute to recent scholarship by demonstrating that an African-American utopian tradition persists in the twentieth and twenty-first centuries, particularly in the works of African-American women writers. If liberation remains a fundamental theme in African-American literature – a definitive stance espoused by W. E. B. Du Bois and other prominent African-American scholars, but also upheld by this dissertation – then such a consistently recurring goal has only been marginally completed, at best, in the United States. With this dilemma in mind and given the potentially subversive power of literature, this dissertation argues that the African-American utopian tradition in particular functions as a useful critical lens through which one can examine the often-elusive goal of revolutionary change. This lens raises the pertinent questions that one must answer in order to strive towards one’s utopia, and also exposes the systemic and thus conventional parameters latent in the too-familiar antithetical dystopias about which so many African-American narratives admonish their audiences to confront or, if they are lucky enough, avoid altogether. By focusing on a thematic continuum represented by the utopian small towns found in Zora Neale Hurston’s Their Eyes Were Watching God (1937), Gloria Naylor’s Mama Day (1988), Octavia Butler’s Parable of the Sower (1993) and Parable of the Talents (1998), and Toni Morrison’s Paradise (1997), this dissertation encapsulates a utopian tradition that inscribes race, gender, and sexuality, onto the African-American literary tradition. If interested in attending, contact tara.lemma@temple.edu for the Zoom link! Related Events Arts and Culture Additional Info Created By: College of Liberal Arts, English Open To: Public Intended Audience: Open to all Type: Student Presentation Tags: Doctoral Defense // English Save and Share Download iCal Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Copyright , Temple University. All rights reserved.