Skip to main content Stanford University Stanford Events Calendar Search Search Log in Get help Log in Sign up Menu Featured Events Today's Events Events By Date < Current Month > Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa Javascript must be enabled Departments Groups Places Stanford University Tuesday, May 31 Entrepreneurship and Competitiveness: U.S. initiatives for women’s economic advancement in South Asia Close modal Class/Seminar Entrepreneurship and Competitiveness: U.S. initiatives for women’s economic advancement in South Asia Sponsored by US-Asia Technology Management Center Tuesday, May 31, 2022 5:30pm to 7pm PT Add to calendar: Virtual Event View stream information This event is open to: Students Affiliates General Public Everyone Request disability accommodations and access info Visit the event website #asiatechsu Save Share: Share Entrepreneurship and Competitiveness: U.S. initiatives for women’s economic advancement in South Asia Share Entrepreneurship and Competitiveness: U.S. initiatives for women’s economic advancement in South Asia on Facebook Share Entrepreneurship and Competitiveness: U.S. initiatives for women’s economic advancement in South Asia on Twitter Share Entrepreneurship and Competitiveness: U.S. initiatives for women’s economic advancement in South Asia on LinkedIn Event Details: Speaker: Radhika Prabhu, Senior Advisor to the Assistant Secretary, Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs, U.S. Department of State and Executive Director, US – India Alliance for Women’s Economic Empowerment This armchair discussion will outline U.S. foreign policy priorities advancing women’s economic empowerment in South Asia while highlighting U.S. government initiatives supporting women’s entrepreneurship and workforce participation in the region: the U.S.-Pakistan Women’s Council and U.S.-India Alliance for Women’s Economic Empowerment. Radhika Prabhu leads the Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs efforts to promote policies and diplomatic outreach to advance inclusive and equitable growth in economies across the South and Central Asian region. In this position, she also serves as Executive Director of the U.S.-India Alliance for Women’s Economic Empowerment and U.S.-Pakistan Women's Council, public-private partnerships accelerating women's economic advancement in India and Pakistan respectively. Radhika previously served as a Senior Policy Advisor and as a Special Assistant in the Secretary’s Office of Global Women’s Issues at the State Department. Her work resulted in the Department’s first policies to promote women’s economic empowerment in major trade agreements, strategic dialogues, and public-private partnerships in both South Asia and Iraq. Radhika has also held positions at the World Bank, United Nations Development Program and the Inter-American Development Bank, focusing on innovation, climate change and small and medium enterprise development. Radhika is a Term Member on the Council on Foreign Relations. In 2019, she was named a 2019 AAPI American National Security & Foreign Policy Next Generation Leader by New America and the Diversity in National Security Network. She is the recipient of the Department’s Superior Honor Award and several Meritorious Honor Awards. Radhika holds a Master of Science in Foreign Service from Georgetown University and a Bachelor of Arts in Political Science from Boston College. Seminars will take place on Tuesdays from March 29th – May 31st. These sessions are open to the public and registration is required to receive the Zoom login details. All seminars will be held online via Zoom, 5:30 PM – 7:00 PM, with informal networking following until about 7:30 PM (PST). Visit this website for more information Class/Seminar Business Engineering/Technology engineering business technology Entrepreneurship Asia High-tech India Pakistan Bangladesh South Asia Save Stream Information: Hide stream Show stream Dial-In Information Register in advance for this seminar: https://stanford.zoom.us/meeting/register/ After registering, you will receive a confirmation email containing information about joining the meeting. *You may cancel your registration at any time and attend only the sessions you wish. About the Event Calendar The Stanford Event Calendar is the university's central source for information about upcoming campus events. Contact Us Build RSS and Calendar Feeds Build a Widget Stanford For You Sign up to receive a monthly email highlighting upcoming campus events. Subscribe to Stanford for You Post and manage events Campus organizations are invited to add their events to the calendar. Request an administrative account Policies & procedures Documentation & help Stanford University Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Log in Log in with SUNet ID or I forgot my password I don't have an account yet