Skip to main content Events Office Main navigation Plan an Event Departmental Events Student Events External Events Filming at UCLA Commercial/External Filming Student Filming UCLA Departmental Filming Engagement and Wedding Photography UCLA Lake Arrowhead Lodge Filming Locations Attend an Event Event Calendar Event Tickets Directions Parking Events Online (EOL) Events Online FAQ Events Online Policies and Guidelines Sustainable Events Drone Procedures Open Search Search the site: Breadcrumb Home Commercial/External Filming and Photography The UCLA Events Office assists film companies, photographers, and other media representatives with film and photography requests on campus. Our office will issue the required film or photo permit and arrange all University-related services,. Requests for news reporting should be directed to the UCLA Office of Media Relations. For other types of filming on campus, please visit our Student Filming and Engagement and Wedding Photography pages. Choosing a Location 1. Choose a campus location. If you do not see the location you are interested in, please ask our office about the type of location you are looking for and we will let you know if we have anything that fits your request. 2. The Events Office will look at each filming request on a case-by-case basis and make every effort to accommodate the scheduling needs of our customers. Availability of locations for filming depends on a number of factors including curricular or extra-curricular student activity, University business activities, or facility maintenance projects. The University also does not permit filming during our finals weeks and the first week of fall quarter. 3. Restricted locations: While most areas may be used for filming, the following areas are not allowed to be filmed: - Full South façade of Royce Hall with roofline and towers - Full North façade of Powell Library with roofline - Full North façade of Kerckhoff Hall with roofline & spires - Bruin Bear - Health Sciences/Medical Center buildings - Murphy Hall - Chancellor’s Residence - Residential halls, dining halls and other housing facilities Scouting and Fees Email your request to Ella Crowell, Senior Event Manger at the UCLA Events Office, at ecrowell@events.ucla.edu. Please include the following info in your request: - Location you are interested in - Date and time frame you would like to scout - Shoot dates - Name of film, show, or commercial product - Description of the scene you are shooting - Size of cast and crew Cost Estimate Once a scout has occurred and locations have been determined, the UCLA Events Office Location Manager will generate a cost estimate for your film shoot. They will work directly with you to tailor an estimate based on your specific requests. An estimate will have a breakdown of the permit fees, specific venue charges, parking needs for crew and base camp, and other University staffing charges. An estimate may be modified prior to the signed contract. Permit Fees: The permit fee is based on a half day/full day rate system. The time coverage of the film permit begins when the first production vehicle arrives until the last one leaves the day of the shoot. A half day is 6 hours or less and a full day is between 6-12 hours. An overtime fee will be assessed after 12 hours. UCLA Events Office Location Manager, location rentals, parking, security, Fire Marshal, venue management, and grounds/custodial are all additional to the permit fee. View our film and photo shoot fees for more information. Contract, Insurance and Permit Your shoot at UCLA will be governed by the terms of the Regents of the University of California's Film Location Agreement. UCLA does not sign external filming agreements or releases. An Agreement boilerplate can be provided by your UCLA event manager in advance for your legal review. The Agreement includes the University's insurance requirements. Because UCLA is a State of California governed property, filming on the UCLA campus does not require a FilmLA permit or other City of Los Angeles involvement. UCLA will issue a UCLA Film Permit as part of the Agreement. The UCLA Events Office Manager The UCLA Events Office Location Manager is your site representative and will be with you from start to finish. For certain locations, a venue manager specific to the venue may be required. For example, the venue manager for the student union will be more familiar with building operation systems. During the day of the shoot, all inquiries and questions from the production company should be directed to the UCLA Events Office Location Manager. The UCLA Events Office Location Manager is there to ensure adherence to University policies, respond to budgetary and contractual changes, and resolve any issues or concerns that may arise. UCFD and UCPD The UCLA Fire Marshal will provide fire & life safety approval and site inspection during your film shoot. A city FSO is not required. UCLA has its own police department that is responsible for the safety and security of the students, staff, and visitors. For some film shoots, a UCLA Police Officer will be required. Your UCLA Events Office Location Manager will determine the appropriate number of officers and bill you for UCPD and UCFD services. Parking Posting of parking spaces and obtaining parking permits for UCLA lots shall be coordinated by UCLA Parking Services and your UCLA Events Office Location Manager. For scenes that involve street control, UCLA Parking Enforcement Officers will be required. Final Billing At the conclusion of the film or photography shoot, the UCLA Events Office Location Manager and the representative from the production company will walk the site and make note of the condition. If damages have occurred, the costs for repair or replacement will be added to the final invoice. After strike of the location, the UCLA Events Office Location Manager will take between 10-30 days to close out the file and mail the final invoice. If there is an outstanding balance, the payment is due upon receipt of the invoice. Filming FAQs For more information about filming at UCLA, please see our Filming FAQs. Navigation Commercial/External Filming Student Filming UCLA Departmental Filming Engagement and Wedding Photography UCLA Lake Arrowhead Lodge Filming Locations 555 Westwood Plaza, Suite 106 Los Angeles, CA 90095 (310) 825-8989 events@ucla.edu © 2022 Regents of University of California Emergency Accessibility Privacy & Terms of Use Follow on Facebook Follow on Twitter Follow on Instagram Follow on Snapchat Follow on LinkedIn Follow on YouTube