skip to main content University of Nevada, Reno University of Nevada, Reno Events Sign Up Log In Search Search University of Nevada, Reno Events Upcoming Events upcoming trending arts lectures Alumni Book Club: Summer Read Event type filters Clubs and Organizations, Community Outreach, Literature, Professional Development / University Advancement, Alumni Relations The Nevada Alumni Book Club is an online community where alumni can connect with each other and enjoy books from a range of genres. There is no cost to... May 30 This is a recurring event - more dates ahead! Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested The Youth Horticulture Education Program Summer... Event type filters Community Outreach / College of Agriculture, Biotechnology and Natural Resources, Extension, Youth Horticulture, Garden, Trees & Landscaping, Clark County YHEP instructor Nicole Hansen, will be teaching plant science and gardening to the students of Dailey ES through their summer enrichment program. May 31 at 1:40 am This is a recurring event - more dates ahead! Dailey ES Watch ThisI'm Interested EFNEP Curso Gratis de Nutrición de 8 Lecciones Event type filters Health, Safety, and Wellness / College of Agriculture, Biotechnology and Natural Resources, Extension, Clark County | Las Vegas | Lifelong Learning Center (Paradise) Ocho lecciones fáciles para mejorar la salud de sus hijos y de su familia. Aprenderá sobre alimentación saludable, seguridad alimentaria, planificación de... May 31 at 2 pm This is a recurring event - more dates ahead! Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested EFNEP Curso Gratis de Nutrición de 8 Lecciones Event type filters Health, Safety, and Wellness / College of Agriculture, Biotechnology and Natural Resources, Extension, Clark County | Las Vegas | Lifelong Learning Center (Paradise) Ocho lecciones fáciles para mejorar la salud de sus hijos y de su familia. Aprenderá sobre alimentación saludable, seguridad alimentaria, planificación de... May 31 at 6 pm This is a recurring event - more dates ahead! Virtual Event RegisterWatch ThisI'm Interested Project ECHO Pain Management Event type filters Academic Lectures and Seminars, Community Outreach, Professional Development / School of Medicine, Project ECHO, Pain Management This Project ECHO series is a forum led by pain management physician, Denis Patterson, DO, pain psychologist, Michael Lewandowski, PhD, and mental health and... June 1 at 8 am This is a recurring event - more dates ahead! Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested The Youth Horticulture Education Program... Event type filters Community Outreach / College of Agriculture, Biotechnology and Natural Resources, Extension, Youth Horticulture, Clark County YHEP instructor Nicole Hansen, will be teaching plant science and gardening to the PACE students of A-Tech HS through their summer enrichment program. June 1 at 9 am This is a recurring event - more dates ahead! A-Tech HS Watch ThisI'm Interested Heritage Park Community Garden Q&A Sessions Event type filters Community Outreach / College of Agriculture, Biotechnology and Natural Resources, Extension, Douglas County, Horticulture Please join Jessica Gardner, UNR Extension – Douglas County Horticulture Outreach Coordinator, Wednesday nights from 5:30-6:30 for a short educational talk,... June 1 at 5:30 pm This is a recurring event - more dates ahead! Heritage Park Community Garden Watch ThisI'm Interested Project ECHO Cardiology: Cardiovascular... Event type filters Academic Lectures and Seminars, Community Outreach, Professional Development / School of Medicine, Project ECHO, Cardiology Project ECHO Nevada invites you to join their upcoming series on Cardiovascular Medicine in the Primary Care Setting. This series will connect you with... June 2 at 12 pm This is a recurring event - more dates ahead! Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Let's Discover STEM Aliante Library Event type filters Training and Workshops / College of Agriculture, Biotechnology and Natural Resources, Extension, Clark County | Las Vegas | Lifelong Learning Center (Paradise), Children, Youth & Families, Partners in Parenting Let’s Discover S.T.E.M. is a seven-week, parenting program focusing on science, technology, engineering, and math designed for families with preschool-aged... June 2 at 1 pm This is a recurring event - more dates ahead! Aliante Library Watch ThisI'm Interested 4-H Black Sheep Event type filters Clubs and Organizations / College of Agriculture, Biotechnology and Natural Resources, Extension, Humboldt County, 4-H Humboldt County 4-H Club June 2 at 6 pm Humboldt County Fairgrounds, 4-H Meeting Room Watch ThisI'm Interested View more events... Gardening in Small Places: the dirt on soil Event type filters Training and Workshops / College of Agriculture, Biotechnology and Natural Resources, Extension, Horticulture, Clark County, Gardening in Small Places If you’ve gardened in other parts of the country and then tried to garden here, you’ve noticed the soil here is different. Our Mojave soils are infertile,... June 4 at 9 am Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Gardening in Small Places: organic gardening Event type filters Training and Workshops / College of Agriculture, Biotechnology and Natural Resources, Extension, Horticulture, Clark County, Gardening in Small Places There is a lot of talk about organic gardening, yet people have different ideas about what this means. Some think it means using no pesticides at all, while... July 9 at 9 am Virtual Event Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Project ECHO Cardiology: Cardiovascular... Event type filters Academic Lectures and Seminars, Community Outreach, Professional Development / School of Medicine, Project ECHO, Cardiology Project ECHO Nevada invites you to join their upcoming series on Cardiovascular Medicine in the Primary Care Setting. This series will connect you with... June 2 at 12 pm This is a recurring event - more dates ahead! Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Community Connection at the Desert Farming... Event type filters ASUN, GSA, Student Services, College of Agriculture, Biotechnology and Natural Resources, Department of Natural Resources & Environmental Science, Experiment Station, Bicycle Campus, Extension, Washoe County, 4-H, Youth Horticulture, Desert Farming Initiative, Nutrition, Department of Agriculture, Veterinary and Rangeland Sciences, Fire, Water, Air & Soils, Food & Forage Crops, Food Quality & Safety, Garden, Trees & Landscaping, Clubs and Organizations, Horticulture, Master Gardeners, Grow Your Own, Nevada!, Green Industry Programs, Department of Nutrition, _Current Students Roughly every other Saturday morning the Desert Farming Initiative will invite the community to join us on the farm to learn, lend a hand, and connect with... June 18 at 9 am Nevada Agricultural Experiment Station Watch ThisI'm Interested Gardening in Small Places: tree selection and care Event type filters Training and Workshops / College of Agriculture, Biotechnology and Natural Resources, Extension, Horticulture, Clark County, Gardening in Small Places Trees are some of the largest, and can be some of the most expensive, plant material you’ll add to your landscape. When properly selected, placed, planted... August 27 at 8 am Extension, Register in Room C Buy TicketsWatch ThisI'm Interested Community Connection at the Desert Farming... Event type filters ASUN, GSA, Student Services, College of Agriculture, Biotechnology and Natural Resources, Department of Natural Resources & Environmental Science, Experiment Station, Bicycle Campus, Extension, Washoe County, 4-H, Youth Horticulture, Desert Farming Initiative, Department of Agriculture, Veterinary and Rangeland Sciences, Fire, Water, Air & Soils, Food & Forage Crops, Garden, Trees & Landscaping, Clubs and Organizations, Horticulture, Master Gardeners, Grow Your Own, Nevada!, Green Industry Programs, Department of Nutrition, _Current Students Roughly every other Saturday morning the Desert Farming Initiative will invite the community to join us on the farm to learn, lend a hand, and connect with... June 4 at 9 am Nevada Agricultural Experiment Station Watch ThisI'm Interested Nursing Home COVID-19 Extension Event type filters Academic Lectures and Seminars, Community Outreach, Professional Development / School of Medicine, Project ECHO, Nursing Home COVID-19 Extension This will be a continuation of Project ECHO Nevada's series aimed at assisting nursing facilities during the COVID-19 pandemic. Sessions will connect nursing... June 6 at 2 pm This is a recurring event - more dates ahead! Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested NAVIGATE Health and Wellness Event type filters Project ECHO / School of Medicine, Project ECHO, NAVIGATE - Health and Wellness This Project ECHO program will provide expert consultation around the integration of physical wellness with psychiatric treatment. Studies indicate that the... June 7 at 4 pm This is a recurring event - more dates ahead! Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Young Alumni Chapter 27th Annual Beer Fest Event type filters Community Outreach / University Advancement, Alumni Relations, Chapters, Young Alumni Chapter The Nevada Young Alumni Chapter invites you to the 27th Annual Beer Fest being held from 5-10 p.m. on Saturday, June 11, 2022 at Greater Nevada Field. Beer... June 11 at 5 pm Greater Nevada Field Watch ThisI'm Interested Project ECHO Nevada Orientation Event type filters Academic Lectures and Seminars, Community Outreach, Professional Development / School of Medicine, Project ECHO, ECHO Orientation Project ECHO Nevada invites you to attend their 60 minute Orientation session to learn more about their program and services. Objectives for this session... June 14 at 12 pm This is a recurring event - more dates ahead! Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested View more events... Chronic Disruptions | Walking Forward, Looking... Event type filters Arts / School of the Arts, Art, College of Liberal Arts No single narrative can contain the multiplicity within our society, with that in mind Chronic Disruptions will feature local artists creating a chorus of... June 16 at 5:30 pm Lilley Museum of Art Watch ThisI'm Interested Following the Box Event type filters Arts / School of the Arts, College of Liberal Arts, The Lilley Museum Guest Curators: Jerri Zbiral and Alan Teller About seventy years ago, towards the end of World War II, a U.S. soldier stationed in rural West Bengal grabbed... July 15 This is a recurring event - more dates ahead! University Arts Building, The Lilley Museum Watch ThisI'm Interested Following the Box Event type filters Arts / School of the Arts, Art, College of Liberal Arts About seventy years ago, towards the end of World War II, a U.S. soldier stationed in rural West Bengal grabbed his Speed Graphic 4x5” press camera, hopped... July 15 at 5:30 pm Lilley Museum of Art Watch ThisI'm Interested View more events... Project ECHO Pain Management Event type filters Academic Lectures and Seminars, Community Outreach, Professional Development / School of Medicine, Project ECHO, Pain Management This Project ECHO series is a forum led by pain management physician, Denis Patterson, DO, pain psychologist, Michael Lewandowski, PhD, and mental health and... June 1 at 8 am This is a recurring event - more dates ahead! Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Project ECHO Cardiology: Cardiovascular... Event type filters Academic Lectures and Seminars, Community Outreach, Professional Development / School of Medicine, Project ECHO, Cardiology Project ECHO Nevada invites you to join their upcoming series on Cardiovascular Medicine in the Primary Care Setting. This series will connect you with... June 2 at 12 pm This is a recurring event - more dates ahead! Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Project ECHO NAVIGATE Diagnostic Assessment Event type filters Academic Lectures and Seminars, Community Outreach, Professional Development / School of Medicine, Project ECHO, NAVIGATE - Diagnostic Assessment The purpose of this ECHO series will be to provide expert consultation around the DSM-5 diagnosis of mental illness in young adults. Topics of discussion... June 3 at 8:30 am This is a recurring event - more dates ahead! Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Nursing Home COVID-19 Extension Event type filters Academic Lectures and Seminars, Community Outreach, Professional Development / School of Medicine, Project ECHO, Nursing Home COVID-19 Extension This will be a continuation of Project ECHO Nevada's series aimed at assisting nursing facilities during the COVID-19 pandemic. Sessions will connect nursing... June 6 at 2 pm This is a recurring event - more dates ahead! Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Medication-Assisted Treatment Office Hours Event type filters Academic Lectures and Seminars, Community Outreach, Professional Development / School of Medicine, Project ECHO, Medication-Assisted Treatment This ECHO focuses on supporting providers, staff, and administrators at facilities providing Medication-Assisted Treatment (MAT) services. By bringing... June 8 at 12 pm This is a recurring event - more dates ahead! Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Project ECHO NAVIGATE Psychotherapy Modalities Event type filters Academic Lectures and Seminars, Community Outreach, Professional Development / School of Medicine, Project ECHO, NAVIGATE - Psychotherapy Modalities The purpose of this ECHO series will be to provide consultation and supervision from expert psychotherapists to enhance the individual psychotherapy work of... June 8 at 3:30 pm This is a recurring event - more dates ahead! Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Project ECHO Complex Pediatrics Event type filters Academic Lectures and Seminars, Community Outreach, Professional Development / School of Medicine, Project ECHO, Complex Pediatrics This series will facilitate collaboration between pediatric endocrinology and primary care providers throughout the state to improve early diagnosis of... June 10 at 12 pm This is a recurring event - more dates ahead! Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Project ECHO NAVIGATE Psychopharmacology Event type filters Academic Lectures and Seminars, Community Outreach, Professional Development / School of Medicine, Project ECHO, NAVIGATE - Psychopharmacology This series will provide expert consultation around medication treatment of psychosis and other co-occurring psychiatric disorders including substance abuse.... June 10 at 1:15 pm This is a recurring event - more dates ahead! Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Project ECHO Nevada Orientation Event type filters Academic Lectures and Seminars, Community Outreach, Professional Development / School of Medicine, Project ECHO, ECHO Orientation Project ECHO Nevada invites you to attend their 60 minute Orientation session to learn more about their program and services. Objectives for this session... June 14 at 12 pm This is a recurring event - more dates ahead! Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested Project ECHO Palliative Care Event type filters Academic Lectures and Seminars, Community Outreach, Professional Development / School of Medicine, Project ECHO, Palliative Care This program will establish forum of health care practitioners throughout Nevada to support the delivery of palliative care. Our goal is to establish a... June 17 at 12 pm This is a recurring event - more dates ahead! Virtual Event Watch ThisI'm Interested View more events... Submit an Event All Events Places to Go Groups Other Calendars Other Calendars Arts Events Calendar Innevation Center Joe Crowley Student Union Nevada Alumni Association Events School of Medicine Share Events Submit your own event using our simple event submission form. It only takes a minute! Embed events anywhere on the web with our Widget builder. Get a personalized list of events in your inbox with our Digest emailer. Follow the University University Twitter University Facebook University YouTube University Vimeo University Flickr University Instagram University LinkedIn University of Nevada, Reno 1664 N. Virginia Street, Reno, NV 89557 (775) 784-1110 Employment & Careers Privacy Website Help Commitment to Diversity Commitment to Accessibility Equal Opportunity and Title IX This event content is powered by the Localist Community Event Platform. Login to University of Nevada, Reno Login to interact with events, personalize your calendar, and get recommendations. Email Address Password Forgot Password? Sign Up Login with School ID Login with Facebook Login with Google Login with Twitter Login with LinkedIn