Skip to content Cornell University Search toggle menu close About Cornell About Cornell Overview University Facts Maps & Directions Mission & Vision Core Values Locations Ithaca New York City Related Links Diversity Indigenous Engagement Economic Impact Sustainability Global Cornell Leadership Admissions Overview Undergraduate Apply Admissions Dates and Deadlines Costs and Aid Graduate Admissions Fields of Study Financial Support Continuing Education & Summer Sessions Summer Sessions Winter Sessions Part-time Study Academics Academics Overview Fields of Study Colleges & Schools Departments Library Continuing Education Related Links Office of the Provost Academic Calendar Course Catalog Global Learning Learning Goals Research Overview Explore Cornell Research Extreme Talent. Radical Collaboration. Results That Matter. Related Links Vice President for Research and Innovation Centers & Institutes Technology Licensing (CTL) Graduate Research Undergraduate Research OVPRI Research Publications Public Engagement Overview Featured CCE helps Buffalo get school food truck rolling Related Links Cornell Cooperative Extension Engaged Cornell Hub Land Grant to New York State New York State Impact Life at Cornell Life at Cornell Overview Athletics & Recreation Arts & Culture Health & Safety Live, Work, Travel Student Life Related Links Find Your Networks Center for First-Year Students Clubs & Student Groups More Toggle navigation Apply Undergraduate Graduate Visit Give Students Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Search Search Login Search Search events.cornell.edu › Event Details Verdant Views: Written in Petals Friday, June 3, 2022 at 11:00am to 12:00pm Virtual Event White lilies for grief. Snowdrops for hope. Daisies for innocence. Red roses for love, yellow for friendship. Floriography – sending messages with flowers – is an ancient art, rooted in the symbolism of China, Egypt, and Assyria. In 19th century Europe a floriography-centered publishing industry that produced poetry, dictionaries, essay collections and often exquisite botanical art flourished. In this episode of Verdant Views, host Kevin Moss welcomes Michael Cook, Head of Collections, and Karl Rozyn, Exhibits Curator, both with the Albert R. Mann Library at Cornell, for a discussion of the online exhibit they created for the Library. Drawing from a collection of gems donated to Mann by garden writer Isabel Zucker ’26, this new online exhibit provides a tour of the Language of Flowers as a cultural phenomenon that flourished during the Victorian era. As this display reminds us, what we humans see in nature—in this case flowers—reveals much about how we see and relate to ourselves. Suggested donation: $10-12. Pre-registration is required. Please register through the following link: https://www.eventbrite.com/e/verdant-views-written-in-petals-registration-342292625457 After registering, you will receive a confirmation email containing information about joining the webinar. Please scroll to the bottom of the email to find the link. The webinar will be recorded and available for viewing online after the live broadcast. Participants in the live presentation will have the opportunity to pose questions. Verdant Views is an ongoing webinar series hosted by Kevin Moss of Cornell Botanic Gardens. Each episode focuses on a different topic related to plants, gardens, conservation, sustainability, and the vital connections between plants and peoples around the world. Tweet Share Subscribe Google Calendar iCal Outlook Event Type Webinar Departments Cornell Botanic Gardens University Themes Public Engagement Tags botanic_gardens_featured Website https://www.eventbrite.com/e/verdant-... Cost Free; suggested donation $10-12 Contact E-Mail Km274@cornell.edu Contact Name Kevin Moss Contact Phone 6072547430 Dept. Web Site https://cornellbotanicgardens.org/ Open To All Recent Activity Comment Review Photo No recent activity Submit an Event Create your own custom weekly events email All Events Featured Events Places to Go Groups Register Watch This I'm Interested Invite Friends People Interested (1) You're not going yet! This event requires registration. Register Helpful Links expand menu Academic Calendar Leadership Careers Events News Title IX Emergency Preparedness Visiting Cornell expand menu Campus Tours Maps & Directions Ithaca-NYC Travel Johnson Museum Botanic Gardens Ithaca Ithaca Today expand menu Live View Weather Ithaca, New York University Privacy Web Accessibility Assistance Copyright Site Information Contact Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube This event content is powered by the Localist Event CMS. Login to Cornell Login to interact with events, personalize your calendar, and get recommendations. Login with NetID