Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Event Management Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Affiliations Events Venues Services Policies & Forms Reserve/Request A Quote About Us Columbia Students Faculty & Staff Guests Browse Event Possibilities Filming on Campus Meetings & Conferences Performances Student Events Weddings & Social Events Event Gallery Accessibility Our Venues View All Venues Butler Hall Earl Hall Faculty House Low Library Lerner Hall Saint Paul’s Chapel Outdoor Spaces Residence Hall Lounges Classrooms Partner Venues Other Columbia Venues AV/Technical Services Explore AV/Technical Services Request AV/Technical Services Catering Services Explore Catering Services Request Catering Services Event Logistics Access & Security Custodial Services Electrical & Carpentry Support Vendor Recommendations Event Setup & Additional Services Specialty Events Barbecue Events on Campus Events with Alcohol Filming on Campus View All Services All Policies & Forms Quick View of Our Forms First-Time Customers & Guests Request a Quote for Event Space Request AV/Technical Services Quote Request Catering Services Quote Faculty, Staff & Students Log-in to EMS Request an EMS Account Our Service Promise Our Team News Sustainability Work With Us Event Management You are here: Home About Us Sustainability Sustainability Supporting a Greener Campus & Planet Columbia University is committed to achieving the highest standards for a green campus as outlined in the University's sustainability plans on the Sustainable Columbia website. Below are some examples how Event Management is doing all it can to build on operational sustainability initiatives to support Columbia’s mission. Our Sustainability Initiatives Water Reduction, reuse, and recycling of water are critical to our catering operations. Learn more about how our new drinking water system helps Columbia to reduce carbon emissions and waste, reuse water carafes, and minimize the need to recycle plastic bottles. Locally Grown Event Management places a preference on the seasonal foods grown within our area to support local farmers and the economy. Learn more about how the culinary team creates unique menus that vary depending on what the farms yield in a given season. Bioplastics Linenless tables, reduced disposables, and compost: Event Management recognizes that catering packaging has an impact on the environment. Learn about the team's commitment through continuous assessment of its operating procedures to take measures to reduce or neutralize its carbon footprint. Green Events Committee As stakeholders across the University come together to inform our next ten-year Sustainability Plan, representatives from Event Management along with event planners from across Columbia's campuses chat as part of a Green Events focus group. Student Projects Event Management routinely works with student groups looking to advance sustainability in campus event spaces. Recently, a graduate student capstone project covered sustainability at premier event space and campus landmark Faculty House. Sustainable Living Menu Inspired by work with the Earth Institute, Event Management is excited to offer a Sustainable Living menu curated to feature local ingredients, focusing on vegan and vegetarian options. Menu selections are updated frequently to reflect fresh and seasonal options. Columbia University Event Management2920 Broadway, Lerner Hall 7th floor · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-5800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close