Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Event Management Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Affiliations Events Venues Services Policies & Forms Reserve/Request A Quote About Us Columbia Students Faculty & Staff Guests Browse Event Possibilities Filming on Campus Meetings & Conferences Performances Student Events Weddings & Social Events Event Gallery Accessibility Our Venues View All Venues Butler Hall Earl Hall Faculty House Low Library Lerner Hall Saint Paul’s Chapel Outdoor Spaces Residence Hall Lounges Classrooms Partner Venues Other Columbia Venues AV/Technical Services Explore AV/Technical Services Request AV/Technical Services Catering Services Explore Catering Services Request Catering Services Event Logistics Access & Security Custodial Services Electrical & Carpentry Support Vendor Recommendations Event Setup & Additional Services Specialty Events Barbecue Events on Campus Events with Alcohol Filming on Campus View All Services All Policies & Forms Quick View of Our Forms First-Time Customers & Guests Request a Quote for Event Space Request AV/Technical Services Quote Request Catering Services Quote Faculty, Staff & Students Log-in to EMS Request an EMS Account Our Service Promise Our Team News Sustainability Work With Us Event Management You are here: Home Services Catering Services Catering Catering OUR CULINARY COMMITMENT We're here to make your event a delectable success — from morning breaks built around our fair-trade, freshly brewed coffee to customized boxed lunches and elegant hors d’oeuvres. Our catering menus are filled with fresh ideas at a variety of price points. Our Catering team provides detail-oriented service and delicious cuisine for events at all of our venues. Request a quote from our team or visit the Faculty House website to learn more about catering at that venue. This option is for guests or Columbia affiliates without an Event Management System (EMS) Account. If you'd also like a quote on reserving event space at Columbia, complete our general Request A Quote form. Columbia Affiliates with an EMS Account should submit requests through EMS. Faculty House is a Columbia Event Management venue, but has a separate reservations team, catering and technical services. Visit the Faculty House website to see all the possibilities. OUR TEAM OF SEASONED EXPERTS Our team of trained culinary professionals are here to help you imagine and bring to life a menu that is perfectly tailored for your event. Our culinary staff possess years of experience in the dining and catering industry and your guests will benefit. They've created several delicious menus for you to choose from. You can learn more about our menus below. Get to know our team better and then submit a catering request to set up a consultation. MENUS THAT RISE TO THE OCCASION We've created delicious and thoughtful menu options for everything from meeting snacks and buffet options, to high-end, table-served dinners, including wedding packages, a sustainable menu option, and a menu that directly benefits local organizations. AN UNFORGETTABLE FIRST IMPRESSION Small touches to make your menu more unique can make a big impression. Speak to a team member about how we can see to the finer details certain to wow guests. THE MAIN EVENT From bountiful buffets to exquisite plated meals, allow our team to craft a mouth-watering menu that guests will remember for years to come. Image Carousel with 8 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: A slice of beef tenderloin with a piped puff of mashed potatoes Slide 2: Hot buffet Slide 3: Charcuterie board Slide 4: Mushroom lettuce wraps Slide 5: Citrus burrata salad Slide 6: Fresh cut fruit parfait Slide 7: The culinary team at work during an event in Low Library Slide 8: Roasted Beet Salad with whipped goat cheese and toasted hazelnuts Previous Next SPECIAL OFFERINGS Enjoy special menus featuring creative dishes that celebrate locally-sourced ingredients and support a cause. It's a delicious opportunity to dine on incredible food and do some good. Blue Menu Savor a robust selection of locally and ethically sourced, sustainable dishes that directly benefit our community. By choosing the Blue Menu, a portion of your bill ($5 per person) will be donated to Columbia Community Service, a University-based initiative that supports local nonprofit organizations. Better still, Columbia Event Management will match this contribution, donating an additional $5 for each of your guests. Read about the results of this program so far. Sustainable Living Inspired by our work with the Earth Institute, the Sustainable Living Menu features a curated selection of dishes that showcase the finest locally-sourced fare. The menu is updated frequently to reflect the most sustainable meals that we can provide. Read about the calculated carbon savings based on the selected menu items. Wedding Packages at Casa Italiana Experience all the magic and romance of the Mediterranean right here in Upper Manhattan. Learn more about the special wedding packages available at Columbia University's Casa Italiana. Important Bites From breakfast to breaks, our Catering team will cook up a variety of satisfying eats. Breakfast Whether you favor a light Continental Breakfast featuring fresh fruits and pastries or the heartier American Breakfast comprised of hot and cold dishes including fluffy scrambled eggs and artisanal smoked bacon, our team will cook up the perfect morning meal for your guests. Breaks Our Break Packages feature a variety of tasty morsels ranging from fresh crudités to New York City's famous hot soft pretzels. Whatever your preference, our team will whip up selection of treats that are certain to satisfy guests. Sandwiches Take your sandwiches to-go in our signature lunch tote, or make a Gourmet Sandwich Buffet a part of your next meeting or event. Whichever route you choose, we're confident your guests will agree that our sandwiches are the best thing since sliced bread. Salads For those seeking lighter fare, our selection of salads are healthy, filling, and oh so delicious. Invite guests to enjoy custom creations tossed fresh by a skilled Chef Attendant, or opt for a Buffet featuring assorted greens, proteins, and other flavorful enhancements. Finishing Touches Sweet Treats Thoughtful Arrangements Spirited Refreshments Columbia University Event Management2920 Broadway, Lerner Hall 7th floor · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-5800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close