louisville.edu My Accounts Email Blackboard ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Calendar Event Calendar Search UofL Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA Donate Campuses Belknap Campus Health Sciences Center ShelbyHurst Campus Online & Distance Learning International Online louisville.edu log in University of Louisville › Belknap Campus › Student Activities Center (SAC) Mobile Navigation Login Search Student Activities Center (SAC) The Student Activities Center serves as a hub of university and campus activities. It houses the Student Government Association and Student Activities Board offices, as well as offices for athletic and student life. It offers a variety of entertainment options for students, including a movie theater, game room and lounge. The Student Activities Center also houses seven restaurants and a federal credit union for students. Cardinal Arena, the facility used by the university's volleyball team for home games, is located in the east wing of the building. 2100 S. Floyd Street , Louisville, Kentucky 40208 Place Type Student Activities Website louisville.edu Upcoming Events UofL Free Store Summer Orientation Hours Social, Service, Orientation / Arts & Sciences, Urban & Public Affairs, Provost UofL’s Free Store, now more conveniently located in SAC W303C, just down the hall from the Cardinal Cupboard on the 3rd floor of SAC West, will be open to... 5/31 11am UofL Free Store Summer Orientation Hours Social, Service, Orientation / Arts & Sciences, Urban & Public Affairs, Provost UofL’s Free Store, now more conveniently located in SAC W303C, just down the hall from the Cardinal Cupboard on the 3rd floor of SAC West, will be open to... 6/1 11am UofL Free Store Summer Orientation Hours Social, Service, Orientation / Arts & Sciences, Urban & Public Affairs, Provost UofL’s Free Store, now more conveniently located in SAC W303C, just down the hall from the Cardinal Cupboard on the 3rd floor of SAC West, will be open to... 6/2 11am AAPI Community (BYO) Lunch Social / President, Employee Success Center Monthly Lunch event to facilitate AAPI FSA networking and to share ideas on ways to improve and support AAPI-identified faculty and staff, and to connect... 6/2 12pm UofL Free Store Summer Orientation Hours Social, Service, Orientation / Arts & Sciences, Urban & Public Affairs, Provost UofL’s Free Store, now more conveniently located in SAC W303C, just down the hall from the Cardinal Cupboard on the 3rd floor of SAC West, will be open to... 6/3 11am View full calendar... Recent Events UofL Free Store Summer Orientation Hours 5/27/2022 UofL Free Store Summer Orientation Hours 5/26/2022 Welcome Reception for New DEI VP Lee Gill 5/17/2022 Celebration of Excellence in Diversity 5/10/2022 2022-2025 Strategic Plan Listening... 5/2/2022 Recent Activity Lowell Brown left a positive review 4/8/2021 Was great! Thank you all so much. Pamela Linares left a positive review 1/19/2021 The cinematography was amazing and the way the camera moved was so unique and captivating. I absolutely loved the film as well and the way it portray the struggles with police brutality and the abuse of their power to wreck havoc themselves. The ending was completely unexpected yet it captured the reality of things perfectly. Pamela Linares left a positive review 1/19/2021 The cinematography was amazing and the way the camera moved was so unique and captivating. I absolutely loved the film as well and the way it portray the struggles with police brutality and the abuse of their power to wreck havoc themselves. The ending was completely unexpected yet it captured the reality of things perfectly. Laurie L Schuld left a positive review 8/11/2020 It was very informative and I enjoyed it! Laurie L Schuld left a positive review 8/11/2020 It was fine and setup with safety Noah W Joyner left a review 8/14/2020 Is this the last time I'm ever gonna go to Cardinal World Kaitlyn V Hilton left a positive review 8/13/2020 It was really beneficial to go to. The girls presenting answered all the questions my friends and I had and also cleared up some of the more confusing aspects of online recruitment. Sarah E Moser left a positive review 8/11/2020 I will always love yoga. This was my reason for waking up earlier than I normally would and it gave me energy and peace of mind throughout the day. I was more productive and in higher spirits. Sarah E Moser left a positive review 8/11/2020 This was a very fun way to learn some new methods of self-care both on my own and off-campus. I haven't played Bingo in a while, and it was really nice to be able to play this game again. Nicolas Caicedo left a positive review 8/11/2020 Great information and dedicated faculty. Get more items... Follow Followers (250) View all followers... Getting Here <p>Your browser does not support iframes.</p> University of Louisville 2301 S. 3rd St. University of Louisville Louisville, Kentucky 40292 Get in touch (502) 852-6171 Contact us More Information Calendar FAQs What is this? Visitor Parking Campus Visits iPhone app UofL News Other Calendars Academic Calendars University Holidays Registration Schedules Exam Schedules Room Scheduling © University of Louisville Contact Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email Blackboard ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Calendar Events calendar powered by Localist software. Login to University of Louisville Login to interact with events, personalize your calendar, and get recommendations. Username Password