Events at UCF Log In Manage Edit Events Manager View Edit Calendar Users & Permissions Calendar Info Subscriptions Subscribe to Calendar Search events, calendars Search Day View Week View Month View Year View Upcoming View By... Day View Week View Month View Year View Upcoming Upcoming Events Faculty Senate Meeting Dec. 1, 2022 at 3 p.m. until 5 p.m. Student Union: Charge on Chamber |and Virtual The UCF Faculty Senate is the basic legislative body of the University. It is the primary voice of the faculty and serves as the main channel of communication between faculty members and administration. It is an advisory body to the president and provost and, as such, participates in shared governance. Its committees provide academic oversight by reviewing and approving policies, … Events at UCF Government Contracting: Overview (Recurring Event) Dec. 7, 2022 at 9 a.m. until noon Virtual Federal, state and local government procurement is the largest target market in the world. The question is usually not &ldquo;Does the government buy what you are selling?&rdquo;...it is more &ldquo;Can you be competitive enough and relentless enough to position your business to win government contracts?&rdquo; If you think you can be competitive, then government contracting may be a good growth … Events at UCF Marketing for Business Success (Recurring Event) Dec. 8, 2022 at 10 a.m. until noon Virtual A webinar providing an overview of the marketing process for small business, as well as a close look at all elements of a marketing plan. Marketing is the driver of revenue growth and an imperative for small business success. Topics include the traditional four &ldquo;P&rsquo;s&rdquo; of marketing &mdash; product, place, promotion and price &mdash; as well as three new &ldquo;P&rsquo;s&rdquo; … Events at UCF Faculty Senate Steering Committee Meeting Jan. 5, 2023 at 3 p.m. until 5 p.m. Student Union: Charge on Chamber |and Virtual The Steering Committee serves as the &ldquo;executive committee&rdquo; of the Faculty Senate and typically meets two weeks prior to the Senate. Resolutions approved by the Steering Committee must be submitted to the Senate for final approval. Events at UCF Faculty Senate Meeting Jan. 19, 2023 at 3 p.m. until 5 p.m. Student Union: Charge on Chamber |and Virtual The UCF Faculty Senate is the basic legislative body of the University. It is the primary voice of the faculty and serves as the main channel of communication between faculty members and administration. It is an advisory body to the president and provost and, as such, participates in shared governance. Its committees provide academic oversight by reviewing and approving policies, … Events at UCF Faculty Senate Steering Committee Meeting Feb. 2, 2023 at 3 p.m. until 5 p.m. Student Union: Charge on Chamber |and Virtual The Steering Committee serves as the &ldquo;executive committee&rdquo; of the Faculty Senate and typically meets two weeks prior to the Senate. Resolutions approved by the Steering Committee must be submitted to the Senate for final approval. Events at UCF Faculty Senate Meeting Feb. 16, 2023 at 3 p.m. until 5 p.m. Student Union: Charge on Chamber |and Virtual The UCF Faculty Senate is the basic legislative body of the University. It is the primary voice of the faculty and serves as the main channel of communication between faculty members and administration. It is an advisory body to the president and provost and, as such, participates in shared governance. Its committees provide academic oversight by reviewing and approving policies, … Events at UCF Faculty Senate Steering Committee Meeting March 9, 2023 at 3 p.m. until 5 p.m. Student Union: Charge on Chamber |and Virtual The Steering Committee serves as the &ldquo;executive committee&rdquo; of the Faculty Senate and typically meets two weeks prior to the Senate. Resolutions approved by the Steering Committee must be submitted to the Senate for final approval. Events at UCF Faculty Senate Meeting March 23, 2023 at 3 p.m. until 5 p.m. Student Union: Charge on Chamber |and Virtual The UCF Faculty Senate is the basic legislative body of the University. It is the primary voice of the faculty and serves as the main channel of communication between faculty members and administration. It is an advisory body to the president and provost and, as such, participates in shared governance. Its committees provide academic oversight by reviewing and approving policies, … Events at UCF Faculty Senate Steering Committee Meeting April 6, 2023 at 3 p.m. until 5 p.m. Student Union: Charge on Chamber |and Virtual The Steering Committee serves as the &ldquo;executive committee&rdquo; of the Faculty Senate and typically meets two weeks prior to the Senate. Resolutions approved by the Steering Committee must be submitted to the Senate for final approval. Events at UCF 1 Previous 6 7 8 9 10 Next May 2022 April June Su M Tu W Th F Sa 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 1 2 3 4 Filter by Category: Academic Arts Exhibit Career/Jobs Concert/Performance Entertainment Health Holiday Meeting Open Forum Recreation & Exercise Service/Volunteer Social Event Speaker/Lecture/Seminar Sports Tour/Open House/Information Session Uncategorized/Other Workshop/Conference Feeds: Apple iCal Feed (ICS) Microsoft Outlook Feed (ICS) RSS Feed XML Feed JSON Feed © University of Central Florida UCF Announcements Help & Documentation Contact