Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Give to UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap Search Tools People Search Course Search Cane Link myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Give to UM Schools Alumni Roadmap Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links News and Events Center People Search Canelink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Search All Events Academics Athletics Arts Events for... Undergrad Students Grad Students Alumni Faculty/Staff Prospective Students Share Feedback All Events Academics Athletics Alumni Arts Student Life Events for... All Events Academics Athletics Arts Events for... Undergrad Students Grad Students Alumni Faculty/Staff Prospective Students Search Search Places Events Groups Departments Log in Sign up University of Miami Departments Clear message Departments Filter Filter results Layout small Layout medium Layout big Group Types Academic/Research (113)Health & Wellness (56)Community Outreach & Social Change (18)Professional (14)Media & Publications (5)Multicultural & Identity-based (5)'Canes Communities & Affinity Groups (2)Honorary (2)Programming Boards (2)Fraternity & Sorority Life (1)Club Sports (0) By Name A-F (78)Q-U (52)L-P (43)G-K (32)V-Z (5)0-9 (0) Cancel Apply filters Academic Enhancement The Office of Academic Enhancement (OAE) fosters a community of support for students that emphasizes academic excellence, campus engagement, and professional development with a core focus on serving underrepresented and first-generation populations. Academic/Research Multicultural & Identity-based Advanced Program for Integrated Science and Math (PRISM) As a member of the Advanced Program for Integrated Science and Math (PRISM), you won’t just memorize formulas, you’ll see how they come together in medicines, treatments, and technologies with a real-world impact. With your fellow PRISM students, you’ll embark on a journey through the known, and the unknown, make meaningful connections between disciplines, and uncover new solutions along the way. You’ll thrive in smaller, more collaborative classes, surrounded by passionate and driven people, just like you. Academic/Research Advisor Consortium Academic/Research Aerospace Studies Academic/Research ALS Clinical and Research Center Welcome to the University of Miami ALS Clinical and Research Center. We provide the highest level of care and multispecialty support for patients and families living with Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) from the time of diagnosis to the end stages of the disease, while conducting advanced research into the cause and cure of ALS. Health & Wellness Alumni Association Founded in 1930, the University of Miami Alumni Association is your UM connection to more than 185,119 living alumni. Governed by a volunteer Board of Directors, the UM Alumni Association is committed to encouraging lifelong education, providing quality services and programming and assisting in the continued development and enhancement of the University of Miami. Community Outreach & Social Change Anthropology & Sociology Anthropology & Sociology Art & Art History The Department of Art and Art History offers undergraduate and graduate study within a strong liberal arts program in a private University setting, bringing together talented students and a faculty of highly regarded professional artists and art historians. We have 19 full-time faculty and a talented group of part-time instructors who are active in their fields. Degree programs include the B.A. in Art History or Studio Art, B.F.A. and M.F.A. in Ceramics, Graphic Design/Multimedia, Painting, Photography/Digital Imaging, Printmaking, and Sculpture. Our programs are designed for personal development and career success. See the Programs section for information about each of the studio areas of our Department. The Department's studios, classrooms, and offices are located in three locations on the University's Coral Gables campus. The Facilties page describes each location in detail. ‌Information about the Department's Gallery in the Wynwood Art District, the College of Arts and Sciences Gallery, as well the Lowe Art Museum may be found in the Gallery section of our website. You may also view samples of work created by our students in this section. The Resources section links you to course information from the University Bulletin. We welcome you to visit. Contact us if you are interested in meeting faculty members, viewing the facilities, or talking to current students. We can also help schedule appointments with academic advisors and admissions representatives, or arrange for you to sit in on a class. We are open all year and we look forward to meeting you. Academic/Research 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … 29 University of Miami Event Types Ceremony/Reception Community Outreach Dates/Deadlines Education/Training Exhibit Facility Operations/Closures Information Session Lecture/Conference Meeting Performance/Screening Virtual Topics Academic Calendar Academics Admissions Arts and Culture Careers Climate and Environment Community Diversity and Inclusion Health and Wellness Hemispheric and Global Impact Innovation and Entrepreneurship Law and Social Justice Medical Philanthropy Research Science and Technology Social and Entertainment Audience Alumni Faculty General Public Prospective Students Staff Students Activity All events All groups All places Sign up Login Submit an event University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-2211 Office of Conference Services 1280 Stanford Drive, Office 1M056 Coral Gables, FL 33146 ecms@miami.edu Conference Services Planning Your Event Meeting Spaces and Rates Events and Calendar Help Contact Conference Services UM Network News@TheU Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2019 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices University of Miami Powered by the Localist Community Event Platform © All rights reserved Log in Log in with CaneID or Email Address is required. Password is required. I forgot my password I don't have an account yet