Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Event Management Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Affiliations Events Venues Services Policies & Forms Reserve/Request A Quote About Us Columbia Students Faculty & Staff Guests Browse Event Possibilities Filming on Campus Meetings & Conferences Performances Student Events Weddings & Social Events Event Gallery Accessibility Our Venues View All Venues Butler Hall Earl Hall Faculty House Low Library Lerner Hall Saint Paul’s Chapel Outdoor Spaces Residence Hall Lounges Classrooms Partner Venues Other Columbia Venues AV/Technical Services Explore AV/Technical Services Request AV/Technical Services Catering Services Explore Catering Services Request Catering Services Event Logistics Access & Security Custodial Services Electrical & Carpentry Support Vendor Recommendations Event Setup & Additional Services Specialty Events Barbecue Events on Campus Events with Alcohol Filming on Campus View All Services All Policies & Forms Quick View of Our Forms First-Time Customers & Guests Request a Quote for Event Space Request AV/Technical Services Quote Request Catering Services Quote Faculty, Staff & Students Log-in to EMS Request an EMS Account Our Service Promise Our Team News Sustainability Work With Us Event Management You are here: Home News Columbia Event Management Launches the Sustainable Living Menu Columbia Event Management Launches the Sustainable Living Menu Inspired by work with the Earth Institute, Columbia Event Management is excited to offer a Sustainable Living menu curated to feature local ingredients, focusing on vegan and vegetarian options. Menu selections are updated frequently to reflect fresh and seasonal options.  February 20, 2020 Columbia Event Management now offers a Sustainable Living menu, inspired by its ongoing work with the Earth Institute. The menu focuses on sustainable ingredients and local products, is primarily vegetarian, and will fluctuate based on seasonal trends and specific product availability. In choosing the Sustainable Living menu in place of other menu options, clients will receive a delicious meal while reducing their event’s environmental impact. The Sustainable Living menu was analyzed as part of a student capstone project in the School of Professional Studies’ Master of Science in Sustainability Management program, which assessed the overall sustainability of Faculty House’s operations. According to lifecycle analysis data provided by the capstone group, the Sustainable Living menu produces roughly 63 percent less greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions than a “baseline menu” compiling an average of Event Management’s 10 most popular menus. Figure adapted from student capstone project, “Advancing Sustainability at Faculty House,” page 51. “For our clients and as an organization, we want to make more sustainable choices,” said Sanjay Mahajan, Executive Director Event Management. “Through small actions, we can contribute to a big change. This is one step in our collective movement towards a more sustainable Columbia.”  The majority of GHG emissions in the baseline menu come from beef, poultry, tuna, other fish, and eggs. The Sustainable Living menu consists mostly of plant-based options with only one fish option, which is the highest emitter among the offerings at 14 percent of the total. Animal products are generally more resource-intensive than plant-based foods because they require feed production and processing, as well as land-use change for grazing in most cases. Cattle and other ruminant animals also emit methane, a greenhouse gas, as they digest plants. On average, seafood has a smaller carbon footprint than other animal proteins because fishing doesn’t require farmland or care of livestock. Most seafood-related GHG emissions come from fishing boats, although the sustainability of seafood is also determined by the availability of stock. “Food is an area of sustainability that touches all of our lives,” said Natalie Unwin-Kuruneri, Associate Director of Education at the Earth Institute and faculty advisor for the capstone project. “Through smarter food choices, individuals can decrease their contribution to GHG emissions. The students’ work this semester shows that the new Sustainable Living menu emits much less CO2 equivalent per dish, per person. It is great to have an option for events that reflects Columbia’s commitment to minimizing its environmental impact.” Sustainable Living Menu Learn More All calculations in the capstone project were based on emission factors used in peer-reviewed scientific papers and account for all air pollution produced during the lifecycle of a product, including transportation. The Event Management culinary team works with local distributors and producers to curate the Sustainable Living menu for each event, limiting transportation emissions while bolstering local businesses. "We are thrilled to take part in creating the Sustainable Living menu which gives the Columbia community sustainable food options at the hundreds of events that are hosted here each year,” said Jennifer Genrich, Director of Communications at the Earth Institute. “Sustainability starts at home, and the Earth Institute is proud to make this a priority in all aspects of our work."  Starting immediately, Columbia departments can choose the Sustainable Living menu for events hosted in Lerner, Low Library, and Faculty House for buffet and plated meals. Pricing is comparable to traditional menu offerings. The team will assess usage and based on demand, determine the feasibility to offer additional sustainable catering options. The Sustainable Living menu is the second specialized catering menu from Event Management aiming to support initiatives important to the campus community; the Blue Menu donates a portion of the bill to Columbia Community Service. Tags Catering Sustainability News May 04, 2022 Students Preview the New Wallach ESPORTS Room February 11, 2022 Updates to Tents on Campus January 28, 2022 Event Management Newsletter: January, 2022 July 07, 2021 Columbia Event Management Creates Gourmet Reception and Dinner Boxes for the Annual 25 Year Club Celebration July 21, 2020 Event Management Year in Review FY 2020 Columbia University Event Management2920 Broadway, Lerner Hall 7th floor · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-5800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close