Events at UCF Log In Pegasus PlayLab Workshop 'Spells of the Sea' Edit Add Event To Saturday, June 4, 2022 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. By Guinevere Govea and Anna Pickett | Directed by Julia Flood (Guest Artist) This musical tale follows a fifteen-year-old fisherwoman named Finley Frankfurter and an old lighthouse keeper named H.S. Crank as they journey through the ocean to find the Elixir of Life to cure Finley’s terminally ill father. This workshop is a collaboration with UT Austin’s Drama and Theatre for Youth and Communities Program and Metro Theater Company. Content Warning: This show involves the death of loved ones and the processing of grief. All topics are handled with a youth audience in mind. What to expect at a workshop What you will see on stage is the culmination of 8 days of rehearsals, script changes and discussions between the actors, playwright, director, dramaturg, and designers. Actors will bring the new work to life in front of the audience with scripts in-hand and minimal staging. After the performance, discuss what you saw and heard with the playwright, director, cast and the rest of the creative team. You play a crucial role in the work’s development through your feedback. Read More Location: Theatre UCF: Black Box: TH 6 This event occurs on multiple dates/times. This event takes place at this location on this date. Event runs on multiple dates (select event date for details) Date Location June 4, 2022, 7 p.m. Theatre UCF: Black Box: TH 6 June 5, 2022, 2:30 p.m. Theatre UCF: Black Box: TH 6 Event Registration Visit our website to purchase tickets. Register Now Contact: UCF Box Office boxoffice@ucf.edu Calendar: Events at UCF Category: Concert/Performance Tags: Theatre UCF workshop Location: Theatre UCF: Black Box: TH 6 [ View Map ] This event occurs on multiple dates/times. This event takes place at this location on this date. Event Registration Visit our website to purchase tickets. Register Now Contact: UCF Box Office boxoffice@ucf.edu Share Tweet Feeds: Apple iCal Feed (ICS) Microsoft Outlook Feed (ICS) RSS Feed XML Feed JSON Feed © University of Central Florida UCF Announcements Help & Documentation Contact