Events at UCF Log In Events By Category: “Academic” Application Deadline: Peer Mentor for Summer Research Academy June 1, 2022 at 12 a.m. until 11:45 p.m. Virtual Summer Research Academy (SRA)&nbsp;is a fast-paced, 3-day event in July. It is a 1-credit course (IDS 3913) that runs during Summer B term, but most of the work will be completed during the event in July. SRA is ideal for transfer students or current students who want to begin research in the fall.SRA Peer Mentors work with small groups of … Events at UCF 2022 Computer Science Summer Institute June 6, 2022 at 9 a.m. until June 24, 2022, 5 p.m. Engineering 2 Atrium The Summer Institute is an intensive three-week program (June 6-24) for students who have interest in learning the foundations of computer science and computer technology. The program offers a mix of activities designed to maximize learning through interactive, individualized instruction with outstanding instructors. It is also designed to expose students to broader topics in computer science through the distinguished lectures … Events at UCF Student Green Dot Training June 7, 2022 at 5 p.m. until 8 p.m. Virtual Green Dot is a bystander intervention training program that aims to reduce power based personal violence on campus by training students, faculty, and staff how to become active bystanders. Green Dot&nbsp;uses the concept of displacing Red Dots (potential/real acts of violence) with Green Dots (actions taken to eliminate/ prevent Red Dots). Actions could be reactive or proactive. Green Dot Bystander … Events at UCF Camp Connect Advanced 2022 (Recurring Event) June 13, 2022 at 8 a.m. until 5 p.m. L3Harris Engineering Center: 101 Camp Connect Advanced is a week-long camp designed to provide students with an in-depth, team oriented STEM experience. Rising 10th through 12th grade students work with a faculty member where they are immersed in a week long discipline specific research project or set of activities structured to encourage deeper learning, problem-solving, self-efficacy and collaboration. for more information visit: https://stem.ucf.edu/camp-connect/ Events at UCF Camp Connect Advanced 2022 (Recurring Event) June 14, 2022 at 8 a.m. until 5 p.m. L3Harris Engineering Center: 101 Camp Connect Advanced is a week-long camp designed to provide students with an in-depth, team oriented STEM experience. Rising 10th through 12th grade students work with a faculty member where they are immersed in a week long discipline specific research project or set of activities structured to encourage deeper learning, problem-solving, self-efficacy and collaboration. for more information visit: https://stem.ucf.edu/camp-connect/ Events at UCF Camp Connect Advanced 2022 (Recurring Event) June 15, 2022 at 8 a.m. until 5 p.m. L3Harris Engineering Center: 101 Camp Connect Advanced is a week-long camp designed to provide students with an in-depth, team oriented STEM experience. Rising 10th through 12th grade students work with a faculty member where they are immersed in a week long discipline specific research project or set of activities structured to encourage deeper learning, problem-solving, self-efficacy and collaboration. for more information visit: https://stem.ucf.edu/camp-connect/ Events at UCF Camp Connect Advanced 2022 (Recurring Event) June 16, 2022 at 8 a.m. until 5 p.m. L3Harris Engineering Center: 101 Camp Connect Advanced is a week-long camp designed to provide students with an in-depth, team oriented STEM experience. Rising 10th through 12th grade students work with a faculty member where they are immersed in a week long discipline specific research project or set of activities structured to encourage deeper learning, problem-solving, self-efficacy and collaboration. for more information visit: https://stem.ucf.edu/camp-connect/ Events at UCF Camp Connect Advanced 2022 (Recurring Event) June 17, 2022 at 8 a.m. until 5 p.m. L3Harris Engineering Center: 101 Camp Connect Advanced is a week-long camp designed to provide students with an in-depth, team oriented STEM experience. Rising 10th through 12th grade students work with a faculty member where they are immersed in a week long discipline specific research project or set of activities structured to encourage deeper learning, problem-solving, self-efficacy and collaboration. for more information visit: https://stem.ucf.edu/camp-connect/ Events at UCF Camp Connect I (Recurring Event) June 27, 2022 at 8 a.m. until 4:30 p.m. L3Harris Engineering Center: 101 Camp Connect is a week-long day camp that introduces students to a variety of Engineering disciplines &mdash;Electrical, Computer, Industrial, Mechanical, Civil, Environmental, Construction, Aerospace &mdash; &amp; Computer Science. It immerses students in engineering integrated activities and provides tips on how to prepare for college &amp; networking! Rising 8th to 11th grade students are immersed in engineering and computer science through … Events at UCF Camp Connect I (Recurring Event) June 28, 2022 at 8 a.m. until 4:30 p.m. L3Harris Engineering Center: 101 Camp Connect is a week-long day camp that introduces students to a variety of Engineering disciplines &mdash;Electrical, Computer, Industrial, Mechanical, Civil, Environmental, Construction, Aerospace &mdash; &amp; Computer Science. It immerses students in engineering integrated activities and provides tips on how to prepare for college &amp; networking! Rising 8th to 11th grade students are immersed in engineering and computer science through … Events at UCF Camp Connect I (Recurring Event) June 29, 2022 at 8 a.m. until 4:30 p.m. L3Harris Engineering Center: 101 Camp Connect is a week-long day camp that introduces students to a variety of Engineering disciplines &mdash;Electrical, Computer, Industrial, Mechanical, Civil, Environmental, Construction, Aerospace &mdash; &amp; Computer Science. It immerses students in engineering integrated activities and provides tips on how to prepare for college &amp; networking! Rising 8th to 11th grade students are immersed in engineering and computer science through … Events at UCF Camp Connect I (Recurring Event) June 30, 2022 at 8 a.m. until 4:30 p.m. L3Harris Engineering Center: 101 Camp Connect is a week-long day camp that introduces students to a variety of Engineering disciplines &mdash;Electrical, Computer, Industrial, Mechanical, Civil, Environmental, Construction, Aerospace &mdash; &amp; Computer Science. It immerses students in engineering integrated activities and provides tips on how to prepare for college &amp; networking! Rising 8th to 11th grade students are immersed in engineering and computer science through … Events at UCF Camp Connect I (Recurring Event) July 1, 2022 at 8 a.m. until 4:30 p.m. L3Harris Engineering Center: 101 Camp Connect is a week-long day camp that introduces students to a variety of Engineering disciplines &mdash;Electrical, Computer, Industrial, Mechanical, Civil, Environmental, Construction, Aerospace &mdash; &amp; Computer Science. It immerses students in engineering integrated activities and provides tips on how to prepare for college &amp; networking! Rising 8th to 11th grade students are immersed in engineering and computer science through … Events at UCF 2022 Competitive Programming Summer Institute (Recurring Event) July 10, 2022 at 9 a.m. until 5 p.m. Engineering 1: 260 The Summer Institute is an intensive two-week program for gifted and high-achieving students who have a background in Computer Science with an interest in algorithms and programming competitions. The program offers lectures on data structures and algorithms commonly seen in competitions, several practice competitions, problem reviews of those competitions, and personalized coaching from coaches and members of UCF&rsquo;s acclaimed Programming … Events at UCF Camp Connect II July 11, 2022 at 8 a.m. until July 15, 2022, 5 p.m. L3Harris Engineering Center: 101 Camp Connect II is a week-long camp that provides students with a deeper hands-on experience within the various engineering fields.&nbsp; Students participate in hands-on activities, group projects, and presentations led by our own faculty and student organizations. Students may also visit various off-campus UCF labs. Information about Camp Connect II will be sent to eligible participants who have previously attended … Events at UCF 2022 Competitive Programming Summer Institute (Recurring Event) July 11, 2022 at 9 a.m. until 5 p.m. Engineering 1: 260 The Summer Institute is an intensive two-week program for gifted and high-achieving students who have a background in Computer Science with an interest in algorithms and programming competitions. The program offers lectures on data structures and algorithms commonly seen in competitions, several practice competitions, problem reviews of those competitions, and personalized coaching from coaches and members of UCF&rsquo;s acclaimed Programming … Events at UCF 2022 Competitive Programming Summer Institute (Recurring Event) July 12, 2022 at 9 a.m. until 5 p.m. Engineering 1: 260 The Summer Institute is an intensive two-week program for gifted and high-achieving students who have a background in Computer Science with an interest in algorithms and programming competitions. The program offers lectures on data structures and algorithms commonly seen in competitions, several practice competitions, problem reviews of those competitions, and personalized coaching from coaches and members of UCF&rsquo;s acclaimed Programming … Events at UCF 2022 Competitive Programming Summer Institute (Recurring Event) July 13, 2022 at 9 a.m. until 5 p.m. Engineering 1: 260 The Summer Institute is an intensive two-week program for gifted and high-achieving students who have a background in Computer Science with an interest in algorithms and programming competitions. The program offers lectures on data structures and algorithms commonly seen in competitions, several practice competitions, problem reviews of those competitions, and personalized coaching from coaches and members of UCF&rsquo;s acclaimed Programming … Events at UCF 2022 Competitive Programming Summer Institute (Recurring Event) July 14, 2022 at 9 a.m. until 5 p.m. Engineering 1: 260 The Summer Institute is an intensive two-week program for gifted and high-achieving students who have a background in Computer Science with an interest in algorithms and programming competitions. The program offers lectures on data structures and algorithms commonly seen in competitions, several practice competitions, problem reviews of those competitions, and personalized coaching from coaches and members of UCF&rsquo;s acclaimed Programming … Events at UCF 2022 Competitive Programming Summer Institute (Recurring Event) July 15, 2022 at 9 a.m. until 5 p.m. Engineering 1: 260 The Summer Institute is an intensive two-week program for gifted and high-achieving students who have a background in Computer Science with an interest in algorithms and programming competitions. The program offers lectures on data structures and algorithms commonly seen in competitions, several practice competitions, problem reviews of those competitions, and personalized coaching from coaches and members of UCF&rsquo;s acclaimed Programming … Events at UCF 2022 Competitive Programming Summer Institute (Recurring Event) July 16, 2022 at 9 a.m. until 5 p.m. Engineering 1: 260 The Summer Institute is an intensive two-week program for gifted and high-achieving students who have a background in Computer Science with an interest in algorithms and programming competitions. The program offers lectures on data structures and algorithms commonly seen in competitions, several practice competitions, problem reviews of those competitions, and personalized coaching from coaches and members of UCF&rsquo;s acclaimed Programming … Events at UCF 2022 Competitive Programming Summer Institute (Recurring Event) July 17, 2022 at 9 a.m. until 5 p.m. Engineering 1: 260 The Summer Institute is an intensive two-week program for gifted and high-achieving students who have a background in Computer Science with an interest in algorithms and programming competitions. The program offers lectures on data structures and algorithms commonly seen in competitions, several practice competitions, problem reviews of those competitions, and personalized coaching from coaches and members of UCF&rsquo;s acclaimed Programming … Events at UCF 2022 Biology Summer Institute July 18, 2022 at 9 a.m. until July 22, 2022, 5 p.m. Physical Sciences Building The Biology Field Institute is a one week day program for rising junior and senior high school students interested in seeking further understanding of Central Florida&rsquo;s diverse ecosystems, from Orlando to the east coast. This program will introduce students to field techniques and experimental approaches used in water quality assessment, vegetation monitoring, forest ecology, and studies of gopher tortoises and … Events at UCF 2022 Competitive Programming Summer Institute (Recurring Event) July 18, 2022 at 9 a.m. until 5 p.m. Engineering 1: 260 The Summer Institute is an intensive two-week program for gifted and high-achieving students who have a background in Computer Science with an interest in algorithms and programming competitions. The program offers lectures on data structures and algorithms commonly seen in competitions, several practice competitions, problem reviews of those competitions, and personalized coaching from coaches and members of UCF&rsquo;s acclaimed Programming … Events at UCF 2022 Competitive Programming Summer Institute (Recurring Event) July 19, 2022 at 9 a.m. until 5 p.m. Engineering 1: 260 The Summer Institute is an intensive two-week program for gifted and high-achieving students who have a background in Computer Science with an interest in algorithms and programming competitions. The program offers lectures on data structures and algorithms commonly seen in competitions, several practice competitions, problem reviews of those competitions, and personalized coaching from coaches and members of UCF&rsquo;s acclaimed Programming … Events at UCF Previous 1 2 Next Categories: Academic Arts Exhibit Career/Jobs Concert/Performance Entertainment Health Holiday Meeting Open Forum Recreation & Exercise Service/Volunteer Social Event Speaker/Lecture/Seminar Sports Tour/Open House/Information Session Uncategorized/Other Workshop/Conference Feeds: Apple iCal Feed (ICS) Microsoft Outlook Feed (ICS) RSS Feed XML Feed JSON Feed © University of Central Florida UCF Announcements Help & Documentation Contact