Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Event Management Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Affiliations Events Venues Services Policies & Forms Reserve/Request A Quote About Us Columbia Students Faculty & Staff Guests Browse Event Possibilities Filming on Campus Meetings & Conferences Performances Student Events Weddings & Social Events Event Gallery Accessibility Our Venues View All Venues Butler Hall Earl Hall Faculty House Low Library Lerner Hall Saint Paul’s Chapel Outdoor Spaces Residence Hall Lounges Classrooms Partner Venues Other Columbia Venues AV/Technical Services Explore AV/Technical Services Request AV/Technical Services Catering Services Explore Catering Services Request Catering Services Event Logistics Access & Security Custodial Services Electrical & Carpentry Support Vendor Recommendations Event Setup & Additional Services Specialty Events Barbecue Events on Campus Events with Alcohol Filming on Campus View All Services All Policies & Forms Quick View of Our Forms First-Time Customers & Guests Request a Quote for Event Space Request AV/Technical Services Quote Request Catering Services Quote Faculty, Staff & Students Log-in to EMS Request an EMS Account Our Service Promise Our Team News Sustainability Work With Us Event Management You are here: Home Services Events with Alcohol Events with Alcohol Create a custom bar package with Event Management that satisfies your guests and University guidelines on alcohol service. Crafting Custom Cocktails and Beverage Packages Whether you're looking for a signature cocktail or comprehensive bar service, Event Management can create the drinks your guests will want to sip all night and talk about all the next day. From intimate dinner parties to large-scale weddings, we can create drinks your guests will love. Bar packages can include beer, wine, non-alcoholic beverages, and standard or premium liquors. Guidelines & Policies Hosting an on-campus event with alcohol service requires careful attention and prior planning. The following provides a brief overview of the guidelines for faculty and staff events with alcohol: Events with alcohol must be approved by a departmental officer. Submit an Alcohol Registration Form for all events serving alcohol on campus. Allow 10 business days after submission for Event Management to review, assess event logistics and determine if Proctors are needed. If you will have a cash bar at your event, or your event will be held outside of Lerner Hall, you must apply for a Temporary Beer and Wine Permit with the State Liquor Authority. Your event planner will work with you to ensure all necessary requirements are in place to ensure a safe and enjoyable event. Follow the rules governing the serving of alcohol as outlined in the policy applicable to your event: Alcohol Guidelines for Undergraduate Student Events Alcohol Policy for Graduate Student, Faculty and Staff Events Outside guests will be informed of relevant policies and guidelines by their event planner Please also review the University's Alcohol Statement of Policy, and University Alcohol & Drug Policies as well as, local, state, and federal laws. Alcohol Management Training (Required) All Columbia Affiliates (Recognized Student Groups, Faculty, and Staff) who will be holding events where alcohol will be served must complete our alcohol training session. The training session is available within Columbia's Enterprise Learning Management system. The training must be completed within 24 hours of a scheduled event including alcohol service. Click the image below to register and begin: Guests or Columbia Affiliates Without an EMS Account: We're looking forward to working with you to put together an amazing event! Complete the quote request form. We'll get back to you within 48 hours of your request. Request a Quote Columbia Affiliates with EMS Accounts: As always, we're here to assist you in finding the perfect space for your meetings and events. Log into the Event Management System (EMS) to begin the process. Log In To EMS Additional Information View Our Catering Menus View Our Event Gallery Related Policies Alcohol Guidelines for Undergraduate Student Events Alcohol Policy for Graduate Student, Faculty and Staff Events Alcohol Statement of Policy Provider Columbia University Event Management Columbia University Event Management2920 Broadway, Lerner Hall 7th floor · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-5800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close