louisville.edu My Accounts Email Blackboard ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Calendar Event Calendar Search UofL Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA Donate Campuses Belknap Campus Health Sciences Center ShelbyHurst Campus Online & Distance Learning International Online louisville.edu log in University of Louisville › Groups Mobile Navigation Login Search Groups ← → 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … 23 (Pre Health) Spanish Alliance of Louisville:... 502_Movement This organization is here to help people interested in movement sports like dance, tricking, breakdancing, tumbling ect. come together to be able to train... A&S Junior Ambassador Program This is a loose organization of people who are either alumni or friends of UofL's College of Arts and Sciences. The purpose of this organization is to engage... Academy of General Dentistry Student Chapter of... This program is designed to provide students with an early start on their progress toward lifelong learning and Fellowship in the AGD. The broader goals are... Active Minds at University of Louisville Active Minds is a student-run mental health awareness, education, and advocacy group that works to increase students' awareness of mental health issues,... Actuarial Science Student Organization The main purposes of this club are to provide networking opportunities with local employers, assist students in their pursuit of an actuarial career, and... Admissions Volunteers In Action To Recruit Aviators exists to aid the Diversity Recruitment (DR) Team of University of Louisville's Undergraduate Office of Admission to foster and promote... Adult and Transfer Students at UofL We are a group of students creating a community here on campus to foster communication, education, engagement, and support for adult and transfer students at... Advocates For Recovery Advocates for Recovery is a RSO offered at the University of Louisville to support those that are in recovery and allies of those in recovery. We are... African American Female Initiative The African American Female Initiative was created Fall 2016 and offered to African American first year enrolled females. his program offers structured... African Student Union African Students Union is a student organization at the University of Louisville committed to the cultural, economic, intellectual, and political awareness... Allied Health Club The Allied Health Club has the purpose of providing students who wish to pursue an education and/or career in the Allied Health field with the tools and... Alpha Epsilon Delta Alpha Epsilon Delta is a Health Preprofessional Honor Society dedicated to the encouragement and recognition of excellence in preprofessional health... Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority Inc. Beta Epsilon... Alpha Kappa Alpha’s purpose is to cultivate and encourage high scholastic and ethical standards, to promote unity and friendship among college women, to... Alpha Omega Dental Fraternity, Phi Student Chapter Pre- and post-doctoral dental student fraternity Alpha Omicron Pi Alpha Omicron Pi Fraternity was founded on January 2, 1897 at Barnard College of Columbia University in New York City. Alpha Omicron Pi was founded on the... Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity Inc. Alpha Pi Chapter Since its founding on December 4, 1906, Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc. has supplied voice and vision to the struggle of African-Americans and people of... Alpha Phi Omega: Delta Theta Alpha Phi Omega is a national coeducational service fraternity founded on the cardinal principles of leadership, friendship and service. It provides its... Alpha Phi Sigma Why should YOU join Alpha Phi Sigma? * Recognition of Achievement: The hard work and personal sacrifice that is required to achieve scholastic excellence... Alpha Tau Omega ATΩ is currently recruiting men to be a part of America's Leadership Development Fraternity. Alpha Tau Omega (ATΩ), U of L's premier leadership development... ← → 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … 23 Submit an Event All Events Places to Go Groups Community All Communities Belknap Campus Health Sciences Center Shelby Campus Experience All Experiences In-Person Virtual University of Louisville 2301 S. 3rd St. University of Louisville Louisville, Kentucky 40292 Get in touch (502) 852-6171 Contact us More Information Calendar FAQs What is this? Visitor Parking Campus Visits iPhone app UofL News Other Calendars Academic Calendars University Holidays Registration Schedules Exam Schedules Room Scheduling © University of Louisville Contact Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email Blackboard ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Calendar Events calendar powered by Localist software. Login to University of Louisville Login to interact with events, personalize your calendar, and get recommendations. Username Password