Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Give to UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap Search Tools People Search Course Search Cane Link myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Give to UM Schools Alumni Roadmap Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links News and Events Center People Search Canelink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Search All Events Academics Athletics Arts Events for... Undergrad Students Grad Students Alumni Faculty/Staff Prospective Students Share Feedback All Events Academics Athletics Alumni Arts Student Life Events for... All Events Academics Athletics Arts Events for... Undergrad Students Grad Students Alumni Faculty/Staff Prospective Students Search Search Places Events Groups Departments Log in Sign up University of Miami Groups Clear message Groups Filter Filter results Layout small Layout medium Layout big Group Types Community Outreach & Social Change (169)Academic/Research (135)'Canes Communities & Affinity Groups (53)Multicultural & Identity-based (45)Club Sports (41)Fraternity & Sorority Life (30)Health & Wellness (16)Professional (14)Programming Boards (10)Media & Publications (8)Honorary (1) By Name A-F (211)Q-U (189)L-P (139)G-K (73)V-Z (36)0-9 (4) Cancel Apply filters 100 Strong The purpose of 100 Strong is to cultivate a culture of belonging by fostering academic, social, and professional development of students of color pursuing careers in healthcare. We aim to provide tutoring and peer mentoring, serve our local community through a series of projects, and engage in activities that will nurture and strengthen the professional and leadership development of our members whilst advocating for diversity, equity and inclusion in the healthcare field. Community Outreach & Social Change 1L (1L) 2L (2L) Academic/Research 3L (3L) A Safe Haven for Newborns (A Safe Haven for Newborns) “Safe Haven for Newborns” began in response to the tragedy of newborn abandonment in Florida. The Gloria M. Silverio Foundation a 501(C)3 Florida not for profit organization established a program in 2001, called “A Safe Haven for Newborns”. We are not affiliated with any organizations and we "partner" with everyone statewide. The Florida Safe Haven Law was enacted in 2000 in response to an increasing number of newborn infants left to die in dumpsters, garbage cans, ditches, along lakes, canals and other hazardous places…Desperate young mothers who are hiding their pregnancy, in great fear and mental distress and don't know what to do, have too often chosen the frantic path of abandoning their newborns only to face charges in the legal system. The unthinkable act of these young mothers not only destroyed the lives of these babies, it made them criminals. Two lives lost unnecessarily. "Safe Haven" is a safety net for both the mother and the newborn infant. It allows mothers, fathers or whoever is in possession of an unharmed newborn, approximately seven days old or less, to leave them with someone at Safe Havens: any hospital, staffed fire rescue station, or staffed emergency medical service station, with no questions asked, totally anonymous, free from fear of prosecution. The Hospital will contact a participating private adoption agency who will then arrange placement of the newborn with a waiting family. The Safe Havens: hospitals, fire rescue stations and emergency medical service stations working to receive these babies coupled with the identity protection of the parent, make this law an effective tool in preventing unnecessary deaths of newborn citizens of the state of Florida. A Safe Haven for Newborns is dedicated to reaching pregnant girls and mothers before they reach the crisis stage. We assist them as they make their decision in the best interest of their baby and themselves, whether with counseling, parenting, health related issues, Adoption or confidentially placing their Newborn with a "Safe Haven".. A Safe Haven for Newborns is saving lives with on-going, comprehensive, statewide Public Awareness Campaigns which include but not limited to: • Public Service Announcements (T.V., Radio, Print) • Press briefings, Media Outreach • Billboard, Bus Bench, other transportation promotions • Education Materials and Videos • Web based Education • Awareness Brochures, Flyers, Posters, Cards (Multi-lingual) • Speakers Bureau • Public Access to our website as an information resource • Work with professionals to address the issues that contribute to these tragic societal events. • "A Safe Haven for Newborns" is the primary information resource in Florida relating to this complex societal problem which affects people of all races, cultures and economic backgrounds. Obviously "Safe Haven" is not the final answer to the societal problems contributing to the cause of infant abandonment but they provide a compassionate approach to saving the lives of innocent and helpless babies. This law is a positive outcome for all involved: a child's life is saved; a mother or father is saved from a lifetime of guilt and anguish; the hopes of a family waiting to adopt a child are fulfilled. We believed from the beginning, if we saved only one life, all our efforts would be truly worthwhile! Community Outreach & Social Change A Week For Life (A Week 4 Life) Week for Life (AW4L) is a programming board committed to educating the University of Miami community on issues relating to HIV/AIDS and reproductive health. AW4L produces an array of programs that encourage students to reduce high risk behavior by making positive choices. These programs foster an increase in awareness on these issues allowing participants to gain a better appreciation for life. A Week for Life’s impact does not last for a week, a semester, a year but for a lifetime. Choose to be educated. Choose to be committed. Choose to be AWARE. We are ALL AFFECTED; it is time we became educated and helped to raise awareness at the University of Miami, the surrounding Coral Gables community, and the WORLD. Join our group, protect yourselves, invite others, and support the cause. RAISE Awareness, Fight HIV/AIDS!!!!!!!! Community Outreach & Social Change ABA - American Bar Association (ABA) Joining the ABA is the first step toward having a successful legal career. You’ll find the advancement and networking opportunities you need to excel in law school and lay the groundwork for your professional life. Academic/Research Above the Bar Above the Bar is a multicultural organization for the University of Miami pre-law students to ensure their successful matriculation into law school. The mission specifically is to educate, elevate and demonstrate ways to thrive with the tools, forum, and platform necessary to aid them as they prepare for law school and beyond. This will be done by specifically focusing on LSAT preparation, financial readiness, networking, and workshops to tailor one's strength when applying to law school. Academic/Research Actors' Playhouse at the Miracle Theatre (Actors' Playhouse at the Miracle Theatre) Actors' Playhouse celebrates over 25 years of great cultural offerings as a Florida Presenting Cultural Organization and one of 22 major cultural institutions in Miami-Dade County. The company is the largest self-producer of critically acclaimed dramatic and musical theater for adults and children in South Florida. The private nonprofit organization presents a full season of Main stage and Children's programs and extensive educational outreach and community service. Actors' Playhouse serves a multi-cultural audience of local residents in South Florida and is a cultural destination for domestic and international travelers to Miami-Dade. Programming is developed to appeal to audiences of diverse ages, ethnicity, and cultural background. The mission of Actors' Playhouse is to enrich South Florida's cultural vitality with the highest caliber classic and contemporary live theater productions; to provide comprehensive educational and outreach programs to multi-cultural audiences; to provide a supportive and creative work environment for Florida-based theater professionals; to encourage the creation and production of new works for adults and children; and to maintain the identity of its home venue, the historic Miracle Theatre. Established in 1988by Founder and Chairman Dr. Lawrence E. Stein, the company was originally located in a converted Kendall movie theatre for its first seven years. In 1995, under the stewardship of Executive Producing Director Barbara S. Stein, Actors' Playhouse entered into a partnership with the City of Coral Gables to renovate the historic Miracle Theatre, transforming the Art Deco movie house into the company's new home in an $ 8 million capital project. Actors' Playhouse is the managing agent of the three-stage performance center. This partnership was the catalyst for revitalizing downtown Coral Gables, enhancing the quality of life for the community, and adding to its economic prosperity with over 150,000 patrons attending events each year. The book Miracle on the Mile archives the role model private/public partnership and acknowledges its contributors. Actors' Playhouse has produced 150 Mainstage productions including Broadway and Off-Broadway style musicals, mystery/thrillers, comedies and new works, and 130 Children's Theatre productions. The company has received 75 Carbonell Awards (the South Florida equivalent of the Tony Award) for artistic excellence and was also named South Florida's Theatre Company of the Year for overall season excellence and community outreach. Our Musical Theatre For Young Audiences is voted "Best of the Best" KIDS CROWN AWARD by South Florida Parenting Magazine every year. Its leadership is highly recognized by the community and the industry. Among many distinguished honors, the South Florida Business Journal named Executive Director Barbara S. Stein Corporate Business Woman of the Year. Stein is among 75 distinguished women as a Florida Woman of Achievement and was acknowledged by Miami-Dade County with the "In The Company of Women" Award. Carbonell Award-winning Artistic Director David Arisco of 25 years received the distinguished George Abbott award by the Carbonell Committee, for his long-term, dedication and commitment to artistic excellence and the Florida Professional Theatre Life Time Achievement Award. In addition to offering year round theatre productions, we complement our annual programming with a full schedule of Theatre Conservatory classes; summer camp; a National Children's Theatre Festival, the Young Talent Big Dreams countywide talent contest for youth 8-17 also presented by The Children's Trust; educational arts outreach programs for youth concentrating on inner city neighborhoods; visual art exhibits for regional artists; a playreading series and musical theatre lab where new works are developed; an annual gala auction; and ongoing rental of our facility to outside groups for corporate, nonprofit, and cultural events. The theatre's artistic and business reputation generates licensing agreements for the newest work from New York like the Pre-Broadway production of Little Shop of Horrors, Disney’s Beauty and the Beast, Les Misérables, Miss Saigon, August: Osage County, Godspell, Other Desert Cities, and In The Heights. The theatre presents world premieres including The Boy From Russia, Bombshells, Unreasonable Doubt, The Color of Desire, See Jane Run, and Real Men Sing Show Tunes and play with puppets, each written by Florida playwrights. Programming Boards 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … 74 University of Miami Event Types Ceremony/Reception Community Outreach Dates/Deadlines Education/Training Exhibit Facility Operations/Closures Information Session Lecture/Conference Meeting Performance/Screening Virtual Topics Academic Calendar Academics Admissions Arts and Culture Careers Climate and Environment Community Diversity and Inclusion Health and Wellness Hemispheric and Global Impact Innovation and Entrepreneurship Law and Social Justice Medical Philanthropy Research Science and Technology Social and Entertainment Audience Alumni Faculty General Public Prospective Students Staff Students Activity All events All groups All places Sign up Login Submit an event University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-2211 Office of Conference Services 1280 Stanford Drive, Office 1M056 Coral Gables, FL 33146 ecms@miami.edu Conference Services Planning Your Event Meeting Spaces and Rates Events and Calendar Help Contact Conference Services UM Network News@TheU Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2019 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices University of Miami Powered by the Localist Community Event Platform © All rights reserved Log in Log in with CaneID or Email Address is required. Password is required. I forgot my password I don't have an account yet