Skip to content Cornell University Search toggle menu close About Cornell About Cornell Overview University Facts Maps & Directions Mission & Vision Core Values Locations Ithaca New York City Related Links Diversity Indigenous Engagement Economic Impact Sustainability Global Cornell Leadership Admissions Overview Undergraduate Apply Admissions Dates and Deadlines Costs and Aid Graduate Admissions Fields of Study Financial Support Continuing Education & Summer Sessions Summer Sessions Winter Sessions Part-time Study Academics Academics Overview Fields of Study Colleges & Schools Departments Library Continuing Education Related Links Office of the Provost Academic Calendar Course Catalog Global Learning Learning Goals Research Overview Explore Cornell Research Extreme Talent. Radical Collaboration. Results That Matter. Related Links Vice President for Research and Innovation Centers & Institutes Technology Licensing (CTL) Graduate Research Undergraduate Research OVPRI Research Publications Public Engagement Overview Featured CCE helps Buffalo get school food truck rolling Related Links Cornell Cooperative Extension Engaged Cornell Hub Land Grant to New York State New York State Impact Life at Cornell Life at Cornell Overview Athletics & Recreation Arts & Culture Health & Safety Live, Work, Travel Student Life Related Links Find Your Networks Center for First-Year Students Clubs & Student Groups More Toggle navigation Apply Undergraduate Graduate Visit Give Students Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Search Search Login Search Search events.cornell.edu › Event Details Lingua Mater Alumni Competition Deadline Sunday, October 30, 2022 Virtual Event The Lingua Mater competition invites alumni to translate Cornell's Alma Mater into a different language and submit a video of the performed translation. The inaugural Lingua Mater alumni competition took place in 2018 as part of Cornell's Global Grand Challenges Symposium. Winners included the Cornell Club of Thailand in 2018, Cornell Club of Gaeta, Italy in 2019, and alumni in Argentina in 2021. They received financial support for a local alumni event. 2022 competition details Can you translate Cornell’s Alma Mater into your mother tongue (or a language you learned at Cornell) and sing it? We invite you to translate “Far Above Cayuga’s Waters” and submit a video of you (and your friends!) performing it, wherever you may be! Translations do not need to be exact or perfectly in meter but should capture the feel and tune of our university’s Alma Mater. As is customary, include the first verse, refrain, second verse, and refrain in your video submission (for guidance, listen to a performance and read the lyrics). Video submissions need to be MP4 files at 1920 x 1080 (1080p), in landscape mode with an aspect ratio of 16:9. Please ensure that you have copyright permission for any images/videos you use. Entries will be reviewed by a panel of judges. Submissions will be judged equally on the translation, the musical quality, and the creativity in visual presentation. The top entry will receive financial support and Cornell swag for a local alumni event. Winners will be announced during International Education Week (November 14-18, 2022) via Noteworthy, and the top video will be posted online that week. Be sure to subscribe to our weekly newsletter to stay in the know of this competition and international alumni activities. Entries may be submitted by any Cornell alumni groups outside of the United States and Canada. Submission deadline: Sunday, October 30, 2022 SUBMIT YOUR VIDEO AND LYRICS HERE Please contact the International Alumni Relations team if you have any questions. The Lingua Mater competition is co-sponsored by the Office of International Alumni Relations, the Language Resource Center, and the Office of the Vice Provost for International Affairs. Tweet Share Subscribe Google Calendar iCal Outlook Event Type Special Event Departments Department of Music, Near Eastern Studies, Mario Einaudi Center for International Studies, Latino Studies Program, College of Arts & Sciences, Asian Studies, Classics, Linguistics, German Studies, Romance Studies, Comparative Literature, Language Resource Center, East Asia Program, Southeast Asia Program, Asian American Studies Program, Global Learning, Latin American and Caribbean Studies, International Programs, American Indian and Indigenous Studies Program, Asian & Asian American Center, Global Cornell, South Asia Program, Russian Language Program, China and Asia-Pacific Studies, Alumni, Cornell China Center, College of Human Ecology, Africana Studies and Research Center University Themes Diversity Tags CornellLRC, LinguaMater, cascal Website https://lrc.cornell.edu/lingua-mater Hashtag #LinguaMater Contact E-Mail cornelllrc@cornell.edu Contact Name Angelika Kraemer Recent Activity Comment Review Photo No recent activity Submit an Event Create your own custom weekly events email All Events Featured Events Places to Go Groups Watch This I'm Interested Invite Friends People Interested No activity yet Helpful Links expand menu Academic Calendar Leadership Careers Events News Title IX Emergency Preparedness Visiting Cornell expand menu Campus Tours Maps & Directions Ithaca-NYC Travel Johnson Museum Botanic Gardens Ithaca Ithaca Today expand menu Live View Weather Ithaca, New York University Privacy Web Accessibility Assistance Copyright Site Information Contact Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube This event content is powered by the Localist Event CMS. Login to Cornell Login to interact with events, personalize your calendar, and get recommendations. Login with NetID