Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Event Management Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Affiliations Events Venues Services Policies & Forms Reserve/Request A Quote About Us Columbia Students Faculty & Staff Guests Browse Event Possibilities Filming on Campus Meetings & Conferences Performances Student Events Weddings & Social Events Event Gallery Accessibility Our Venues View All Venues Butler Hall Earl Hall Faculty House Low Library Lerner Hall Saint Paul’s Chapel Outdoor Spaces Residence Hall Lounges Classrooms Partner Venues Other Columbia Venues AV/Technical Services Explore AV/Technical Services Request AV/Technical Services Catering Services Explore Catering Services Request Catering Services Event Logistics Access & Security Custodial Services Electrical & Carpentry Support Vendor Recommendations Event Setup & Additional Services Specialty Events Barbecue Events on Campus Events with Alcohol Filming on Campus View All Services All Policies & Forms Quick View of Our Forms First-Time Customers & Guests Request a Quote for Event Space Request AV/Technical Services Quote Request Catering Services Quote Faculty, Staff & Students Log-in to EMS Request an EMS Account Our Service Promise Our Team News Sustainability Work With Us Event Management You are here: Home Affiliations Resources for Students Resources for Students OUR STUDENTS PLAN GREAT EVENTS! And we love helping bring it all together. If you're a Columbia student, start here—we've collected everything you need to know to prepare and plan for an event. After you review with your adviser, we're here to help. Don't forget that we have an entire new suite of virtual event services you can utilize to continue holding student group meetings and other events, even while maintaining social distance. Recognized Student Groups need an Event Management System (EMS) account to book space and services. Availability calendar icon During the Academic Year During the academic year, Recognized Student Groups are permitted to hold events on campus beginning the first day of classes through the last day of classes each term. Recognized Student Groups do not pay room rental fees in Event Management-booked venues during the academic year when classes are in session. The only exception is Faculty House, at which rental fees are applied year-round. sun icon During Academic Recess Recognized Student Groups are not permitted to program during winter and summer recess. Those groups that request access to programming space during these periods will be referred to the Event Management team for additional information as room reservation fees and other support and service charges will be charged. How To Get Started Event Planning Guide Review a step-by-step guide for planning a successful student event to ensure you don't miss any important policies or procedures. Student Event Policies & Guidelines See all policies and guidelines related to student events. It'll help you avoid problems and get the most out of your events. How to Reserve Space & Request Services This brief step-by-step guide will show you how to use our Event Management System (EMS) to reserve space within our venues as well as request additional services. Event Planning Resources calendar icon Pre-Calendar Period During the pre-calendaring period, recognized student groups will be able to request space in Lerner Hall for the next semester. play icon Advance Calendaring Advance Calendaring allows recognized student groups to request calendaring of events in Lerner Hall more than a semester in the future. Funding Assistance television icon Technical Services for Student Events: Discounts & Requirements Recognized student groups receive discounted rates for technical services. Review rates and requirements for requesting technical services for student events. bank icon President & Provost's Fund The President and Provost's Student Event Fund (P&P Fund) is available to all recognized Columbia University student groups. The fund provides financial support to events which benefit the University community through collaboration and creative programming on campus. dollar icon S.A.V.E. Program The Students Audio Visual Equipment (S.A.V.E) Training Program allows recognized student groups to save money on technical services by having group members trained to use our equipment. Our Venues The following venues can be reserved for student events. Classrooms A number of Columbia classrooms can be reserved for meetings and seminars (food and catering not permitted.) Though managed by the University Registrar, our team can help you find the ideal classroom space based on your event capacity and needs, as well as help you book your reservation if necessary. Earl Hall Earl Hall is home to Columbia's religious and community service activity. It also provides spaces suitable for film screenings, performances, conferences, seminars, meetings, and lectures. Faculty House Faculty House is our premiere event space and the perfect place to host special events, as well as upscale seminars, meetings, events and banquets. (Note: Students do not receive a discount on space or services at Faculty House.) Lerner Hall As Columbia University's Student Center, Lerner Hall offers 250,000 square feet of meeting, performance and event space for Columbia University students throughout the Academic Year. Low Library Low Library, one of the most iconic buildings on Columbia's Morningside Campus, provides a gorgeous backdrop to any event. (Note: Student events at Low Library require special approval.) Outdoor Spaces Columbia University's campus is the perfect backdrop for your event. From open-air plazas, to shady, tree-lined courtyards, we have a space for every need. Residence Hall Lounges Residence Hall lounges are perfect for student group events, social gatherings, meetings, and performances. Saint Paul's Chapel This beautifully detailed and recently-restored chapel will provide a beautiful backdrop to any religious ceremony. The Chapel provides Catholic, Episcopal, and Hindu services throughout the academic year. Our Services Below are the additional services that Event Management provides outside of reserving event spaces on campus. From catering to AV/technical services, to furniture rental, security services and more, we can provide everything you need to hold an event that truly impresses. Catering Events with Alcohol Access and Security Custodial Services Electrical and Carpentry Services Event Setup & Additional Services Vendor Recommendations Barbecue Events on Campus AV/Technical Services Filming on Campus Sort Applies To Venue Provider Keyword filter: Filter Filter Filter AllLetter Services, showing - Clear filtersFilterFilterFilter edit edit edit edit Columbia University Event Management2920 Broadway, Lerner Hall 7th floor · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-5800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close