Events at UCF Log In Manage Edit Events Manager View Edit Calendar Users & Permissions Calendar Info Subscriptions Subscribe to Calendar Search events, calendars Search Day View Week View Month View Year View Upcoming View By... Day View Week View Month View Year View Upcoming Upcoming Events What is your Business Worth? Buying or Selling: How to Get the Highest Return on Your Investment June 15, 2022 at 10 a.m. until 11 a.m. Virtual As a business owner, knowing the value of your business is key to ensuring that your personal and professional goals are on track. Interested in buying a business? Or do you want to sell your business? Either way, you want to make sure you are getting the most out of your investment. How do you answer the key questions: What … Events at UCF Lightning Lunch-n-Learn: Avoiding Burnout - EAP125 (Faculty & Staff Only) June 15, 2022 at 11:30 a.m. until 12:30 p.m. Virtual Employees who try to work too hard or do too much can become overly stressed. The final stage of this stress response is burnout, which is a concern for employers who want to maintain productivity in the workplace. This workshop teaches participants about the physiological and emotional dangers of stress and burnout, as well as how to develop more efficient … Events at UCF DirectConnect to UCF® Online Information Session June 15, 2022 at 12 p.m. until 1 p.m. Virtual Join us online for an information session on DirectConnect to UCF and learn about what guaranteed admission is all about. In this interactive information session, ask questions, and find out what you need to know to make your transition to UCF easy. Reserve Your Spot Topics Covered: What is DirectConnect to UCF? How does the program work? The benefits of … Events at UCF Recharge to Charge On - Yoga for Faculty and Staff (Recurring Event) June 15, 2022 at 4 p.m. until 5 p.m. Education Complex and Gymnasium: ED176 Relax and unwind with UCF faculty and staff during a free midweek afternoon yoga session, hosted by the Wellness Research Center from 4:00 to 5:00pm in the Education Complex and Gym, ED176. The session will be led by Violette Gibbs, a Yoga Alliance certified instructor. Participants are encouraged to bring a yoga mat or beach towel.&nbsp; Events at UCF UCF Freshman Welcome June 15, 2022 at 6:30 p.m. until 7:30 p.m. Virtual This event is free and open to all. It will take place via ZoomJoin us to learn about the UCF experience, life in Orlando, and how to get involved with UCF. You'll hear from current students, alumni, a Parent &amp; Family Philanthropy Council representative, and university leadership through a Q&amp;A Panel discussion.Kick off your UCF experience with us and enjoy … Events at UCF Narcotics Anonymous (Recurring Event) June 15, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 8 p.m. Trevor Colbourn Hall: 351: 351 NA is a non-profit fellowship of men and women for whom drugs have become a major problem. We meet regularly to help each other live drug-free. There are no dues or fees, the only requirement for membership is a desire to stop using. Our fellowship focuses primarily on recovery from the disease of addiction. Anyone may join us regardless of … Events at UCF Camp Connect Advanced 2022 (Recurring Event) June 16, 2022 at 8 a.m. until 5 p.m. L3Harris Engineering Center: 101 Camp Connect Advanced is a week-long camp designed to provide students with an in-depth, team oriented STEM experience. Rising 10th through 12th grade students work with a faculty member where they are immersed in a week long discipline specific research project or set of activities structured to encourage deeper learning, problem-solving, self-efficacy and collaboration. for more information visit: https://stem.ucf.edu/camp-connect/ Events at UCF Build your Sales Machine: Creating a Sales Outreach Campaign June 16, 2022 at 10 a.m. until 11 a.m. Virtual Take a big picture approach to growing your small businesses that gets results. At the top of the list of important questions, &ldquo;Do they find you or do you find them?&rdquo; &ldquo;They find you&rdquo; means you need an e-commerce / digital marketing approach. &ldquo;You find them&rdquo; means a sales outreach campaign. This presentation is a discussion of the latter, a … Events at UCF Hospitality Knight 2022 June 16, 2022 at 5:30 p.m. until 8:30 p.m. Rosen College of Hospitality Courtyard Hospitality Knight is June 16, 2022.&nbsp;Welcome home to UCF Rosen College of Hospitality Management! Please join the Alumni Chapter Board for an evening of networking, socializing, and learning from industry leaders. Our signature event will be held on our beautiful campus. The&nbsp;30 Under 30 Rosen College alumni award recipients will be recognized and the Alumni Mentor&nbsp;and&nbsp;Mentorship Relationship&nbsp;of the Year will … Events at UCF Pegasus PlayLab Festival: Affinity Lunch Minutes (Recurring Event) June 16, 2022 at 7:30 p.m. until 9:30 p.m. Theatre UCF: Main Stage: TH 6 By Nick Malakhow | Directed by Roberta EmersonBen and Jasmine are the only two Black teachers at Penn Valley, a private Quaker school. Jasmine is passionate and boundary pushing, while Ben has worked his way up the ranks at the school to be Diversity Dean thanks to his &ldquo;agreeable&rdquo; nature. A racially charged discipline decision ignites a divide at the … Events at UCF Camp Connect Advanced 2022 (Recurring Event) June 17, 2022 at 8 a.m. until 5 p.m. L3Harris Engineering Center: 101 Camp Connect Advanced is a week-long camp designed to provide students with an in-depth, team oriented STEM experience. Rising 10th through 12th grade students work with a faculty member where they are immersed in a week long discipline specific research project or set of activities structured to encourage deeper learning, problem-solving, self-efficacy and collaboration. for more information visit: https://stem.ucf.edu/camp-connect/ Events at UCF UNITY STAR: The Shades Between White & Black (DIV 501) June 17, 2022 at 1 p.m. until 3 p.m. Virtual A discussion on ways race, ethnicity &amp; culture blur; the systemic ways in which proximity to whiteness is endorsed and internalized and how these structures impact community and sense of belonging. Registration Information Faculty, A&amp;P, USPS, OPS: Register online at myUCF.edu &gt; Employee Self Service &gt; Learning &amp; Development &gt; Request Training Enrollment.&nbsp; Students: Register online via KnightConnect @ https://bit.ly/KnightConnect_ODI … Events at UCF Koru Basic Mindfulness Course (Recurring Event) June 17, 2022 at 1 p.m. until 2:30 p.m. Virtual Become part of the Koru movement! This free interactive mindfulness course is offered to enrolled UCF students. Learn different meditations and mindfulness techniques to become more calm and focused in your day-to-day life! Class dates are Fridays, 5/27, 6/3, 6/10&nbsp;and 6/17 from 1:00&ndash;2:30 p.m.,&nbsp;attendance at all 4 classes is requested, classes are on zoom.&nbsp;To register follow the&nbsp;link&nbsp;or email pamela.mills@ucf.edu&nbsp;for more … Events at UCF Pegasus PlayLab Festival: Affinity Lunch Minutes (Recurring Event) June 17, 2022 at 7:30 p.m. until 9:30 p.m. Theatre UCF: Main Stage: TH 6 By Nick Malakhow | Directed by Roberta EmersonBen and Jasmine are the only two Black teachers at Penn Valley, a private Quaker school. Jasmine is passionate and boundary pushing, while Ben has worked his way up the ranks at the school to be Diversity Dean thanks to his &ldquo;agreeable&rdquo; nature. A racially charged discipline decision ignites a divide at the … Events at UCF Pegasus PlayLab Festival: Affinity Lunch Minutes (Recurring Event) June 18, 2022 at 7:30 p.m. until 9:30 p.m. Theatre UCF: Main Stage: TH 6 By Nick Malakhow | Directed by Roberta EmersonBen and Jasmine are the only two Black teachers at Penn Valley, a private Quaker school. Jasmine is passionate and boundary pushing, while Ben has worked his way up the ranks at the school to be Diversity Dean thanks to his &ldquo;agreeable&rdquo; nature. A racially charged discipline decision ignites a divide at the … Events at UCF Pathways 2022: The Carlos Malamud Prize Exhibition June 20, 2022 at 10 a.m. until June 24, 2022, 5 p.m. UCF Art Gallery This exhibition is the result of a collaborative partnership between the UCF Art Gallery at the University of Central Florida and the Rollins Museum of Art to celebrate and support emerging professional artists working in Florida. Juried by an external panel of three professionals from various areas of the art world, this year&rsquo;s edition of the exhibition features six artists … Events at UCF Come Out and Climb! (Recurring Event) June 20, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 9 p.m. Recreation and Wellness Center Looking for a new way to challenge yourself? This is a perfect event for anyone who is looking to try indoor rock climbing in a fun, comfortable, and supportive environment. At this LGBTQ+ focused climbing event, gear will be provided and all skill levels are encouraged to attend! Registration is NOT required, and you are able to show up any … Events at UCF Al-Anon: Serenity Now (Recurring Event) June 20, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 8 p.m. Trevor Colbourn Hall: 351 *This group meets every Monday except for on the following University holidays: Monday, May 30th - Memorial Day Monday, July 4th - Fourth of July The Al-Anon Family Groups are a fellowship of relatives and friends of alcoholics who share their experience, strength, and hope in order to solve their common problems. We believe alcoholism is a family illness, and … Events at UCF Thesis and Departures Exhibition June 21, 2022 at 11 a.m. until June 24, 2022, 5 p.m. Southeast Museum of Photography The graduating seniors in the B.S. in Photography program will present their work at the Southeast Museum of Photography in Daytona Beach. The Thesis Exhibition will open on May 3, with a reception on Thursday, May 5, 6 - 7 p.m. The exhibition will run through July 19. The Southeast Museum of Photography is located at 1200 West International Speedway … Events at UCF Big Red Bus - Donate Blood Today! June 21, 2022 at 11 a.m. until 5 p.m. UCF Memory Mall Help us maintain a safe and ready blood supply for cancer patients, trauma patients or for when unexpected tragedies occur. The OneBlood bus will park on Memory Mall near the Veterans Memorial. Walk-ups welcomed, appointments appreciated!&nbsp; Events at UCF Networking for Conferences (Virtual vs In-Person) - Webinar June 21, 2022 at 12 p.m. until 1 p.m. Virtual Professional Associations are currently relying heavily on technology to manage and run their conferences and professional development opportunities. Learn about how virtual conferences differ from in-person ones and what you can do to successfully prepare for them and effectively network in an online format. This workshop is offered through the College of Graduate Studies Pathways to Success professional development program … Events at UCF Summer 2022 GKT Math Study Group (Recurring Event) June 21, 2022 at 4 p.m. until 5 p.m. Virtual These sessions allow students to work on the GKT in small groups or independently with the aid of a tutor.&nbsp; Bring your own study material(s) with specific questions or work with others on the test example provided by the FTCE website. Events at UCF Alcoholics Anonymous (Recurring Event) June 21, 2022 at 7 p.m. until 8 p.m. Trevor Coulborn Hall 351: 351 ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS is a fellowship of people who share their experience, strength, and hope with each other that they may solve their common problem and help others to recover from alcoholism. The only requirement for membership is a desire to stop drinking. There are no dues or fees for A.A. membership; we are self-supporting through our own contributions. A.A. is … Events at UCF Effective Goal Setting (Recurring Event) June 22, 2022 at 1 p.m. until 2 p.m. Virtual New semester, new you? Goal setting is prevalent in most aspects of our lives from New Year's resolutions to even our academic plan of study. But what causes one goal to be successful while others may go unaccomplished? During this presentation you'll learn the difference between a goal and an objective while also learning about the mentality behind successful goal … Events at UCF UNITY STAR: Sharing the Burden: Environmental Justice & Sustainable Communities Part Two: The Role of Sustainability & Community within EJ (DIV 583) June 22, 2022 at 2 p.m. until 3:30 p.m. Virtual We humans impact the environment in many ways including&nbsp;changes to climate, biophysical environments, ecosystems, and natural resources. And whether directly or indirectly, we are contributing to soil erosion, poor air quality, and undrinkable water and an overall unsustainable environment for ourselves and our communities. Correspondingly, the impact of environmental hazards disproportionately impacts the lives of marginalized communities, highlighting the inequities … Events at UCF 1 Previous 2 3 4 5 6 Next 10 May 2022 April June Su M Tu W Th F Sa 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 1 2 3 4 Filter by Category: Academic Arts Exhibit Career/Jobs Concert/Performance Entertainment Health Holiday Meeting Open Forum Recreation & Exercise Service/Volunteer Social Event Speaker/Lecture/Seminar Sports Tour/Open House/Information Session Uncategorized/Other Workshop/Conference Feeds: Apple iCal Feed (ICS) Microsoft Outlook Feed (ICS) RSS Feed XML Feed JSON Feed © University of Central Florida UCF Announcements Help & Documentation Contact