Events at UCF Log In Events By Tag: “Small Business” Government Contracting: Overview (Recurring Event) June 1, 2022 at 9 a.m. until noon Virtual Federal, state and local government procurement is the largest target market in the world. The question is usually not &ldquo;Does the government buy what you are selling?&rdquo;...it is more &ldquo;Can you be competitive enough and relentless enough to position your business to win government contracts?&rdquo; If you think you can be competitive, then government contracting may be a good growth … Events at UCF How to Start Your Business (Recurring Event) June 2, 2022 at 9 a.m. until noon National Entrepreneur Center: Venture Training Room If you&rsquo;re thinking of starting a business, it&rsquo;s important to take the right steps. This course will give you an overview of what to know, actions to take, and how to avoid common missteps to give your company its greatest chance of success. Events at UCF SBA Workshop: Joint Ventures 101 – How to Build a Successful Package June 8, 2022 at 1 p.m. until 4 p.m. Virtual Overview of how to build a successful Joint Venture package. Events at UCF Marketing for Business Success (Recurring Event) June 9, 2022 at 10 a.m. until noon Virtual A webinar providing an overview of the marketing process for small business, as well as a close look at all elements of a marketing plan. Marketing is the driver of revenue growth and an imperative for small business success. Topics include the traditional four &ldquo;P&rsquo;s&rdquo; of marketing &mdash; product, place, promotion and price &mdash; as well as three new &ldquo;P&rsquo;s&rdquo; … Events at UCF What is your Business Worth? Buying or Selling: How to Get the Highest Return on Your Investment June 15, 2022 at 10 a.m. until 11 a.m. Virtual As a business owner, knowing the value of your business is key to ensuring that your personal and professional goals are on track. Interested in buying a business? Or do you want to sell your business? Either way, you want to make sure you are getting the most out of your investment. How do you answer the key questions: What … Events at UCF Build your Sales Machine: Creating a Sales Outreach Campaign June 16, 2022 at 10 a.m. until 11 a.m. Virtual Take a big picture approach to growing your small businesses that gets results. At the top of the list of important questions, &ldquo;Do they find you or do you find them?&rdquo; &ldquo;They find you&rdquo; means you need an e-commerce / digital marketing approach. &ldquo;You find them&rdquo; means a sales outreach campaign. This presentation is a discussion of the latter, a … Events at UCF Big Skills for Leading Small: Building Great Teams June 30, 2022 at 10 a.m. until 11 a.m. Virtual It&rsquo;s no secret we are facing new challenges as small business owners. The current labor market has put employees in a position of power and, for the first time in decades, the pool of eligible employees is declining. The incentives to work with larger companies is increasing with offers of free tuition, signing bonuses, and even cash for just applying!&nbsp; … Events at UCF Government Contracting: Overview (Recurring Event) July 6, 2022 at 9 a.m. until noon Virtual Federal, state and local government procurement is the largest target market in the world. The question is usually not &ldquo;Does the government buy what you are selling?&rdquo;...it is more &ldquo;Can you be competitive enough and relentless enough to position your business to win government contracts?&rdquo; If you think you can be competitive, then government contracting may be a good growth … Events at UCF How to Start Your Business (Recurring Event) July 7, 2022 at 9 a.m. until noon National Entrepreneur Center: Venture Training Room If you&rsquo;re thinking of starting a business, it&rsquo;s important to take the right steps. This course will give you an overview of what to know, actions to take, and how to avoid common missteps to give your company its greatest chance of success. Events at UCF Federal Small Business Certifications Managed by SBA July 13, 2022 at 1 p.m. until 4 p.m. Virtual This presentation provides an understanding of the various certifications impacted by SBA and discussed eligibility criteria and the application process. To aid your business to make effective connections with the government your business should obtain the proper certifications, if available. SBA small business certifications document a special capability or status that will help your small business compete in the federal … Events at UCF CRM Basics: Managing Your Growth Machine July 21, 2022 at 10 a.m. until 11 a.m. Virtual Many business owners and executives understand they should use a customer relationship management (CRM) tool as the machine to manage their growth activities, however over 40% do not have a CRM. And many of those with CRM&rsquo;s in place are not using it effectively. That&rsquo;s a missed opportunity. This discussion will take some of the mystery out of the CRM … Events at UCF Business Plan Writing Made Easier (Recurring Event) July 27, 2022 at 10 a.m. until noon Virtual Your business needs a roadmap for every stage of its growth. We&rsquo;ll remove the mystery of how to create a business plan, the information that should be included, and how to use it as a tool to keep your company on track for long term growth. Events at UCF Being a Better Leader: Developing Yourself and Your Team for Success July 28, 2022 at 10 a.m. until 11 a.m. Virtual In this webinar we will help business leaders learn how to enhance employee engagement and drive profitability by exploring the 3 Key Leadership Circles of Developing Yourself, Interpersonal Skills and Developing Others. You will come away with ways to increase personal wellbeing and leadership impact, improve team performance and align goals. We will provide tools to identify strengths and growth … Events at UCF Government Contracting: Overview (Recurring Event) Aug. 3, 2022 at 9 a.m. until noon Virtual Federal, state and local government procurement is the largest target market in the world. The question is usually not &ldquo;Does the government buy what you are selling?&rdquo;...it is more &ldquo;Can you be competitive enough and relentless enough to position your business to win government contracts?&rdquo; If you think you can be competitive, then government contracting may be a good growth … Events at UCF How to Start Your Business (Recurring Event) Aug. 4, 2022 at 9 a.m. until noon National Entrepreneur Center: Venture Training Room If you&rsquo;re thinking of starting a business, it&rsquo;s important to take the right steps. This course will give you an overview of what to know, actions to take, and how to avoid common missteps to give your company its greatest chance of success. Events at UCF Marketing for Business Success (Recurring Event) Aug. 11, 2022 at 10 a.m. until noon Virtual A webinar providing an overview of the marketing process for small business, as well as a close look at all elements of a marketing plan. Marketing is the driver of revenue growth and an imperative for small business success. Topics include the traditional four &ldquo;P&rsquo;s&rdquo; of marketing &mdash; product, place, promotion and price &mdash; as well as three new &ldquo;P&rsquo;s&rdquo; … Events at UCF Business Stability – Disaster Planning for Small Businesses Aug. 16, 2022 at 10 a.m. until 11 a.m. Virtual Business interruptions and disasters affect every business at some stage in their growth. Whether it is a hurricane, power outage, or road construction, disasters can strike at any time. There are key steps businesses can take today to reduce downtime and keep operations running if they are impacted. Attend this webinar to learn more about disaster preparedness tips and resources … Events at UCF Build Your Business Credit Aug. 18, 2022 at 10 a.m. until 11 a.m. Virtual Building business credit is a common quest for both new and existing small business owners. From startup costs to new expansion strategies, establishing a strong business credit profile can help make your immediate and future business plans a success. In this webinar you will learn the difference between personal and business credit, how to build business credit, and why it … Events at UCF How to Start Your Business (Recurring Event) Sept. 1, 2022 at 9 a.m. until noon National Entrepreneur Center: Venture Training Room If you&rsquo;re thinking of starting a business, it&rsquo;s important to take the right steps. This course will give you an overview of what to know, actions to take, and how to avoid common missteps to give your company its greatest chance of success. Events at UCF Government Contracting: Overview (Recurring Event) Sept. 7, 2022 at 9 a.m. until noon Virtual Federal, state and local government procurement is the largest target market in the world. The question is usually not &ldquo;Does the government buy what you are selling?&rdquo;...it is more &ldquo;Can you be competitive enough and relentless enough to position your business to win government contracts?&rdquo; If you think you can be competitive, then government contracting may be a good growth … Events at UCF Business Plan Writing Made Easier (Recurring Event) Sept. 8, 2022 at 10 a.m. until noon Virtual Your business needs a roadmap for every stage of its growth. We&rsquo;ll remove the mystery of how to create a business plan, the information that should be included, and how to use it as a tool to keep your company on track for long term growth. Events at UCF Grow with Google: Google Analytics Sept. 22, 2022 at 10 a.m. until noon Virtual Learn how to take advantage of Google&rsquo;s free marketing and business productivity tools to grow your business. Google has a buffet of free tools that help small businesses attract new future customers. This workshop shows you where they are and how to use them with a special emphasis on using Google Analytics to uncover new markets, refine your marketing and … Events at UCF Cash Flow Management: Making a Hidden Resource Work For You Sept. 29, 2022 at 10 a.m. until 11 a.m. Virtual Cash is King. Every business has a hidden store of cash and hidden cash leaks. Utilizing the cash flow management strategies of large corporations, learn how to find, preserve, and use cash to manage and grow your business and increase profits. By applying these tactics you can vastly reduce the need for outside financing. You may never need to borrow … Events at UCF Government Contracting: Overview (Recurring Event) Oct. 5, 2022 at 9 a.m. until noon Virtual Federal, state and local government procurement is the largest target market in the world. The question is usually not &ldquo;Does the government buy what you are selling?&rdquo;...it is more &ldquo;Can you be competitive enough and relentless enough to position your business to win government contracts?&rdquo; If you think you can be competitive, then government contracting may be a good growth … Events at UCF How to Start Your Business (Recurring Event) Oct. 6, 2022 at 9 a.m. until noon National Entrepreneur Center: Venture Training Room If you&rsquo;re thinking of starting a business, it&rsquo;s important to take the right steps. This course will give you an overview of what to know, actions to take, and how to avoid common missteps to give your company its greatest chance of success. Events at UCF Previous 1 2 Next Categories: Academic Arts Exhibit Career/Jobs Concert/Performance Entertainment Health Holiday Meeting Open Forum Recreation & Exercise Service/Volunteer Social Event Speaker/Lecture/Seminar Sports Tour/Open House/Information Session Uncategorized/Other Workshop/Conference Feeds: Apple iCal Feed (ICS) Microsoft Outlook Feed (ICS) RSS Feed XML Feed JSON Feed © University of Central Florida UCF Announcements Help & Documentation Contact