Events at UCF Log In 2022 Hospitality Knight Edit Add Event To Thursday, June 16, 2022 5:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. The Rosen College Alumni Chapter Board is pleased to present Hospitality Knight 2022. It has been a couple of years since we have hosted at the college and we can't wait to welcome you home!! You are invited to actively network and participate in our signature event celebrating Rosen College students, faculty, alumni, and industry partners. DATE: Thursday, June 16, 2022 TIME: 5:30-6:00 p.m. Check-in at Rosen Courtyard 6:00-7:00 p.m. Conversation & Refreshments 7:00-8:15 p.m. Welcome, Panel Discussion, and Awards 8:15-8:30 p.m. Coffee & Dessert Reception LOCATION: Rosen College of Hospitality Management DRESS: Cocktail or Business attire, Black and Gold encouraged COST: $25 Alumni, Faculty, and Students $30 Industry Friends (early bird rate thru June 15) The registration fee includes heavy hors d'oeuvres and (2) tickets for beer, wine, or a Pineapple Welcome Mule. Special treat---Samples of Rosen College branded craft beer will be available. Don't forget your business cards for door prizes! Please invite friends, family, and colleagues to #RosenHK2022 Read More Location: Rosen College of Hospitality Management [ View Website ] Event Registration The registration fee includes heavy hors d'oeuvres and (2) tickets for beer, wine, or a Pineapple Welcome Mule. Special treat---Samples of Rosen College branded craft beer will be available. Register Now Contact: Rosen College Alumni Chapter hospitality@ucfalumni.com Calendar: UCF Alumni Category: Career/Jobs Tags: Rosen College Hospitality Knight Location: Rosen College of Hospitality Management [ View Website ] Event Registration The registration fee includes heavy hors d'oeuvres and (2) tickets for beer, wine, or a Pineapple Welcome Mule. Special treat---Samples of Rosen College branded craft beer will be available. Register Now Contact: Rosen College Alumni Chapter hospitality@ucfalumni.com Share Tweet Feeds: Apple iCal Feed (ICS) Microsoft Outlook Feed (ICS) RSS Feed XML Feed JSON Feed © University of Central Florida UCF Announcements Help & Documentation Contact