Skip to content Cornell University Search toggle menu close About Cornell About Cornell Overview University Facts Maps & Directions Mission & Vision Core Values Locations Ithaca New York City Related Links Diversity Indigenous Engagement Economic Impact Sustainability Global Cornell Leadership Admissions Overview Undergraduate Apply Admissions Dates and Deadlines Costs and Aid Graduate Admissions Fields of Study Financial Support Continuing Education & Summer Sessions Summer Sessions Winter Sessions Part-time Study Academics Academics Overview Fields of Study Colleges & Schools Departments Library Continuing Education Related Links Office of the Provost Academic Calendar Course Catalog Global Learning Learning Goals Research Overview Explore Cornell Research Extreme Talent. Radical Collaboration. Results That Matter. Related Links Vice President for Research and Innovation Centers & Institutes Technology Licensing (CTL) Graduate Research Undergraduate Research OVPRI Research Publications Public Engagement Overview Featured CCE helps Buffalo get school food truck rolling Related Links Cornell Cooperative Extension Engaged Cornell Hub Land Grant to New York State New York State Impact Life at Cornell Life at Cornell Overview Athletics & Recreation Arts & Culture Health & Safety Live, Work, Travel Student Life Related Links Find Your Networks Center for First-Year Students Clubs & Student Groups More Toggle navigation Apply Undergraduate Graduate Visit Give Students Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Search Search Login Search Search events.cornell.edu › Event Details Decolonizing Futurities: A Global Racial Justice Symposium Friday, June 10, 2022 at 9:00am to 4:00pm Uris Hall, G08 Central Campus This is a two-day symposium occurring on June 10th & 11th The 2022 “Decolonizing Futurities” symposium will be hosted by the inaugural cohort of Global Racial Justice Fellows of the Mario Einaudi Center for International Studies at Cornell University. Through this symposium, we seek to critically analyze the construction of race and racial relations, and to reimagine a horizon of racial justice in contemporary life. Our aim is, thus, to decolonize existing anti-racist approaches, recognizing that decolonization is not a metaphor but an ongoing practice. To this end, our panels on Friday, June 10th address key arenas of social life: how we think, how we live, and how we remember. In our first panel, we explore how elements of (settler-)colonial thought have endured—over time and across spaces—to shape postcolonial imaginaries. In our second panel, we consider the implications of racialization in access to healthcare, nutrition, and housing in contemporary life. In our third panel, we reassess our understanding of what constitutes “history” to reflect the complex global realities we currently inhabit. All three panels will then convene in a final roundtable on Saturday, June 11th to attempt a radical re-imagining of our futures—a novel solidarity framework that honors a politic of shared responsibility. Free ticket required: Reserve your ticket This symposium will take place in person at Uris Hall, and breakfast and lunch will be provided. Virtual attendees are also welcome to join us via Zoom. Please register here (day one, day two) if you wish to attend virtually. Learn more about our symposium. Please contact grjfellows@cornell.edu with any questions. *** Detailed Schedule Friday, June 10th Breakfast & Opening Remarks | 9:00am – 10:00am Panel 1 | How We Think: Colonial Thought | 10:00am – 11:30am Panelists: Oumar Ba | Cornell University, NY, USA Reggie Jackson | University of Michigan, MI, USA Sarah Radcliff | Cambridge University, UK In this panel, we propose to study how elements of colonial thought have endured or evolved, over time and across spaces. To this end, we ask the following questions: (1) How have colonial “ideas” and “symbols” been reformulated by non-Western actors in their own projects of domination? (2) How have these ideas been internalized and even co-opted by societies engaged in anti-colonial struggles or post-colonial nation-building? And (3) Given the persistence of colonial thought in the contemporary period, what would “decolonization” entail? In answering these questions, we hope to identify some underexplored mechanisms by which Western colonial thought has helped install other formations of essentialism and the processes by which colonial norms became institutionally, behaviorally, and rhetorically entrenched and came to shape postcolonial imaginaries. Ultimately, our aim is to reconsider today’s decolonizing frameworks. Break | 1:30am – 12:00pm Panel 2 | How We Live: Health and Housing | 12:00pm – 1:30pm Panelists: Jonathan Cohen | University of Southern California, CA, USA Tashara Leak | Cornell University, NY, USA Amali Lokugamage | University College, UK Jill Stewart | Middlesex University, UK At the local level, social injustices are highlighted in health, housing and quality-of-life disparities, and the sequelae of affected interpersonal experiences and development opportunities. In this subpanel we will explore the determinants and consequences of inequity and how the colonial building blocks of society have shaped our contemporary systems of environmental and human health. We aim to identify possible entry points and calls to action to address mechanisms that inhibit justice and obfuscate the ability to thrive within our communities. We will highlight the causes and implications of each issue, as well as important methodological obstacles to consider in understanding and communicating each facet. Lunch | 1:30pm – 2:30pm Panel 3 | How We Remember: Sites of Memory in Public Space | 2:30pm – 4:00pm Panelists: Durba Ghosh | Cornell University, NY, USA Zayd Minty | Wits University, South Africa James Chase Sanchez | Middlebury College, VT, USA In this panel we want to address how space and place are racially coded, and how institutionalized practices of collective remembering can often sustain assumptions of racial inequality. Public spaces continuously reflect back to us the history of the present, thereby necessitating political discussion about their role in maintaining assumptions regarding the limits of community. Referencing recent conflicts around contentious public monuments in the U.S. and elsewhere, we wish to examine symbols of public space– whether construed as ‘vandalism’ or ‘abolition’ – and consider what they say about current disconnects between state identity and the lived experiences of their diverse populations. In so doing, how might we rethink our relationship to the colonial past? How might we reconsider practices of commemoration to account for the living relationship between the present and our inheritances rather than consigning these legacies to a past that has always already been “overcome”? And finally, if authentic enfranchisement in the present necessitates a comparable enfranchisement in a collective past, how can we take action within our own institutions to have them serve as more effective interfaces between our inherited past and our contingent future? Saturday, June 11th Breakfast | 9:00am – 10:00am Roundtable | How We Imagine: Decolonizing Futurities | 10:00am – 11:30am This last conversation will include perspectives from each of the 3 panels, with outlooks on how to approach our future. Closing remarks | 11:30am – 11:45am Tweet Share Subscribe Google Calendar iCal Outlook Event Type Symposium Departments Mario Einaudi Center for International Studies, Africana Library, American Indian and Indigenous Studies Program, East Asia Program, Latin American and Caribbean Studies, South Asia Program Tags govtcal Contact E-Mail grjfellows@cornell.edu Recent Activity Comment Review Photo No recent activity Submit an Event Create your own custom weekly events email All Events Featured Events Places to Go Groups Watch This I'm Interested Invite Friends People Interested (1) Helpful Links expand menu Academic Calendar Leadership Careers Events News Title IX Emergency Preparedness Visiting Cornell expand menu Campus Tours Maps & Directions Ithaca-NYC Travel Johnson Museum Botanic Gardens Ithaca Ithaca Today expand menu Live View Weather Ithaca, New York University Privacy Web Accessibility Assistance Copyright Site Information Contact Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube This event content is powered by the Localist Event CMS. Login to Cornell Login to interact with events, personalize your calendar, and get recommendations. Login with NetID