Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Event Management Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Affiliations Events Venues Services Policies & Forms Reserve/Request A Quote About Us Columbia Students Faculty & Staff Guests Browse Event Possibilities Filming on Campus Meetings & Conferences Performances Student Events Weddings & Social Events Event Gallery Accessibility Our Venues View All Venues Butler Hall Earl Hall Faculty House Low Library Lerner Hall Saint Paul’s Chapel Outdoor Spaces Residence Hall Lounges Classrooms Partner Venues Other Columbia Venues AV/Technical Services Explore AV/Technical Services Request AV/Technical Services Catering Services Explore Catering Services Request Catering Services Event Logistics Access & Security Custodial Services Electrical & Carpentry Support Vendor Recommendations Event Setup & Additional Services Specialty Events Barbecue Events on Campus Events with Alcohol Filming on Campus View All Services All Policies & Forms Quick View of Our Forms First-Time Customers & Guests Request a Quote for Event Space Request AV/Technical Services Quote Request Catering Services Quote Faculty, Staff & Students Log-in to EMS Request an EMS Account Our Service Promise Our Team News Sustainability Work With Us Event Management You are here: Home Affiliations Resources for Outside Guests Resources for Outside Guests Our Campus Is The Perfect Setting For Your Next Event We've collected everything you need to know to prepare and plan for events on our campus, as well as how to request a quote for more information on our venues and services. Our staff is ready to help you succeed and we look forward to working with you! Complete this form to request a quote for event space. Complete this form if you need audio visual or other technical services. We can provide AV/technical services at one of our venues or at other locations. Complete this form to request catering services. We can provide catering at one of our venues or at other locations. calendar icon During the Academic Year Most of our venues and spaces are available for booking by outside guests throughout the year with a few exceptions: Lerner Hall, Columbia's dedicated student center, can only be reserved before 5:00 p.m. on weekdays during the academic year. Low Library and outdoor spaces require Columbia sponsors in order to reserve, but we can help guide you through the process should you be interested in those spaces. sun icon During Academic Recesses All venue spaces are available during academic recesses. Low Library and outdoor spaces still require Columbia sponsors to reserve, even during recesses. How To Get Started Review Our Venues Review our venues below and available spaces on campus to see what might work for your event. Event Policies & Guidelines Review our event policies related to the venue you're interested in to familiarize yourself with what is possible within the space. Request a Quote Submit our brief quote request form to provide us with an overview of the event you're considering holding at Columbia. We'll get back to you within 48 hours. Our Venues The following venues can be reserved by outside guests through our team. Classrooms A number of Columbia classrooms can be reserved for meetings and seminars (food and catering not permitted.) Though managed by the University Registrar, our team can help you find the ideal classroom space based on your event capacity and needs, as well as help you book your reservation if necessary. Earl Hall Earl Hall is home to Columbia's religious and community service activity. It also provides spaces suitable for film screenings, performances, conferences, seminars, meetings, and lectures. Faculty House Faculty House is our premiere event space and the perfect place to host weddings and other special events, as well as upscale seminars, meetings, events and banquets. Lerner Hall As Columbia's Student Center, Lerner Hall offers 24,000 square feet of meeting, performance and event space for students throughout the academic year. However, Lerner spaces can be reserved by outside guests on weekdays before 5:00 p.m., and any time when Lerner Hall is open over academic recesses. Low Library Low Library, one of the most iconic buildings on Columbia's Morningside Campus, provides a gorgeous backdrop to any event. Space at Low Library can be reserved by outside guests, but require a Columbia affiliate as a sponsor. Outdoor Spaces Columbia University's campus is the perfect backdrop for your event. From open-air plazas, to shady, tree-lined courtyards, we have a space for every need. Outside guests can reserve outdoor space on campus for an event with the sponsorship of a Columbia affiliate. Saint Paul's Chapel This beautifully detailed and recently-restored chapel will provide a beautiful backdrop to any religious ceremony. The Chapel provides Catholic, Episcopal, and Hindu services throughout the academic year. Our Services Below are the additional services that Event Management provides outside of reserving event spaces on campus. From catering to AV/technical services, to furniture rental, security services and more, we can provide everything you need to hold an event that truly impresses. Catering Events with Alcohol Access and Security Custodial Services Electrical and Carpentry Services Event Setup & Additional Services Vendor Recommendations Barbecue Events on Campus AV/Technical Services Filming on Campus Sort Applies To Venue Provider Keyword filter: Filter Filter Filter AllLetter Services, showing - Clear filtersFilterFilterFilter edit edit edit edit Columbia University Event Management2920 Broadway, Lerner Hall 7th floor · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-5800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close