Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Give to UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap Search Tools People Search Course Search Cane Link myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Give to UM Schools Alumni Roadmap Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links News and Events Center People Search Canelink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Search All Events Academics Athletics Arts Events for... Undergrad Students Grad Students Alumni Faculty/Staff Prospective Students Share Feedback All Events Academics Athletics Alumni Arts Student Life Events for... All Events Academics Athletics Arts Events for... Undergrad Students Grad Students Alumni Faculty/Staff Prospective Students Search Search Places Events Groups Departments Log in Sign up University of Miami Health and Wellness Events Clear message Health and Wellness Events June 1 - 30, 2022 Filter Filter results Hide recurring events Layout small Layout medium Layout big Sort by Date Name Popularity When Experience All Experiences In-Person Virtual Event Types Education/Training (10)Community Outreach (7)Virtual (6)Lecture/Conference (1)Ceremony/Reception (0)Dates/Deadlines (0)Exhibit (0)Facility Operations/Closures (0)Information Session (0)Meeting (0)Performance/Screening (0) Topics Health and Wellness (15)Arts and Culture (12)Careers (9)Community (9)Research (8)Academics (6)Climate and Environment (5)Social and Entertainment (4)Diversity and Inclusion (3)Hemispheric and Global Impact (3)Academic Calendar (2)Law and Social Justice (2)Admissions (1)Science and Technology (1)Innovation and Entrepreneurship (0)Medical (0)Philanthropy (0) Audience Faculty (12)Staff (12)Alumni (7)General Public (6)Students (6) Students - Grad/Professional (1) Students - International (1) Students - Undergrad (1)Prospective Students (1) Admitted Students (1) Athletics & Sports Athletics (0)Intramural/Club Sports (0)Men's Sports (0) Baseball (M) (0) Basketball (M) (0) Cross Country (M) (0) Diving (M) (0) Football (M) (0) Tennis (M) (0) Track and Field (M) (0)Women's Sports (0) Basketball (W) (0) Cross Country (W) (0) Golf (W) (0) Rowing (W) (0) Soccer (W) (0) Swimming and Diving (W) (0) Tennis (W) (0) Track and Field (W) (0) Volleyball (W) (0) Campaign Theme Ever Brighter (1) Brighter Health (1) Brighter Planet (1) Brighter Science (1) Brighter Arts (0) Brighter Champions (0) Brighter Education (0) Brighter Opportunities (0) Subscribe to Displayed Results Save to Google Calendar Save to iCal Save to Outlook Save to RSS Cancel Apply filters Subscribe Close Tuesday, June 7 Hurricane Preparedness: Weathering the Storm Tue, Jun 7, 2022 12pm to 1pm Virtual Event Community Outreach I'm Interested Share Hurricane Preparedness: Weathering the Storm Share Hurricane Preparedness: Weathering the Storm on Facebook Share Hurricane Preparedness: Weathering the Storm on Twitter Share Hurricane Preparedness: Weathering the Storm on LinkedIn The Art of Mindfulness Tue, Jun 7, 2022 1pm to 2pm Virtual Event New Community Outreach Register Share The Art of Mindfulness Share The Art of Mindfulness on Facebook Share The Art of Mindfulness on Twitter Share The Art of Mindfulness on LinkedIn Friday, June 10 Sustainable Food and Diet 101 webinar Fri, Jun 10, 2022 12pm to 1pm Virtual Event Virtual I'm Interested Share Sustainable Food and Diet 101 webinar Share Sustainable Food and Diet 101 webinar on Facebook Share Sustainable Food and Diet 101 webinar on Twitter Share Sustainable Food and Diet 101 webinar on LinkedIn Tuesday, June 14 University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! Tue, Jun 14, 2022 10am to 12pm Don Soffer Clinical Research Center New Community Outreach I'm Interested Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! on Facebook Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! on Twitter Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! on LinkedIn Healthy Eating Hacks for Busy Professionals Tue, Jun 14, 2022 12pm to 1pm Virtual Event New I'm Interested Share Healthy Eating Hacks for Busy Professionals Share Healthy Eating Hacks for Busy Professionals on Facebook Share Healthy Eating Hacks for Busy Professionals on Twitter Share Healthy Eating Hacks for Busy Professionals on LinkedIn The Art of Mindfulness Tue, Jun 14, 2022 1pm to 2pm Virtual Event New Community Outreach Register I'm Interested Share The Art of Mindfulness Share The Art of Mindfulness on Facebook Share The Art of Mindfulness on Twitter Share The Art of Mindfulness on LinkedIn Healthy Eating Hacks for Busy Professionals Tue, Jun 14, 2022 4pm to 5pm Virtual Event New I'm Interested Share Healthy Eating Hacks for Busy Professionals Share Healthy Eating Hacks for Busy Professionals on Facebook Share Healthy Eating Hacks for Busy Professionals on Twitter Share Healthy Eating Hacks for Busy Professionals on LinkedIn Wednesday, June 15 Garden Volunteers Wanted! Wed, Jun 15, 2022 4pm to 5pm Sustainability Garden in the Gifford Arboretum New Community Outreach Register I'm Interested Share Garden Volunteers Wanted! Share Garden Volunteers Wanted! on Facebook Share Garden Volunteers Wanted! on Twitter Share Garden Volunteers Wanted! on LinkedIn University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! Wed, Jun 15, 2022 6:30pm to 8:30pm Don Soffer Clinical Research Center New Community Outreach I'm Interested Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! on Facebook Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! on Twitter Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! on LinkedIn Friday, June 17 Sustainability 101 Webinar Fri, Jun 17, 2022 12pm to 1pm Virtual Event Lecture/Conference I'm Interested Share Sustainability 101 Webinar Share Sustainability 101 Webinar on Facebook Share Sustainability 101 Webinar on Twitter Share Sustainability 101 Webinar on LinkedIn Tuesday, June 21 University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! Tue, Jun 21, 2022 10am to 12pm Don Soffer Clinical Research Center New Community Outreach I'm Interested Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! on Facebook Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! on Twitter Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! on LinkedIn Active Shooter Response Training Tue, Jun 21, 2022 12pm to 1:15pm Virtual Event Education/Training I'm Interested Share Active Shooter Response Training Share Active Shooter Response Training on Facebook Share Active Shooter Response Training on Twitter Share Active Shooter Response Training on LinkedIn Wednesday, June 22 University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! Wed, Jun 22, 2022 6:30pm to 8:30pm Don Soffer Clinical Research Center New Community Outreach I'm Interested Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! on Facebook Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! on Twitter Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! on LinkedIn Tuesday, June 28 University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! Tue, Jun 28, 2022 10am to 12pm Don Soffer Clinical Research Center New Community Outreach I'm Interested Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! on Facebook Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! on Twitter Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! on LinkedIn Managing Life Stressors Tue, Jun 28, 2022 12pm to 1pm Virtual Event New I'm Interested Share Managing Life Stressors Share Managing Life Stressors on Facebook Share Managing Life Stressors on Twitter Share Managing Life Stressors on LinkedIn Managing Life Stressors Tue, Jun 28, 2022 4pm to 5pm Virtual Event New I'm Interested Share Managing Life Stressors Share Managing Life Stressors on Facebook Share Managing Life Stressors on Twitter Share Managing Life Stressors on LinkedIn Wednesday, June 29 Gardening and Cooking at Miller Wed, Jun 29, 2022 4pm to 5:30pm Food and Herb Garden at MIller - Calder Library New Community Outreach Register I'm Interested Share Gardening and Cooking at Miller Share Gardening and Cooking at Miller on Facebook Share Gardening and Cooking at Miller on Twitter Share Gardening and Cooking at Miller on LinkedIn University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! Wed, Jun 29, 2022 6:30pm to 8:30pm Don Soffer Clinical Research Center New Community Outreach I'm Interested Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! on Facebook Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! on Twitter Share University of Miami Free Parenting Groups! on LinkedIn Thursday, June 30 Compost 101 workshop Thu, Jun 30, 2022 5pm to 6pm Sustainability Garden in the Gifford Arboretum New Education/Training Register I'm Interested Share Compost 101 workshop Share Compost 101 workshop on Facebook Share Compost 101 workshop on Twitter Share Compost 101 workshop on LinkedIn 1 University of Miami Event Types Ceremony/Reception Community Outreach Dates/Deadlines Education/Training Exhibit Facility Operations/Closures Information Session Lecture/Conference Meeting Performance/Screening Virtual Topics Academic Calendar Academics Admissions Arts and Culture Careers Climate and Environment Community Diversity and Inclusion Health and Wellness Hemispheric and Global Impact Innovation and Entrepreneurship Law and Social Justice Medical Philanthropy Research Science and Technology Social and Entertainment Audience Alumni Faculty General Public Prospective Students Staff Students Activity All events All groups All places Sign up Login Submit an event University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-2211 Office of Conference Services 1280 Stanford Drive, Office 1M056 Coral Gables, FL 33146 ecms@miami.edu Conference Services Planning Your Event Meeting Spaces and Rates Events and Calendar Help Contact Conference Services UM Network News@TheU Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2019 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices University of Miami Powered by the Localist Community Event Platform © All rights reserved Log in Log in with CaneID or Email Address is required. Password is required. I forgot my password I don't have an account yet