WSU Cougar Head Logo Washington State University Give Apply Now Locations MyWSU Close Home About WSU Everett The Everett Campus The Chancellor’s Suite Faculty & Staff Directory Events News Academics Majors & Minors Academic Calendar WSU Access Center Class Schedule Summer Session The Student Experience New EverCougs Orientation Student Affairs Student Success Center Student Advising Financial Aid & Scholarships Commencement Alumni & Friends Invest in WSU Everett Advisory Council Joint Engineering Advisory Board Student Spotlights Prospective Students Admissions Finances Contact & Connect Washington State University Everett The complete Coug experience—closer to home. the everett advantage Majors & Minors There are many ways to become an #EverCoug! Whether you’re sure about what you want to study, or you’re just testing the waters, we will customize a program that is just right for you. At WSU Everett, you get all the advantages a Washington State University degree confers, the same degree earned from any WSU campus, but closer to home. Our campus in the heart of Everett offers world-class academics from Washington State University’s College of Arts and Sciences, Voiland College of Engineering and Architecture, CAHNRS, Carson College of Business and the Edward R. Murrow College of Communication. Keep in mind, WSU Everett offers a limited number of high-demand programs and courses. Please check with your current admissions counselor to ensure you are on the right academic path. Request Information Connect with Alberto Vazquez, your admissions counselor, to learn more. Alberto Vazquez 425-407-5050 a.hernandezvazquez@wsu.edu Academic Majors With a focus on undergraduate education, career-readiness, research, scientific inquiry, innovation, entrepreneurship, global interconnectivity and sustainable growth, WSU Everett prepares students for success and leadership in a rapidly changing world. Each program has a dedicated academic advisor to guide you along your path. BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION Business administration is a wide-ranging field that touches virtually all parts of life, from work to home and leisure. Because business is conducted in so many settings — person-to-person, in large corporations, over the Internet — the business major covers not only the basics of finance and accounting, but also marketing, business management and current technology. LEARN MORE>> DATA ANALYTICS Create, manage, explore, and analyze large, complex datasets. Our data analytics major meets an explosion of demand for skilled data analysts who can communicate, solve problems, and work effectively in teams. LEARN MORE >> ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING Aerospace, advanced manufacturing, computer engineering–you name the industry, and electrical engineers have a place in it. This program prepares students for a rewarding career in design, research, testing, development, and manufacturing of electronic systems and equipment. LEARN MORE >> HOSPITALITY BUSINESS MANAGEMENT Learning from faculty members with vast industry hotels, restaurants, managed services venues, and tourist destinations—whether they’re located in the U.S. or around the world. Hands-on instruction and real-world experiences build the skills you need to launch a successful career. LEARN MORE >> INTEGRATED STRATEGIC COMMUNICATION Learn to communicate creatively and persuasively to build mutually beneficial long-term relationships between organizations and their publics. Coursework in the ISC program emphasizes career-readiness and theoretically grounded, data-based decision making to problem solve and innovate. LEARN MORE >> MECHANICAL ENGINEERING Mechanical engineering, in combining disciplines like physics and materials science, is concerned with the development, application and management of machines. In this major, professors and industry mentors help you develop practical knowledge in projects with real-world applications. LEARN MORE >> ORGANIC & SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE Organic food production is one of the fastest-growing segments of modern agriculture. This revolutionary new major—the first of its kind to be offered in the United States—takes students on a journey of courses in the natural, environmental, economic and social sciences, as well as organic production practices. LEARN MORE >> SENIOR LIVING MANAGEMENT This residential model promotes active, social interaction among residents and their families, while providing a safe and caring environment. Managers and professional staff make a positive difference for residents and enhance the quality of their lives on a daily basis LEARN MORE >> SOFTWARE ENGINEERING The software engineering program prepares students for developing and maintaining large and complex software by focusing on software development, testing and validation, maintenance, security, and management and integration—all specialties of high demand among the state’s computing and IT industries. LEARN MORE >> EXPLORING If you’re undecided about your major, you’re in the right place! We will work with you to explore academics and experiences to find out what is important to you, what subjects make your eyes light up, and how you define success. Together, you and your Major Exploration advisor will work towards finding which WSU major will best help you achieve your goals. LEARN MORE >> Academic Minors An academic minor is a great way to supplement and round out your educational experience. Students often select minors to pursue other interests outside of their major program and to enhance their resume. At Washington State University Everett, the following minors are available to our students: Business Administration Communication Electrical Engineering Hospitality Business Management Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Software Engineering For additional information about how to select a minor, contact the academic coordinator of the associated program. Electrical, Mechanical and Software Engineering EE/ME/SE Minors Alberto Vazquez 425-405-1600 everett.admission@wsu.edu Data Analytics Mathematics Minor Jill Shafer da.everett@wsu.edu Business Administration and Hospitality Business Management Business Administration, HBM Minor Lisa Hunter hbm.everett@wsu.edu Integrated Strategic Communication Communication Minor Nannette McGrath 425-405-1775 com.everett@wsu.edu Certifications Planning and Scheduling Certification Maintenance Management Certification Reliability Engineering Certification Certificate Questions? 800-556-9589 education@LCE.com www.LCE.com Testing Sergey Lapin April 12, 2022 WSU Everett mourns the death of officer Dan Rocha March 26, 2022 (no title) March 7, 2022 (no title) March 7, 2022 (no title) March 7, 2022 Facilities Sustainability Places & Spaces Meeting Room Rental Building Policies Facilities Requests Parking Permits Resources COVID-19 Campus Safety Faculty & Staff Resources WSU Everett Weekly Newsletter WSU Veterans Affairs WSU Alumni Everett University Center Utilities Tech Support myWSU Blackboard Canvas WSU Cougar Head Logo Originally created in 1936 by Randall Johnson, the Cougar Head remains a unique and distinguished part of the WSU identity. © Washington State University 2022 Access Policies MyWSU Follow WSU