Accessibility Options: Skip to Main Content Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami The Campaign The Campaign for the University of Miami Join the University of Miami as it embarks on a bold and ambitious journey to make our institution—and the world—ever brighter. The Campaign for Our Next Century is built on a foundation of seven core beliefs that define who we are and where we are going. Brighter Future for Our Planet Brighter Science for Bigger Discoveries Brighter Education for a Changing World Brighter Outcomes for Health and Wellness Brighter Arts for a More Vibrant Culture Brighter Lights for Leaders and Champions Brighter Opportunities for All Brighter Future for Our Planet ‘Coral Mama’ works to save coral reefs from extinction Read More Interests What Matters Most to You? Connect your passions with the work we are doing at the University of Miami by providing targeted support for what matters to you. Arts and Culture Athletics Climate and Environment Community Faculty Health and Wellness Hemispheric and Global Impact Innovation and Entrepeneurship Law and Social Justice Research Science and Big Data Students Brighter Education for a Changing World Digitalization of education in the early innings Read More Schools & Units Schools and Colleges School of Architecture College of Arts and Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education and Human Development College of Engineering The Graduate School School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing and Health Studies Units Athletics University Libraries Lowe Art Museum Student Affairs Health The Campaign for the University of Miami The University of Miami is committed to creating a healthier and more equitable future for all. Learn how UHealth and the Miller School of Medicine are lighting the way forward and visit Brighter Health and our Health interest page for more information on our health initiatives at our Gables and Rosenstiel campuses. Overview Research Medical Education Health Equity Patient Care Miller School of Medicine Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center Bascom Palmer Eye Institute Brighter Outcomes for Health and Wellness Hussman Institute to Co-Lead $31.7 Million NIA Grant to Create Harmonized Dataset for Alzheimer’s, Dementia Research Read More Get Involved Get Involved Discover the many ways to engage with our dynamic community. Attend an Event Volunteer Opportunities Stay Connected Faculty and Staff Giving Brighter Science for Bigger Discoveries Miracle matter: Engineer creates concrete that heals itself Read More Contact Give Now Find the Best Giving Opportunity for You Explore our broad range of convenient giving opportunities and easily contribute to the Ever Brighter campaign in the way that suits you best. Give Online Now How to Give View All Ways to Give Estate and Planned Gifts Matching Gifts In-Kind Gifts Corporate Foundation Gifts Donor-Advised Funds Crowdfunding Memorial and Tribute Gifts Annual Giving Giving Methods View All Giving Methods Online Credit and Debit Checks Gift of Stocks and Securities Wire Transfer Employee Payroll Faculty and Staff Giving The Campaign Interests Schools & Units Health Get Involved Contact Give Now Back to Main Menu About the Campaign Brighter Future for Our Planet Brighter Science for Bigger Discoveries Brighter Education for a Changing World Brighter Outcomes for Health and Wellness Brighter Arts for a More Vibrant Culture Brighter Lights for Leaders and Champions Brighter Opportunities for All Back to Main Menu View All Interests Arts and Culture Athletics Climate and Environment Community Faculty Health and Wellness Hemispheric and Global Impact Innovation and Entrepeneurship Law and Social Justice Research Science and Big Data Students Back to Main Menu View All Schools & Units School of Architecture College of Arts and Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education and Human Development College of Engineering The Graduate School School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing and Health Studies Athletics University Libraries Lowe Art Museum Student Affairs Back to Main Menu About Health Overview Research Medical Education Health Equity Patient Care Miller School of Medicine Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center Bascom Palmer Eye Institute Back to Main Menu Get Involved Attend an Event Volunteer Opportunities Stay Connected Faculty and Staff Giving Back to Main Menu Back to Main Menu Give Online Now View All Ways to Give Estate and Planned Gifts Matching Gifts In-Kind Gifts Corporate Foundation Gifts Donor-Advised Funds Crowdfunding Memorial and Tribute Gifts Annual giving View All Giving Methods Online Credit and Debit Checks Gift of Stocks and Securities Wire Transfer Employee Payroll Faculty and Staff Giving Science. Discovery. Sustainability. Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science Home Schools and Units Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science Bold Solutions for a Brighter Planet For nearly eight decades, our world-renowned faculty have been expanding our knowledge of the planet through cutting-edge scientific research about the oceans, atmosphere, geology, biota, and human dimension. We are transforming the paradigm of undergraduate education from a classroom-based education to a research-based one emphasizing experiential learning. We are training the next generation of Earth scientists and policy makers in our graduate programs. Brighter planet Illuminating the depth of human impact The planet’s health is at stake, and human activity has a critical role in determining the future. Our focus is to educate our students and the public, providing scientific evidence through cutting-edge research, thereby creating the knowledge which strengthens legislation to conserve our natural resources. View fundraising priorities Marine and atmospheric science by the numbers Defending Florida’s epic reefs Annually, Florida reefs support 71,000 jobs and $6.3 billion in combined local sales and income and flood protection benefits of $675 million in averted damages to property and economic activity. million in averted damages to property and economic activity Fundraising Priorities Saving lives The devastation caused under a changing climate costs billions of dollars and results in significant loss of life and property annually. We are committed to building better systems for predicting such events with earlier notice and more geographic accuracy. At the same time, our fundamental research in marine biomedicine contributes to the understanding of the processes involved in severe illnesses. Learn more Feeding the world With the ever-growing human population and the increased demand for protein, our scientists are focused on developing sustainable, innovative solutions through aquaculture to alleviate the depletion of fish from the oceans and preserve threatened species. Learn more Protecting our resources As a result of climate change and human effects, our marine life, like coral reefs and sharks, are experiencing unprecedented negative impacts. Understanding the mechanism involved in the ongoing exploitation in the oceans and how to mitigate it is essential to conserve life in the ocean, which affects human lives in many ways. Learn more Unlocking the oceans’ secrets The oceans still hold many secrets that have the potential to translate into major breakthroughs in climate, weather, human health, and more. Marine-organism diseases often mimic human ones. Our scientists continue to make fundamental contributions toward understanding cancer and cognitive and neurological disorders. Learn more Why our campaign matters Miami—ground zero for understanding climate and key Earth processes Uniquely situated at the gateway of the tropics gives us an unparalleled advantage to accelerate our efforts and position the school at the forefront of research, education, and innovation at this critical time. This can be achieved by providing scholarship support to attract and transform students from all backgrounds with a passion for exploring Earth sciences and by creating endowed professorships to recruit and retain top academic talent. Together, we can build a brighter future for our planet and humankind. Give now Global warming isn't a prediction. It is happening. James Hansen Renowned climate expert and former director of NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies Sea secrets At the edge of discovery Learn about today’s global challenges, from climate change to marine conservation, through our annual lecture series, Sea Secrets—which features distinguished scientists. The series will resume in January 2022. Until then, you can view past lectures. View lectures Featured Stories Experts discuss ways to predict and hopefully curb climate change In their first Climate Café, Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science faculty members and students detailed some of the effects of climate change in 2020. Read more Team works to enhance South Florida’s coastal resilience An interdisciplinary group of University professors is working to develop, test, and deploy newly engineered artificial reefs that could decrease wave energy and help save coastlines from destruction during storms. Read more Help make a difference To support the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science’s commitment to providing solutions to our world’s most pressing problems through cutting-edge research while educating the next generation of Earth scientists and policy makers, please contribute to the University of Miami’s campaign for a brighter tomorrow. Give now To learn more, please contact Jennifer Dillon, development, Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science, 305-421-4373. Keep me updated on the impact of the U and the Ever Brighter campaign. Sign Up University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 About Development and Alumni Relations Get Involved Stories Alumni Give Now How to Give Giving Methods Facebook Instagram Twitter University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 ©2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement and Legal Notices Title IX and Gender Equity Website Feedback