Accessibility Options: Skip to Main Content Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami The Campaign The Campaign for the University of Miami Join the University of Miami as it embarks on a bold and ambitious journey to make our institution—and the world—ever brighter. The Campaign for Our Next Century is built on a foundation of seven core beliefs that define who we are and where we are going. Brighter Future for Our Planet Brighter Science for Bigger Discoveries Brighter Education for a Changing World Brighter Outcomes for Health and Wellness Brighter Arts for a More Vibrant Culture Brighter Lights for Leaders and Champions Brighter Opportunities for All Brighter Future for Our Planet ‘Coral Mama’ works to save coral reefs from extinction Read More Interests What Matters Most to You? Connect your passions with the work we are doing at the University of Miami by providing targeted support for what matters to you. Arts and Culture Athletics Climate and Environment Community Faculty Health and Wellness Hemispheric and Global Impact Innovation and Entrepeneurship Law and Social Justice Research Science and Big Data Students Brighter Education for a Changing World Digitalization of education in the early innings Read More Schools & Units Schools and Colleges School of Architecture College of Arts and Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education and Human Development College of Engineering The Graduate School School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing and Health Studies Units Athletics University Libraries Lowe Art Museum Student Affairs Health The Campaign for the University of Miami The University of Miami is committed to creating a healthier and more equitable future for all. Learn how UHealth and the Miller School of Medicine are lighting the way forward and visit Brighter Health and our Health interest page for more information on our health initiatives at our Gables and Rosenstiel campuses. Overview Research Medical Education Health Equity Patient Care Miller School of Medicine Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center Bascom Palmer Eye Institute Brighter Outcomes for Health and Wellness Hussman Institute to Co-Lead $31.7 Million NIA Grant to Create Harmonized Dataset for Alzheimer’s, Dementia Research Read More Get Involved Get Involved Discover the many ways to engage with our dynamic community. Attend an Event Volunteer Opportunities Stay Connected Faculty and Staff Giving Brighter Science for Bigger Discoveries Miracle matter: Engineer creates concrete that heals itself Read More Contact Give Now Find the Best Giving Opportunity for You Explore our broad range of convenient giving opportunities and easily contribute to the Ever Brighter campaign in the way that suits you best. Give Online Now How to Give View All Ways to Give Estate and Planned Gifts Matching Gifts In-Kind Gifts Corporate Foundation Gifts Donor-Advised Funds Crowdfunding Memorial and Tribute Gifts Annual Giving Giving Methods View All Giving Methods Online Credit and Debit Checks Gift of Stocks and Securities Wire Transfer Employee Payroll Faculty and Staff Giving The Campaign Interests Schools & Units Health Get Involved Contact Give Now Back to Main Menu About the Campaign Brighter Future for Our Planet Brighter Science for Bigger Discoveries Brighter Education for a Changing World Brighter Outcomes for Health and Wellness Brighter Arts for a More Vibrant Culture Brighter Lights for Leaders and Champions Brighter Opportunities for All Back to Main Menu View All Interests Arts and Culture Athletics Climate and Environment Community Faculty Health and Wellness Hemispheric and Global Impact Innovation and Entrepeneurship Law and Social Justice Research Science and Big Data Students Back to Main Menu View All Schools & Units School of Architecture College of Arts and Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education and Human Development College of Engineering The Graduate School School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing and Health Studies Athletics University Libraries Lowe Art Museum Student Affairs Back to Main Menu About Health Overview Research Medical Education Health Equity Patient Care Miller School of Medicine Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center Bascom Palmer Eye Institute Back to Main Menu Get Involved Attend an Event Volunteer Opportunities Stay Connected Faculty and Staff Giving Back to Main Menu Back to Main Menu Give Online Now View All Ways to Give Estate and Planned Gifts Matching Gifts In-Kind Gifts Corporate Foundation Gifts Donor-Advised Funds Crowdfunding Memorial and Tribute Gifts Annual giving View All Giving Methods Online Credit and Debit Checks Gift of Stocks and Securities Wire Transfer Employee Payroll Faculty and Staff Giving The campaign for our next century Ever Brighter Situated at the crossroads of the Americas, connected to an environment unrivaled in beauty and diversity, and dedicated to becoming an even greater force for good, the University of Miami is aiming higher than ever before. Ever stronger. Ever bolder. Ever brighter. Learn More Miami Magazine | Fall 2021 As we look toward our future, we aspire to be an even greater force for good. We invite you to join us as we elevate our commitment to excellence, ignite progress, and advance the pursuit of truth. Read the Miami Magazine Turn your interests into enrichment Skip carousel content Arts and Culture Athletics Community Climate and Environment Faculty Health and Wellness Hemispheric and Global Impact Innovation and Entrepreneurship Law and Social Justice Research Science and Big Data Students See all interests Get involved Brighter together Explore the many ways you can participate in the University of Miami’s pursuit of a brighter tomorrow. Get Involved Beam signing celebrates new center at Frost School of Music The Knight Center for Music Innovation, currently under construction along Lake Osceola, will transform music education through musical performance and experimentation. Read Story View All Stories Donors Lighting the Way Stronger. Bolder. Brighter. Schools and Units The University of Miami’s dynamic and globally engaged schools and units lay the foundation for our growing institution. View schools and units Health UHealth, in partnership with the Miller School of Medicine, is one of the leading health systems in the nation. Discover the myriad ways you can help it raise the bar even higher. Learn more How to give Discover all the ways to give From annual gifts to endowed gifts to planned gifts and bequests, there is a broad range of ways you can help make the University of Miami ever brighter. Learn more Keep me updated on the impact of the U and the Ever Brighter campaign. Sign Up University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 About Development and Alumni Relations Get Involved Stories Alumni Give Now How to Give Giving Methods Facebook Instagram Twitter University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 ©2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement and Legal Notices Title IX and Gender Equity Website Feedback