Accessibility Options: Skip to Main Content Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami The Campaign The Campaign for the University of Miami Join the University of Miami as it embarks on a bold and ambitious journey to make our institution—and the world—ever brighter. The Campaign for Our Next Century is built on a foundation of seven core beliefs that define who we are and where we are going. Brighter Future for Our Planet Brighter Science for Bigger Discoveries Brighter Education for a Changing World Brighter Outcomes for Health and Wellness Brighter Arts for a More Vibrant Culture Brighter Lights for Leaders and Champions Brighter Opportunities for All Brighter Future for Our Planet ‘Coral Mama’ works to save coral reefs from extinction Read More Interests What Matters Most to You? Connect your passions with the work we are doing at the University of Miami by providing targeted support for what matters to you. Arts and Culture Athletics Climate and Environment Community Faculty Health and Wellness Hemispheric and Global Impact Innovation and Entrepeneurship Law and Social Justice Research Science and Big Data Students Brighter Education for a Changing World Digitalization of education in the early innings Read More Schools & Units Schools and Colleges School of Architecture College of Arts and Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education and Human Development College of Engineering The Graduate School School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing and Health Studies Units Athletics University Libraries Lowe Art Museum Student Affairs Health The Campaign for the University of Miami The University of Miami is committed to creating a healthier and more equitable future for all. Learn how UHealth and the Miller School of Medicine are lighting the way forward and visit Brighter Health and our Health interest page for more information on our health initiatives at our Gables and Rosenstiel campuses. Overview Research Medical Education Health Equity Patient Care Miller School of Medicine Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center Bascom Palmer Eye Institute Brighter Outcomes for Health and Wellness Hussman Institute to Co-Lead $31.7 Million NIA Grant to Create Harmonized Dataset for Alzheimer’s, Dementia Research Read More Get Involved Get Involved Discover the many ways to engage with our dynamic community. Attend an Event Volunteer Opportunities Stay Connected Faculty and Staff Giving Brighter Science for Bigger Discoveries Miracle matter: Engineer creates concrete that heals itself Read More Contact Give Now Find the Best Giving Opportunity for You Explore our broad range of convenient giving opportunities and easily contribute to the Ever Brighter campaign in the way that suits you best. Give Online Now How to Give View All Ways to Give Estate and Planned Gifts Matching Gifts In-Kind Gifts Corporate Foundation Gifts Donor-Advised Funds Crowdfunding Memorial and Tribute Gifts Annual Giving Giving Methods View All Giving Methods Online Credit and Debit Checks Gift of Stocks and Securities Wire Transfer Employee Payroll Faculty and Staff Giving The Campaign Interests Schools & Units Health Get Involved Contact Give Now Back to Main Menu About the Campaign Brighter Future for Our Planet Brighter Science for Bigger Discoveries Brighter Education for a Changing World Brighter Outcomes for Health and Wellness Brighter Arts for a More Vibrant Culture Brighter Lights for Leaders and Champions Brighter Opportunities for All Back to Main Menu View All Interests Arts and Culture Athletics Climate and Environment Community Faculty Health and Wellness Hemispheric and Global Impact Innovation and Entrepeneurship Law and Social Justice Research Science and Big Data Students Back to Main Menu View All Schools & Units School of Architecture College of Arts and Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education and Human Development College of Engineering The Graduate School School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing and Health Studies Athletics University Libraries Lowe Art Museum Student Affairs Back to Main Menu About Health Overview Research Medical Education Health Equity Patient Care Miller School of Medicine Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center Bascom Palmer Eye Institute Back to Main Menu Get Involved Attend an Event Volunteer Opportunities Stay Connected Faculty and Staff Giving Back to Main Menu Back to Main Menu Give Online Now View All Ways to Give Estate and Planned Gifts Matching Gifts In-Kind Gifts Corporate Foundation Gifts Donor-Advised Funds Crowdfunding Memorial and Tribute Gifts Annual giving View All Giving Methods Online Credit and Debit Checks Gift of Stocks and Securities Wire Transfer Employee Payroll Faculty and Staff Giving Research. Discovery. Opportunity. The Graduate School Home Schools and Units Graduate School Inquiry that illuminates Inclusive, interdisciplinary research enriches our lives and helps solve the world’s biggest challenges. The Graduate School animates that potential—and magnifies the University’s impact—through world-class graduate education and inquiry that transcends cultural and intellectual borders. Learning that empowers Graduate students master their chosen disciplines—and the leadership, communication, reasoning, problem-solving, and collaboration skills that the world needs. View fundraising priorities The Graduate School Preparing tomorrow’s leaders, scholars, and change agents More than 200 master’s and doctoral degree programs offer graduate students boundless opportunities to stretch their intellects, spark innovation, polish professional and leadership skills, and expand understanding. master’s and doctoral degree programs Fundraising Priorities Bringing the best minds to Miami When we offer competitive doctoral stipends, fellowships, and related support, we attract the brightest and most diverse candidates with the most compelling ideas. Inviting fresh perspectives, amplifying diverse voices We welcome talented students and scholars from underrepresented backgrounds and seek to provide financial and structural support to propel their research and scholarship. Breaking down boundaries between disciplines Some of the most transformational research happens where disciplines intersect. Investment in interdisciplinary graduate student collaborations can yield real answers to big questions. Elevating excellence and innovation Best-practices professional development, high-quality mentoring, research symposia, and skill-building competitions all help to develop innovators, performers, academics, industry leaders, and change agents ready to spark transformation. Why support matters Giving that makes an impact Help us discover new knowledge; tackle global challenges; and nourish inquisitive, creative minds as we prepare the next generation of society’s leaders, thinkers, innovators, scholars, and change agents. Give now Grow with us In every discipline, in classrooms, in labs, and in the field, University of Miami graduate students acquire deep knowledge and essential skills, expand academic horizons, and learn what it takes to drive positive change. Help us help them continue to make our world brighter. Give now To learn more, please contact Cindy Beamish, development, 305-284-4342. Keep me updated on the impact of the U and the Ever Brighter campaign. Sign Up University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 About Development and Alumni Relations Get Involved Stories Alumni Give Now How to Give Giving Methods Facebook Instagram Twitter University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 ©2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement and Legal Notices Title IX and Gender Equity Website Feedback