WSU Cougar Head Logo Washington State University Give Apply Now Locations MyWSU Close Home About WSU Everett The Everett Campus The Chancellor’s Suite Faculty & Staff Directory Events News Academics Majors & Minors Academic Calendar WSU Access Center Class Schedule Summer Session The Student Experience New EverCougs Orientation Student Affairs Student Success Center Student Advising Financial Aid & Scholarships Commencement Alumni & Friends Invest in WSU Everett Advisory Council Joint Engineering Advisory Board Student Spotlights Prospective Students Admissions Finances Contact & Connect Washington State University Everett The complete Coug experience—closer to home. Turn your career up a degree. GIVE YOURSELF A COMPETITIVE EDGE Affordable, flexible, accessible bachelor’s degrees Apply today WSU Everett COVID-19 Response People At WSU Everett, you learn from industry innovators, scholars, and thought leaders ready to prepare you for our rapidly changing world. Meet the Family Programs Our industry-aligned, interdisciplinary undergraduate degree-completion programs are designed with career readiness in mind. Our Programs Community Get to know our campus, in the City of Everett, home to the Port of Everett and employers like Boeing, FUNKO, the AquaSox and more. Visit Campus Apply for your share of $150 billion in aid. Apply today FAFSA and WASFA applications are open now. What do you need to apply? Recent Headlines New Team Members at WSU Everett Dear Washington State University Everett Community, I hope everyone’s new year is off to a safe and productive start. As the spring semester gets underway, I… Published on 1/14/22 The season of gratitude begins at WSU Everett Nov. 23, 2021 As our Washington State University Everett community prepares for Thanksgiving break, I am reminded again of the maxim, “To whom… Published on 11/29/21 Brenda White named chair of WSU Everett Advisory Council (L-R) Chancellor Paul Pitre, new WSU Everett Advisory Council chair Brenda White, and Gary Baker, who has served two years as Advisory Council chair EVERETT,… Published on 11/17/21 Facilities Sustainability Places & Spaces Meeting Room Rental Building Policies Facilities Requests Parking Permits Resources COVID-19 Campus Safety Faculty & Staff Resources WSU Everett Weekly Newsletter WSU Veterans Affairs WSU Alumni Everett University Center Utilities Tech Support myWSU Blackboard Canvas WSU Cougar Head Logo Originally created in 1936 by Randall Johnson, the Cougar Head remains a unique and distinguished part of the WSU identity. © Washington State University 2022 Access Policies MyWSU Follow WSU