Accessibility Options: Skip to Main Content Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami The Campaign The Campaign for the University of Miami Join the University of Miami as it embarks on a bold and ambitious journey to make our institution—and the world—ever brighter. The Campaign for Our Next Century is built on a foundation of seven core beliefs that define who we are and where we are going. Brighter Future for Our Planet Brighter Science for Bigger Discoveries Brighter Education for a Changing World Brighter Outcomes for Health and Wellness Brighter Arts for a More Vibrant Culture Brighter Lights for Leaders and Champions Brighter Opportunities for All Brighter Future for Our Planet ‘Coral Mama’ works to save coral reefs from extinction Read More Interests What Matters Most to You? Connect your passions with the work we are doing at the University of Miami by providing targeted support for what matters to you. Arts and Culture Athletics Climate and Environment Community Faculty Health and Wellness Hemispheric and Global Impact Innovation and Entrepeneurship Law and Social Justice Research Science and Big Data Students Brighter Education for a Changing World Digitalization of education in the early innings Read More Schools & Units Schools and Colleges School of Architecture College of Arts and Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education and Human Development College of Engineering The Graduate School School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing and Health Studies Units Athletics University Libraries Lowe Art Museum Student Affairs Health The Campaign for the University of Miami The University of Miami is committed to creating a healthier and more equitable future for all. Learn how UHealth and the Miller School of Medicine are lighting the way forward and visit Brighter Health and our Health interest page for more information on our health initiatives at our Gables and Rosenstiel campuses. Overview Research Medical Education Health Equity Patient Care Miller School of Medicine Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center Bascom Palmer Eye Institute Brighter Outcomes for Health and Wellness Hussman Institute to Co-Lead $31.7 Million NIA Grant to Create Harmonized Dataset for Alzheimer’s, Dementia Research Read More Get Involved Get Involved Discover the many ways to engage with our dynamic community. Attend an Event Volunteer Opportunities Stay Connected Faculty and Staff Giving Brighter Science for Bigger Discoveries Miracle matter: Engineer creates concrete that heals itself Read More Contact Give Now Find the Best Giving Opportunity for You Explore our broad range of convenient giving opportunities and easily contribute to the Ever Brighter campaign in the way that suits you best. Give Online Now How to Give View All Ways to Give Estate and Planned Gifts Matching Gifts In-Kind Gifts Corporate Foundation Gifts Donor-Advised Funds Crowdfunding Memorial and Tribute Gifts Annual Giving Giving Methods View All Giving Methods Online Credit and Debit Checks Gift of Stocks and Securities Wire Transfer Employee Payroll Faculty and Staff Giving The Campaign Interests Schools & Units Health Get Involved Contact Give Now Back to Main Menu About the Campaign Brighter Future for Our Planet Brighter Science for Bigger Discoveries Brighter Education for a Changing World Brighter Outcomes for Health and Wellness Brighter Arts for a More Vibrant Culture Brighter Lights for Leaders and Champions Brighter Opportunities for All Back to Main Menu View All Interests Arts and Culture Athletics Climate and Environment Community Faculty Health and Wellness Hemispheric and Global Impact Innovation and Entrepeneurship Law and Social Justice Research Science and Big Data Students Back to Main Menu View All Schools & Units School of Architecture College of Arts and Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education and Human Development College of Engineering The Graduate School School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing and Health Studies Athletics University Libraries Lowe Art Museum Student Affairs Back to Main Menu About Health Overview Research Medical Education Health Equity Patient Care Miller School of Medicine Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center Bascom Palmer Eye Institute Back to Main Menu Get Involved Attend an Event Volunteer Opportunities Stay Connected Faculty and Staff Giving Back to Main Menu Back to Main Menu Give Online Now View All Ways to Give Estate and Planned Gifts Matching Gifts In-Kind Gifts Corporate Foundation Gifts Donor-Advised Funds Crowdfunding Memorial and Tribute Gifts Annual giving View All Giving Methods Online Credit and Debit Checks Gift of Stocks and Securities Wire Transfer Employee Payroll Faculty and Staff Giving Leaders in health Miller School of Medicine Home Schools and Units Miller School of Medicine Affirming our strengths. Achieving our potential. At the Leonard M. Miller School of Medicine, we are leaders in world-class medical education, groundbreaking research, and impactful community health programming. Support for Ever Brighter: The Campaign for Our Next Century, will further our work to train the next generation of compassionate health care providers and visionary researchers, promote health equity throughout South Florida and beyond, and position the Miller School to become one of the nation’s preeminent medical institutions. Brighter health Combating complex diseases through revolutionary discoveries Our physician-scientists are unlocking the mysteries behind some of the world’s most complex diseases—identifying how changes in the brain’s white matter can lead to certain cognitive disorders, leading the charge behind finding new therapies for cancer, and working toward the completion of the first human eye transplant in history. Through these game-changing investigations, the Miller School stands at the cusp of global leadership in researching, treating, and preventing life-altering diseases. Philanthropic support will open the doors of discovery even wider and affirm our status as an international destination for research and treatment. View fundraising priorities Why a campaign now? Our work to advance the best and brightest health solutions can’t wait. Since its founding, the Miller School has been a beacon of hope in the medical sphere. We developed the antiretroviral treatments that turned HIV into a treatable disease, created the world’s first cardiopulmonary patient simulator, and designed targeted community programs like the Mitchell Wolfson Sr. Department of Community Service (DOCS), which provides vital health screenings every year to more than 1,800 patients in our underserved communities. As the world addresses extreme health inequities, a global pandemic, and a growing trend toward personalized care, three bold solutions are needed now more than ever—your generous support will advance our efforts to position the Miller School at the forefront of innovation. Visit the Miller School of Medicine's website Where we shine brightest The Miller School of Medicine is Florida’s top National Institutes of Health (NIH)-funded institution. The Miller School’s Department of Genetics ranks second in the nation in NIH funding. In the past three years, the Miller School has climbed seven spots among the top 50 medical schools, according to U.S. News & World Report. Fundraising Priorities Groundbreaking research and discoveries We are seeking support for a medical research endowment and research scholars program—a cornerstone funding goal that will establish a world-class research facility at the Miller School with state-of-the-art laboratories, equipment, and space for our physician-scientists to pursue innovative treatments and cures. Learn more Next-generation medical education We are educating aspiring physicians who will shape the future of medicine, champion new discoveries, and eventually take up the mantle of health care leadership worldwide. The campaign supports significant upgrades to our facilities, scholarships, and novel curriculum offerings across our academic enterprise. Learn more Promoting health equity in our communities and beyond The Miller School’s growth in research funding and reputation has been fueled by an increase in applicants who are more competitive and better qualified than ever. The campaign will advance our mission to enable this influx of talented new students to serve our community—one of the world’s most diverse populations—and improve health equity in South Florida. Learn more Why support matters Support a Medical Scholar Accomplished, passionate, and inspired individuals seeking the best medical education cannot reach their full potential without you. Help the Miller School of Medicine train the next generation of transformative leaders in health care. Our scholars need your support, and the future of medicine needs your philanthropic leadership. Make the dreams of our medical scholars a reality. Learn more The Miller School is on a trajectory to becoming one of the preeminent medical schools. We are training the next generation of top physicians and conducting innovative research to ease human suffering. Henri R. Ford, M.D., M.H.A. Dean and Chief Academic Officer Featured Stories Desai Sethi Family Foundation Commits $20 Million to Fund Creation of Urology Institute at Miller School In an effort to further position the University of Miami Leonard M. Miller School of Medicine as a global leader in the field of urology, the Desai Sethi Family Foundation has made an extraordinary commitment of $20 million to the Miller School’s renowned Department of Urology. The Foundation’s generosity will help establish a premier Urology Institute within the Miller School that will accelerate breakthrough advances in research, expand clinical care, and train future generations of urologists. Read more Eliza And Hugh Culverhouse Jr. Make a $1 Million Donation to the Desai Sethi Urology Institute at the University of Miami Miller School of Medicine As a display of immense gratitude, Eliza and Hugh Culverhouse Jr., have made an extraordinary $1 million donation to further the Desai Sethi Urology Institute at the University of Miami Leonard M. Miller School of Medicine as a global leader in the field of urology. Read more Build with us To support the Miller School’s mission to realize better outcomes for a healthier world, please contribute to the University of Miami’s campaign for a brighter tomorrow. Give now To learn more, please contact Rachel Cameau, medical development, 305-243-8860. Keep me updated on the impact of the U and the Ever Brighter campaign. Sign Up University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 About Development and Alumni Relations Get Involved Stories Alumni Give Now How to Give Giving Methods Facebook Instagram Twitter University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 ©2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement and Legal Notices Title IX and Gender Equity Website Feedback