Accessibility Options: Skip to Main Content Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami The Campaign The Campaign for the University of Miami Join the University of Miami as it embarks on a bold and ambitious journey to make our institution—and the world—ever brighter. The Campaign for Our Next Century is built on a foundation of seven core beliefs that define who we are and where we are going. Brighter Future for Our Planet Brighter Science for Bigger Discoveries Brighter Education for a Changing World Brighter Outcomes for Health and Wellness Brighter Arts for a More Vibrant Culture Brighter Lights for Leaders and Champions Brighter Opportunities for All Brighter Future for Our Planet ‘Coral Mama’ works to save coral reefs from extinction Read More Interests What Matters Most to You? Connect your passions with the work we are doing at the University of Miami by providing targeted support for what matters to you. Arts and Culture Athletics Climate and Environment Community Faculty Health and Wellness Hemispheric and Global Impact Innovation and Entrepeneurship Law and Social Justice Research Science and Big Data Students Brighter Education for a Changing World Digitalization of education in the early innings Read More Schools & Units Schools and Colleges School of Architecture College of Arts and Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education and Human Development College of Engineering The Graduate School School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing and Health Studies Units Athletics University Libraries Lowe Art Museum Student Affairs Health The Campaign for the University of Miami The University of Miami is committed to creating a healthier and more equitable future for all. Learn how UHealth and the Miller School of Medicine are lighting the way forward and visit Brighter Health and our Health interest page for more information on our health initiatives at our Gables and Rosenstiel campuses. Overview Research Medical Education Health Equity Patient Care Miller School of Medicine Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center Bascom Palmer Eye Institute Brighter Outcomes for Health and Wellness Hussman Institute to Co-Lead $31.7 Million NIA Grant to Create Harmonized Dataset for Alzheimer’s, Dementia Research Read More Get Involved Get Involved Discover the many ways to engage with our dynamic community. Attend an Event Volunteer Opportunities Stay Connected Faculty and Staff Giving Brighter Science for Bigger Discoveries Miracle matter: Engineer creates concrete that heals itself Read More Contact Give Now Find the Best Giving Opportunity for You Explore our broad range of convenient giving opportunities and easily contribute to the Ever Brighter campaign in the way that suits you best. Give Online Now How to Give View All Ways to Give Estate and Planned Gifts Matching Gifts In-Kind Gifts Corporate Foundation Gifts Donor-Advised Funds Crowdfunding Memorial and Tribute Gifts Annual Giving Giving Methods View All Giving Methods Online Credit and Debit Checks Gift of Stocks and Securities Wire Transfer Employee Payroll Faculty and Staff Giving The Campaign Interests Schools & Units Health Get Involved Contact Give Now Back to Main Menu About the Campaign Brighter Future for Our Planet Brighter Science for Bigger Discoveries Brighter Education for a Changing World Brighter Outcomes for Health and Wellness Brighter Arts for a More Vibrant Culture Brighter Lights for Leaders and Champions Brighter Opportunities for All Back to Main Menu View All Interests Arts and Culture Athletics Climate and Environment Community Faculty Health and Wellness Hemispheric and Global Impact Innovation and Entrepeneurship Law and Social Justice Research Science and Big Data Students Back to Main Menu View All Schools & Units School of Architecture College of Arts and Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education and Human Development College of Engineering The Graduate School School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing and Health Studies Athletics University Libraries Lowe Art Museum Student Affairs Back to Main Menu About Health Overview Research Medical Education Health Equity Patient Care Miller School of Medicine Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center Bascom Palmer Eye Institute Back to Main Menu Get Involved Attend an Event Volunteer Opportunities Stay Connected Faculty and Staff Giving Back to Main Menu Back to Main Menu Give Online Now View All Ways to Give Estate and Planned Gifts Matching Gifts In-Kind Gifts Corporate Foundation Gifts Donor-Advised Funds Crowdfunding Memorial and Tribute Gifts Annual giving View All Giving Methods Online Credit and Debit Checks Gift of Stocks and Securities Wire Transfer Employee Payroll Faculty and Staff Giving Bold. Brilliant. Boundless. Frost School of Music Home Schools and Units Frost School of Music Changing the world of music As one of the top-ranked schools, the University of Miami’s Frost School of Music stands as the model for music education in the 21st century. No music school better understands the needs of today’s aspiring artists. With its groundbreaking curriculum, the Frost School is where students come to build the skills and experience necessary to succeed. Brighter arts Shaping the most gifted students under the sun Frost has a strong track record of innovation. We are determined to build upon this momentum by cultivating the world's most talented musicians. View fundraising priorities A beacon for the arts To achieve our highest ambition—becoming the next great American music school by 2025—the Frost School is pursuing a renewed vision that will transform the future of music education across the globe and empower the next generation of music professionals. Visit the Frost School of Music's website Why private support matters Innovation that sparks success The Frost School’s stellar faculty, which includes multiple Grammy, Emmy, and international music award winners, nurtures aspiring music professionals who not only go on to perform, but also prosper while doing so. of undergraduates secure full-time work or enroll in their graduate program of choice within six months of graduation Fundraising Priorities From excellence to preeminence We will elevate the star power of our faculty, strengthen our student ensembles, and explore bold new paradigms for teaching. Learn more Helping musicians master their careers By widening the scope of the Frost Method through expanded scholarship funding, the school will change the economic trajectory of artists worldwide. Learn more Keeping our school on the cutting edge The Frost School, through investment in graduate fellowships and a signature Dean’s Innovation Fund, will continue cultivating breakthroughs for music in higher education. Learn more Music and the human spirit Through exploration of the unifying and healing powers of music, the Frost School of Music seeks to improve the human condition and, ultimately, the world we live in. Learn more Play a role in our evolution Becoming the brightest light on the musical landscape The Frost School is on a clear path to becoming the next great American music school. Private support helps us reach that goal by providing us with the ability to deliver a groundbreaking curriculum to some of the world’s best emerging talent. Give now I am honored to join the company of so many other distinguished Frost alumni and to recognize the key role that the Frost School of Music has played in my development as a musician, composer, artist, and music executive. Jorge Mejia, B.M., '96 President & CEO Sony/ATV Music Publishing Latin American & US Latin Featured Stories JAS Academy Expands to Four Weeks Jazz Aspen Snowmass (JAS) in collaboration with the highly acclaimed Frost School of Music at the University of Miami, plan to expand their mid-summer JAS Academy program in 2021 to include a new "Combo/Small Ensemble Session." Read more Frost School of Music Holds Virtual Concerts During Pandemic The Frost School of Music is putting on virtual concerts during the coronavirus pandemic. Read more Build with us To support the Frost School of Music’s commitment to produce radiant artists, please contribute to the University of Miami’s campaign for a brighter tomorrow. Give now To learn more, please contact Dania Gorriz, development, Frost School of Music, 305-284-8252. Keep me updated on the impact of the U and the Ever Brighter campaign. Sign Up University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 About Development and Alumni Relations Get Involved Stories Alumni Give Now How to Give Giving Methods Facebook Instagram Twitter University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 ©2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement and Legal Notices Title IX and Gender Equity Website Feedback