Accessibility Options: Skip to Main Content Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami The Campaign The Campaign for the University of Miami Join the University of Miami as it embarks on a bold and ambitious journey to make our institution—and the world—ever brighter. The Campaign for Our Next Century is built on a foundation of seven core beliefs that define who we are and where we are going. Brighter Future for Our Planet Brighter Science for Bigger Discoveries Brighter Education for a Changing World Brighter Outcomes for Health and Wellness Brighter Arts for a More Vibrant Culture Brighter Lights for Leaders and Champions Brighter Opportunities for All Brighter Future for Our Planet ‘Coral Mama’ works to save coral reefs from extinction Read More Interests What Matters Most to You? Connect your passions with the work we are doing at the University of Miami by providing targeted support for what matters to you. Arts and Culture Athletics Climate and Environment Community Faculty Health and Wellness Hemispheric and Global Impact Innovation and Entrepeneurship Law and Social Justice Research Science and Big Data Students Brighter Education for a Changing World Digitalization of education in the early innings Read More Schools & Units Schools and Colleges School of Architecture College of Arts and Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education and Human Development College of Engineering The Graduate School School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing and Health Studies Units Athletics University Libraries Lowe Art Museum Student Affairs Health The Campaign for the University of Miami The University of Miami is committed to creating a healthier and more equitable future for all. Learn how UHealth and the Miller School of Medicine are lighting the way forward and visit Brighter Health and our Health interest page for more information on our health initiatives at our Gables and Rosenstiel campuses. Overview Research Medical Education Health Equity Patient Care Miller School of Medicine Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center Bascom Palmer Eye Institute Brighter Outcomes for Health and Wellness Hussman Institute to Co-Lead $31.7 Million NIA Grant to Create Harmonized Dataset for Alzheimer’s, Dementia Research Read More Get Involved Get Involved Discover the many ways to engage with our dynamic community. Attend an Event Volunteer Opportunities Stay Connected Faculty and Staff Giving Brighter Science for Bigger Discoveries Miracle matter: Engineer creates concrete that heals itself Read More Contact Give Now Find the Best Giving Opportunity for You Explore our broad range of convenient giving opportunities and easily contribute to the Ever Brighter campaign in the way that suits you best. Give Online Now How to Give View All Ways to Give Estate and Planned Gifts Matching Gifts In-Kind Gifts Corporate Foundation Gifts Donor-Advised Funds Crowdfunding Memorial and Tribute Gifts Annual Giving Giving Methods View All Giving Methods Online Credit and Debit Checks Gift of Stocks and Securities Wire Transfer Employee Payroll Faculty and Staff Giving The Campaign Interests Schools & Units Health Get Involved Contact Give Now Back to Main Menu About the Campaign Brighter Future for Our Planet Brighter Science for Bigger Discoveries Brighter Education for a Changing World Brighter Outcomes for Health and Wellness Brighter Arts for a More Vibrant Culture Brighter Lights for Leaders and Champions Brighter Opportunities for All Back to Main Menu View All Interests Arts and Culture Athletics Climate and Environment Community Faculty Health and Wellness Hemispheric and Global Impact Innovation and Entrepeneurship Law and Social Justice Research Science and Big Data Students Back to Main Menu View All Schools & Units School of Architecture College of Arts and Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education and Human Development College of Engineering The Graduate School School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing and Health Studies Athletics University Libraries Lowe Art Museum Student Affairs Back to Main Menu About Health Overview Research Medical Education Health Equity Patient Care Miller School of Medicine Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center Bascom Palmer Eye Institute Back to Main Menu Get Involved Attend an Event Volunteer Opportunities Stay Connected Faculty and Staff Giving Back to Main Menu Back to Main Menu Give Online Now View All Ways to Give Estate and Planned Gifts Matching Gifts In-Kind Gifts Corporate Foundation Gifts Donor-Advised Funds Crowdfunding Memorial and Tribute Gifts Annual giving View All Giving Methods Online Credit and Debit Checks Gift of Stocks and Securities Wire Transfer Employee Payroll Faculty and Staff Giving Engaging. Supporting. Developing. Student Affairs Home Schools and Units Student Affairs Supporting student success A rich student experience in a caring and inclusive environment puts students on the path to success in their careers and in life. With high-impact programming, supportive services, and first-class facilities, we prepare students to make a positive impact in the world. Brighter opportunities Sparking personal growth and discovery The Division of Student Affairs delivers boundless opportunities outside the classroom for students to pursue their interests, find their passions, and engage with the community and each other. View fundraising priorities Supporting student success Extending learning beyond the classroom Being prepared for life after college means more than simply reading textbooks and passing tests. At the University of Miami, students enhance their classroom learning with a range of involvements and experiences, allowing them to grow and develop into well-rounded citizens of our global society. By providing a transformational student experience, complete with exemplary learning opportunities and a proactive approach to student support, the Division of Student Affairs contributes to student success both while in college and for the rest of their lives. Visit the Division of Student Affairs' website Student affairs in numbers Fostering a brighter campus community Student organizations span an array of academic and social interests and provide University of Miami students the ability to gain invaluable life skills and connect with their fellow ’Canes. student organizations Fundraising Priorities A transformational student experience Provide experiential programming to enhance student learning and growth. Learn more Campus support and academic enrichment Support students to do and be their best. Learn more Student housing for student success Ensure that student housing exceeds the needs and expectations of the next generation of students. Learn more Why support matters Transforming the student experience Shine a light on our guiding philosophy—’Canes Care for ’Canes—as we foster an inclusive campus environment where all ’Canes respect and support each other. Help us ensure that every student can be successful and can apply their skills to drive positive change in their lives, their communities, and the world. Give now With unyielding support from Students Affairs, I have been prepared to continue my advocacy for social justice and equity for all communities here at the University and beyond. Landon Coles 2021-22 Student Government President and Student Trustee Featured Stories Mentorship program enhances multicultural undergraduates’ experience Beyond the Horizons offers incoming students a mentor for one year to help them learn all about the University’s resources, while providing a deep dive into the multicultural scene on campus. Read more Healthy ’Cane Network keeps students well on campus Especially in response to the pandemic, the Division of Student Affairs' collaborative approach to student health and well-being ensured that students maintained access to impactful programs and critical support services. Read more Shine with us To support the Division of Student Affairs in building a more inclusive campus and providing increased opportunities and resources for student success, please contribute to the University of Miami’s campaign for a brighter tomorrow. Give now To learn more, please contact Cindy Beamish, development, 305-284-4341. Keep me updated on the impact of the U and the Ever Brighter campaign. Sign Up University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 About Development and Alumni Relations Get Involved Stories Alumni Give Now How to Give Giving Methods Facebook Instagram Twitter University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 ©2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement and Legal Notices Title IX and Gender Equity Website Feedback