Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Blockchain in Business (Online): Beyond the Hype Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Select Date(s) August 11–September 29, 2022 Cost $1,950 CIBE Credits 1 Format Online Location Online Requirements This program is suitable for mid and upper level executives who seek to understand the concepts behind blockchains and cryptocurrencies by exploring their history, philosophies, and real-world applications. Requirements This program is suitable for mid and upper level executives who seek to understand the concepts behind blockchains and cryptocurrencies by exploring their history, philosophies, and real-world applications. Learn more Requirements This program is suitable for mid and upper level executives who seek to understand the concepts behind blockchains and cryptocurrencies by exploring their history, philosophies, and real-world applications. Requirements This program is suitable for mid and upper level executives who seek to understand the concepts behind blockchains and cryptocurrencies by exploring their history, philosophies, and real-world applications. Learn more Blockchain in Business (Online): Beyond the Hype Select Date(s) August 11–September 29, 2022 Cost $1,950 CIBE Credits 1 Format Online Location Online Requirements This program is suitable for mid and upper level executives who seek to understand the concepts behind blockchains and cryptocurrencies by exploring their history, philosophies, and real-world applications. Requirements This program is suitable for mid and upper level executives who seek to understand the concepts behind blockchains and cryptocurrencies by exploring their history, philosophies, and real-world applications. Learn more Download Brochure Overview Blockchain and cryptocurrencies grab a lot of headlines in the media, leaving business leaders with the challenge to distinguish between the hype and what has the power to transform an entire industry. This program allows you to break through the mystery, offering a very practical understanding of blockchain, both its opportunities and its challenges. Over the course of six weeks, you'll decipher how cryptocurrencies work and learn how the underlying blockchain technology could transform your organization and industry. In addition to world-renowned Columbia Business School faculty, you'll learn from industry experts who will share invaluable insights — from the origin story of the creators of the first blockchain to where the technology is heading five to ten years down the road. After taking this program that is designed with the executive in mind, participants will be able to make more informed decisions about the role that blockchain technology may play in their business. At the end of the program, you'll know the answers to the quintessential Blockchain questions, including: How has blockchain technology emerged since its original design? Does Bitcoin count as money and can Bitcoin replace the traditional form of money? How do smart contracts and tokens work? What are the “real” opportunities and challenges of blockchain technology in the market? What questions should I ask to evaluate potential opportunities in blockchain and cryptocurrencies for my organization? How can I leverage blockchain for my business? Please contact our partners at Emeritus at columbia@emeritus.org, +1 315-982-5094, or +1 315-277-2746 for a personal conversation about this program and how it may benefit you. Delivered in collaboration with “This program will pierce the mystery, explain how cryptocurrencies work, and how the underlying blockchain technology will potentially revolutionize business. If you want to evaluate whether it is time for your business to adopt this technology or adapt to it, this program is for you.” The program's Faculty Director Gur Huberman In this short video, learn about the key takeaways, the program faculty, and the visionary guest speakers of the Blockchain in Business (Online) program. Impact At the end of the program, you will be able to: Understand the key principles underlying the technology and history of blockchain and cryptocurrencies in modern business. Identify real-world opportunities and limitations of blockchain technology and practical applications for their organizations. Ask the right questions and make more informed decisions about the role that blockchain technology may play in their business. Upon completion of this program, you will earn one credit towards a Certificate with select alumni and tuition benefits. Learn more. Program Structure Our approach to this program is to provide the foundational concepts behind blockchains and cryptocurrencies by exploring their history, philosophies, and real-world applications and examining how these technologies will influence executive decision making. Key components include video lectures with guest speakers, hands-on exercises, and real-world applications. Participants have multiple opportunities to apply concepts such as a simulation of creating a blockchain. The program includes the following modules: Module 1 Module 2 Module 3 Module 4 Module 5 Module 6 Technical Foundations Learn the foundations of blockchain, including distributed systems, hash functions, and cryptography; includes learning the origin story of the blockchain and building a blockchain with its inventors. Participant Profile This program is intended for those who have experience in corporate finance, capital markets, or investment management. It is highly recommended that participants have prior knowledge of topics such as discounted cash flow models; risk and return; capital asset pricing model; dividend policy; asset valuation; fixed income; and behavioral finance. The program is ideal for: Senior executives who set the strategic course for growth and oversee the firm’s investment portfolio Mid-level managers who serve in finance or investment functions and play a key role in the financial matters of the organization Consultants, Legal Counsel, and Advisors who serve in a role of sourcing, executing, managing, or integrating M&A transactions, or who hold relationships with investment banks and private investors Faculty Gur Huberman Robert G. Kirby Professor of Behavioral Finance Faculty Director Gur Huberman Robert G. Kirby Professor of Behavioral Finance Gur Huberman has taught at Columbia Business School since 1989. Prior to that, he taught at Tel Aviv University and at the University of Chicago. Between 1993 and 1995, he was Vice President at JP Morgan Investment Management responsible for research on quantitative equity trading. In that capacity, he also helped develop tax aware strategies for the private bank. He earned his PhD (with distinction) in operations research from Yale in 1980 and his BSc (cum laude) in mathematics from Tel Aviv University in 1975. Professor Huberman’s published work is widely read and cited, and covers a broad range in finance and economics. He contributed to the theory of equilibrium return-risk tradeoff, to the theory of contracts, to the study of individual’s portfolio selection, especially in the context of retirement savings to the theory of liquidity and trading, and to Behavior Finance. More recently he has turned his attention to FinTech and cryptocurrencies. Read full bio Read full bio Cathy Barrera Founding Economist, Prysm Group Guest Speaker Cathy Barrera Founding Economist, Prysm Group Cathy Barrera is a partner and founding economist of Prysm Group, a firm that specializes in economic and governance design for distributed ledger-based projects. She is a frequent keynote speaker and lecturer on economics and DLT. Recent and upcoming speaking appearances include Consensus, SXSW, Blockchain Revolution Global, and the IBM Blockchain Accelerator. Her research on the economics of blockchain has been presented at Harvard, Stanford, UC Berkeley, DARPA, and the Federal Reserve of Cleveland. Dr. Barrera is an advisor to blockchain projects at the World Economic Forum, a Collaborator of the MIT Cryptoeconomics Lab. Dr. Barrera was previously tenure-track faculty at the S.C. Johnson School of Management at Cornell University, and has appeared as a seminar speaker or guest lecturer at schools including Harvard, MIT, Columbia, NYU, Fordham, Cornell Tech, University of Toronto, and University of Southern California. Prior to co-founding Prysm Group, Dr. Barrera was the chief economist at ZipRecruiter. Stuart Haber President, Stuart Haber Crypto, LLC Guest Speaker Stuart Haber President, Stuart Haber Crypto, LLC Stuart Haber is an experienced cryptographer, best known as the co-inventor of the blockchain technique for ensuring the integrity of digital data. His work has bridged pure research and practical computer security over the course of a three-decade career spent both at large established companies such as Hewlett Packard Enterprise, HP Labs, and Bellcore (Bell Communications Research) as well as at startups such as InterTrust and Surety, which in 1995 deployed the world's first commercial blockchain as the foundation of the time-stamping service that he founded with his co-inventor, Scott Stornetta. Dr. Haber served on the Board of Directors of the International Association for Cryptologic Research (IACR) from 2004 through 2011. He received his BA from Harvard University and his MS from Stanford University, both in mathematics, and his PhD in computer science from Columbia University. Sharon LaDay Blockchain Ecosystem Leader, IBM Guest Speaker Sharon LaDay Blockchain Ecosystem Leader, IBM Sharon LaDay comes to the blockchain industry with a background in enterprise infrastructure solutions, startup investing, and education technology. Prior to her current role as Blockchain Ecosystem Leader at IBM, Sharon was vice president of Business Development for Macmillan New Ventures where she developed and executed growth strategies with a portfolio of startups. Her additional startup experience comes from her time at EdTech startups like Wimba which was acquired by Blackboard Inc., and storage networking startups like Andiamo Systems which was acquired by Cisco Systems. Her other enterprise infrastructure experience includes product and platform marketing at EMC Corporation and VERITAS Software; and high-availability/disaster recovery infrastructure design as an engineer for Datalink. Sharon earned a BS in Computer Science from Texas A&M University and an MBA from Columbia Business School. Omid Malekan Blockchain Innovation Expert, Citi Ventures Guest Speaker Omid Malekan Blockchain Innovation Expert, Citi Ventures Omid Malekan is the blockchain innovation expert at Citi Ventures. A veteran of this relatively young industry for the past five years, he specializes in breaking it down for lay audiences and exploring its application to different industries. He's the author of the book The Story of the Blockchain, A Beginner's Guide to the Technology That Nobody Understands as well as essays on the intersection of the tech and society in publications such as the New York Times, Spectator Magazine and the Weekly Standard. He’s a graduate of Columbia University with a degree in in Engineering Management Systems. W. Scott Stornetta Chief Scientist, Yugen Partners Guest Speaker W. Scott Stornetta Chief Scientist, Yugen Partners W. Scott Stornetta is considered by many to be the co-inventor of blockchain technology. Dating back to 1991, his pioneering series of papers, written with co-author Stuart Haber at Bellcore, received the 1992 Discover Award for Computer Software, were featured in the New York Times in 1992, and were referenced three times by Satoshi Nakamoto in his famous Bitcoin white paper (see page 9). In 1995 he and Dr. Haber co-founded Surety, a Bellcore spinoff. Surety’s offering constituted the first commercial deployment of a blockchain. Dr. Stornetta finished his tenure at Bellcore as assistant general manager of the 125-person Mathematical and Computer Sciences Laboratory. He then consulted for many years, evaluating the commercial potential of emerging technologies on behalf of universities, commercial research labs, and venture capital interests. Dr. Stornetta currently serves as the chief scientist of Yugen Partners, an enterprise blockchain-focused private equity firm. Along with Dr. Haber, he also serves on the board of the not-for-profit Blockchain Corporate Governance Foundation. Dr. Stornetta received his PhD in physics from Stanford University, after attending MIT, Harvard, and Brigham Young University. FAQ Expand Certification I’m interested in the Certificate in Business Excellence (CIBE), how do I get started? At Columbia Business School Executive Education, you’ll be able to customize a unique learning experience by selecting programs that best interest you and are most suited for your needs. Any completed program, regardless of format (live online, in-person, or online), will count towards the Certificate in Business Excellence. Which programs qualify for the CIBE? Any completed executive education program, regardless of format (live-online, in-person, or online), will count towards the Certificate in Business Excellence. Partner programs will also count towards the certificate. What programs are considered partner programs? Executive education programs developed and administered with our educational partners, bring the best of our combined knowledge, thought leadership, resources, and expertise. Kindly find a list of our partners here on our partnership page. What are the costs of the certificate? There’s no set cost associated with the certificate path since you’re able to customize your learning journey with in-person and online programs (price will vary depending on the program type and length). Are there any tuition assistance or scholarships? At Columbia Business School Executive Education, we offer non-degree and non-credit-based professional development programs to the global business community. As our programs are non-degree and non-credit, they do not qualify for financial aid. How are CIBE credits determined? Credits for a program are determined by the program duration and total learning hours. Where do I find information on the credit value for a program? You will find this information on each program page. Credits range from 0.5 credits – 26 credits per program. How do I get enrolled in the CIBE? Your certificate journey will start with your first program, and you have 4 years to complete your CIBE. You may register for any of our executive education programs on each program page. You may enroll using the “Enroll Now” button, and the application process should take 5-10 minutes. How do I receive credits? You are required to fully attend a program and complete all necessary coursework in order to receive CIBE credits. Credits are only awarded after you complete a program. How do I check the status of my Certificate completion? Kindly reach out to a Learning Solutions representative for any questions on the status of your CIBE credit count. Do CIBE credits expire? Credits are only valid for four years (Please note: While we are not able to offer in-person programming due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the duration to complete the programming has been extended to five years.). If you have not completed your CIBE within four years, we will only count non-expired credits towards your CIBE credit total. Does the Certificate in Business Excellence expire? Your Certificate in Business Excellence does not expire. Once you become a certificate recipient, you will join the greater alumni community at Columbia Business School. I’ve reached 18 CIBE credits, what’s next? Congratulations! You should receive a digital copy of your certificate at the end of your program. If you do not receive a copy from your program manager, kindly contact your Learning Solutions representative or your program manager for next steps. Will I receive a physical certificate? Yes, all certificate recipients will receive a physical plaque. If you completed your last CIBE credits through an online or live online program, you will receive a plaque in the mail. We will ask for you to provide us with your preferred mailing address and our vendor will ship the plaque directly to you. We kindly ask for your patience as the processing time takes a few weeks. Please contact your program manager for the status of your plaque. If you completed your last CIBE credits through an in-person program, you will receive a plaque at the end of the program. How do I get access to my alumni benefits? Once you complete your CIBE, we kindly ask for your patience as we process your alumni credentials. The processing time can take anywhere from 8 to 10 weeks long. Can I refer colleagues to the Certificate in Business Excellence? If you are a certificate holder, you may sponsor up to four colleagues each year for full-price in-person programs lasting up to seven days and all full-price online programs. Can I add the Certificate in Business Excellence to LinkedIn? Yes! We will provide you with instructions on how to add your certificate to your LinkedIn profile after you become a Certificate recipient. Expand Preferred Pricing and Tuition Benefits for Alumni Are there preferred pricing options available for live online programs? Yes, preferred pricing is available for groups of two or more. To inquire, email execed@gsb.columbia.edu. As a Columbia Business School alumni am I eligible for tuition benefit? Columbia Business School alumni and up to four of their colleagues are eligible for a 25 percent tuition benefit for this program. More on the Alumni Tuition Benefit. Expand Assignments Will there be any homework or assignments? For select programs, there will be some assignments to complete after the end of select program sessions. Assignments will typically consist of readings, self-reflections, and brief assessments. This approach is designed to help you practice your learnings. How long will assignments take? We do not expect that homework assignments will take up a large amount of time to complete. Will there be any examinations or grades? There will be no examinations or grades for our live online programs. Expand Access When will I receive information on how to log in? You will receive your login information immediately before the program start date. Kindly reach out to your Program Manager for further instructions on how to prepare and log in for the program. What platform do you use to deliver live online programs? We use the Zoom platform. Expand Recordings Will sessions be recorded? Most live online sessions (depending on the faculty and program) will be recorded and will be available for you upon request. In-person programs are not recorded. How long will they be available for? Recordings will be available for the duration of the program. Depending on the program, some recordings may have additional availability post-program. How do I gain access to the recordings? Your Program Manager will provide you with further instructions on how to gain access to recorded sessions. Expand Experience How do participants network during the live online programs? Will I participate in group work? Our live online programs are fully virtual and highly interactive. Most programs also feature small group work for a high-touch learning experience. The virtual program experience allows participants to feel comfortable and productive learning at home while preserving the interconnectivity of an in-person program. What are the networking opportunities during the live online sessions? Yes. Examples of this may include: virtual lunches, virtual receptions, use of the chat function, and virtual office hours for you to connect with participants and faculty. Please refer to the agenda of the specific live online program you are interested in for details. Expand Live Online Format What are live online programs? Now, more than ever, executives need the knowledge and insights to help them adapt to change and solve complex problems. As the business world has evolved, we have applied new best practices to continuously improve your learning experience. With our live online programs, we are taking select in-person programs and are translating them to a fully live and virtual format, delivering the same interactive sessions with faculty and real-time application of the knowledge you would experience in person. What is the difference between live online and online programs? Compare our two formats for distance learning here. What does “live online” mean? Live online programs are fully virtual, highly interactive programs taking place in real-time, often featuring small group work for a high-touch learning experience. Our Columbia Business School faculty stream to you live and virtually, no matter where you are located. Are all live online programs the same in terms of format and length? No. Please refer to the agenda of the specific live online program you are interested in. For any questions, please reach out to the Contact person listed on the program's web page. Do I have to attend all live sessions? Participants are expected to attend all sessions. However, we understand that participants may have scheduling conflicts. Kindly let us know in advance whenever possible and your Program Manager would be happy to discuss how we can help you get up to speed. We will also record most faculty sessions, which you can review upon request. Will I need to attend the live sessions even if I’m based in a different time zone? You are required to attend all live sessions even if you are based in a different time zone. (Kindly reach out to the Learning Solutions team to learn more about our asynchronous program offerings, which consist predominantly of pre-recorded videos that you can watch on your own time). Expand COVID-19 Safety Plans Please review the latest COVID-19 related protocols at Columbia Business School. More Finance & Investing Programs Finance & Investing $2,600 Scenario Planning (Online): Learn how to Model, Predict and Prepare for the FutureNEW 1 CIBE Credits June 2–July 21, 2022 Finance & Investing $29,000 Global Banking Program: Fintech, Digital, and Analytics CIBE Credits June 6, 2022–February 10, 2023 Learn More General ManagementFinance & Investing $28,000 Chief Financial OfficerNEW 18 CIBE Credits June 20, 2022–May 8, 2023 Finance & Investing $2,600 Leveraged Buyouts (Online): A Roadmap for Evaluating, Structuring, and Executing LBOsNEW 2 CIBE Credits June 23–August 11, 2022 Earn a Certificate Upon completion of this program, you will earn three credits towards a Certificate with select alumni and tuition benefits. Learn more Sign Up for Email Alerts Sign up for program updates and content relevant to today's business leaders from Columbia Business School Executive Education. First Name* Last Name* Email* Sign up Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificates Webinars About Columbia Business School Executive Education Geffen Hall 645 West 130th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel. +1 212-854-3395Maps and Directions Back to TopTOP © 2022 Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements