Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Developing Black Leaders in Financial ServicesNEW Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Select Date(s) July 25, 2022–March 30, 2023 Cost $13,750 CIBE Credits 7.5 Format Blended Location Manhattanville Campus, NYC Add to Cart Download Brochure Contact Us Requirements Mid-level professionals working in the financial services industry. Developing Black Leaders in Financial Services Add to Cart Download Brochure Select Date(s) July 25, 2022–March 30, 2023 Cost $13,750 CIBE Credits 7.5 Format Blended Location Manhattanville Campus, NYC Download Brochure Overview Organizations have increasingly recognized the importance of diversity in their workforce, especially at senior levels, in order to drive creativity, innovation, and growth. At Columbia Business School Executive Education, our Developing Black Leaders in Financial Services program addresses an ongoing challenge in the financial services field: the development, promotion, and retention of black financial services professionals. Based on feedback from industry leaders, the program takes place in two modules over two years and will result in the participant’s completion of a truly unique and rigorous learning experience designed to help fill the gap in the professional development market. Please contact our Learning Solutions Specialists at +1 212-854-3395 for a personal conversation to learn more. “Our goal is to help you emerge as a leader who can navigate barriers, lead with influence, and make effective decisions for yourself and your teams. Additionally, this program is designed to connect you to not only the content, but a lifelong network of people who share a similar experience as you.” The Program's Faculty Director Impact At Columbia Business School Executive Education, our educational philosophy is grounded in “where theory meets practice.” Every session is designed to provide actionable tools, skills, and practices that executives will be able to immediately apply in the workplace. We achieve this goal through a variety of learning modalities including simulations, individual assessments, role plays, facilitated peer learning activities, and applied projects. Through a series of professional development sessions taught by some of Columbia Business School’s leading faculty, networking opportunities, and industry speakers, participants will: Develop their leadership and management competencies Improve their macroeconomic and financial acumen Establish a professional network of fellow black leaders in the financial services sector Program Structure The program is delivered through a combination of live online and in-person immersion formats. The program is comprised of nine days of instruction (five half days in week one and four full days in week two) supplemented by virtual and in-person networking activities. We are pleased to report that Modupe Akinola, associate professor of management and faculty director of the Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Center for Leadership and Ethics, will serve as the faculty director of the program. In this role, Akinola serves as the program’s architect and guides participants through their learning and development experience. Year One Year Two Inter Module Activity Program Format Live Online Module Length Five consecutive half-day sessions, three hours per session Program Sessions Include: Collective Intelligence and Leading Teams Decision Making Strategies Inspiring Leadership Leadership Credo Leadership Jazz Leveraging Networks Strategy: Seeing Around Corners Value Based Leadership Business Analytics Financial Technology and Blockchain Making Sense of the Fed Structure and Economics of the Financial Services Industry Venture Capital Please note: sessions, breaks, or faculty may be subject to change. Includes all program materials. Does not include travel, accommodations, meals, and other program-related transportation expenses. View the full program agenda. Dates, fees, and physical locations are subject to change. Participant Profile The curriculum is designed for mid-career professionals who are viewed as leaders or future leaders in their organizations. Given the target audience, the curriculum is comprised of leadership (30%), strategy (30%), and finance and economics (40%). Statement of Non-Discrimination Columbia University is committed to providing a learning environment free from unlawful discrimination and harassment and to fostering a nurturing and vibrant community founded upon the fundamental dignity and worth of all of its members. Columbia University does not discriminate against any person in the administration of its educational policies, admissions policies, scholarship and loan programs, and athletic and other University administered programs or permit the harassment of any student or applicant on the basis of race, color, sex, gender (including gender identity and expression), pregnancy, religion, creed, marital status, partnership status, age, sexual orientation, national origin, disability, military status, or any other legally protected status. Faculty Modupe Akinola Associate Professor of Management, Columbia Business School Director of the Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Center for Leadership and Ethics Faculty Director Modupe Akinola Associate Professor of Management, Columbia Business School Director of the Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Center for Leadership and Ethics Modupe Akinola is an expert in workforce diversity, specifically the strategies organizations employ to increase the diversity of their talent pool and the biases that affect the recruitment and retention of minorities in organizations. Professor Akinola also researches how organizational environments — characterized by deadlines, multi-tasking, and other attributes such as having low status — can engender stress, and how this stress can have spill-over effects on performance. She uses a multi-method approach that includes behavioral observation, implicit and reaction time measures, and physiological responses (specifically hormonal and cardiovascular responses) to examine how cognitive outcomes are affected by stress. Prior to pursuing a career in academia, Professor Akinola worked in professional services at Bain & Company and Merrill Lynch. Read full bio Read full bio FAQ Expand Certification I’m interested in the Certificate in Business Excellence (CIBE), how do I get started? At Columbia Business School Executive Education, you’ll be able to customize a unique learning experience by selecting programs that best interest you and are most suited for your needs. Any completed program, regardless of format (live online, in-person, or online), will count towards the Certificate in Business Excellence. Which programs qualify for the CIBE? Any completed executive education program, regardless of format (live-online, in-person, or online), will count towards the Certificate in Business Excellence. Partner programs will also count towards the certificate. What programs are considered partner programs? Executive education programs developed and administered with our educational partners, bring the best of our combined knowledge, thought leadership, resources, and expertise. Kindly find a list of our partners here on our partnership page. What are the costs of the certificate? There’s no set cost associated with the certificate path since you’re able to customize your learning journey with in-person and online programs (price will vary depending on the program type and length). Are there any tuition assistance or scholarships? At Columbia Business School Executive Education, we offer non-degree and non-credit-based professional development programs to the global business community. As our programs are non-degree and non-credit, they do not qualify for financial aid. How are CIBE credits determined? Credits for a program are determined by the program duration and total learning hours. Where do I find information on the credit value for a program? You will find this information on each program page. Credits range from 0.5 credits – 26 credits per program. How do I get enrolled in the CIBE? Your certificate journey will start with your first program, and you have 4 years to complete your CIBE. You may register for any of our executive education programs on each program page. You may enroll using the “Enroll Now” button, and the application process should take 5-10 minutes. How do I receive credits? You are required to fully attend a program and complete all necessary coursework in order to receive CIBE credits. Credits are only awarded after you complete a program. How do I check the status of my Certificate completion? Kindly reach out to a Learning Solutions representative for any questions on the status of your CIBE credit count. Do CIBE credits expire? Credits are only valid for four years (Please note: While we are not able to offer in-person programming due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the duration to complete the programming has been extended to five years.). If you have not completed your CIBE within four years, we will only count non-expired credits towards your CIBE credit total. Does the Certificate in Business Excellence expire? Your Certificate in Business Excellence does not expire. Once you become a certificate recipient, you will join the greater alumni community at Columbia Business School. I’ve reached 18 CIBE credits, what’s next? Congratulations! You should receive a digital copy of your certificate at the end of your program. If you do not receive a copy from your program manager, kindly contact your Learning Solutions representative or your program manager for next steps. Will I receive a physical certificate? Yes, all certificate recipients will receive a physical plaque. If you completed your last CIBE credits through an online or live online program, you will receive a plaque in the mail. We will ask for you to provide us with your preferred mailing address and our vendor will ship the plaque directly to you. We kindly ask for your patience as the processing time takes a few weeks. Please contact your program manager for the status of your plaque. If you completed your last CIBE credits through an in-person program, you will receive a plaque at the end of the program. How do I get access to my alumni benefits? Once you complete your CIBE, we kindly ask for your patience as we process your alumni credentials. The processing time can take anywhere from 8 to 10 weeks long. Can I refer colleagues to the Certificate in Business Excellence? If you are a certificate holder, you may sponsor up to four colleagues each year for full-price in-person programs lasting up to seven days and all full-price online programs. Can I add the Certificate in Business Excellence to LinkedIn? Yes! We will provide you with instructions on how to add your certificate to your LinkedIn profile after you become a Certificate recipient. Expand Assignments Will there be any homework or assignments? For select programs, there will be some assignments to complete after the end of select program sessions. Assignments will typically consist of readings, self-reflections, and brief assessments. This approach is designed to help you practice your learnings. How long will assignments take? We do not expect that homework assignments will take up a large amount of time to complete. Will there be any examinations or grades? There will be no examinations or grades for our live online programs. Expand Access When will I receive information on how to log in? You will receive your login information immediately before the program start date. Kindly reach out to your Program Manager for further instructions on how to prepare and log in for the program. What platform do you use to deliver live online programs? We use the Zoom platform. Expand Recordings Will sessions be recorded? Most live online sessions (depending on the faculty and program) will be recorded and will be available for you upon request. In-person programs are not recorded. How long will they be available for? Recordings will be available for the duration of the program. Depending on the program, some recordings may have additional availability post-program. How do I gain access to the recordings? Your Program Manager will provide you with further instructions on how to gain access to recorded sessions. Expand Experience How do participants network during the live online programs? Will I participate in group work? Our live online programs are fully virtual and highly interactive. Most programs also feature small group work for a high-touch learning experience. The virtual program experience allows participants to feel comfortable and productive learning at home while preserving the interconnectivity of an in-person program. What are the networking opportunities during the live online sessions? Yes. Examples of this may include: virtual lunches, virtual receptions, use of the chat function, and virtual office hours for you to connect with participants and faculty. Please refer to the agenda of the specific live online program you are interested in for details. Expand Live Online Format What are live online programs? Now, more than ever, executives need the knowledge and insights to help them adapt to change and solve complex problems. As the business world has evolved, we have applied new best practices to continuously improve your learning experience. With our live online programs, we are taking select in-person programs and are translating them to a fully live and virtual format, delivering the same interactive sessions with faculty and real-time application of the knowledge you would experience in person. What is the difference between live online and online programs? Compare our two formats for distance learning here. What does “live online” mean? Live online programs are fully virtual, highly interactive programs taking place in real-time, often featuring small group work for a high-touch learning experience. Our Columbia Business School faculty stream to you live and virtually, no matter where you are located. Are all live online programs the same in terms of format and length? No. Please refer to the agenda of the specific live online program you are interested in. For any questions, please reach out to the Contact person listed on the program's web page. Do I have to attend all live sessions? Participants are expected to attend all sessions. However, we understand that participants may have scheduling conflicts. Kindly let us know in advance whenever possible and your Program Manager would be happy to discuss how we can help you get up to speed. We will also record most faculty sessions, which you can review upon request. Will I need to attend the live sessions even if I’m based in a different time zone? You are required to attend all live sessions even if you are based in a different time zone. (Kindly reach out to the Learning Solutions team to learn more about our asynchronous program offerings, which consist predominantly of pre-recorded videos that you can watch on your own time). Expand COVID-19 Safety Plans Please review the latest COVID-19 related protocols at Columbia Business School. More Business & Society Programs LeadershipBusiness & Society $6,650 Women in Leadership: Next Level Success 3 CIBE Credits June 14–16, 2022 LeadershipBusiness & Society $6,950 Women in Leadership: Next Level Success 3 CIBE Credits November 2–4, 2022 Earn a Certificate Upon completion of this program, you will earn seven and a half credits towards a Certificate with select alumni and tuition benefits. Learn more Sign Up for Email Alerts Sign up for program updates and content relevant to today's business leaders from Columbia Business School Executive Education. First Name* Last Name* Email* Sign up Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificates Webinars About Columbia Business School Executive Education Geffen Hall 645 West 130th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel. +1 212-854-3395Maps and Directions Back to TopTOP © 2022 Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements