Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Women in Leadership: Next Level Success Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Select Date(s) June 14–16, 2022 Cost $6,650 CIBE Credits 3 Format In-Person Location Manhattanville Campus, NYC Select Date(s) November 2–4, 2022 Cost $6,950 CIBE Credits 3 Format In-Person Location Manhattanville Campus, NYC Add to Cart Download Brochure Contact Us Requirements This program is suitable for mid-level executives. Women in Leadership: Next Level Success Add to Cart Download Brochure Select Date(s) June 14–16, 2022 Cost $6,650 CIBE Credits 3 Format In-Person Location Manhattanville Campus, NYC Select Date(s) November 2–4, 2022 Cost $6,950 CIBE Credits 3 Format In-Person Location Manhattanville Campus, NYC Download Brochure Overview The evidence is clear: inclusive leaders and inclusive organizations outperform those that are not. Yet women remain underrepresented in all levels of management. Despite the compelling case for equality of gender representation at all levels of an organization, even with the best of intentions, unconscious bias can influence who advances at work. Participants in the Women in Leadership: Next Level Success program learn time-tested techniques and practical ideas they can apply immediately to their careers to combat these performance-limiting biases and better capitalize on their strengths. This program is designed to help elevate the impact of women leaders – providing tools to better navigate the business landscape, develop and leverage talents, and step into roles of greater influence. Get ready to be inspired, network with likeminded colleagues, and learn applicable skills for an immediate impact on your career and your organization. Professors Malia Mason and Trish Gorman, experts in gender, leadership, negotiations, and strategy, are the program's faculty directors. Focused on women’s advancement, this unique program provides participants the knowledge, skills, tools, and real-time problem-solving needed to further their own advancement, as well as that of other women in leadership roles. For a complete program schedule, download the agenda. Please contact our Learning Solutions Specialists at +1 212-854-3395 for a personal conversation to learn more. “Every woman transitioning to a leadership role should take this course. It provided me with a network of inspiring women and the tools to continue to ask for what I want.” Past Participant Christine KetaProgram Operations Manager at the New York Power Authority Impact The Women in Leadership: Next Level Success program prepares participants to expand their influence and advance their leadership. Participants gain confidence in their leadership identity, empowering them to effect change in their workplace. During this highly interactive program, you will learn how to: Advocate for yourself, your team, and your collective ideas Establish strategic networks and better leverage them to champion change Engage supporters through compelling communications Overcome challenges to your visibility and authority Negotiate favorable outcomes and manage conflict Articulate your vision and your action plan for personal leadership Guest Speakers Each iteration of the program features guest speakers who share their leadership journeys with program participants. Recent speakers include Sharon Price John, president and CEO of Build-A-Bear Workshop, who explained how she effected a turnaround at her organization, and Nancy McKinstry, CEO of Wolters Kluwer, who shared lessons from a major digital transformation experience. In this video, hear from guest speaker Rachel Mushahwar, former Intel General Manager, Head of Americas for Retail, Hospitality, and CPG, on why the topic of women in leadership is important to her. Upon completion of this program, you will earn three credits towards a Certificate with select alumni and tuition benefits. Learn more. Program Structure The Women in Leadership: Next Level Success program uses a combination of online tools, interactive lectures, inspirational talks, and workshop exercises to build participants’ confidence and hone their skillsets. Sessions taught by Columbia Business School professors, women’s leadership practitioners and business leaders are supplemented by sessions with colleagues from various fields and industries. In the weeks leading up to the program’s start, the faculty directors will help participants begin to identify and frame their personal goals for participation in the course, connect participants with each other, and solicit input to be used throughout the program with various online activities. You will focus on crystallizing your goals and cultivating the supporters you need to realize your ambitions, including: Identifying and developing your: leadership identity motivations, values, and strengths portfolio of strategic priorities Evaluating your formal and informal networks to identify the strengths of your network and individuals who can become supporters of your mission Learning strategies for advocating for yourself and gaining visibility for your accomplishments You'll also focus on interactions with others and communicating effectively, including: Effective and productive communication tactics in an array of contexts: informal, formal and when the stakes are especially high The importance of storytelling to enlist supporters and facilitate decision-making Strategies and techniques for making your voice heard Specific approaches for enhancing your deal making success Get equipped to create a new future and drive change in your organization, specifically: Visioning skills required to identify and pursue opportunities beyond your to-do list and to alert others to new possibilities Assessing your level of comfort in taking risks Adopting a new framework for thinking about important choices Applying these new learnings to the opportunity to advance women’s leadership in your workplace and develop strategies to make that happen Schedule Three consecutive full days of in-person sessions on the Manhattanville campus in NYC. View the in-person schedule. Includes breakfast, lunch, and all materials. Dates, fees, and physical locations are subject to change. “The Women in Leadership program brought together some of the most brilliant women and men from around the world, that were redefining what a leader is. In this way, we all learned how to define leaders as role models and not by gender. If we all strive to empower others through our words and ideas, we will be able to move forward by uplifting others as well. I can already see the changes in my life & career.” Shefali KaraniExecutive/Director/Owner at Rama Phosphates Ltd, India “The Women in Leadership course gave me another perception of leadership and a way to be an authentic and different leader in my organization.” Angelica CoronelProgrammatic Lead at Google “The Women in Leadership program provided me with tools and frameworks I can utilize to make an immediate impact on my organization.” Tina BiswasProgram Director at Razorfish “The program was a great way to get women together to discuss leadership challenges and collectively make commitments to improve the advancements of women in the workplace.” Kelsey AchenbachStrategic Marketing Manager, Celanese “As a woman who works in technology I’m sort of fascinated by the lack of women in the space. I think there’s a real opportunity for all of us to raise the bar for enterprises, so I’m taking Women in Leadership as a mentor to other women.” MZ GoodmanVP of Product, Goop “My time at the Women in Leadership program was very impactful and gave me tools and tips for moving forward in my career.” Shawn RoseManager at Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, Houston Branch 1 / 6 Participant Profile Industry Years of Management Experience % Education 18 FInance 12 Healthcare 8 IT/Technology 5 Consulting 4 Retail & Wholesale 3 Non-Profit 3 Other 18 , ckeditor Years in Management Years of Management Experience % 20+ 24 16-20 24 11-15 21 6-10 12 1-5 1 , ckeditor The Women in Leadership: Next Level Success program is designed for middle- to upper-level executives who are looking to take their leadership abilities to the next level and expand their impact and influence. Columbia Business School alumni and up to four of their colleagues are eligible for a 25 percent tuition benefit for this program. More on the Alumni Tuition Benefit. Faculty Trish Gorman Former Director of Global Strategy Learning, McKinsey & Company MBA, PhD Faculty Co-Director Trish Gorman Former Director of Global Strategy Learning, McKinsey & Company Trish Gorman is a strategy expert and consultant who has developed and delivered high-impact learning programs for hundreds of organizations in diverse industries. The common thread across all of Trish’s work is a laser focus on effective and proactive leadership of strategic change. Trish designs corporate and institutional educational programs and is a subject matter expert for selected early-stage investors and entrepreneurs. At Columbia Business School Executive Education, Dr. Gorman is also the co-faculty director of the Mastering Corporate Entrepreneurship program as well as faculty director of various custom client programs. In her teaching, Gorman connects cutting-edge research with management priorities and decisions to build essential future-focused skills – supporting individuals on their journey from the classroom to the team room to the board room. Her strategy and agility frameworks are used around the world and she has published in Deloitte Review, Harvard Business Review, Forbes, and similar outlets. Read full bio Read full bio Malia F. Mason Courtney C. Brown Professor of Business and Vice Dean for Research, Columbia Business School Faculty Co-Director Malia F. Mason Courtney C. Brown Professor of Business and Vice Dean for Research, Columbia Business School Malia Mason is an expert on social judgment and behavior. She is particularly interested in how people judge the individuals and groups with whom they interact (e.g., impression formation, stereotyping) and the consequences of these judgments in work settings. She has been invited to share her thought leadership and teaching at academic conferences, universities, and companies all over the world. Numerous media outlets have featured her research, including: WSJ, CNN, CBS, Forbes, NPR, and the Atlantic. In 2015, she was awarded the Dean's Prize for Teaching Excellence in an MBA elective course. Prior to joining the Columbia faculty, she worked as a consultant in tech. Read full bio Read full bio FAQ Expand Certification I’m interested in the Certificate in Business Excellence (CIBE), how do I get started? At Columbia Business School Executive Education, you’ll be able to customize a unique learning experience by selecting programs that best interest you and are most suited for your needs. Any completed program, regardless of format (live online, in-person, or online), will count towards the Certificate in Business Excellence. Which programs qualify for the CIBE? Any completed executive education program, regardless of format (live-online, in-person, or online), will count towards the Certificate in Business Excellence. Partner programs will also count towards the certificate. What programs are considered partner programs? Executive education programs developed and administered with our educational partners, bring the best of our combined knowledge, thought leadership, resources, and expertise. Kindly find a list of our partners here on our partnership page. What are the costs of the certificate? There’s no set cost associated with the certificate path since you’re able to customize your learning journey with in-person and online programs (price will vary depending on the program type and length). Are there any tuition assistance or scholarships? At Columbia Business School Executive Education, we offer non-degree and non-credit-based professional development programs to the global business community. As our programs are non-degree and non-credit, they do not qualify for financial aid. How are CIBE credits determined? Credits for a program are determined by the program duration and total learning hours. Where do I find information on the credit value for a program? You will find this information on each program page. Credits range from 0.5 credits – 26 credits per program. How do I get enrolled in the CIBE? Your certificate journey will start with your first program, and you have 4 years to complete your CIBE. You may register for any of our executive education programs on each program page. You may enroll using the “Enroll Now” button, and the application process should take 5-10 minutes. How do I receive credits? You are required to fully attend a program and complete all necessary coursework in order to receive CIBE credits. Credits are only awarded after you complete a program. How do I check the status of my Certificate completion? Kindly reach out to a Learning Solutions representative for any questions on the status of your CIBE credit count. Do CIBE credits expire? Credits are only valid for four years (Please note: While we are not able to offer in-person programming due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the duration to complete the programming has been extended to five years.). If you have not completed your CIBE within four years, we will only count non-expired credits towards your CIBE credit total. Does the Certificate in Business Excellence expire? Your Certificate in Business Excellence does not expire. Once you become a certificate recipient, you will join the greater alumni community at Columbia Business School. I’ve reached 18 CIBE credits, what’s next? Congratulations! You should receive a digital copy of your certificate at the end of your program. If you do not receive a copy from your program manager, kindly contact your Learning Solutions representative or your program manager for next steps. Will I receive a physical certificate? Yes, all certificate recipients will receive a physical plaque. If you completed your last CIBE credits through an online or live online program, you will receive a plaque in the mail. We will ask for you to provide us with your preferred mailing address and our vendor will ship the plaque directly to you. We kindly ask for your patience as the processing time takes a few weeks. Please contact your program manager for the status of your plaque. If you completed your last CIBE credits through an in-person program, you will receive a plaque at the end of the program. How do I get access to my alumni benefits? Once you complete your CIBE, we kindly ask for your patience as we process your alumni credentials. The processing time can take anywhere from 8 to 10 weeks long. Can I refer colleagues to the Certificate in Business Excellence? If you are a certificate holder, you may sponsor up to four colleagues each year for full-price in-person programs lasting up to seven days and all full-price online programs. Can I add the Certificate in Business Excellence to LinkedIn? Yes! We will provide you with instructions on how to add your certificate to your LinkedIn profile after you become a Certificate recipient. Expand Preferred Pricing and Tuition Benefits for Alumni Are there preferred pricing options available for live online programs? Yes, preferred pricing is available for groups of two or more. To inquire, email execed@gsb.columbia.edu. As a Columbia Business School alumni am I eligible for tuition benefit? Columbia Business School alumni and up to four of their colleagues are eligible for a 25 percent tuition benefit for this program. More on the Alumni Tuition Benefit. Expand Assignments Will there be any homework or assignments? For select programs, there will be some assignments to complete after the end of select program sessions. Assignments will typically consist of readings, self-reflections, and brief assessments. This approach is designed to help you practice your learnings. How long will assignments take? We do not expect that homework assignments will take up a large amount of time to complete. Will there be any examinations or grades? There will be no examinations or grades for our live online programs. Expand Access When will I receive information on how to log in? You will receive your login information immediately before the program start date. Kindly reach out to your Program Manager for further instructions on how to prepare and log in for the program. What platform do you use to deliver live online programs? We use the Zoom platform. Expand Recordings Will sessions be recorded? Most live online sessions (depending on the faculty and program) will be recorded and will be available for you upon request. In-person programs are not recorded. How long will they be available for? Recordings will be available for the duration of the program. Depending on the program, some recordings may have additional availability post-program. How do I gain access to the recordings? Your Program Manager will provide you with further instructions on how to gain access to recorded sessions. Expand Experience How do participants network during the live online programs? Will I participate in group work? Our live online programs are fully virtual and highly interactive. Most programs also feature small group work for a high-touch learning experience. The virtual program experience allows participants to feel comfortable and productive learning at home while preserving the interconnectivity of an in-person program. What are the networking opportunities during the live online sessions? Yes. Examples of this may include: virtual lunches, virtual receptions, use of the chat function, and virtual office hours for you to connect with participants and faculty. Please refer to the agenda of the specific live online program you are interested in for details. Expand Live Online Format What are live online programs? Now, more than ever, executives need the knowledge and insights to help them adapt to change and solve complex problems. As the business world has evolved, we have applied new best practices to continuously improve your learning experience. With our live online programs, we are taking select in-person programs and are translating them to a fully live and virtual format, delivering the same interactive sessions with faculty and real-time application of the knowledge you would experience in person. What is the difference between live online and online programs? Compare our two formats for distance learning here. What does “live online” mean? Live online programs are fully virtual, highly interactive programs taking place in real-time, often featuring small group work for a high-touch learning experience. Our Columbia Business School faculty stream to you live and virtually, no matter where you are located. Are all live online programs the same in terms of format and length? No. Please refer to the agenda of the specific live online program you are interested in. For any questions, please reach out to the Contact person listed on the program's web page. Do I have to attend all live sessions? Participants are expected to attend all sessions. However, we understand that participants may have scheduling conflicts. Kindly let us know in advance whenever possible and your Program Manager would be happy to discuss how we can help you get up to speed. We will also record most faculty sessions, which you can review upon request. Will I need to attend the live sessions even if I’m based in a different time zone? You are required to attend all live sessions even if you are based in a different time zone. (Kindly reach out to the Learning Solutions team to learn more about our asynchronous program offerings, which consist predominantly of pre-recorded videos that you can watch on your own time). Expand COVID-19 Safety Plans Please review the latest COVID-19 related protocols at Columbia Business School. More Business & Society Programs Business & Society $13,750 Developing Black Leaders in Financial ServicesNEW 7.5 CIBE Credits July 25, 2022–March 30, 2023 Earn a Certificate Upon completion of this program, you will earn three credits towards a Certificate with select alumni and tuition benefits. Learn more Sign Up for Email Alerts Sign up for program updates and content relevant to today's business leaders from Columbia Business School Executive Education. First Name* Last Name* Email* Sign up Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificates Webinars About Columbia Business School Executive Education Geffen Hall 645 West 130th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel. +1 212-854-3395Maps and Directions Back to TopTOP © 2022 Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements