Skip to main content Mobile Main Navigation Custom Programs Open Enrollment Thought Leadership About Us Mobile Utility Navigation Office for External Education Harvard Medical School Menu Utility Navigation Office for External Education Harvard Medical School Search Main navigation Custom Programs Our Approach Client Stories Open Enrollment Designing and Implementing AI Solutions for Health Care Leading Digital Transformation in Health Care Global Health Care Leaders Program Industry Affiliate Programs Thought Leadership Industry Insights Webinar Series About Us Leadership Our Faculty Contact Us Linnea Olson: An Appreciation Teaching the Health Care Industry About Patient Centricity View Linnea's Story Designing and Implementing AI Solutions for Health Care June 6-17, 2022 Apply Now Engaging the Patient Perspective for Pharmaceutical R&D Client Story: Takeda Learn More From the Financial Times: What Google Employees Learned at HMS Laid the Foundation for its Move into Health Care Read Article Corporate Learning Health care is dynamic and complex, and it impacts wide-reaching aspects of the global economy. Success in the health care industry requires a deep understanding of stakeholder perspectives, real-world workflows, the changing economic landscape and the latest advancements in biomedical science. For more than 200 years, Harvard Medical School has shaped the design of medical school education throughout the world while preparing generations of physicians for leadership roles in patient care, education, research and policy. Now, we're bringing this expertise to business leaders who seek to address the most pressing challenges and opportunities facing health care. Interested in learning more? Contact us. Industry Insight Translating AI for health care: Myths and misconceptions Lily Peng, a physician-scientist and product manager at Google, discusses myths and misconceptions that surround translating AI for health care. Read Article Webinar Recording Rewriting the Genome for Health: From Bench to Biotech Sekar Kathiresan, MD, discusses his journey from being a professor and cardiologist at Harvard Medical School to becoming the co-founder and chief executive officer of Verve Therapeutics. View Recording Open Enrollment Explore our New Programs for Business and Science Leaders From digital health to trends in patient care, our open enrollment programs are designed for leaders whose work impacts health care. APPLY NOW Client Story: Google Understanding Technology's Role in Addressing Health Care Challenges Executive education program teaches tech leaders art, science of medicine READ MORE Learning Options Custom Programs Our customized executive programs equip industry professionals with the knowledge required to create value in a complex and changing health care landscape. LEARN MORE Open Enrollment Focused programs delivering breakthrough research, new perspectives and actionable insights. LEARN MORE Thought Leadership To help business and science leaders stay up-to-date on the latest trends and changes, we offer key insights into the science and practice of medicine through webinars and faculty perspective pieces. LEARN MORE Our Faculty Partners The faculty who teach in our programs are world-leading experts from industry and academia. Based on specific program needs, we draw upon Harvard Medical School’s nearly 12,000 faculty members, faculty from Schools across Harvard University, and business and science leaders at the forefront of innovations in health care. View a selection of faculty who teach in HMS Executive Education programs. Connect Follow us on social media by clicking the icons at the bottom of the page. Contact us by submitting a request or emailing executive_education@hms.harvard.edu. Facebook twitter linkedin instagram youtube Office for External Education 4 Blackfan Circle 4th Floor Boston, MA 02115 Footer Accessibility Privacy Policy Harvard Health Publishing HMX Postgraduate Medical Education © 2022 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College