Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Terms and Conditions Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cancellation and Payment Policies Live Online & Online Programs Programs Policies Code of Conduct Columbia University Privacy Notice Cancellation and Payment Policies Program Fee Full payment is required within 30 days of the date of application in order for candidates to maintain their place in the program. Participants who enroll less than 45 days before the program start date are required to pay the full fee immediately as a condition of acceptance. Failure to comply with our payment policy will result in applicants losing their seats. For CIBE Track enrollees: The invoice is due 60 days prior to the program start date. Cancellations & Transfers All cancellation, transfer, and substitution notifications must be sent in writing via email to Christine Tom at christine.tom@gsb.columbia.edu. The limit of cancellation and transfer requests per participant is two times. Due to program preparation and administration costs, any cancellations or requests for transfers received 30 days or less before the program begins are subject to late notice fees as described below. Notice Cancellation Fee Transfer Fee More than 30 days 0% 0% 14 to 30 days 50% 20% Less than 14 days 75% 30% Refunds & Credits A full refund may only be obtained if notification is received at least 31 days prior to the program start date. Each registrant is limited to one refund within a 365-day period. Full tuition is nonrefundable if the registrant or substitute cancels or defers more than two times. Requests for refunds of payments made more than one year prior are also nonrefundable. Any remaining balance/credit of a payment for a canceled program can be applied to another program within one year of the original payment date. After one year, the balance/credit is nontransferable and nonrefundable. Substitutions All participant substitutions are subject to the sole discretion of Columbia Business School Executive Education. Requests must be submitted in advance of the program start date and will be reviewed on an individual basis, based on participant qualifications and lead time needed for any pre-program work and administration. Travel & Visas Columbia Business School Executive Education is not responsible for matters or costs related to travel or visas under any circumstances. Participants may want to consider purchasing trip cancellation insurance in the unlikely event that a program is canceled or they cannot attend for personal or professional reasons. Visa denials or delays do not warrant a refund or waiver of late notice fees. Eligibility Columbia Business School Executive Education, at its sole discretion, reserves the right to limit enrollments at any time, regardless of acceptance status. Individuals who have paid tuition but are deemed ineligible to participate due to such enrollment limitations will receive a refund. Attendance Status Participants are expected to complete all sessions of a program in order to earn their certificate of attendance. Any missed sessions may result in forfeiting the receipt of the certificate and/or a deduction of credits towards a Certificate in Business Excellence. Location While we make every effort for our programs to take place on campus, some programs may run off campus in New York City. Columbia Business School Executive Education reserves the right to change the program location at any time. Program location changes do not merit a refund. Residential Program Accommodations For our residential programs, all rooms are single occupancy with the cost of the room and meals for one person (excluding incidentals) being included in the program fee. A typical day during the residential program begins at 8 a.m. with a few evening sessions lasting until after 10 p.m. In order to ensure that all participants are able to focus on the program sessions, assignments, and group work, participants are asked not to bring spouses and guests during the program. CourseHorse If you purchased a class through CourseHorse, their Refund & Cancellation policy applies to your purchase. If you are entitled to a refund, or have any questions, please visit the CourseHorse site and contact their customer service team. Live Online & Online Programs Our live online and online programs follow the above guidelines where applicable, with the exception of the following: Cancellation Full refunds can be obtained up to one business day before the program start date. No refunds will be granted for online program cancellations received less than one business day from the program start date. The limit of cancellation and transfer requests per participant is one time for online programs. Full tuition is nonrefundable if the registrant or substitute cancels or defers more than one time. Attendance Status Participants are expected to complete all program work and modules of a program in order to earn their Certificate of Participation. Any missed sessions may result in forfeiting the receipt of the certificate and/or a deduction of credits towards a Certificate in Business Excellence. Permission to Use Materials All content or other materials available on the online learning platform, including but not limited to code, images, text, layouts, arrangements, displays, illustrations, audio and video clips, HTML files and other content, are the property of Columbia Business School and/or its affiliates or licensors and are protected by copyright, patent, and/or other proprietary intellectual property rights under the United States and foreign laws. Columbia Business School grants you a personal, non-exclusive, non-transferable license to access and use the Sites. You may download material from the Sites only for your own personal, non-commercial use. You may not otherwise copy, reproduce, retransmit, distribute, publish, commercially exploit, or otherwise transfer any material, nor may you modify or create derivatives works of the material. The burden of determining that your use of any information, software, or any other content on the Site is permissible rests with you. Modifications to Site Columbia Business School reserves the right, for any reason or no reason, in our sole discretion and without notice, to terminate, change, suspend, or discontinue any aspect of the Site, including without limitation, information, data, text, music, sound, photographs, graphics, video, messages, courses, Materials, features, and/or hours of availability, and we will not be liable to you or to any third party for doing so. We may also impose rules and limits on the use of the Site or restrict your access to part, or the entire, Site without notice or penalty. Programs Policies English Language Requirement All Columbia Business School Executive Education programs are taught, moderated, and administered in English. To receive a rewarding experience, including rich interaction with faculty and fellow participants, proficiency in written and spoken English is essential. If English is your second language, or if you have less than one year of experience in an English-speaking work environment, Columbia Business School Executive Education may request documentation of proficiency in conversational and written English for your benefit. Acceptable documentation could include: Degrees earned at English-speaking colleges and universities A list of English-language certification programs completed Results of tests such as the TOEIC® – Test of English for International CommunicationTM exam Our Learning Solutions Specialists also may request a telephone interview. Attendance Status Participants are expected to complete all sessions of a program in order to earn their certificate of attendance. Any missed sessions may result in forfeiting the receipt of the certificate and/or a deduction of credits towards a Certificate in Business Excellence. Residential Program Accommodations For our residential programs, all rooms are single occupancy with the cost of the room and meals for one person (excluding incidentals) being included in the program fee. A typical day during the residential program begins at 8 a.m. with a few evening sessions lasting until after 10 p.m. In order to ensure that all participants are able to focus on the program sessions, assignments, and group work, participants are asked not to bring spouses and guests during the program. Photo & Video Release Program applicants and event registrants grant Columbia Business School permission to use their likeness in photograph(s) and videography in any and all of its publications and in any and all other media, whether now known or hereafter existing, controlled by Columbia University, in perpetuity, and for other use by the University. I will make no monetary or other claims against Columbia Business School for the use of the interview and/or the photograph(s) and videography. Recording of Live Online Programs Live online programs will be recorded to allow enrolled participants to review sessions. Code of Conduct Columbia University is a world-class university dedicated to teaching, research, and clinical care. In addition to all of the students and faculty that compose the Columbia community, thousands of staff members are also members of that community. Columbia is not only a place where students, faculty, researchers and clinicians come to do their best work, but also a place where thousands of staff members come to do their best work to advance the various missions of the University. https://universitypolicies.columbia.edu/ The University does not tolerate any form of unlawful discrimination or harassment, sexual assault, domestic violence, dating violence, stalking, or sexual exploitation and all such conduct is prohibited by this Policy. The University strongly encourages those who have experienced, witnessed or become aware of conduct that violates this Policy to come forward so that the University can take appropriate steps to prevent such conduct from occurring in the future and to ameliorate its effects. The University will protect the privacy of those who come forward to the extent possible and permissible by law. https://eoaa.columbia.edu/ Columbia Business School Executive Education respects the right for every participant to have a safe and effective learning environment. Violation of this policy may result in removal from any Columbia Business School Executive Education program, now and in the future. Sign Up for Email Alerts Sign up for program updates and content relevant to today's business leaders from Columbia Business School Executive Education. First Name* Last Name* Email* Sign up Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificates Webinars About Columbia Business School Executive Education Geffen Hall 645 West 130th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel. +1 212-854-3395Maps and Directions Back to TopTOP © 2022 Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements