Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Customer Experience Strategy (Online): Design and Deploy a Successful CX PlanNEW Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Select Date(s) June 9–July 28, 2022 Cost $2,600 CIBE Credits 2 Format Online Location Online Requirements Requirements While there are no specific prerequisites in terms of content knowledge, this program is designed for those who have some management-level experience in product, service, and brand marketing. Learn more Requirements Requirements While there are no specific prerequisites in terms of content knowledge, this program is designed for those who have some management-level experience in product, service, and brand marketing. Learn more Customer Experience Strategy (Online): Design and Deploy a Successful CX Plan Select Date(s) June 9–July 28, 2022 Cost $2,600 CIBE Credits 2 Format Online Location Online Requirements Requirements While there are no specific prerequisites in terms of content knowledge, this program is designed for those who have some management-level experience in product, service, and brand marketing. Learn more Download Brochure Overview It can be argued that, in some cases, customer experience (CX) has become more important than the brand itself when it comes to retaining customers and attracting new business. Today’s customer experience strategies go beyond traditional discounts and perks by engaging customers with personalized, seamless, and consistent interactions across all touchpoints. This online program will prepare you to develop this new vision and gain a competitive business advantage with answers to critical questions, such as the following: Why should it be a priority to meet the needs of your customers before the needs of your business when designing customer experience strategies? What is the difference between customer loyalty and customer advocacy? What are the potential benefits and drawbacks of using artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) technology for personalization? How can you best leverage consumer research techniques and employ personas, journey maps, and empathy maps to improve the customer experience? Please contact our partners at Emeritus at columbia@emeritus.org, +1 315-982-5094, or +1 315-277-2746 for a personal conversation about this program and how it may benefit you. Delivered in collaboration with Impact After participating in this program, you will be able to: Evaluate, understand, and work toward addressing the needs of your customers before the needs of your business Use qualitative and quantitative research tools to test customer experience strategies and create a holistic approach to giving customers a great experience with a brand Evaluate customer experience from the customer's point of view Leverage consumer research techniques to discover the motivations that drive customer needs Employ tools, such as personas, journey maps, and empathy maps, to make more informed decisions on how to improve customer experience Recognize the value of personalization in customer experience design using AI and machine learning technologies Program Structure This program covers key principles and tactical research and technology tools for developing customer experience strategies that support business differentiation as a competitive advantage. Module 1 Module 2 Module 3 Module 4 Module 5 Module 6 Customer Experience Strategy and the Role of Customer Experience Design Gain an understanding of the fundamentals of customer experience and identify the importance of customer experience design in the context of omnichannel interactions with customers. Participant Profile Mid-level to senior managers who want to develop competitive differentiation by designing engaging customer experiences in the context of multichannel interactions Product professionals, marketers, and entrepreneurs who want to integrate an overall customer experience strategy with their brand and product strategies Faculty Paul Canetti Adjunct Assistant Professor of Business, Marketing Department, Columbia Business School Paul Canetti Adjunct Assistant Professor of Business, Marketing Department, Columbia Business School Paul Canetti is an entrepreneur, educator, and futurist. He is an adjunct assistant professor of business at Columbia Business School in the marketing department. He sits on the Strategic Advisory Board of Riverside Acceleration Capital. He is also the host of the podcast Tech News for MBAs and writes about technology on his website, Hypothetically Great. Canetti was named one of Inc.'s “30 Under 30 World’s Coolest Young Entrepreneurs” and has founded multiple software businesses including MAZ, a video distribution and e-commerce platform used by Forbes, Bloomberg, and Condé Nast. MAZ was listed as one of Entrepreneur Magazine’s “Best Entrepreneurial Companies in America”. Canetti served as Maz chief executive officer and Chairman of the Board for 10 years, until it was acquired by Zype in 2021. Canetti was also the co-founder and chief executive officer of ClickEasy, formerly named Bounce House, an e-commerce platform for local service businesses, which was acquired in 2021. He is currently on ClickEasy's advisory board. Canetti’s work focuses at the intersection of cutting-edge technology, user experience, and business. He previously worked as a lead creative at Apple and is the author of the upcoming book about the implications of augmented reality on various industries called Augment Nation: Moving Humanity to the Software Layer. Canetti is also an angel investor and startup advisor. Additionally, Canetti does private consulting and corporate training for executives at Fortune 500 companies. His clients have included TikTok, Indeed, L’Oréal, Estée Lauder, Disney, Walmart, Unilever, Staples, AXA, Condé Nast, IHG Hotels & Resorts, IBM, General Electric, PwC, Citigroup, MasterCard, and American Express. Read full bio Read full bio Upcoming Programs Marketing $6,650 Digital Marketing Strategy: Customers, Planning, and ROI 3 CIBE Credits June 14–16, 2022 Marketing $1,600 Digital Marketing: Customer Engagement, Social Media, Planning & Analytics 1 CIBE Credits June 29–September 14, 2022 MarketingGeneral Management $28,000 Chief Marketing OfficerNEW 18 CIBE Credits September 20, 2022–August 15, 2023 See More Programs Earn a Certificate Upon completion of this program, you will earn credits towards a Certificate with select alumni and tuition benefits. Learn more Sign Up for Email Alerts Sign up for program updates and content relevant to today's business leaders from Columbia Business School Executive Education. First Name* Last Name* Email* Sign up Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificates Webinars About Columbia Business School Executive Education Geffen Hall 645 West 130th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel. +1 212-854-3395Maps and Directions Back to TopTOP © 2022 Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements