Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Negotiation Strategies: Creating and Maximizing Value Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Select Date(s) July 11–15, 2022 Cost $5,450 CIBE Credits 3 Format Live Online Location Online Select Date(s) November 9–11, 2022 Cost $6,950 CIBE Credits 3 Format In-Person Location Manhattanville Campus, NYC Add to Cart Download Brochure Contact Us Requirements This program is suitable for attendees at all executive levels who are seeking to enhance their negotiation capabilities. Negotiation Strategies: Creating and Maximizing Value Add to Cart Download Brochure Select Date(s) July 11–15, 2022 Cost $5,450 CIBE Credits 3 Format Live Online Location Online Select Date(s) November 9–11, 2022 Cost $6,950 CIBE Credits 3 Format In-Person Location Manhattanville Campus, NYC Download Brochure Overview Capabilities with people – whether reading a client's concern or settling an internal conflict – influence results and determine success. Over three days, Negotiation Strategies teaches you how to get the most out of negotiations by creating a winning proposition for both sides. You also explore methods for successful conflict resolution and understand the impact of cultural differences in the negotiation process. "Most people are surprised at how much they need these skills on a day-to-day basis. People expect they will develop skills in negotiation with vendors or over salaries. What they begin to realize is that when you're in a meeting it's a negotiation, a marriage is a negotiation, and raising children is an extremely challenging negotiation." –Robert Bontempo, Faculty Director “Negotiation Strategies was a terrific program, particularly because we negotiate every single day in our lives. I learned about methods to find common ground in order not to negotiate myself into a gridlock.” Program Participant Olaf GlaserPresident & CEO at Champignon North America, Inc. Faculty director Bob Bontempo discusses his application-oriented teaching approach for immediate application. Negotiation vs. Persuasion Skills Are you looking to complement your negotiation skills with expert persuasion skills? In these short videos, the program's faculty director Bob Bontempo explains why persuasion and negotiation are different sets of behaviors but with two complementary skill sets, and a past participant explains his need for both skills in his role. View Professor Bontempo's program on Persuasion: Influencing Without Authority. Please contact our Learning Solutions Specialists at +! 212-854-3395 for a personal conversation to learn more. Impact "Technical skills are what poker players call 'table stakes,' the minimum currency one needs to 'get into the game.' But later on, we find that it is an executive's softer skills that determine their ability to create value, drive change, and build institutions. "The current round of economic turmoil means that certain organizational responses are inevitable. Mastery of the softer interpersonal skills is what will separate those who merely survive these changes from those who will thrive and grow as leaders." The program examines each element of a negotiation, applying a framework of strategies based on psychological research. As you participate with peers in a series of increasingly difficult, real-world negotiation simulations, you will benefit from constant feedback and the refinement of new techniques. –Robert Bontempo, faculty director Summary of Benefits Discover the four different communication styles and how they affect negotiations Learn how to avoid common decision traps Understand the effects of making decisions in a group Determine when to walk away from a negotiation Improve your ability to negotiate across cultures Strengthen your ability to resolve conflicts and manage your emotions during a negotiation Upon completion of this program, you will earn three credits towards a Certificate with select alumni and tuition benefits. Learn more. Program Structure Negotiation Strategies is a hands-on, practical approach to negotiations, with participants analyzing case studies and then testing their negotiation skills within a supportive environment. In addition to actively participating in negotiating role-plays, participants read selections on negotiating within a global context, mediation skills, turning negotiating into a corporate capability, and the science of persuasion. Sample Session Titles Power: What It Is and How to Get It Third Party Roles in Managerial Negotiation The Psychology of the Negotiating Opponent Advanced Negotiation: The Hard Work on the Soft Stuff Schedule Live Online: Five consecutive daily live sessions from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. View the live online schedule. In-Person: Three consecutive full days of in-person sessions on the Manhattanville campus in NYC. View the in-person schedule. Includes breakfast, lunch and all materials for the in-person program. Dates, fees, and locations are subject to change. “I took Negotiation Strategies not knowing the impact it would have on my professional life. It has changed the way I perceive a problem, the way I plan my arguments prior an important meeting, how to create mutual value with your counter-party which creates a long-term solid relationship, and much more. The main strength of the course was the practical cases that pushed us to interact and practice, 1-on-1 with our classmates.” Fidaa NesrBoard of Directors Member, Partner, Senior Trader, Webcor Group “It was unique to discover that, while negotiating, it is crucial to create value for yourself but also value for your counterparties. In the complex global business world, value is often destroyed due to one way thinking: I take all and leave you with nothing. During the course, through the theoretical approach as well as practical case study simulations, I learned that combined value creation is beneficial for both parties.” Andria JokhtaberidzeConsultant (M&A), Magticom “Negotiating is always part of my job, especially since I work in a cross-cultural environment. BATNA was an interesting and useful concept for me to learn. How to plan your BATNA before your negotiating sessions is absolutely key.” Rajiv KumaraswamyProduct Manager, Schlumberger “Bob [Bontempo]'s insights about different negotiation strategies and his deep understanding of human behavior across cultural differences provides a powerful platform to understand this topic from a new, fresh perspective.” Rodrigo CuadraAHS Business Development Manager, Modular Mining Systems “This course is extremely valuable and directly applicable to many real-world business interactions. I highly recommend it. The best part is the ability to network and learn from world business leaders.” Anthony SchatzDirector EHS & Product Regulatory, Ashland, Inc. “As a manager I negotiate with stakeholders every day. In the program, I learned that negotiation isn't about winning, but about adding value for all participants involved. In my opinion, every executive should take a negotiation course.” Miriam ManriqueCountry Manager, Amba Research 1 / 6 Hear From Past Participants on Their Return on Learning Thomas Magnor, President, Atlas Metal Parts Kelley Brown, Business Development Manager at Bechtel Niels Petersen, FPSO Project Manager at Maersk Oil and Gas Rana Lacer, SVP of Finance at the Las Vegas Convention & Visitors Authority Participant Profile Negotiation Strategies is designed for all levels of executives who are seeking to enhance their negotiation capabilities. Columbia Business School alumni and up to four of their colleagues are eligible for a 25 percent tuition benefit for this program. More on the Alumni Tuition Benefit. Industry Industry % Finance / Accounting 18 Manufacturing 10 Healthcare 9 Consulting 8 Energy / Resources 8 IT / Technology 8 Government 6 Shipping & Transport 5 CPG 5 Other 23 , ckeditor Job Function Job Function % General Mgmt 24 Sales 17 Finance / Accounting 11 Marketing 11 Operations 7 Legal / Compliance 6 Administrative 3 Info Systems / Tech 3 Other 18 , ckeditor Faculty Robert N. Bontempo Adjunct Professor of Business Faculty Member, Executive Education Faculty Director Robert N. Bontempo Adjunct Professor of Business Faculty Member, Executive Education Robert Bontempo is a leading advisor to senior executives worldwide. He advises on the leadership of organizational change and the implementation of business strategy to such companies as Goldman Sachs, Boeing, Glaxo-Welcome, and NASA. Bontempo has advised the US State Department under both democratic and republican administrations, and has worked closely with the UN Population Fund. His observations on leadership have been featured in The New York Times, the Wall Street Journal, and The Economist, and he has been named by Businessweek magazine as one of the top MBA professors in the U.S. Read full bio Read full bio More Negotiation & Decision Making Programs LeadershipNegotiation & Decision Making $2,950 Strategic Storytelling: Maximum Impact in a Digital World 2 CIBE Credits June 8–10, 2022 Negotiation & Decision Making $6,950 Quantitative Intuition™: Making Smarter Decisions with Imperfect Information 3 CIBE Credits September 13–15, 2022 Negotiation & Decision Making $6,950 Behavioral Science in Business: Understanding People to Drive Results 3 CIBE Credits November 14–16, 2022 Earn a Certificate Upon completion of this program, you will earn three credits towards a Certificate with select alumni and tuition benefits. Learn more Sign Up for Email Alerts Sign up for program updates and content relevant to today's business leaders from Columbia Business School Executive Education. First Name* Last Name* Email* Sign up Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificates Webinars About Columbia Business School Executive Education Geffen Hall 645 West 130th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel. +1 212-854-3395Maps and Directions Back to TopTOP © 2022 Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements