Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Chief Financial OfficerNEW Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Select Date(s) June 20, 2022–May 8, 2023 Cost $28,000 CIBE Credits 18 Format Modular, Blended Location Online Sessions and In Person Networking Requirements Participants should have a minimum of ten years of work experience in finance and fluency in written and spoken English Chief Financial Officer Select Date(s) June 20, 2022–May 8, 2023 Cost $28,000 CIBE Credits 18 Format Modular, Blended Location Online Sessions and In Person Networking Download Brochure As the global economy and organizations have evolved, so has the role of the chief financial officer (CFO). Businesses are witnessing profound changes because of global crises, innovations in technology, business models, and rising expectations from boards and stakeholders. Today, the CFO’s role has expanded beyond the duties of financial reporting and statutory compliance. The modern CFO acts as a strategic leader who drives direction and growth across the organization, while leveraging financial data analytics in an increasingly dynamic regulatory environment. CFOs are seen as inspirational, long-term value leaders who drive innovative strategies to accelerate the digitalization of finance. That’s why now, more than ever, CFOs must be strategic partners who nimbly execute and assertively communicate the strategies that will propel their companies forward. The Chief Financial Officer Program from Columbia Business School Executive Education will help financial leaders take the next step in their careers. Through a comprehensive curriculum driven by world-class faculty and the latest industry research and insights, senior leaders will develop the knowledge and skills to seamlessly transition into the CFO role. This program will help participants drive financial frameworks that embrace global business strategies while preparing them to manage investors, analysts, and the board. It tackles various themes during the intensive nine-month multimodal learning journey structured around value creation, capital markets, risk management, leadership, and relevant skill development for the CFO role. At the end of this program, participants will emerge equipped with the skills, tools, and frameworks needed to lead financial transformation and handle increasingly complex challenges being faced by their organizations. Please contact our partners at Emeritus at columbia_cfo@emeritus.org, +1 315-982-5094 or +1 315-277-2746 for a personal conversation to learn more. Delivered in collaboration with Highlights With the Chief Financial Officer Program, you will gain the necessary tools and frameworks to enhance your financial leadership, sharpen your decision-making skills, and lead digital transformation in your organization. Some of the program highlights include: CORE CURRICULUM Kick-start your program journey with 18 weeks of core online learning, imparting essential skills for the CFO role. WEEKLY LIVE SESSIONS Experience live online sessions with success coaches, as well as periodic guest lectures from faculty, industry leaders, career advisors. WORLD-RENOWNED FACULTY Learn from Ivy League faculty, thought leaders, and financial industry experts. PEER LEARNING Learn from high-achieving peers from around the globe and build your network. CHOICE OF ELECTIVES Select from relevant topical electives to gain skill sets specific to your career goals. SUCCESS COACH You will be assigned a success coach who will help craft your learning journey through regular one-on-one check-in sessions. NETWORKING EVENT Interact with faculty, peers, and global industry leaders at a three-day in-person networking event. SELECT ALUMNI BENEFITS Receive select Columbia Business School alumni benefits upon completion of the program. Program Structure Core Modules Electives Recognition Ceremony and Networking Event Value Creation and Strategy Audit CFO Leadership Style CFO as a Strategic Partner to the CEO Capital Allocation Capital Markets: M&A and Integration Managing Performance and Compensation Raising Capital Managing Investors Working with Boards Capital Markets: Regulatory Compliance ERP Systems, Legacy Systems Tomorrow's CFO: Looking into the Future Note: Session topics and electives are subject to change. Participant Profile The Chief Financial Officer Program is uniquely designed to suit professionals with a strong finance background from diverse industries. Individuals new to the CFO role or stepping into a financial leadership role will benefit from the in-depth curriculum, expert faculty, and invaluable networking opportunities. Participants should have: A minimum of ten years of work experience in finance Fluency in written and spoken English International exposure (preferred) Faculty Shiva Rajgopal Roy Bernard Kester and T.W. Byrnes Professor of Accounting and Auditing Shiva Rajgopal Roy Bernard Kester and T.W. Byrnes Professor of Accounting and Auditing Shiva Rajgopal is the Kester and Byrnes Professor at Columbia Business School. A highly regarded academic, Shiva is one of the world’s leading experts on measuring how well managers serve as responsible stewards of the corporation’s resources. He is perhaps best known for his finding that around 40 percent of Chief Financial Officers would sacrifice a positive net present value project to meet quarterly analyst consensus earnings estimate. Apart from conducting pioneering research on short-termism, Shiva's extensive body of academic and practitioner focused work covers a wide range of contemporary issues in financial reporting and governance such as accounting restatements, frauds, SEC enforcement actions, efficacy of board and executive compensation schemes in delivering shareholder value, whistle blowing, and the paramount importance of corporate culture as an under-appreciated economic asset of the firm. He has wide-ranging experience in solving applied business problems with global private equity funds, leading insurance companies, financial services firms, hedge funds, and cyber security ratings agencies. His work has been featured extensively in the Harvard Business Review, The New York Times, the Wall Street Journal, The Financial Times, Barrons, Bloomberg, Fortune, Forbes and The Economist. Read full bio Read full bio Finance & Investing $2,600 Scenario Planning (Online): Learn how to Model, Predict and Prepare for the FutureNEW 1 CIBE Credits June 2–July 21, 2022 Finance & Investing $29,000 Global Banking Program: Fintech, Digital, and Analytics CIBE Credits June 6, 2022–February 10, 2023 Learn More Finance & Investing $2,600 Leveraged Buyouts (Online): A Roadmap for Evaluating, Structuring, and Executing LBOsNEW 2 CIBE Credits June 23–August 11, 2022 Finance & Investing $28,000 Venture Capital Private EquityNEW 18 CIBE Credits June 23, 2022–June 15, 2023 See more programs Earn a Certificate Upon completion of this program, you will earn credits towards a Certificate with select alumni and tuition benefits. Learn more Sign Up for Email Alerts Sign up for program updates and content relevant to today's business leaders from Columbia Business School Executive Education. First Name* Last Name* Email* Sign up Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificates Webinars About Columbia Business School Executive Education Geffen Hall 645 West 130th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel. +1 212-854-3395Maps and Directions Back to TopTOP © 2022 Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements