Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Introduction to Digital Health and Strategy: Leveraging Emerging Technologies in Healthcare Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Select Date(s) September 20–29, 2022 Cost $5,250 CIBE Credits 3 Format Live Online Location Online Requirements This program is suitable for attendees at all executive levels who are working in the rapidly evolving fields of life science innovation, pharmaceutical and device research, health tech investment and other related industries. Requirements This program is suitable for attendees at all executive levels who are working in the rapidly evolving fields of life science innovation, pharmaceutical and device research, health tech investment and other related industries. Learn more Add to Cart Download Brochure Contact Us Requirements This program is suitable for attendees at all executive levels who are working in the rapidly evolving fields of life science innovation, pharmaceutical and device research, health tech investment and other related industries. Requirements This program is suitable for attendees at all executive levels who are working in the rapidly evolving fields of life science innovation, pharmaceutical and device research, health tech investment and other related industries. Learn more Introduction to Digital Health and Strategy: Leveraging Emerging Technologies in Healthcare Add to Cart Download Brochure Select Date(s) September 20–29, 2022 Cost $5,250 CIBE Credits 3 Format Live Online Location Online Requirements This program is suitable for attendees at all executive levels who are working in the rapidly evolving fields of life science innovation, pharmaceutical and device research, health tech investment and other related industries. Requirements This program is suitable for attendees at all executive levels who are working in the rapidly evolving fields of life science innovation, pharmaceutical and device research, health tech investment and other related industries. Learn more Download Brochure Overview The use of digital technologies is changing the healthcare sector at an unprecedented pace, providing innovative ways to achieve better healthcare outcomes, opportunities for lower long-term healthcare costs, and a rapidly growing digital health market poised to grow by USD 207.34 billion during 2020-2024. Run in an unprecedented partnership of Columbia Business School Executive Education and digital health testing center HITLAB, the Introduction to Digital Health and Strategy: Leveraging Emerging Technologies in Healthcare program offers executives in the healthcare space unique resources for accelerating the infusion of digital health in their business. Over the course of three days, executives develop a powerful digital health strategy for their organization, tapping into Columbia Business School’s world-renowned leadership expertise and HITLAB’s preeminent know-how of the healthcare sector. The program demystifies the value-based components of digital health and generates a common language and framework for accelerated collaboration across the executive's organization. Participants explore a strategic roadmap for its real-world application upon their return to work, leaving with a strategic game plan that ensures sustainability across people, platforms, processes, and partnerships. To learn more about this program, please contact Co-Director Stan Kachnowski at swk16@gsb.columbia.edu. Delivered in collaboration with “Amidst the coronavirus pandemic, the program content is more pertinent to healthcare organizations than ever before. To adapt, we have changed our popular in-person Digital Health Strategy program to be delivered fully online. While previously designed to provide a substantive course of action for your organization in digital health technologies and techniques, we have reshaped the conversation around digital health strategy in the age of COVID-19.” Stan KachnowskiDirector of the Digital Health Program Series Meet Faculty Co-Director Stan Kachnowski as he introduces the Digital Health Strategy program. Impact Participants explore and learn how innovative digital health solutions transforms life-science research, clinical testing and development, consumer and patient experience, and business models and operations. They also learn the necessary skills, technologies, organizational enablers, and constraints for successfully finding, verifying, and diffusing new digital health solutions. The program highlights four key leadership processes that make transformation possible through digital health innovations, teaching participants to articulate how key emerging technologies add patient-centric value can improve organizational productivity. Those key processes entail identifying, selecting, verifying, and diffusing innovations. After attending the program, executives will be ready to: Improve innovation and health outcomes through their new understanding of the potential of digital health Identify digital health opportunities within their industry Diagnose their company’s readiness levels for digital health innovation Develop a digital health strategy to meet specific business needs Measure the impact of their digital health program Embed digital health into the DNA of their organization The program is run in partnership with digital health testing center HITLAB. In this video, faculty director Stan Kachnowski explains how participants benefit from the partnership: Upon completion of this program, you will earn three credits towards a Certificate with select alumni and tuition benefits. Learn more. AMA CREDIT DESIGNATION STATEMENT The Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education to provide continuing medical education for physicians. The Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons designates this live activity for a maximum of 18.0 AMA PRA Category 1 Credits™. Physicians should claim only the credit commensurate with the extent of their participation in the activity. Program Structure The program uses a combination of interactive lectures, case studies, planning group exercises, and experiential learning activities that leverage New York City’s digital health ecosystem. Most importantly, participants learn — step by step — the tools of digital health strategy and apply these tools to their own organization. Schedule Six days over two weeks with live sessions from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. ET on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Thursdays. View the live online schedule. Dates and fees are subject to change. Part 1 Part 2 Part 3 Definition and Relevance Participants examine the complex and rapidly changing landscape of digital health and how to develop a digital health strategy for success. Through an in-depth analysis, they identify the strengths and weaknesses of their organization’s digital health readiness and strategy relative to competition. In the second half of the day, participants learn about the role digital health plays in their organization, and begin to design a new strategy based leveraging a new digital health strategy toolkit. Guest speakers will include current and past chief digital officers, chief medical officers, and innovation leaders across the industry. Case studies will be shared from past and current examples, and students will interact with some of the most well-respected minds in the field. “It was refreshing to have a healthcare-centric program with outstanding leaders from the hospital and private sector discussing their businesses and perspectives. The networking opportunities were another benefit and I actually discussed a collaboration with one participant and met offline with another participant who also happens to be a physician. There are not many physicians that actually seek out business school and learn how to build and manage a company. Medical school does not prepare physicians to become business leaders or CEOs of a company or teach physicians how to finance an idea or take an idea to market. I am impressed with the way Columbia continues to reach out to me and keep me informed of lectures and meetings and I must say [Faculty Director] Stan Kachnowski is incredible with the way he gets on a Zoom or phone call to check-in. I am very happy with my Columbia Business School/HITLAB experience.” Carl RosenCEO at CallDR “As an entrepreneur running a digital health startup company, I was worried I would have already known most of the contents prior to taking this class. However, I was pleasantly surprised by the comprehensiveness of the contents and quality of the speakers delivered in this course. The networking arrangements were also great.” John HuiJohn Hui “This course helped me understand the changes happening in US healthcare and think through how they might help developing countries improve their health outcomes and achieve universal health coverage. I became more effective in identifying digital heath opportunities for the developing country clients we serve.” Marelize GorgensInternational Development “The difference between being good and great often comes down to preparation and early adoption. Insights from the Digital Health Strategy program can help better prepare your organization for the fast moving tech transformation in healthcare.” Ashish D. PalManaging Director, MSD Singapore & Malaysia “I just joined a health innovations organization. The Digital Health Strategy program was a good orientation into the health innovations market. I particularly liked the experience of interacting with other executives in the field. Appreciating their experiences has built my confidence in what I am doing. I now know what I am targeting and what might not work.” Ruth ObaikolDeputy Director at the Academy for Health Innovations and Impact, Infectious Diseases Institute 1 / 5 Participant Profile Digital Health Strategy: Leveraging Emerging Technologies in Healthcare is designed for executives working in the rapidly evolving fields of life science innovation, pharmaceutical and device research, health tech investment and other related industries. This program empowers participants to understand the complex digital health landscape and to both identify and capture meaningful opportunities to generate new value for both their organizations and customers. Columbia Business School alumni and up to four of their colleagues are eligible for a 25 percent tuition benefit for this program. More on the Alumni Tuition Benefit. Years of Management Experience Years of Management Experience % 20+ 18 16-20 16 11-15 13 6-10 3 1-5 4 , ckeditor Job Function Years of Management Experience % Generam Management 10 Information Systems / Technology 3 Operations 3 Marketing 6 R&D 6 Other 11 , ckeditor Faculty Carri Chan Professor of Business and Faculty Director, Healthcare and Pharmaceutical Management Program Columbia Business School Carri Chan Professor of Business and Faculty Director, Healthcare and Pharmaceutical Management Program Columbia Business School Carri Chan is a professor of Business in the Decision, Risk, and Operations division at Columbia Business School. Her research is in the area of healthcare operations management. Her primary focus is in data-driven modeling of complex stochastic systems, efficient algorithmic design for queuing systems, dynamic control of stochastic processing systems, and statistical and econometric analysis of healthcare systems. Chan’s research combines empirical and stochastic modeling to develop evidence-based approaches to improve patient flow through hospitals. She has worked with clinicians and administrators in numerous hospital systems including Northern California Kaiser Permanente, New York Presbyterian, and Montefiore Medical Center. She spent the 2019-2020 academic year on sabbatical at the Value Institute at NY Presbyterian Hospitals. Chan is the recipient of a 2014 National Science Foundation (NSF) Faculty Early Career Development Program (CAREER) award and the 2016 Production and Operations Management Society (POMS) Wickham Skinner Early Career Award. She received her BS in Electrical Engineering from MIT and MS and PhD in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University. Read full bio Read full bio Stan Kachnowski Professor of Health Information Management in the division of Policy and Management at the Mailman School of Public Health at Columbia University Stan Kachnowski Professor of Health Information Management in the division of Policy and Management at the Mailman School of Public Health at Columbia University Professor Stan Kachnowski, PhD MPA CSEP, an Oxford-trained researcher, has taught over 5,000 students from Columbia University, IIT-Delhi, and Quinnipiac College. His teaching and research over the past 25 years include educating graduate-level and executive students on four continents and conducting extensive studies on the efficacy and diffusion of digital health, including electronic data capture, ePRO, wearables, and predictive algorithms. Kachnowski has authored over 200 peer-reviewed papers and presentations for national and international journals and societies in digital health development, management, and diffusion. He was selected as a fellow to CHIME in 1998. In 2003, he received a letter of commendation for teaching excellence from the dean of the School of Public Health at Columbia University. Professor Kachnowski was named a fellow to England’s Royal Society of Medicine for his research demonstrating the outcomes effectiveness of using the Palm Pilot in managing haemophilia patients in 2005. Professor Kachnowski has received grant funding from a wide-ranging groups of sponsors, including over a dozen nations, AARP, WHO, USAID, Gates and Dell Foundations, and most of the top 20 global life science companies. Over the past 25 years, he has also served as interim CTO for life science organizations, including Eyetech and Oncology.com. He currently serves on the board of directors for Oursmedicina, The Hudson Center for Health Equity, and Aptus Health. Professor Kachnowski holds Bachelor's and Master’s Degrees from the University of Vermont and a Doctorate from the University of Oxford and is an alumnus of Columbia Business School's Advanced Management Program. View on LinkedIn View on LinkedIn Expand Certification I’m interested in the Certificate in Business Excellence (CIBE), how do I get started? At Columbia Business School Executive Education, you’ll be able to customize a unique learning experience by selecting programs that best interest you and are most suited for your needs. Any completed program, regardless of format (live online, in-person, or online), will count towards the Certificate in Business Excellence. Which programs qualify for the CIBE? Any completed executive education program, regardless of format (live-online, in-person, or online), will count towards the Certificate in Business Excellence. Partner programs will also count towards the certificate. What programs are considered partner programs? Executive education programs developed and administered with our educational partners, bring the best of our combined knowledge, thought leadership, resources, and expertise. Kindly find a list of our partners here on our partnership page. What are the costs of the certificate? There’s no set cost associated with the certificate path since you’re able to customize your learning journey with in-person and online programs (price will vary depending on the program type and length). Are there any tuition assistance or scholarships? At Columbia Business School Executive Education, we offer non-degree and non-credit-based professional development programs to the global business community. As our programs are non-degree and non-credit, they do not qualify for financial aid. How are CIBE credits determined? Credits for a program are determined by the program duration and total learning hours. Where do I find information on the credit value for a program? You will find this information on each program page. Credits range from 0.5 credits – 26 credits per program. How do I get enrolled in the CIBE? Your certificate journey will start with your first program, and you have 4 years to complete your CIBE. You may register for any of our executive education programs on each program page. You may enroll using the “Enroll Now” button, and the application process should take 5-10 minutes. How do I receive credits? You are required to fully attend a program and complete all necessary coursework in order to receive CIBE credits. Credits are only awarded after you complete a program. How do I check the status of my Certificate completion? Kindly reach out to a Learning Solutions representative for any questions on the status of your CIBE credit count. Do CIBE credits expire? Credits are only valid for four years (Please note: While we are not able to offer in-person programming due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the duration to complete the programming has been extended to five years.). If you have not completed your CIBE within four years, we will only count non-expired credits towards your CIBE credit total. Does the Certificate in Business Excellence expire? Your Certificate in Business Excellence does not expire. Once you become a certificate recipient, you will join the greater alumni community at Columbia Business School. I’ve reached 18 CIBE credits, what’s next? Congratulations! You should receive a digital copy of your certificate at the end of your program. If you do not receive a copy from your program manager, kindly contact your Learning Solutions representative or your program manager for next steps. Will I receive a physical certificate? Yes, all certificate recipients will receive a physical plaque. If you completed your last CIBE credits through an online or live online program, you will receive a plaque in the mail. We will ask for you to provide us with your preferred mailing address and our vendor will ship the plaque directly to you. We kindly ask for your patience as the processing time takes a few weeks. Please contact your program manager for the status of your plaque. If you completed your last CIBE credits through an in-person program, you will receive a plaque at the end of the program. How do I get access to my alumni benefits? Once you complete your CIBE, we kindly ask for your patience as we process your alumni credentials. The processing time can take anywhere from 8 to 10 weeks long. Can I refer colleagues to the Certificate in Business Excellence? If you are a certificate holder, you may sponsor up to four colleagues each year for full-price in-person programs lasting up to seven days and all full-price online programs. Can I add the Certificate in Business Excellence to LinkedIn? Yes! We will provide you with instructions on how to add your certificate to your LinkedIn profile after you become a Certificate recipient. Expand Preferred Pricing and Tuition Benefits for Alumni Are there preferred pricing options available for live online programs? Yes, preferred pricing is available for groups of two or more. To inquire, email execed@gsb.columbia.edu. As a Columbia Business School alumni am I eligible for tuition benefit? Columbia Business School alumni and up to four of their colleagues are eligible for a 25 percent tuition benefit for this program. More on the Alumni Tuition Benefit. Expand Assignments Will there be any homework or assignments? For select programs, there will be some assignments to complete after the end of select program sessions. Assignments will typically consist of readings, self-reflections, and brief assessments. This approach is designed to help you practice your learnings. How long will assignments take? We do not expect that homework assignments will take up a large amount of time to complete. Will there be any examinations or grades? There will be no examinations or grades for our live online programs. Expand Access When will I receive information on how to log in? You will receive your login information immediately before the program start date. Kindly reach out to your Program Manager for further instructions on how to prepare and log in for the program. What platform do you use to deliver live online programs? We use the Zoom platform. Expand Recordings Will sessions be recorded? Most live online sessions (depending on the faculty and program) will be recorded and will be available for you upon request. In-person programs are not recorded. How long will they be available for? Recordings will be available for the duration of the program. Depending on the program, some recordings may have additional availability post-program. How do I gain access to the recordings? Your Program Manager will provide you with further instructions on how to gain access to recorded sessions. Expand Experience How do participants network during the live online programs? Will I participate in group work? Our live online programs are fully virtual and highly interactive. Most programs also feature small group work for a high-touch learning experience. The virtual program experience allows participants to feel comfortable and productive learning at home while preserving the interconnectivity of an in-person program. What are the networking opportunities during the live online sessions? Yes. Examples of this may include: virtual lunches, virtual receptions, use of the chat function, and virtual office hours for you to connect with participants and faculty. Please refer to the agenda of the specific live online program you are interested in for details. Expand Live Online Format What are live online programs? Now, more than ever, executives need the knowledge and insights to help them adapt to change and solve complex problems. As the business world has evolved, we have applied new best practices to continuously improve your learning experience. With our live online programs, we are taking select in-person programs and are translating them to a fully live and virtual format, delivering the same interactive sessions with faculty and real-time application of the knowledge you would experience in person. What is the difference between live online and online programs? Compare our two formats for distance learning here. What does “live online” mean? Live online programs are fully virtual, highly interactive programs taking place in real-time, often featuring small group work for a high-touch learning experience. Our Columbia Business School faculty stream to you live and virtually, no matter where you are located. Are all live online programs the same in terms of format and length? No. Please refer to the agenda of the specific live online program you are interested in. For any questions, please reach out to the Contact person listed on the program's web page. Do I have to attend all live sessions? Participants are expected to attend all sessions. However, we understand that participants may have scheduling conflicts. Kindly let us know in advance whenever possible and your Program Manager would be happy to discuss how we can help you get up to speed. We will also record most faculty sessions, which you can review upon request. Will I need to attend the live sessions even if I’m based in a different time zone? You are required to attend all live sessions even if you are based in a different time zone. (Kindly reach out to the Learning Solutions team to learn more about our asynchronous program offerings, which consist predominantly of pre-recorded videos that you can watch on your own time). Expand COVID-19 Safety Plans Please review the latest COVID-19 related protocols at Columbia Business School. More Strategy & Innovation Programs Strategy & InnovationDigital Business $1,500 Digital Strategies for Business: Leading the Next-Generation Enterprise 1 CIBE Credits June 30–September 15, 2022 Strategy & Innovation $1,989 Launch Your Startup (Online) 1 CIBE Credits September 19–November 23, 2022 Strategy & Innovation $6,950 Driving Strategic Impact: Mastering Management Consulting Skills 3 CIBE Credits October 24–26, 2022 LeadershipStrategy & Innovation $2,950 Strategy and Leadership in the Future of WorkNEW 2 CIBE Credits To be announced Earn a Certificate Upon completion of this program, you will earn three credits towards a Certificate with select alumni and tuition benefits. Learn more Sign Up for Email Alerts Sign up for program updates and content relevant to today's business leaders from Columbia Business School Executive Education. First Name* Last Name* Email* Sign up Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificates Webinars About Columbia Business School Executive Education Geffen Hall 645 West 130th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel. +1 212-854-3395Maps and Directions Back to TopTOP © 2022 Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements