Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Corporate Governance (Online): Driving Business Value Creation and GrowthNEW Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Select Date(s) June 2–July 28, 2022 Cost $2,600 CIBE Credits 2 Format Online Location Online Corporate Governance (Online): Driving Business Value Creation and Growth Select Date(s) June 2–July 28, 2022 Cost $2,600 CIBE Credits 2 Format Online Location Online Download Brochure The Corporate Governance (Online) program from Columbia Business School Executive Education is designed to equip corporate leaders with the skills to overcome emerging challenges of the new era, from navigating regulatory disruption to leveraging technological transformations. The program aims to help current and future board members and senior executives deepen their understanding of their roles and responsibilities while aligning to strategic organizational goals. Participants can harness the insights, frameworks, and tools they learn to enhance the value they bring to the boardroom and ensure high-performance governance practices. This immersive seven-week online program combines valuable academic research with practical business and finance strategies that aid in creating long-term value for the organization. From assessing the board structure using a skills matrix to formulating succession plans for senior executives, the concepts learned through this program will be further reinforced by peer interactions, knowledge checks, and case study analyses. Please contact our partners at Emeritus at columbia@emeritus.org, +1 315-982-5094, or +1 315-277-2746 for a personal conversation about this program and how it may benefit you. Delivered in collaboration with Impact This program will enable you to: Excel at understanding and working with boards Assess whether capital received from shareholders is being deployed efficiently by the board and senior management Ensure that internal controls adequately prevent ethical breaches, operational inefficiencies, and financial mismanagement Create attractive compensation plans for senior executives that are also aligned with organizational goals and performance Monitor, analyze, and evaluate current risks and devise contingency plans to safeguard the business from potential backlash Program Structure This program provides a structured understanding of corporate governance and its principles and processes, encompassing key aspects such as risk management, compensation planning, and strategic direction. Module 1 Module 2 Module 3 Module 4 Module 5 The Role of a Board Identify the fiduciary duties of directors and analyze the scope of their responsibilities against those of the management. Explore the various board committees and their roles. Participant Profile This program is designed for senior executives with board or management experience, those preparing to take on such responsibilities, and C-suite executives. Senior executives who are current or upcoming board members and wish to equip themselves with a structured understanding of proactive corporate governance, risk management, and compensation planning: Board member Board adviser Board director President Vice president C-suite executives who seek to understand the duties and nuances of board service and wish to enhance their organization's financial returns, risk management efforts, governance diversity, and strategic direction: Chief executive officer Chief technology officer Chief strategy officer Founder or co-founder Managing director Executive director Faculty Shiva Rajgopal Roy Bernard Kester and T.W. Byrnes Professor of Accounting and Auditing Shiva Rajgopal Roy Bernard Kester and T.W. Byrnes Professor of Accounting and Auditing Shiva Rajgopal is the Kester and Byrnes Professor at Columbia Business School. A highly regarded academic, Shiva is one of the world’s leading experts on measuring how well managers serve as responsible stewards of the corporation’s resources. He is perhaps best known for his finding that around 40 percent of Chief Financial Officers would sacrifice a positive net present value project to meet quarterly analyst consensus earnings estimate. Apart from conducting pioneering research on short-termism, Shiva's extensive body of academic and practitioner focused work covers a wide range of contemporary issues in financial reporting and governance such as accounting restatements, frauds, SEC enforcement actions, efficacy of board and executive compensation schemes in delivering shareholder value, whistle blowing, and the paramount importance of corporate culture as an under-appreciated economic asset of the firm. He has wide-ranging experience in solving applied business problems with global private equity funds, leading insurance companies, financial services firms, hedge funds, and cyber security ratings agencies. His work has been featured extensively in the Harvard Business Review, The New York Times, the Wall Street Journal, The Financial Times, Barrons, Bloomberg, Fortune, Forbes and The Economist. Read full bio Read full bio Sign Up for Email Alerts Sign up for program updates and content relevant to today's business leaders from Columbia Business School Executive Education. First Name* Last Name* Email* Sign up Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificates Webinars About Columbia Business School Executive Education Geffen Hall 645 West 130th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel. +1 212-854-3395Maps and Directions Back to TopTOP © 2022 Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements