Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Leadership Essentials (Online) Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Select Date(s) September 19–October 14, 2022 Cost $1,495 CIBE Credits 1 Format Online Location Online Add to Cart Download Brochure Contact Us Leadership Essentials (Online) Add to Cart Download Brochure Select Date(s) September 19–October 14, 2022 Cost $1,495 CIBE Credits 1 Format Online Location Online Download Brochure Overview The topic of leadership can be overwhelmingly broad, encompassing multiple disciplines in academia that study the complexity of intrapersonal, interpersonal, and organizational dynamics. But where do we begin to build our leadership abilities or hone our skills for the next chapter of our professional lives? The Leadership Essentials (Online) program offers a four-week learning journey for aspiring, new, and mid-level leaders to immerse themselves into the essentials of effective leadership with real-world application and research-based insights presented by renowned Columbia Business School faculty and executive coaches in the field. Based on the popular in-person Leadership Essentials program at Columbia Business School Executive Education, which has been highly rated by nearly 1,000 participants since its inception in 2008, this online program offers the same great learnings in a convenient online format, making it accessible to leaders around the world. Please contact our Learning Solutions Specialists at +1 212-854-3395 for a personal conversation to learn more. “This program provides an evidence-based approach to enhancing how you think and act as a leader while giving you considerable control over the learning process.” Joel BrocknerThe program's Faculty Hear from Faculty Director Joel Brockner with an introduction on the program. Impact The Leadership Essentials (Online) program helps you improve your effectiveness in working with individuals and teams by developing your essential leadership abilities, including team leadership, emotional intelligence, and change management. By taking this program, you will: Learn how to identify different leadership styles and leverage your own style for the evolving leadership roles at your organization Enhance your emotional intelligence and learn how to apply it appropriately as a leader Get equipped to make more effective business decisions and better communicate them to your team members Build strategies to influence your team more effectively and motivate them to maximize their potential Develop best practices to lead organizational change Understand how to manage the dynamics and climate in your team so you can collectively strengthen your organizational performance Hear from the program's faculty director on the leadership essentials acquired in the program: Upon completion of this program, you will earn one credit towards a Certificate with select alumni and tuition benefits. Learn more. Program Structure Leadership Essentials (Online) guides you through a sequential learning experience of four modules over the course of four weeks: Each module features a series of faculty lecture videos, self-assessment tools, group activities, and interactive discussion forums. You will allocate about two to three hours per week to digest the bite-sized lecture videos, reflect on your own learning and takeaways, and share your ideas and reflections with your peers who can bring new insights and broader perspectives to the discussion. Every step of the way, your program facilitator will support your journey, bringing your questions to the faculty and cultivating a safe space for you and your peers to maximize your learning experience. Schedule 4 weeks with an estimated time commitment of 2-3 hours/week. View the online schedule. Dates and fees are subject to change. Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Introduction to Leadership Styles and Emotional Intelligence focuses on the difference between a “leader” and a “manager” and the relationship between emotional intelligence (EQ) and leadership effectiveness. You will go through a series of hands-on activities to understand the topics and self-assess your own EQ. Participant Profile Leadership Essentials (Online) is designed for aspiring, new, and mid-level business leaders looking to improve their effectiveness working with individuals and teams. This online program is designed for leaders looking for the same great learnings from the in-person program in a convenient online format. Faculty Joel Brockner Phillip Hettleman Professor of Business Faculty Director Joel Brockner Phillip Hettleman Professor of Business Joel Brockner is a leading authority on a variety of psychological issues in the workplace, including change management, leadership, decision-making, the role of the self, and cross-cultural differences in work behavior. He has consulted about the planning and implementation of significant organizational change, leadership development, and decision making with such organizations as the Association of Art Museum Curators, Canadian Health Services Research Foundation, Citigroup, ConocoPhillips, Eastman Kodak, IXIS Capital Markets, MBNA, Pfizer, State Farm Insurance, Southern New England Telephone, and Stratus Technologies. Brockner’s book publications cover decision making in "sunk cost" situations, causes and consequences of employees’ self esteem, and the role of justice in the workplace. He has published more than 100 articles and book chapters in a variety of prestigious outlets, including Harvard Business Review and the Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. He has served on the editorial board of numerous management and psychology journals including the Academy of Management Journal, the Academy of Management Review, Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, and the Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. Brockner is a fellow of the Academy of Management and of the American Psychological Association (Division of Industrial and Organizational Psychology). He served as the chairman of the management division from 2005 to 2011 at Columbia Business School. Along with Professor Brockner, additional Columbia Business School faculty contribute to and teach in the program. Read full bio Read full bio Sarah J. Brazaitis Associate Professor of Practice, Teachers College, Columbia University Sarah J. Brazaitis Associate Professor of Practice, Teachers College, Columbia University Sarah Brazaitis is an associate professor of Practice in the Department of Organization and Leadership at Teachers College, Columbia University where she also directs the MA program in Organizational Psychology. Brazaitis teaches courses on group dynamics and team performance to masters- and doctoral-level students as well as in executive education programs. As part of her group dynamics course, Brazaitis runs an experiential group relations conference that provides participants with opportunities to learn in real time about covert processes affecting leadership and power in groups and organizations. Brazaitis maintains a private practice of organizational consulting with a specialty in working with diverse teams and she has 20+ years of experience in providing coaching, consulting and training to executives, leaders and high potentials including to those in the C-suite. Clients have included organizations such as BNP Paribas, Deloitte, Google, KPMG, Thomson Reuters, Time Warner, Inc, as well as various schools and universities. As an expert on group dynamics in social systems, Dr. Brazaitis has publications in scholarly journals, industry books and the popular press on conflict resolution in diverse teams, challenges related to the global community, improving race relations in multicultural organizations, and understanding and leveraging implicit, hidden dynamics in the workplace. Read full bio Read full bio FAQ Expand Certification I’m interested in the Certificate in Business Excellence (CIBE), how do I get started? At Columbia Business School Executive Education, you’ll be able to customize a unique learning experience by selecting programs that best interest you and are most suited for your needs. Any completed program, regardless of format (live online, in-person, or online), will count towards the Certificate in Business Excellence. Which programs qualify for the CIBE? Any completed executive education program, regardless of format (live-online, in-person, or online), will count towards the Certificate in Business Excellence. Partner programs will also count towards the certificate. What programs are considered partner programs? Executive education programs developed and administered with our educational partners, bring the best of our combined knowledge, thought leadership, resources, and expertise. Kindly find a list of our partners here on our partnership page. What are the costs of the certificate? There’s no set cost associated with the certificate path since you’re able to customize your learning journey with in-person and online programs (price will vary depending on the program type and length). Are there any tuition assistance or scholarships? At Columbia Business School Executive Education, we offer non-degree and non-credit-based professional development programs to the global business community. As our programs are non-degree and non-credit, they do not qualify for financial aid. How are CIBE credits determined? Credits for a program are determined by the program duration and total learning hours. Where do I find information on the credit value for a program? You will find this information on each program page. Credits range from 0.5 credits – 26 credits per program. How do I get enrolled in the CIBE? Your certificate journey will start with your first program, and you have 4 years to complete your CIBE. You may register for any of our executive education programs on each program page. You may enroll using the “Enroll Now” button, and the application process should take 5-10 minutes. How do I receive credits? You are required to fully attend a program and complete all necessary coursework in order to receive CIBE credits. Credits are only awarded after you complete a program. How do I check the status of my Certificate completion? Kindly reach out to a Learning Solutions representative for any questions on the status of your CIBE credit count. Do CIBE credits expire? Credits are only valid for four years (Please note: While we are not able to offer in-person programming due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the duration to complete the programming has been extended to five years.). If you have not completed your CIBE within four years, we will only count non-expired credits towards your CIBE credit total. Does the Certificate in Business Excellence expire? Your Certificate in Business Excellence does not expire. Once you become a certificate recipient, you will join the greater alumni community at Columbia Business School. I’ve reached 18 CIBE credits, what’s next? Congratulations! You should receive a digital copy of your certificate at the end of your program. If you do not receive a copy from your program manager, kindly contact your Learning Solutions representative or your program manager for next steps. Will I receive a physical certificate? Yes, all certificate recipients will receive a physical plaque. If you completed your last CIBE credits through an online or live online program, you will receive a plaque in the mail. We will ask for you to provide us with your preferred mailing address and our vendor will ship the plaque directly to you. We kindly ask for your patience as the processing time takes a few weeks. Please contact your program manager for the status of your plaque. If you completed your last CIBE credits through an in-person program, you will receive a plaque at the end of the program. How do I get access to my alumni benefits? Once you complete your CIBE, we kindly ask for your patience as we process your alumni credentials. The processing time can take anywhere from 8 to 10 weeks long. Can I refer colleagues to the Certificate in Business Excellence? If you are a certificate holder, you may sponsor up to four colleagues each year for full-price in-person programs lasting up to seven days and all full-price online programs. Can I add the Certificate in Business Excellence to LinkedIn? Yes! We will provide you with instructions on how to add your certificate to your LinkedIn profile after you become a Certificate recipient. Expand Preferred Pricing and Tuition Benefits for Alumni Are there preferred pricing options available for live online programs? Yes, preferred pricing is available for groups of two or more. To inquire, email execed@gsb.columbia.edu. As a Columbia Business School alumni am I eligible for tuition benefit? Columbia Business School alumni and up to four of their colleagues are eligible for a 25 percent tuition benefit for this program. More on the Alumni Tuition Benefit. Expand Assignments Will there be any homework or assignments? For select programs, there will be some assignments to complete after the end of select program sessions. Assignments will typically consist of readings, self-reflections, and brief assessments. This approach is designed to help you practice your learnings. How long will assignments take? We do not expect that homework assignments will take up a large amount of time to complete. Will there be any examinations or grades? There will be no examinations or grades for our live online programs. Expand Access When will I receive information on how to log in? You will receive your login information immediately before the program start date. Kindly reach out to your Program Manager for further instructions on how to prepare and log in for the program. What platform do you use to deliver live online programs? We use the Zoom platform. Expand Recordings Will sessions be recorded? Most live online sessions (depending on the faculty and program) will be recorded and will be available for you upon request. In-person programs are not recorded. How long will they be available for? Recordings will be available for the duration of the program. Depending on the program, some recordings may have additional availability post-program. How do I gain access to the recordings? Your Program Manager will provide you with further instructions on how to gain access to recorded sessions. Expand Experience How do participants network during the live online programs? Will I participate in group work? Our live online programs are fully virtual and highly interactive. Most programs also feature small group work for a high-touch learning experience. The virtual program experience allows participants to feel comfortable and productive learning at home while preserving the interconnectivity of an in-person program. What are the networking opportunities during the live online sessions? Yes. Examples of this may include: virtual lunches, virtual receptions, use of the chat function, and virtual office hours for you to connect with participants and faculty. Please refer to the agenda of the specific live online program you are interested in for details. Expand Live Online Format What are live online programs? Now, more than ever, executives need the knowledge and insights to help them adapt to change and solve complex problems. As the business world has evolved, we have applied new best practices to continuously improve your learning experience. With our live online programs, we are taking select in-person programs and are translating them to a fully live and virtual format, delivering the same interactive sessions with faculty and real-time application of the knowledge you would experience in person. What is the difference between live online and online programs? Compare our two formats for distance learning here. What does “live online” mean? Live online programs are fully virtual, highly interactive programs taking place in real-time, often featuring small group work for a high-touch learning experience. Our Columbia Business School faculty stream to you live and virtually, no matter where you are located. Are all live online programs the same in terms of format and length? No. Please refer to the agenda of the specific live online program you are interested in. For any questions, please reach out to the Contact person listed on the program's web page. Do I have to attend all live sessions? Participants are expected to attend all sessions. However, we understand that participants may have scheduling conflicts. Kindly let us know in advance whenever possible and your Program Manager would be happy to discuss how we can help you get up to speed. We will also record most faculty sessions, which you can review upon request. Will I need to attend the live sessions even if I’m based in a different time zone? You are required to attend all live sessions even if you are based in a different time zone. (Kindly reach out to the Learning Solutions team to learn more about our asynchronous program offerings, which consist predominantly of pre-recorded videos that you can watch on your own time). Expand COVID-19 Safety Plans Please review the latest COVID-19 related protocols at Columbia Business School. More Leadership Programs LeadershipNegotiation & Decision Making $2,950 Strategic Storytelling: Maximum Impact in a Digital World 2 CIBE Credits June 8–10, 2022 LeadershipBusiness & Society $6,650 Women in Leadership: Next Level Success 3 CIBE Credits June 14–16, 2022 Leadership $10,950 High Impact Leadership 5 CIBE Credits September 12–16, 2022 Earn a Certificate Upon completion of this program, you will earn three credits towards a Certificate with select alumni and tuition benefits. Learn more Sign Up for Email Alerts Sign up for program updates and content relevant to today's business leaders from Columbia Business School Executive Education. First Name* Last Name* Email* Sign up Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificates Webinars About Columbia Business School Executive Education Geffen Hall 645 West 130th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel. +1 212-854-3395Maps and Directions Back to TopTOP © 2022 Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements