Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Digital Marketing: Customer Engagement, Social Media, Planning & Analytics Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Select Date(s) June 29–September 14, 2022 Cost $1,600 CIBE Credits 1 Format Online Location Digital Marketing: Customer Engagement, Social Media, Planning & Analytics Select Date(s) June 29–September 14, 2022 Cost $1,600 CIBE Credits 1 Format Online Location Download Brochure The marketing paradigm has transformed with the rise of digital technologies. Companies today face a constant proliferation of social media channels, the growing power of connected customers, and an explosion of new digital tools. To succeed, marketers must be able to plan, implement, and measure the impact of digital strategies that are suited to today's customers and integrated with their traditional marketing and business goals. Please contact our partners at Emeritus at columbia@emeritus.org, +1 315-982-5094, or +1 315-277-2746 for a personal conversation about this program and how it may benefit you. Delivered in collaboration with “Customers in the digital age are not passive consumers but nodes within dynamic networks—interacting and shaping brands, markets, and each other.” David RogersFaculty, Columbia Business School Executive Education Impact After taking this program, you will be able to: Learn how to identify digital marketing technologies and digital tools that are right for your organization Understand how to use content, mobile, and influencer marketing to target customers more effectively Understand the power of testing and targeting in digital marketing Learn how to determine the skill sets required for your own digital initiatives Learn how to develop analytics to measure the impact, effectiveness, and ROI of your digital marketing strategy Discover how to integrate digital marketing with your offline strategies and traditional media An estimated new value created in the economy over the next decade will be based on digitally enabled platform business models. 70% year-on-year growth for the digital marketing industry compared to a 5-6 percent growth in other industries. 40% of organizations are engaged in some form of digital initiative. 91% Program Structure Modules 1–4 Modules 5–8 Modules 9–12 Modules 13–14 From Mass Marketing to Customer Networks Gain an understanding of customer interactions using the concepts of customer advocacy and the dynamics of the relationship between classic marketers and customers in the digital era. The Digital Advertising Mix: Key Channels and Principles Learn how to complete a search market simulation using the channels available in digital marketing to effectively apply the principles of targeting, personalization, and optimizing to form your own digital marketing campaign. Five Core Behaviors of Customers in the Digital World Explore the impact of digital technologies on behavior and the importance of your decision-making process and how it affects the results of your campaign within a simulation. Access Strategy Analyze how a company implements the access strategy and utilizes its various approaches including on-demand services, location-based services, mobile wallets, and loyalty to provide faster and easier digital services to customers. Participant Profile Years in Work Experience Years of Work Experience % 21+ 17 16-20 23 11-15 21 6-10 22 1-5 17 , ckeditor “I like the basic concept of the course, from mass marketing to customer networks. It gave me lots of valuable knowledge. Learning the strategic planning process and working on the simulations was exciting.” Nobuhiko UekiCEO, T.Y.A. (HK) Limited, HONG KONG “The simulations were the best part of this course. They help you improve your technique of digital marketing and build a robust digital strategy.” Marica BuquicchioOwner, Marica Buquicchio, ITALY “It was excellent. It was a 10-week course, lots of interaction with the other students, presenters, faculty and contributors, and interesting case studies and company profiles.” David SchneiderMarketing Manager at Insight, Managing the People Side of Change, US 1 / 3 Faculty David Rogers Faculty Member, Executive Education David Rogers Faculty Member, Executive Education David Rogers is a globally recognized leader on digital strategy and leadership, known for his pioneering work on digital transformation. He is the author of four books, including his bestselling The Digital Transformation Playbook: Rethink Your Business for the Digital Age, published in 11 languages. Rogers has advised executives and delivered workshops on digital transformation in companies such as Citi, Visa, HSBC, Unilever, Procter & Gamble, Merck, Toyota, GE, Google, Cisco, HP, Cartier, Pernod Ricard, International Red Cross, AARP, China Eastern Airlines, NC Bank Saudi, Coppel, Acuity Insurance, and dozens of others. Rogers delivers keynotes at conferences on six continents and has appeared on CNN, ABC News, CNBC, Channel News Asia, and in The New York Times, The Financial Times, The Wall Street Journal, and The Economist. At Columbia Business School, Rogers teaches global executives as faculty director of Executive Education programs on digital transformation, digital business leadership (with modules in New York, Silicon Valley, and online), and the Google-Columbia CMO Academy. Rogers' recent research has focused on new business models, asymmetric competition, customer data sharing, and digital transformation in legacy organizations. Read full bio Read full bio Sign Up for Email Alerts Sign up for program updates and content relevant to today's business leaders from Columbia Business School Executive Education. First Name* Last Name* Email* Sign up Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificates Webinars About Columbia Business School Executive Education Geffen Hall 645 West 130th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel. +1 212-854-3395Maps and Directions Back to TopTOP © 2022 Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements