Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Digital Strategies for Business: Leading the Next-Generation Enterprise Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Select Date(s) June 30–September 15, 2022 Cost $1,500 CIBE Credits 1 Format Online Location Digital Strategies for Business: Leading the Next-Generation Enterprise Select Date(s) June 30–September 15, 2022 Cost $1,500 CIBE Credits 1 Format Online Location Download Brochure In today’s world, almost every business is a digital business. In every industry, processes are being transformed by the proliferation of digital technologies and the rise of disruptive threats. To compete, businesses need to adapt and thrive. Organizations need leaders who can think strategically and harness the digital change to create new value for customers and opportunities for business. This program focuses on how managers can develop new strategies and business models to enable their organization to thrive in the digital age. Case studies will feature both digital trailblazers as well as traditional enterprises that are adapting to the digital era. Impact After taking this program, you will be able to: Understand Digital Customer Behaviors Create Platform Business Models Leverage Big Data to Build Data as a Strategic Asset Innovate through Experimentation: AB Tests and Minimum Viable Products Translate the Lean Startup to Enterprise Scale Innovation Master Disruptive Business Models Program Structure This program covers finance and sustainability as integrated subjects, beginning with an introduction to financial and investment principles and ending with financial analysis, financing, and valuation. Modules 1–4 Modules 5–8 Modules 9–13 Module 1: 5 Domains of Digital Transformation Explore how digital transformation is not about technology but about strategy and new ways of thinking. Take a look at each of the five domains in this module–customers, competition, data, innovation, and value. Module 2: Customer Networks and the New Path to Purchase Understand the path to purchase customer journey, from start to finish. Additionally, uncover the series of channels that customers use to make a purchase. Module 3: Understanding Digital Customer Behaviors Discover how to re-imagine your ever-changing customers as customer networks. Identify five core behaviors of networked customers–accessing, engaging, customizing, connecting, and collaborating. Module 4: Platform Business Models Understand how platform businesses create interactions across a large number of participants. Master the Platform Business Model map for your organization while exploring the power of network effects. Participant Profile This program is tailored for senior management and managers who aim to create innovative strategies and business models to enable their organizations to thrive in the ever-changing digital age. It is ideal for: Senior management and C-Suite professionals looking for a holistic digital transformation strategy for their organizations by keeping abreast of the latest trends, opportunities, and disruptions as well as learning more about customer behavior. Mid to senior managers in the technology function looking to hone their skills while systematically implementing digital tools and technologies in their organizations. Consultants looking to help their clients with solutions to navigate different aspects of a digital strategy across industries. Functional managers, specifically those in marketing and sales, looking to create value by implementing digital techniques to their current role and leveraging digital customer networks. “Professor Rogers’ definition of digital disruption is the clearest I have seen. All of the courses were great, but the Mastering Disruptive Business Models session was unique, to my knowledge.” Lionel GordonCargill, Inc, USA “The highlight of the course is its diversity–from on-demand videos to individual and group assignments, peer reviews to seminars. The well-structured assignments helped me get a clear understanding of how to drive and develop my business, to adapt and evolve in the digital era.” Ebba LoLindex, Hong Kong “The videos and assignments are the best. Videos give clear structure and assignments stimulate the understanding of concepts.” Pedro GallegoCelepar, Brazil “I work in the IT industry; hence the topic is not new to me. However, there were very interesting modules that presented concepts, methodologies, and tools that are helping me to better understand platform business services.” Rodrigo dos SantosT-Systems, Mexico “One of the best features of the course is the webinars on Digital Works, Morecrodt & Perks, etc. that added more information to modules.” Cristian BuzzoniSofofa, Chile “The frameworks and templates are most useful in understanding ways of managing digital transformation in business. David Rogers' explanations are simple and very insightful. I loved the content and the course structure.” Shalu MananGenpact, India 1 / 6 Faculty David Rogers Faculty Member, Executive Education David Rogers Faculty Member, Executive Education David Rogers is a globally recognized leader on digital strategy and leadership, known for his pioneering work on digital transformation. He is the author of four books, including his bestselling The Digital Transformation Playbook: Rethink Your Business for the Digital Age, published in 11 languages. Rogers has advised executives and delivered workshops on digital transformation in companies such as Citi, Visa, HSBC, Unilever, Procter & Gamble, Merck, Toyota, GE, Google, Cisco, HP, Cartier, Pernod Ricard, International Red Cross, AARP, China Eastern Airlines, NC Bank Saudi, Coppel, Acuity Insurance, and dozens of others. Rogers delivers keynotes at conferences on six continents and has appeared on CNN, ABC News, CNBC, Channel News Asia, and in The New York Times, The Financial Times, The Wall Street Journal, and The Economist. At Columbia Business School, Rogers teaches global executives as faculty director of Executive Education programs on digital transformation, digital business leadership (with modules in New York, Silicon Valley, and online), and the Google-Columbia CMO Academy. Rogers' recent research has focused on new business models, asymmetric competition, customer data sharing, and digital transformation in legacy organizations. Read full bio Read full bio Sign Up for Email Alerts Sign up for program updates and content relevant to today's business leaders from Columbia Business School Executive Education. First Name* Last Name* Email* Sign up Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificates Webinars About Columbia Business School Executive Education Geffen Hall 645 West 130th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel. +1 212-854-3395Maps and Directions Back to TopTOP © 2022 Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements