Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About High Impact Leadership Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Select Date(s) September 12–16, 2022 Cost $10,950 CIBE Credits 5 Format In-Person Location Manhattanville Campus, NYC Select Date(s) December 5–9, 2022 Cost $10,950 CIBE Credits 5 Format In-Person Location Manhattanville Campus, NYC Add to Cart Download Brochure Contact Us Requirements Attendees are upper-level executives with ideally 10 years of experience (could be less) who wish to do a deep dive into their leadership skills and who have a team or teams reporting to them. High Impact Leadership Add to Cart Download Brochure Select Date(s) September 12–16, 2022 Cost $10,950 CIBE Credits 5 Format In-Person Location Manhattanville Campus, NYC Select Date(s) December 5–9, 2022 Cost $10,950 CIBE Credits 5 Format In-Person Location Manhattanville Campus, NYC Download Brochure Overview High Impact Leadership provides a profound understanding of how you are perceived as a leader in the context of your organization. Through a dynamic mix of lectures, discussions, 360-degree feedback, one-on-one coaching*, and self-assessment tools, you learn concrete ways to improve your leadership abilities. At the conclusion of this five-day program, you have an action plan for managing yourself and leading others to improved performance and are more effective at communicating direction and inspiration that aligns people and objectives. Please contact our Learning Solutions Specialists at +1 212-854-3395 for a personal conversation to learn more. *To participate in the one-on-one coaching session, participants need to complete the 360 survey prior to the start of the program. “High Impact Leadership will change your way of managing people, organizations, and your own life.” Past Participant Noe ReyesDirector of Manufacturing Operations at Fresenius Kabi Professor Joel Brockner explains how executives gain a profound understanding of how they are perceived as leaders in the context of their organization. Impact Through 360-degree feedback, intensive one-on-one coaching*, self-assessment tools, and small group work, you develop a realistic path to more effective leadership. You learn how to establish and communicate direction and inspiration that aligns people and objectives. Gain greater awareness of your leadership styles, strengths, and weaknesses Improve your style of leading and managing Strengthen your ability to lead and manage organizational innovation and change Develop more effective decision making skills Achieve better synergy in groups Build your understanding of national culture, organizational culture, and leadership implications Learn the art of giving and receiving feedback *To participate in the one-on-one coaching session, participants need to complete the 360 survey prior to the start of the program. Upon completion of this program, you will earn credits towards a Certificate with select alumni and tuition benefits. Learn more. Program Structure High Impact Leadership provides an opportunity for participants to explore and understand their leadership capabilities: strengths, weaknesses, and concrete ways to improve. The curriculum includes readings, lectures, and discussions on a wide range of topics, including the makings of a great leader, emotional intelligence, organizational effectiveness and group dynamics, the value of self awareness and self management, and successful change management. The program also includes Columbia Business School's 360 Assessment Tool that collects feedback from the participant, their peers, direct reports and supervisors.* Schedule Five consecutive full days of in-person sessions on the Manhattanville campus in NYC. View the in-person schedule. Includes breakfast, lunch, and all materials. Dates, fees, and locations are subject to change. *To participate in the one-on-one coaching session, participants need to complete the 360 survey prior to the start of the program. Hear more about the tool from the faculty director: Participants emerge from the program with a clear sense of their own leadership style and a concrete direction for becoming a more inspirational, influential leader. Sample Session Titles: Designing Organizations for High Performance and Stakeholder Trust Managerial Decision Making Managing Change: Exploring Underlying Assumptions Understanding Your Change Management Practices Leadership Styles Dimensions of Culture and Leader/Manager Behavior Self-Management and Leadership “I developed a much higher sense of self awareness. Also, I was able to get insights from peers and from members of my organization about my leadership style which helped me realized how I can deliver more effective leadership. Back at work, we then reorganized the company around a much smaller leadership team. We also started to focus much more on the business itself, while we had been more focused on the technical problems before. All of these insights were valuable takeaways from the program.” Patrick FarrellHead of Group Communications at the Bank of Ireland “The amount of perspective I gained from this program was excellent. The level of support, engagement, camaraderie, and vulnerability shown within my sub-group was superb.” Jennifer PikowskiDirector of Project Management at EnvestnetSVP “The High Impact Leadership program has become a very important turning point in my life. It has changed the way I look at leadership. I'll remember this program and the group I worked with every time I make an achievement in my leadership career.” Faisal AlSagerGeneral Manager at Etisal International Company “It is a well balanced program in terms of presentations and small group work. It is brief and to the point and very relevant to a CXO's life. It really provides clarity to things that we know (more or less) in an extremely effective way.” Deppie TzimeaDirector, Hellenic Telecommunications Organization S.A “The HIL program was an eye opener to me of how I understand myself when measured against the expectations of those I lead and who I report to. All that has changed as I am now how I am – a high impact leader.” John EvbodagheDirector, The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN) 1 / 5 Participant Profile High Impact Leadership is designed for upper-level executives with ideally 10 years (could be less) of experience who seek to enhance their leadership skills and management effectiveness within the context of their organization. Columbia Business School alumni and up to four of their colleagues are eligible for a 25 percent tuition benefit for this program. More on the Alumni Tuition Benefit. Years of Management Experience Industry % 20+ 15 16-20 19 11-15 29 6-10 25 1-5 11 <1 1 , ckeditor Industry Industry % Finance/Accounting 31 Government 11 Insurance 9 Education 7 Healthcare 7 CPG 5 Energy/Resources 5 Info Systems/Tech 3 Manufacturing 3 Other 19 , ckeditor Faculty Joel Brockner Phillip Hettleman Professor of Business Faculty Director Joel Brockner Phillip Hettleman Professor of Business Joel Brockner is a leading authority on a variety of psychological issues in the workplace, including change management, leadership, decision-making, the role of the self, and cross-cultural differences in work behavior. He has consulted about the planning and implementation of significant organizational change, leadership development, and decision making with such organizations as the Association of Art Museum Curators, Canadian Health Services Research Foundation, Citigroup, ConocoPhillips, Eastman Kodak, IXIS Capital Markets, MBNA, Pfizer, State Farm Insurance, Southern New England Telephone, and Stratus Technologies. Brockner’s book publications cover decision making in "sunk cost" situations, causes and consequences of employees’ self esteem, and the role of justice in the workplace. He has published more than 100 articles and book chapters in a variety of prestigious outlets, including Harvard Business Review and the Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. He has served on the editorial board of numerous management and psychology journals including the Academy of Management Journal, the Academy of Management Review, Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, and the Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. Brockner is a fellow of the Academy of Management and of the American Psychological Association (Division of Industrial and Organizational Psychology). He served as the chairman of the management division from 2005 to 2011 at Columbia Business School. Along with Professor Brockner, additional Columbia Business School faculty contribute to and teach in the program. Read full bio Read full bio FAQ Expand Certification I’m interested in the Certificate in Business Excellence (CIBE), how do I get started? At Columbia Business School Executive Education, you’ll be able to customize a unique learning experience by selecting programs that best interest you and are most suited for your needs. Any completed program, regardless of format (live online, in-person, or online), will count towards the Certificate in Business Excellence. Which programs qualify for the CIBE? Any completed executive education program, regardless of format (live-online, in-person, or online), will count towards the Certificate in Business Excellence. Partner programs will also count towards the certificate. What programs are considered partner programs? Executive education programs developed and administered with our educational partners, bring the best of our combined knowledge, thought leadership, resources, and expertise. Kindly find a list of our partners here on our partnership page. What are the costs of the certificate? There’s no set cost associated with the certificate path since you’re able to customize your learning journey with in-person and online programs (price will vary depending on the program type and length). Are there any tuition assistance or scholarships? At Columbia Business School Executive Education, we offer non-degree and non-credit-based professional development programs to the global business community. As our programs are non-degree and non-credit, they do not qualify for financial aid. How are CIBE credits determined? Credits for a program are determined by the program duration and total learning hours. Where do I find information on the credit value for a program? You will find this information on each program page. Credits range from 0.5 credits – 26 credits per program. How do I get enrolled in the CIBE? Your certificate journey will start with your first program, and you have 4 years to complete your CIBE. You may register for any of our executive education programs on each program page. You may enroll using the “Enroll Now” button, and the application process should take 5-10 minutes. How do I receive credits? You are required to fully attend a program and complete all necessary coursework in order to receive CIBE credits. Credits are only awarded after you complete a program. How do I check the status of my Certificate completion? Kindly reach out to a Learning Solutions representative for any questions on the status of your CIBE credit count. Do CIBE credits expire? Credits are only valid for four years (Please note: While we are not able to offer in-person programming due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the duration to complete the programming has been extended to five years.). If you have not completed your CIBE within four years, we will only count non-expired credits towards your CIBE credit total. Does the Certificate in Business Excellence expire? Your Certificate in Business Excellence does not expire. Once you become a certificate recipient, you will join the greater alumni community at Columbia Business School. I’ve reached 18 CIBE credits, what’s next? Congratulations! You should receive a digital copy of your certificate at the end of your program. If you do not receive a copy from your program manager, kindly contact your Learning Solutions representative or your program manager for next steps. Will I receive a physical certificate? Yes, all certificate recipients will receive a physical plaque. If you completed your last CIBE credits through an online or live online program, you will receive a plaque in the mail. We will ask for you to provide us with your preferred mailing address and our vendor will ship the plaque directly to you. We kindly ask for your patience as the processing time takes a few weeks. Please contact your program manager for the status of your plaque. If you completed your last CIBE credits through an in-person program, you will receive a plaque at the end of the program. How do I get access to my alumni benefits? Once you complete your CIBE, we kindly ask for your patience as we process your alumni credentials. The processing time can take anywhere from 8 to 10 weeks long. Can I refer colleagues to the Certificate in Business Excellence? If you are a certificate holder, you may sponsor up to four colleagues each year for full-price in-person programs lasting up to seven days and all full-price online programs. Can I add the Certificate in Business Excellence to LinkedIn? Yes! We will provide you with instructions on how to add your certificate to your LinkedIn profile after you become a Certificate recipient. Expand Preferred Pricing and Tuition Benefits for Alumni Are there preferred pricing options available for live online programs? Yes, preferred pricing is available for groups of two or more. To inquire, email execed@gsb.columbia.edu. As a Columbia Business School alumni am I eligible for tuition benefit? Columbia Business School alumni and up to four of their colleagues are eligible for a 25 percent tuition benefit for this program. More on the Alumni Tuition Benefit. Expand Assignments Will there be any homework or assignments? For select programs, there will be some assignments to complete after the end of select program sessions. Assignments will typically consist of readings, self-reflections, and brief assessments. This approach is designed to help you practice your learnings. How long will assignments take? We do not expect that homework assignments will take up a large amount of time to complete. Will there be any examinations or grades? There will be no examinations or grades for our live online programs. Expand Access When will I receive information on how to log in? You will receive your login information immediately before the program start date. Kindly reach out to your Program Manager for further instructions on how to prepare and log in for the program. What platform do you use to deliver live online programs? We use the Zoom platform. Expand Recordings Will sessions be recorded? Most live online sessions (depending on the faculty and program) will be recorded and will be available for you upon request. In-person programs are not recorded. How long will they be available for? Recordings will be available for the duration of the program. Depending on the program, some recordings may have additional availability post-program. How do I gain access to the recordings? Your Program Manager will provide you with further instructions on how to gain access to recorded sessions. Expand Experience How do participants network during the live online programs? Will I participate in group work? Our live online programs are fully virtual and highly interactive. Most programs also feature small group work for a high-touch learning experience. The virtual program experience allows participants to feel comfortable and productive learning at home while preserving the interconnectivity of an in-person program. What are the networking opportunities during the live online sessions? Yes. Examples of this may include: virtual lunches, virtual receptions, use of the chat function, and virtual office hours for you to connect with participants and faculty. Please refer to the agenda of the specific live online program you are interested in for details. Expand Live Online Format What are live online programs? Now, more than ever, executives need the knowledge and insights to help them adapt to change and solve complex problems. As the business world has evolved, we have applied new best practices to continuously improve your learning experience. With our live online programs, we are taking select in-person programs and are translating them to a fully live and virtual format, delivering the same interactive sessions with faculty and real-time application of the knowledge you would experience in person. What is the difference between live online and online programs? Compare our two formats for distance learning here. What does “live online” mean? Live online programs are fully virtual, highly interactive programs taking place in real-time, often featuring small group work for a high-touch learning experience. Our Columbia Business School faculty stream to you live and virtually, no matter where you are located. Are all live online programs the same in terms of format and length? No. Please refer to the agenda of the specific live online program you are interested in. For any questions, please reach out to the Contact person listed on the program's web page. Do I have to attend all live sessions? Participants are expected to attend all sessions. However, we understand that participants may have scheduling conflicts. Kindly let us know in advance whenever possible and your Program Manager would be happy to discuss how we can help you get up to speed. We will also record most faculty sessions, which you can review upon request. Will I need to attend the live sessions even if I’m based in a different time zone? You are required to attend all live sessions even if you are based in a different time zone. (Kindly reach out to the Learning Solutions team to learn more about our asynchronous program offerings, which consist predominantly of pre-recorded videos that you can watch on your own time). More Leadership Programs LeadershipNegotiation & Decision Making $2,950 Strategic Storytelling: Maximum Impact in a Digital World 2 CIBE Credits June 8–10, 2022 LeadershipBusiness & Society $6,650 Women in Leadership: Next Level Success 3 CIBE Credits June 14–16, 2022 Leadership $3,450 Leadership Essentials 2 CIBE Credits July 11–14, 2022 Leadership $1,495 Leadership Essentials (Online) 1 CIBE Credits September 19–October 14, 2022 Earn a Certificate Upon completion of this program, you will earn credits towards a Certificate with select alumni and tuition benefits. Learn more Sign Up for Email Alerts Sign up for program updates and content relevant to today's business leaders from Columbia Business School Executive Education. First Name* Last Name* Email* Sign up Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificates Webinars About Columbia Business School Executive Education Geffen Hall 645 West 130th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel. +1 212-854-3395Maps and Directions Back to TopTOP © 2022 Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements