Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Our Online Programs Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Overview These are not just online courses. This is technology putting you at the center of business. Our online programs create a forum for you to meet other executives where they are and connect with thought leadership, diverse talent, and a vast community of leaders. You’ll obtain strategic and global leadership essentials on your own schedule, interact with subject matter experts, and have the opportunity to network with other participants. Explore all online programs Have questions about our online programs? View our online programs FAQs or contact execedonline@gsb.columbia.edu. Compare Formats Live Online Online Format Synchronous (Live, real-time sessions taught by Columbia Business School faculty) Asynchronous (Recorded sessions developed by Columbia Business School faculty)* Length & Schedule 2 days to 4 weeks (Learn during fixed session dates and times) 3 weeks to 18 weeks (Learn in weekly modules on your own schedule) Learning Experience Interaction-centered approach (Includes interactive exercises, live discussions, group activities, and more) Learner-centered approach (Includes self-reflection journals, weekly projects, optional office hours, unlimited viewing, transcripts, and more) Networking Opportunities Live Networking (Breakout groups, virtual happy hours, and more) Virtual Networking (Discussion boards, optional live discussion forums, and more) Your Virtual Learning Platform Zoom (Live streaming service with video, chat, Q&A, breakout rooms, and more) Canvas (Dedicated course site with discussion boards, program materials, assignments, and more)** This format is for you if … … you are looking for high interactivity with faculty and peers. … you need the flexibility to learn at your own pace and on your own schedule. Learn More See live online program FAQs See online program FAQs * Some online programs like Launch Your Startup and Mergers and Acquisitions (Online) use hybrid formats that include live session components ** Some of our partners' online programs use a different Learning Management System comparable to Canvas FAQ Expand General (Online) What is the educational approach of your online programs? You can expect a robust, multi-layered learning experience that emphasizes the development of the higher order thinking skills which were proposed by educational psychologist Dr. Benjamin Bloom in “Bloom’s Taxonomy of Learning.” According to Bloom, the development of higher order thinking skills requires guiding the learner from just knowledge recall to comprehension, application, analysis, synthesis and evaluation. Bloom’s Taxonomy was later revised and expressed in more action-orientated terms as 1) remembering, 2) understanding, 3) applying, 4) analyzing, 5) evaluating and 6) creating. In online learning at Columbia Business School Executive Education, you will have an opportunity to progress through these key phases of learning so that by the end each program, your return on learning will be clearly measurable. What is the difference between live online and online programs? Compare our two formats for distance learning here. Expand Format (Online) How long do your online programs run for? Our online programs range between 3 to 18 weeks in length. Are your online programs synchronous or asynchronous? Our online programs are mostly asynchronous, meaning that there is generally no live contact with faculty. Unless otherwise specified in the program description, all lectures are delivered through recorded media. Interactions between learners, facilitators, and faculty are conducted via discussion boards, email, and announcements, and all program material is posted on a course site. Each online program is divided into time-sequenced modules with new modules released each week. This is to allow you to move through the course with a cohort of fellow learners to ask questions and share your learnings and experiences. We encourage you to take advantage of the opportunities you will have to connect with fellow learners in each particular online program. Are assignments graded and if so, how? An assignment is marked as either complete or incomplete based on whether or not it meets the assignment requirements. If an assignment is submitted without meeting the essential requirements, it will be marked as incomplete, however, you will be able to resubmit the assignment for further review. Will there be any pre-program work? No. There is no pre-program work in our online programs. Expand Cohort (Online) Who typically attends your online programs? The executive cohort for each online program consists of a global audience at various stages of their careers, from mid- to senior-level leaders and managers with an average of 10-15 years of management experience. Participants come from a range of functional areas including general management, IT, finance/accounting, sales, operations, marketing, human resources, customer service, engineering, and strategy. The top 10 industries represented include financial services, energy/natural resources, retail, technology, education, consulting, manufacturing, consumer products, and non-profit industries. How large are the online program cohorts? We limit the enrollment levels of our online programs to ensure every participant receives consistent feedback from the Online Facilitators. This makes it possible for us to provide you with a level of attention and feedback not typical in other online programs. Expand Learning Experience (Online) Who will be my main point of contact? Each online program is managed by a dedicated Online Facilitator who will be available to answer any questions, provide feedback, and send reminders as needed. Your Online Facilitator will contact you shortly before the program begins. How will I access the program materials? Each program has a dedicated course site to which you will have a login and password. The course site will contain all program materials — syllabus, video content, readings, and assignments. Will I be able to interact with the faculty? This varies from program to program. Questions raised in discussion boards and assignments will be curated by your Online Facilitator/Learning Coach. At a minimum, the faculty will post weekly or bi-weekly announcements addressing those themes. Some programs may feature periodic live online sessions to provide an opportunity to engage with the faculty live. What is the role of the Online Facilitator/Learning Coach? In online learning at Columbia Business School Executive Education, we emphasize facilitated cohort learning and development. Our online programs are guided by a dedicated Online Facilitator/Learning Coach who provides feedback on your learning to help you re-examine your assumptions in order to expand your understanding of the program’s concepts and achieve your learning objectives. How will I interact with my cohort of online learners? Connecting with other learners in an asynchronous online learning environment takes place through weekly discussion boards as well as peer or small group sessions. What is the online student code of conduct? Whether attending an online or in-person program, every participant at Columbia Business School Executive Education is expected to adhere to the student code of conduct which requires the following: Respect the privacy of other students. Do not share or disclose personal or proprietary company information on public forums. Respect the diversity of opinions and cultures that will be present in your program. The use of language that is harassing or denigrating will not be tolerated. Your program login credentials are for your personal use only. Do not allow anyone else to access the course site using your login. Do not reproduce content from any online program unless allowed by the copyright terms laid out by the course administrator. Do not submit the work of others as your own work. Violation of this code of conduct may result in disciplinary action including cancellation of program enrollment with no reimbursement of fees. Expand Learning Environment (Online) How will I access the program materials? Each program has a dedicated course site to which you will have a login and password. The course site will contain all program materials — syllabus, video content, readings, and assignments. When will I receive access to the course site? You will receive access to the course site generally within one to five business days of the course start date. Can I access the course site on a mobile device? Yes, the course sites are accessible on mobile devices via the course website log-in page at https://courseworks2.columbia.edu/ or via the Canvas app: » Download Canvas app for Android » Download Canvas app for iOS To find Columbia Business School Executive Education on the Canvas app, you may need to type our URL in the "Find your school or district" box. The URL is courseworks2.columbia.edu. Please note that there will be differences in how the course site is displayed in the app versus on desktop. We recommend that you experiment with accessing the course site on a mobile device and laptop or computer to see which works best for you. How long will I have access to the course site after the program concludes? You will have access to the course site for an additional three months after the program concludes. Expand Certification (Online) Do your online programs provide any university credits? No. All of our Executive Education programs, both online and in person, are non-degree courses and as such, do not provide accreditation or lead to an accredited diploma or a degree. Upon successful completion of the program, participants receive a certificate of participation. Do online programs count towards earning the Certificate in Business Excellence (CIBE)? Online programs provide credits towards the Certificate in Business Excellence (CIBE)*. Please visit the program page for the exact number of credits each online program earns toward this certificate. *Except Professional Certificate in Corporate Finance (with edX), Alumni Edge programs, and TIME for Learning classes, which do not earn credits toward the Certificate in Business Excellence. Sign Up for Email Alerts Sign up for program updates and content relevant to today's business leaders from Columbia Business School Executive Education. First Name* Last Name* Email* Sign up Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificates Webinars About Columbia Business School Executive Education Geffen Hall 645 West 130th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel. +1 212-854-3395Maps and Directions Back to TopTOP © 2022 Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements