Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Our COVID-19 Safety Plans Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About For programs and modules of 5 days or less Updated April 25, 2022 Columbia Business School Executive Education resumed on-campus programs in February 2022. Based on guidance from the Center for Disease Control (CDC), as well as university, government, and health entities, we have carefully established protocols designed to promote a healthy environment for our faculty, staff, participants, and visitors. The current protocols require participants in our classroom programs to be fully vaccinated. Currently, everyone on campus is required to wear a non-cloth mask in all classrooms. Masking in the hallways and dining areas remains recommended, but optional for fully vaccinated individuals while in Columbia University buildings. We will continue to monitor all CDC guidelines and the protocols and requirements may be adjusted if conditions change. Please review this page and the Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) before your arrival on campus so you have the most current information. If you have questions, please contact us at execed@gsb.columbia.edu. Frequently Asked Questions What are the health requirements to attend an on-campus executive education program? A participant will need to attest that they have been vaccinated prior to the program, and will be required to show proof of vaccination and ID on the first day. Tests are not required to enter campus buildings. However, if you would like to find a testing site for personal use, please reference the CBS - COVID Testing Guide for recommended testing sites and/or visit the NYC COVID-19 Citywide Information Portal. Which vaccines are acceptable? All World Health Organization vaccinations are acceptable. The final shot of the vaccination series must have been completed at least two weeks prior to arrival. The below documentation will be accepted as vaccination proof: CDC vaccine card WHO booklet Epic Connect record Letter from a physician verifying you have been vaccinated Official government vaccine passport What are the requirements for testing if I am unvaccinated or chose not to provide vaccination status? In addition to our University faculty, staff, and students, all participants of our Executive Education programs must be vaccinated. Do I need to wear a mask on campus? Columbia Business School faculty, staff, and Executive Education participants are required to wear a non-cloth mask in all classrooms. Masking in the hallways and dining areas remains recommended, but optional for fully vaccinated individuals while in Columbia University buildings. Faculty who are fully vaccinated and who are teaching in person may do so without a mask, provided they maintain appropriate distancing. How far in advance do I need to submit my vaccination documents? Participants must confirm they are vaccinated before the program and proof of vaccination status, along with your ID, can be provided on the first day. What if I begin to feel sick? If at any point during the program you begin to feel ill, do not report to class and inform your program manager. You will be instructed to stay in your residence and live-stream the program until you have proof of a negative COVID-19 test. What are the vaccination requirements for Columbia faculty and staff? Columbia University requires vaccination for all faculty, staff, and enrolled students on campus. Any outside vendors on campus are required to comply with the University’s masking requirement and their company’s health and safety requirements. Are there any changes to live virtual programs? We will continue to deliver programs in a live virtual format according to our published schedule. If you have any questions about your registration in an upcoming live virtual program, please email us at execed@gsb.columbia.edu Sign Up for Email Alerts Sign up for program updates and content relevant to today's business leaders from Columbia Business School Executive Education. First Name* Last Name* Email* Sign up Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificates Webinars About Columbia Business School Executive Education Geffen Hall 645 West 130th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel. +1 212-854-3395Maps and Directions Back to TopTOP © 2022 Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements