The following fields are required: Error has occurred. Please reload this page and try the operation again. Login Menu Participant Login Instructor Login Group Login Toggle navigation Participant Login Instructor Login Group Login Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Training Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Student & Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Search Results Search Again Certificate in MBSR Teaching View Course Selections MBSR Teacher Training and Development The School of Professional Studies in partnership with the Mindfulness Center at Brown is a global leader in research and training offering a Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction (MBSR) teacher training track towards becoming an MBSR Teacher. Become an MBSR Teacher Our teacher-training track is a multi course process that allows anyone that has completed the MBSR 8-week program and one qualifying retreat to embark on a journey to learn how to teach MBSR. You will learn from highly-experienced MBSR instructors and teacher-trainers on your pathway to becoming a Certified MBSR teacher from the Mindfulness Center at Brown University. Our courses are all instructor-led. However the pathway is self-paced as there is outside retreats, and teaching requirements as well as other pre-requisites to qualify for each individual course. MBSR FOUNDATIONS $2,795 MBSR TEACHER ADVANCEMENT INTENSIVE $3,475 MBSR CURRICULUM STUDY GROUP AND SKILL BUILDING $1,955 MBSR INDIVIDUAL MENTORING $1,950 ETHOS OF MINDFULNESS-BASED PROGRAMS $2,220 DIALOGUE AND INQUIRY FOR MINDFULNESS-BASED PROGRAMS $555 MBSR TEACHER CERTIFICATION REVIEW $1,275 The Application to register for the Foundations course is the first step into the Teacher Certification Pathway. This Pathway consists of (6) courses and (1) Final review of your submitted transcripts and completed work. Additional Details To register, select your course from the list below: MBSR Certificate Courses Expand or collapse MBSR Certificate Courses C-MBSR0101 MBSR Foundations C-MBSR0102 MBSR Teacher Advancement Intensive C-MBSR0103 MBSR Curriculum Study Group and Skill-Building C-MBSR0104 MBSR Individual Mentoring C-MBSR0105 Ethos of Mindfulness-Based Programs C-MBSR0106 Dialogue & Inquiry for Mindfulness-Based Programs C-MBSR0107 MBSR Teacher Certification Review Required fields are indicated by . Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7901 Contact Us Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Footer Navigation Privacy Policy Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University We use cookies to help give you the best experience on our website. By continuing without changing your cookie settings, we assume you agree to this. Please read our cookie policy and privacy policy to find out more. Session Time-Out For security reasons and the protection of your personal information, your session will time out due to a period of inactivity in minute(s) and second(s). Click Extend My Session to continue. For security reasons and the protection of your personal information, your session timed out after a period of inactivity. You will be redirected to the home page. Extend My Session OK Confirm OK Cancel Alert OK Close dialog Privacy Policy PRIVACY POLICY 2020 and Before Application Form Current applicants to the Brown School of Professional Studies apply via CollegeNET (privacy policy), managed by Brown's Graduate School. Future applicants will apply in Technolutions Slate (privacy policy) beginning in September 2020, managed by the Brown School of Professional Studies. All future applications will apply in Technolutions Slate as of January 2021. Inquiry Form All information collected from our opt-in inquiry form is used solely for the purposes of contacting and providing interested prospects with information on our program offerings. We will never sell or share any of your information with third-party vendors. Mailchimp We use an email management service called mailchimp to manage all newsletter email communications. Please see their privacy policy for more information. You can opt-out of email communications via the “unsubscribe from this list” link at the bottom of each email. Pardot and Salesforce We use Pardot as a lead collection and nurturing system and Salesforce (Pardot's parent company) as our system of record and for contact management purposes. Please see their privacy policy for more information. 2020 and Beyond Technolutions Slate As of April 2020, all activities above will be replaced with Technolutions Slate. Existing data will remain in the existing systems of record, new/future data will be maintained in Technolutions Slate, and former inquiries will be invited to opt-in to the new inquiry form/communications. Cookies Google Analytics We use a tool called “Google Analytics” to collect information about use of this site. Google Analytics collects information such as how often users visit this site, what pages they visit when they do so, and what other sites they used prior to coming to this site. We use the information we get from Google Analytics only to improve this site. Google Analytics collects only the IP address assigned to you on the date you visit this site, rather than your name or other identifying information. We do not combine the information collected through the use of Google Analytics with personally identifiable information. Although Google Analytics plants a permanent cookie on your web browser to identify you as a unique user the next time you visit this site, the cookie cannot be used by anyone but Google. Google’s ability to use and share information collected by Google Analytics about your visits to this site is restricted by the Google Analytics Terms of Use and the Google Privacy Policy. You can prevent Google Analytics from recognizing you on return visits to this site by disabling cookies on your browser. Remarketing We use tools such as Google Adwards and Google Display to remarket to individuals who visit our program pages. Third-party vendors, such as Google, show our ads on sites across the internet, and in some cases, use cookies to serve ads based on someone’s past visits to our website. You can opt out of Google’s use of cookies by visiting Google’s Ads Settings. You can also opt out of all third-party vendor’s use of cookies by visiting the Network Advertising Initiative opt-out page. Executive Education Refund Policy All cancellation requests must be made in writing to Brown. Requests can be submitted to execeducation@brown.edu or initiated from the Student Portal of your Brown Registration Account. You must submit a request to cancel your enrollment and receive a refund no later than 14 days prior to the course start date to receive a full refund. Refunds will be processed the same way the original payment was made and within 30 days following the receipt request. If cancellation is requested less than 14 days prior to the course start date funds may be credited to the same course scheduled within the next 12 months. If the course price changes in the 12 months from the start of the course, you will be responsible for paying the price differential. If the course is not presented again within the 12-month window, you may apply the credit towards another course. All unclaimed credits expire at the end of 12 months from the start of the course. If a cancellation is made after the course start date, no refund or credit will be granted. If registrants cannot attend for extenuating reasons, the enrollment fee paid may be credited for a future course only after review and approval by Brown. (execeducation@brown.edu) Close Close dialog Cookie Policy Cookie policy This statement explains how we use cookies on our website. For information about what types of personal information will be gathered when you visit the website, and how this information will be used, please see our privacy policy. How we use cookies All of our web pages use "cookies". A cookie is a small file of letters and numbers that we place on your computer or mobile device if you agree. These cookies allow us to distinguish you from other users of our website, which helps us to provide you with a good experience when you browse our website and enables us to improve our website. Types of cookies we use We use the following types of cookies: Strictly necessary cookies- these are essential in to enable you to move around the websites and use their features. Without these cookies the services you have asked for, such as signing in to your account, cannot be provided. Performance cookies- these cookies collect information about how visitors use a website, for instance which pages visitors go to most often. We use this information to improve our websites and to aid us in investigating problems raised by visitors. These cookies do not collect information that identifies a visitor. Functionality cookies- these cookies allow the website to remember choices you make and provide more personal features. For instance, a functional cookie can be used to remember the items that you have placed in your shopping cart. The information these cookies collect may be anonymized and they cannot track your browsing activity on other websites. Most web browsers allow some control of most cookies through the browser settings. To find out more about cookies, including how to see what cookies have been set and how to manage and delete them please visit http://www.allaboutcookies.org/. Specific cookies we use The list below identify the cookies we use and explain the purposes for which they are used. We may update the information contained in this section from time to time. JSESSIONID: This cookie is used by the application server to identify a unique user's session. registrarToken: This cookie is used to remember items that you have added to your shopping cart locale: This cookie is used to remember your locale and language settings. cookieconsent_status: This cookie is used to remember if you've already dismissed the cookie consent notice. _ga_UA-########: These cookies are used to collect information about how visitors use our site. We use the information to compile reports and to help us improve the website. The cookies collect information in an anonymous form, including the number of visitors to the website, where visitors have come to the site from and the pages they visited. This anonymized visitor and browsing information is stored in Google Analytics. Changes to our Cookie Statement Any changes we may make to our Cookie Policy in the future will be posted on this page. Close