Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Chief Marketing OfficerNEW Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Select Date(s) September 20, 2022–August 15, 2023 Cost $28,000 CIBE Credits 18 Format Modular, Blended Location Online Sessions and In Person Networking Requirements Participants should have a minimum of ten years of work experience in marketing and fluency in written and spoken English Chief Marketing Officer Select Date(s) September 20, 2022–August 15, 2023 Cost $28,000 CIBE Credits 18 Format Modular, Blended Location Online Sessions and In Person Networking Download Brochure The focus of chief marketing officers (CMOs) has shifted and expanded well beyond advertising and communications. Traditionally, CMOs were responsible for promoting, communicating, and selling products and services. Now they must embrace a more strategic position focused on data-driven insights, revenue generation, and a customer-centric approach—including customer concerns around corporate responsibility, sustainability, and ethics. The role of the CMO today includes a broad range of responsibilities across the organization—from technology and digitalization to business development and data protection. Recognizing this paradigm shift, today’s marketing leaders have a chance to make a significant impact in their own sphere, their organization, and the industry at large. Columbia Business School Executive Education’s multimodal Chief Marketing Officer Program will help you adapt to these changing dynamics and excel in this diversified role. You will discover new strategies to strengthen customer relationships and take on a leadership position to achieve sustainable business growth. This nine-month program includes core sessions and a choice of online, live online, and in-person electives. The program explores critical business concepts centered around innovation, disruption, and the application of data analytics to drive overall marketing strategies. During interactive sessions and fireside chats, you will discover the application of original solutions and thinking patterns that generate new and valuable ideas. You will learn to analyze data and implement a multichannel marketing plan for a seamless customer experience across digital and traditional touchpoints. Additionally, you will explore how to create and manage disruptions to upend outdated models. At the end of the program journey, you will be better prepared to partner with cross-functional teams, define a credible brand identity, and execute successful marketing strategies. At an organizational level, you will be able to optimize a measurable return on investment and establish a results-oriented road map. You will also be primed to align marketing strategy with larger business goals, foster collaboration with other C-suite leaders, and help your company attain industry leadership. Please contact our partners at Emeritus at columbia_cmo@emeritus.org, +1 315-982-5094 or +1 315-277-2746 for a personal conversation to learn more. Delivered in collaboration with Highlights With the Chief Marketing Officer Program, you will gain the necessary knowledge and frameworks to excel as a forward-thinking contemporary CMO. Some of the program highlights include: CORE CURRICULUM Kick-start your program journey with 18 weeks of online learning, imparting essential skills for marketing management. HIGH TOUCH Leverage interactive sessions with faculty, fireside chats with practitioners, and networking sessions with peers. WORLD-RENOWNED FACULTY Learn from Ivy League faculty who bring a rich experience to the classroom. PEER LEARNING Interact with and learn from high-achieving peers from around the globe and build your network. SUCCESS COACH You will be assigned a success coach who will help craft your learning journey through regular one-on-one check-in sessions. PRACTITIONER INSIGHTS Interact with industry experts during the program to gain actionable insights and implement learning into practice. FLEXIBLE LEARNING JOURNEY Customize your program experience by selecting from a range of topical electives and gain skills specific to your career goals. NETWORKING EVENT Connect with global peers when you participate in a three-day in-person networking event in New York City. SELECT ALUMNI BENEFITS Receive select Columbia Business School alumni benefits upon completion of the program and become part of a distinguished global community. Program Structure Core Modules Electives Recognition Ceremony and Networking Event Module 1: Customer Centricity and Analytics Customer Centricity Measuring Customer Lifetime Value (CLV) Segmentation and Targeting in a Data-Driven World Positioning in the Digital Era Measuring Consumer Preferences Emerging Trends in Marketing Analytics Module 2: Marketing Strategy Building Successful Brands Communicating the Brand Going to Market Product Strategy Pricing Strategy Marketing Strategy: Pulling It All Together Module 3: Agile Marketing and Execution Foundation of Innovation Systematic Approaches to Creativity Digital Marketing Leveraging Brands Decision Making in the C-Suite Note: Session topics and electives are subject to change. Participant Profile The ideal candidate for the Chief Marketing Officer Program is someone ready to make significant changes in today’s fast-evolving marketing environment. Suitable for mid-career or high-potential professionals eager to broaden exposure beyond the marketing function, the program is perfect if you are looking to leverage marketing opportunities and drive process improvement. You will also benefit from the program if you are an entrepreneur, consultant, or someone in charge of sales or demand generation interested in refreshing your skill set and discovering new frameworks to formulate your company’s future marketing road map. Participants should have: A minimum of ten years of work experience in marketing Fluency in written and spoken English International exposure (preferred) Faculty Oded Netzer Arthur J. Samberg Professor of Business, Columbia Business School Oded Netzer Arthur J. Samberg Professor of Business, Columbia Business School Professor Netzer's research at Columbia Business School centers on one of the major business challenges of the data-rich environment of the 21st century: developing quantitative methods that leverage data to gain a deeper understanding of customer behavior and guide firms' decisions. He focuses primarily on building statistical and econometric models to measure consumer preferences and understand how customer choices change over time, and across contexts. Read full bio Read full bio More Marketing Programs Marketing $6,650 Digital Marketing Strategy: Customers, Planning, and ROI 3 CIBE Credits June 14–16, 2022 Marketing $1,600 Digital Marketing: Customer Engagement, Social Media, Planning & Analytics 1 CIBE Credits June 29–September 14, 2022 See more programs Earn a Certificate Upon completion of this program, you will earn credits towards a Certificate with select alumni and tuition benefits. Learn more Sign Up for Email Alerts Sign up for program updates and content relevant to today's business leaders from Columbia Business School Executive Education. First Name* Last Name* Email* Sign up Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificates Webinars About Columbia Business School Executive Education Geffen Hall 645 West 130th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel. +1 212-854-3395Maps and Directions Back to TopTOP © 2022 Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements