Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Leveraged Buyouts (Online): A Roadmap for Evaluating, Structuring, and Executing LBOsNEW Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Select Date(s) June 23–August 11, 2022 Cost $2,600 CIBE Credits 2 Format Online Location Online Requirements Requirements Investment professionals looking to understand how to evaluate LBO deals and execute them effectively and mid-level to senior finance professionals looking to build a comprehensive understanding of the LBO process and the markets (leveraged credit and private equity) that underwrite them. Learn more Requirements Requirements Investment professionals looking to understand how to evaluate LBO deals and execute them effectively and mid-level to senior finance professionals looking to build a comprehensive understanding of the LBO process and the markets (leveraged credit and private equity) that underwrite them. Learn more Leveraged Buyouts (Online): A Roadmap for Evaluating, Structuring, and Executing LBOs Select Date(s) June 23–August 11, 2022 Cost $2,600 CIBE Credits 2 Format Online Location Online Requirements Requirements Investment professionals looking to understand how to evaluate LBO deals and execute them effectively and mid-level to senior finance professionals looking to build a comprehensive understanding of the LBO process and the markets (leveraged credit and private equity) that underwrite them. Learn more Download Brochure Overview Designed for investment and finance professionals, this program can help you build a comprehensive understanding of leveraged buyouts and the process of completing them. As a participant, you’ll learn how to evaluate a potential LBO opportunity and how to effectively execute the deal. Please contact our partners at Emeritus at columbia@emeritus.org, +1 315-982-5094, or +1 315-277-2746 for a personal conversation about this program and how it may benefit you. Delivered in collaboration with Impact By the end of the program, you will be able to: Recognize why organizations perform LBOs Explain how different aspects of the LBO process work for stakeholders Differentiate the financial instruments used to fund an LBO Determine how to access the leveraged credit and private equity markets that underwrite LBOs Evaluate the risk and potential success of LBO deals Determine how to successfully execute LBO deals Program Structure This program provides a structured understanding of leveraged buyouts, from how to evaluate potential LBO candidates to how to successfully execute a buyout. Along the way, you’ll explore real-world case stdies that highlight potential pitfalls and the elements required for success. Module 1 Module 2 Module 3 Module 4 Module 5 Module 6 Introduction to Leveraged Buyouts Explore the features, benefits, and critical elements necessary for a profitable LBO and the laws and regulations that govern them. Identify the components of an LBO Recognize the possible risks and rewards of completing a leveraged buyout Identify the key factors necessary for a leveraged buyout to be successful Participant Profile Investment professionals looking to understand how to evaluate LBO deals and execute them effectively Mid-level to senior finance professionals looking to build a comprehensive understanding of the leveraged buyout process and to the markets (leveraged credit and private equity) that underwrite them Faculty Donna Hitscherich Senior Lecturer, Business, Finance, and Economics Director, Private Equity Program Columbia Business School Donna Hitscherich Senior Lecturer, Business, Finance, and Economics Director, Private Equity Program Columbia Business School Donna Hitscherich serves as director of the Private Equity Program and is a Bernstein Faculty Leader at the Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Center for Leadership and Ethics. She teaches Corporate Finance, Business Law, Mergers and Acquisitions, and Advanced Corporate Finance. Prior to her academic career, she was an investment banker and mergers and acquisition specialist, working with CS First Boston, JP Morgan &Co Inc., and Banc of America Securities. Prior to those roles, she was a corporate lawyer, specializing in mergers and acquisitions. She holds a BS and JD from St. John’s University and an MBA from Columbia Business School. Hitscherich is also a certified paramedic in the State of New York. Read full bio Read full bio Ellen Carr Adjunct Associate Professor, Finance Adjunct Faculty, Heilbrunn Center for Graham and Dodd Investing Ellen Carr Adjunct Associate Professor, Finance Adjunct Faculty, Heilbrunn Center for Graham and Dodd Investing Ellen Carr has over two decades of experience as a high yield bond portfolio manager, most recently at Weaver C. Barksdale (WCB), a majority-women-owned, institutional fixed income investment management firm based in Nashville, TN. She specializes in the construction and management of high yield and core plus bond portfolios. Prior to joining WCB, she served as senior vice president and a high yield portfolio manager for institutional separate accounts and mutual funds for The Capital Group Companies/American Funds in Los Angeles, CA. Along with her high yield responsibilities, Ellen also managed investment-grade corporate and long-duration credit portfolios. Ellen began her career as an investment analyst for the Fixed Income Group at Capital in 1999. Ellen has been an adjunct professor of finance at Columbia Business School since 2012, where she teaches courses on the credit markets and cash flow modeling. Ellen is also a writer. She is an occasional contributor to the Financial Times and Institutional Investor. She has co-authored a book on women in investment management to be published in spring 2021 by Columbia University Press. Ellen is a trustee of the National Public Radio (NPR) Foundation, as well as a board member of her local NPR affiliate and the Community Foundation of Western North Carolina. She serves as treasurer of the Wilma Dykeman Legacy and vice-chair of the Department of Management and Accountancy Advisory Board at the University of North Carolina Asheville. She is a member of the Kellogg Financial Network Advisory Board. Ms. Carr also manages a family foundation (carrfamilyfoundation.org) which awards college scholarships in rural communities. Ellen has an MBA from the Kellogg Graduate School of Management at Northwestern University and received her B.A. from Harvard in 1994, where she graduated magna cum laude and Phi Beta Kappa. Ellen splits her time between Asheville, North Carolina, rural Tennessee, and New York. She has one son, two cats, and a pandemic puppy. Read full bio Read full bio More Finance & Investing Programs Finance & Investing $2,600 Scenario Planning (Online): Learn how to Model, Predict and Prepare for the FutureNEW 1 CIBE Credits June 2–July 21, 2022 Finance & Investing $2,600 Leveraged Buyouts (Online): A Roadmap for Evaluating, Structuring, and Executing LBOsNEW 2 CIBE Credits June 23–August 11, 2022 Finance & Investing $2,600 ESG Investing (Online): Building and Managing a Sustainable Global PortfolioNEW 2 CIBE Credits June 29–August 24, 2022 Finance & Investing $3,700 Mergers and Acquisitions (Online): Strategize and Execute Successful DealsNEW 2 CIBE Credits June 29–September 7, 2022 See More Programs Earn a Certificate Upon completion of this program, you will earn credits towards a Certificate with select alumni and tuition benefits. Learn more Sign Up for Email Alerts Sign up for program updates and content relevant to today's business leaders from Columbia Business School Executive Education. First Name* Last Name* Email* Sign up Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificates Webinars About Columbia Business School Executive Education Geffen Hall 645 West 130th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel. +1 212-854-3395Maps and Directions Back to TopTOP © 2022 Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements