Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Pricing Methodologies (Online): Unlock Pricing Efficiency with Data and InsightsNEW Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Select Date(s) June 21–August 9, 2022 Cost $2,600 CIBE Credits 2 Format Online Location Online Requirements Requirements Product managers, category managers, product marketing managers Mid- to senior-level professionals in sales, marketing, and general management Pricing analysts and business analysts Learn more Requirements Requirements Product managers, category managers, product marketing managers Mid- to senior-level professionals in sales, marketing, and general management Pricing analysts and business analysts Learn more Pricing Methodologies (Online): Unlock Pricing Efficiency with Data and Insights Select Date(s) June 21–August 9, 2022 Cost $2,600 CIBE Credits 2 Format Online Location Online Requirements Requirements Product managers, category managers, product marketing managers Mid- to senior-level professionals in sales, marketing, and general management Pricing analysts and business analysts Learn more Download Brochure Overview Pricing has historically been an essential part of the marketing mix — and yet it remains a vastly underutilized tool. When properly applied as a strategic lever, pricing tools can impact your overall business goals, drive profitable growth, enhance customer value, and create the ultimate win-win situation. You'll learn the psychology behind pricing and what it takes to find the sweet spot between customer behavior and profit maximization. By shifting from traditional pricing methodologies to an analytics-based approach, product and marketing professionals find that effective pricing tactics became self-evident through the data. In this program, you'll learn to optimize revenue through pricing from a global expert who built teams and developed analytic approaches foundational to organizations like Amazon and Uber. Please contact our partners at Emeritus at columbia@emeritus.org, +1 315-982-5094, or +1 315-277-2746 for a personal conversation about this program and how it may benefit you. Delivered in collaboration with Impact This program will empower you to: Set pricing as a benchmark to maximize profit, improve market share, and create customer value Understand historical and modern methods of pricing and customer perception Use analytics and quantitative tools to determine prices and measure their effectiveness Apply behavioral economics to determine optimal pricing Engage with stakeholders across functions to improve tactical pricing Focus on pricing dynamics using a real-world approach that supersedes "competitive pricing" Program Structure This program provides a comprehensive overview of pricing theories and best practices that empower participants to create a pricing playbook for their organizations. The playbook acts as a decision-making tool to outline and build a presentation of setting the right price for your product or service. Module 1 Module 2 Module 3 Module 4 Module 5 Module 6 Introduction to Pricing Get real-world context through an assessment of pricing methodologies broadly as well as within your organization. Participant-Profile Product and category managers and product marketing managers who want to optimize prices to drive revenue growth through their product portfolios Mid- to senior-level professionals in sales, marketing, and general management who want to maximize profit on each deal and automate their sales processes to include smart pricing solutions Pricing analysts and business analysts who want to use a tactical, analytics-based approach to determine prices for their products Faculty Robert L. Phillips Founder, Nomis Solutions Robert L. Phillips Founder, Nomis Solutions Robert Phillips founded Nomis Solutions, a software and consulting organization that helps financial service organizations better manage pricing and profitability, and serves on the board of directors. He was previously director of pricing research at Amazon, where he led a team of data scientists and economists that developed the analytic approaches underlying pricing for Amazon’s businesses. Before joining Amazon, Phillips was Director of Marketplace Data Science at Uber, as well as Professor of Professional Practice at Columbia Business School, and Director of the Columbia Center for Pricing and Revenue Management. He was also a visiting scholar and lecturer at Stanford Business School. Phillips was a pioneer in developing pricing and revenue optimization and dynamic pricing in many industries including passenger airlines, cruise lines, rental cars, retail, automotive, hotels, air cargo, trucking, container shipping, and manufacturing. He served as CEO of Decision Focus Incorporated, a consulting company specializing in the application of business analytics in business and government, and as CEO of Talus Solutions, a revenue-management software and services company. Phillips is the author of two books, Pricing and Revenue Optimization and Pricing Credit Products, and co-editor of The Oxford Handbook of Pricing Management. He is an INFORMS Fellow and a recipient of the INFORMS Impact Prize for his work in pricing and revenue management. Phillips holds a Ph.D. in Engineering-Economic Systems from Stanford University and Bachelor's Degree in Economics and Mathematics from Washington State University. Upcoming Programs Marketing $6,650 Digital Marketing Strategy: Customers, Planning, and ROI 3 CIBE Credits June 14–16, 2022 Marketing $1,600 Digital Marketing: Customer Engagement, Social Media, Planning & Analytics 1 CIBE Credits June 29–September 14, 2022 MarketingGeneral Management $28,000 Chief Marketing OfficerNEW 18 CIBE Credits September 20, 2022–August 15, 2023 See More Programs Earn a Certificate Upon completion of this program, you will earn credits towards a Certificate with select alumni and tuition benefits. Learn more Sign Up for Email Alerts Sign up for program updates and content relevant to today's business leaders from Columbia Business School Executive Education. First Name* Last Name* Email* Sign up Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificates Webinars About Columbia Business School Executive Education Geffen Hall 645 West 130th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel. +1 212-854-3395Maps and Directions Back to TopTOP © 2022 Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements