Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Developing and Leading High-Performance Teams Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Select Date(s) October 19–21, 2022 Cost $6,950 CIBE Credits 3 Format In-Person Location Manhattanville Campus, NYC Add to Cart Download Brochure Contact Us Requirements This program is suitable for attendees at all executive levels interested in developing and leading teams. Developing and Leading High-Performance Teams Add to Cart Download Brochure Select Date(s) October 19–21, 2022 Cost $6,950 CIBE Credits 3 Format In-Person Location Manhattanville Campus, NYC Download Brochure Overview Well-constructed and well-managed teams are a necessity in today's work environment, and organizational success relies upon the ability to both create and lead high-performance teams. This three-day program designed for executives in leadership positions or on the cusp of assuming leadership responsibility integrates and applies Columbia Business School’s thought leadership to prepare you to develop and guide your team to its highest potential. In a highly interactive learning format, Developing and Leading High-Performance Teams will allow you to immediately apply techniques and tactics to hone your team's strategic objectives and improve your leadership abilities. You will gain immediately applicable knowledge to better manage your team and its strategic challenges; you will also develop a team success strategy for high performance and a detailed team-meeting plan for desired results by the end of the program. Please contact our Learning Solutions Specialists at +1 212-854-3395 to learn more. “This program will enable you to develop the skills and tools needed to maximize the potential of diverse teams in order to increase productivity, efficiency, and effectiveness. The key to organizational success is dependent upon harnessing the power of teams.” The program’s Faculty Director Bill KlepperProfessor of Management at Columbia Business School Hear from Faculty Director William Klepper about the program. Impact During this intensive 3-day program, participants will learn to: Utilize the success formula for high-performance team leadership Leverage your behavioral style as a team leader Improve team performance by leveraging your role and your team members roles Match the right people to the right tasks Apply proven tools for optimal teamwork including communication, decision-making, and learning Influence and persuade others to buy in Lead change from your current state to your desired future state Maximize the potential of diverse teams Generate high-quality decisions in order to gain support from key stakeholders who possess unique agendas and interests Through an exercise-based curriculum, you will identify direct applications of the learning to your role. You’ll walk away from the program with an action plan for your team, ready to implement improved team leadership and work towards a higher team performance. You will further benefit from: CBS interactive learning process Learning from highly acclaimed Executive Education faculty Direct application to your strategic challenge Tested team tools to optimize your team's performance Upon completion of this program, you will earn three credits towards a Certificate with select alumni and tuition benefits. Learn more. Program Structure Schedule Three consecutive full days of in-person sessions on the Manhattanville campus in NYC. View the in-person schedule. Includes breakfast, lunch and all materials. Dates, fees, and locations are subject to change The program structure has three parts. Part 1 Part 2 Part 3 Part one focuses on team leadership and behavior including approaches to a team success formula. Participants take part in simulated meeting exercises to help identify behavioral styles and illustrate common conflicts between them. A toolkit for developing and leading high performance teams will be the takeaway from the day. “I believe that the best thing about the Developing and Leading High-Performance Teams course is the outcome. I say this because the teachings during the course are presented in such a way that the takeaway is simple, practical, and immediately usable.” Alyse WylerSenior Director, Human Resources at SAP “After leading teams for many years, I was pleasantly surprised that the program opened new doors and presented new ways of enhancing my role.” Abdulai AwuduProgrammes Director at The Multimedia Group “This program helped me unlearn bad habits while providing me with new ways of doing things better at the same time.” Olu DelanoGeneral Manager Of Corporate Marketing at Stanbic IBTC Bank Plc “A must for all leaders of an organization. This program will change your ideas and leadership styles.” Bruce CampbellHead of College at Nambour Christian College “Columbia's Developing and Leading High-Performance Teams program will greatly enhance the way you refocus your strengths to become more productive and effective in your business.” Carlos MoralesSenior Assistant Chief Pilot at Copa Airlines “The program took me beyond the limits of what I previously grasped into new ways of thinking about teaming, persuasion and international leadership!” Peter TrautmannCity Collegiate Director, The Navigators 1 / 6 Participant Profile This program is designed for team leaders – or soon-to-be team leaders – seeking the knowledge to create diverse, high-performing teams by leveraging frameworks for effective team decision making and putting the right people against the right tasks. Program participants may include mid-level executives, managers, directors, and VPs from across industries and functions. Columbia Business School alumni and up to four of their colleagues are eligible for a 25 percent tuition benefit for this program. More on the alumni tuition benefit. Years of Management Experience Years of Management Experience % 20+ 8 16-20 3 11-15 22 6-10 30 1-5 37 , ckeditor Industry Industry % Finance 18 Education 15 Government 10 Energy/Resources 8 Media 7 Healthcare/Pharma 5 Insurance 5 Entertainment/Leisure 5 IT/Technology 5 Shipping & Transportation 5 Other 17 , ckeditor Program Faculty William Klepper Adjunct Professor, Columbia Business School Faculty Director William Klepper Adjunct Professor, Columbia Business School William Klepper has served as a consultant to numerous corporations including AT&T, Bausch & Lomb, Bell Canada, Chase Manhattan Bank, Deloitte Touche Tomatsu, DuPont, Ericsson, Finmecannica, General Electric, Hertz, Johnson & Johnson, Nabisco, Novartis, Pfizer, Roche, SAP, Sony, and Sun Microsystems. He also has consulted for colleges and universities, school districts, and government agencies and served as an advisor to the Wounded Warrior Project. He participates regularly in the New York Stock Exchange Chairman and CEO Forum or the Financial Times / Outstanding Directors Exchange. Profoundly interested in executive learning, strategic leadership, and corporate governance, Klepper is the creator of the Klepper Leadership Model, first published in Key Account Management and Planning (2002). It was then updated as the Integrated Leadership Model in his recent book, The CEO’s Boss: Tough Love in the Boardroom (2010). Read more Read more FAQ Expand Certification I’m interested in the Certificate in Business Excellence (CIBE), how do I get started? At Columbia Business School Executive Education, you’ll be able to customize a unique learning experience by selecting programs that best interest you and are most suited for your needs. Any completed program, regardless of format (live online, in-person, or online), will count towards the Certificate in Business Excellence. Which programs qualify for the CIBE? Any completed executive education program, regardless of format (live-online, in-person, or online), will count towards the Certificate in Business Excellence. Partner programs will also count towards the certificate. What programs are considered partner programs? Executive education programs developed and administered with our educational partners, bring the best of our combined knowledge, thought leadership, resources, and expertise. Kindly find a list of our partners here on our partnership page. What are the costs of the certificate? There’s no set cost associated with the certificate path since you’re able to customize your learning journey with in-person and online programs (price will vary depending on the program type and length). Are there any tuition assistance or scholarships? At Columbia Business School Executive Education, we offer non-degree and non-credit-based professional development programs to the global business community. As our programs are non-degree and non-credit, they do not qualify for financial aid. How are CIBE credits determined? Credits for a program are determined by the program duration and total learning hours. Where do I find information on the credit value for a program? You will find this information on each program page. Credits range from 0.5 credits – 26 credits per program. How do I get enrolled in the CIBE? Your certificate journey will start with your first program, and you have 4 years to complete your CIBE. You may register for any of our executive education programs on each program page. You may enroll using the “Enroll Now” button, and the application process should take 5-10 minutes. How do I receive credits? You are required to fully attend a program and complete all necessary coursework in order to receive CIBE credits. Credits are only awarded after you complete a program. How do I check the status of my Certificate completion? Kindly reach out to a Learning Solutions representative for any questions on the status of your CIBE credit count. Do CIBE credits expire? Credits are only valid for four years (Please note: While we are not able to offer in-person programming due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the duration to complete the programming has been extended to five years.). If you have not completed your CIBE within four years, we will only count non-expired credits towards your CIBE credit total. Does the Certificate in Business Excellence expire? Your Certificate in Business Excellence does not expire. Once you become a certificate recipient, you will join the greater alumni community at Columbia Business School. I’ve reached 18 CIBE credits, what’s next? Congratulations! You should receive a digital copy of your certificate at the end of your program. If you do not receive a copy from your program manager, kindly contact your Learning Solutions representative or your program manager for next steps. Will I receive a physical certificate? Yes, all certificate recipients will receive a physical plaque. If you completed your last CIBE credits through an online or live online program, you will receive a plaque in the mail. We will ask for you to provide us with your preferred mailing address and our vendor will ship the plaque directly to you. We kindly ask for your patience as the processing time takes a few weeks. Please contact your program manager for the status of your plaque. If you completed your last CIBE credits through an in-person program, you will receive a plaque at the end of the program. How do I get access to my alumni benefits? Once you complete your CIBE, we kindly ask for your patience as we process your alumni credentials. The processing time can take anywhere from 8 to 10 weeks long. Can I refer colleagues to the Certificate in Business Excellence? If you are a certificate holder, you may sponsor up to four colleagues each year for full-price in-person programs lasting up to seven days and all full-price online programs. Can I add the Certificate in Business Excellence to LinkedIn? Yes! We will provide you with instructions on how to add your certificate to your LinkedIn profile after you become a Certificate recipient. Expand Preferred Pricing and Tuition Benefits for Alumni Are there preferred pricing options available for live online programs? Yes, preferred pricing is available for groups of two or more. To inquire, email execed@gsb.columbia.edu. As a Columbia Business School alumni am I eligible for tuition benefit? Columbia Business School alumni and up to four of their colleagues are eligible for a 25 percent tuition benefit for this program. More on the Alumni Tuition Benefit. Expand Assignments Will there be any homework or assignments? For select programs, there will be some assignments to complete after the end of select program sessions. Assignments will typically consist of readings, self-reflections, and brief assessments. This approach is designed to help you practice your learnings. How long will assignments take? We do not expect that homework assignments will take up a large amount of time to complete. Will there be any examinations or grades? There will be no examinations or grades for our live online programs. Expand Access When will I receive information on how to log in? You will receive your login information immediately before the program start date. Kindly reach out to your Program Manager for further instructions on how to prepare and log in for the program. What platform do you use to deliver live online programs? We use the Zoom platform. Expand Recordings Will sessions be recorded? Most live online sessions (depending on the faculty and program) will be recorded and will be available for you upon request. In-person programs are not recorded. How long will they be available for? Recordings will be available for the duration of the program. Depending on the program, some recordings may have additional availability post-program. How do I gain access to the recordings? Your Program Manager will provide you with further instructions on how to gain access to recorded sessions. Expand Experience How do participants network during the live online programs? Will I participate in group work? Our live online programs are fully virtual and highly interactive. Most programs also feature small group work for a high-touch learning experience. The virtual program experience allows participants to feel comfortable and productive learning at home while preserving the interconnectivity of an in-person program. What are the networking opportunities during the live online sessions? Yes. Examples of this may include: virtual lunches, virtual receptions, use of the chat function, and virtual office hours for you to connect with participants and faculty. Please refer to the agenda of the specific live online program you are interested in for details. Expand Live Online Format What are live online programs? Now, more than ever, executives need the knowledge and insights to help them adapt to change and solve complex problems. As the business world has evolved, we have applied new best practices to continuously improve your learning experience. With our live online programs, we are taking select in-person programs and are translating them to a fully live and virtual format, delivering the same interactive sessions with faculty and real-time application of the knowledge you would experience in person. What is the difference between live online and online programs? Compare our two formats for distance learning here. What does “live online” mean? Live online programs are fully virtual, highly interactive programs taking place in real-time, often featuring small group work for a high-touch learning experience. Our Columbia Business School faculty stream to you live and virtually, no matter where you are located. Are all live online programs the same in terms of format and length? No. Please refer to the agenda of the specific live online program you are interested in. For any questions, please reach out to the Contact person listed on the program's web page. Do I have to attend all live sessions? Participants are expected to attend all sessions. However, we understand that participants may have scheduling conflicts. Kindly let us know in advance whenever possible and your Program Manager would be happy to discuss how we can help you get up to speed. We will also record most faculty sessions, which you can review upon request. Will I need to attend the live sessions even if I’m based in a different time zone? You are required to attend all live sessions even if you are based in a different time zone. (Kindly reach out to the Learning Solutions team to learn more about our asynchronous program offerings, which consist predominantly of pre-recorded videos that you can watch on your own time). More Leadership Programs LeadershipNegotiation & Decision Making $2,950 Strategic Storytelling: Maximum Impact in a Digital World 2 CIBE Credits June 8–10, 2022 LeadershipBusiness & Society $6,650 Women in Leadership: Next Level Success 3 CIBE Credits June 14–16, 2022 Leadership $3,450 Leadership Essentials 2 CIBE Credits July 11–14, 2022 Leadership $10,950 High Impact Leadership 5 CIBE Credits September 12–16, 2022 Earn a Certificate Upon completion of this program, you will earn three credits towards a Certificate with select alumni and tuition benefits. Learn more Sign Up for Email Alerts Sign up for program updates and content relevant to today's business leaders from Columbia Business School Executive Education. First Name* Last Name* Email* Sign up Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificates Webinars About Columbia Business School Executive Education Geffen Hall 645 West 130th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel. +1 212-854-3395Maps and Directions Back to TopTOP © 2022 Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements