Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Venture Capital: Investing in Early-Stage StartupsNEW Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Select Date(s) July 18–20, 2022 Cost $7,750 CIBE Credits 3 Format In-Person Location Manhattanville Campus, NYC Select Date(s) October 17–19, 2022 Cost $7,750 CIBE Credits 3 Format In-Person Location Manhattanville Campus, NYC Add to Cart Download Brochure Contact Us Requirements Attendees need to have a basic understanding of finance and accounting terms and knowledge to benefit from attending. Venture Capital: Investing in Early-Stage Startups Add to Cart Download Brochure Select Date(s) July 18–20, 2022 Cost $7,750 CIBE Credits 3 Format In-Person Location Manhattanville Campus, NYC Select Date(s) October 17–19, 2022 Cost $7,750 CIBE Credits 3 Format In-Person Location Manhattanville Campus, NYC Download Brochure Overview With hundreds of equity crowdfunding sites raising 3–4 billion dollars every year and the growing number of multi-billion dollar exits we are seeing in the news, the interest in generating outsized returns from startup investing has been continuously growing over the years. Over the course of three days, the program provides an invaluable deep dive into both forms of startup financing — venture capital and angel investing — equipping current and aspiring startup investors with a process for evaluating and monitoring potential opportunities and the knowledge they need to lower risk and increase returns. Participants go through the deal-flow process step by step to understand how to invest in startups. At the end of the program, participants receive an investor field guide they can use in real time to evaluate startups. Please contact our Learning Solutions Specialists at +1 212-854-3395 for a personal conversation to learn more. “Startup investing has traditionally been a black box — this program shines light on the venture capital and angel investing ecosystem.” Angela LeeThe program's faculty director Impact Participants gain a profound understanding of: Who the players are in early-stage investing and how to source best-in-class deal flow How to conduct diligence on a team, a business model, and a product The financial and governance terms that matter in a term sheet Startup valuation, venture math, and cap table watchouts What happens post investment and how to think about your investment portfolio strategy Upon completion of this program, you will earn three credits towards a Certificate with select alumni and tuition benefits. Learn more. Program Structure The program is taught in a highly experiential manner. Participants learn the frameworks to drive investment decisions and then apply them to case examples. Next, learnings will be applied to real-world startups that are currently fundraising. Participants assess each company as if they were considering investing. Participants also hear from a number of guest speakers, including leading venture capitalists and other experts in the ecosystem, to gain a varied perspective and ensure they walk out of the program with a strong network of equally curious peers. Schedule Three consecutive full days of in-person sessions on the Manhattanville campus in NYC. View the in-person schedule. Includes breakfast, lunch, and all materials for the in-person program. Dates, fees, and locations are subject to change. “The Venture Capital program exceeded my original expectation. Professor Angela Lee is a dynamic presenter with a wealth of practical knowledge in venture and angel investing. I wish I had taken this class earlier, so I could have avoided the mistakes that I have made in angel investing. I highly recommend this course to anyone who wants to invest in startup companies or pursue a career in venture capital.” John HuiCEO at Twiage “The Venture Capital program at Columbia Business School provided a hands-on and interactive learning experience while being held 100% virtually! The content of the course was extremely relevant and directly applicable to my job. There were two things about this course that really stood out to me as unique: [Faculty Director] Angela Lee and the founder pitches. Angela’s ability to share her industry knowledge and provide advice to the class elevated the course experience. In addition, the founder pitches provided an opportunity to apply the learnings and develop strategies to use moving forward. I would highly recommend this class to anyone new to the VC field as well as anyone interested in either transitioning to it or starting their own investing journey!” Meghan Lenihan MoulderPrincipal/VP of Portfolio Mgmt at Tellus BioVentures “Through the Venture Capital program, I feel that I developed practical skills that I can immediately put to use. It was a well-balanced combination of lecture, group work and guest presentations and I particularly enjoyed the real-life company pitches. [Faculty Director] Angela Lee was a fantastic facilitator, very well organized, and with clear depth of knowledge. I was worried about doing the course by Zoom but in the end, found it to be very practical and engaging. I have been searching for a course that isn’t too basic but also not so focused on the analytical side… this was exactly what I’ve been looking for.” Tammy HustonGlobal Accounts Director, Cleantech at Export Development Canada “The Columbia Business School Venture Capital program is an excellent investment of time and money. The program was interactive, current, practical, and relevant. [Faculty Director] Angela Lee was engaging and delivered an outstanding curriculum, making the best of the online learning environment. We were able to conduct due diligence on real startups and had guest speakers who were from top-notch VC firms. Kudos as well to the program manager for his behind-the-scenes admin and tech work to ensure a smooth and seamless program delivery.” Rob ZubicAssociate Director, FP&A at Ultragenyx Pharmaceutical “I had a tremendous learning experience participating in Columbia’s Venture Capital program. I have found all the Columbia offerings to be outstanding, and Venture Capital is no different. It gives folks a great insight to this asset class that has gained much traction. The class structure addresses an exhaustive list of topics, including deal structures and valuations. The relevant examples offered added tremendous value as many ACTUAL startups/founders/key players were interviewed and discussed among the groups. Additionally, Professor Lee is really outstanding. Her passion for the topic is very apparent and she is very conscious ensuring that all attendee’s questions and requests were answered. If you have any interest in Venture Capital, this program will give you a running start.” Craig FordOwner of SeaBreeze “The Venture Capital program at Columbia Business School covers all the information needed for entrepreneurs and investors about the VC world: from how to evaluate startups and how to choose cofounders and mentors to how to make a diligence and how to evaluate and dilute shares. Angela Lee is an amazing professor, and I loved the way she has built the program mixing content with maths, work groups, entrepreneur speech and evaluation, and professional VC speakers! It's really an awesome program. I recommend it for anyone interested in the Venture Capital subject!” Lavinia MartinsCEO at FLUXO Planejamento Financeiro “As a value investor, at first sight venture capital wouldn't be my primary choice of a course. At first, I took it to gain ideas about mixing value with venture capital. That didn't seem possible. But it turns out I learned a lot about attracting venture capital for starting a value investing firm. In particular: how to attract funds for your firm. The point is, in all Columbia courses you take, you learn something that is applicable to your own situation in the real world. You learn how to make your business thrive.” Frederik BossensSelf-Employed 1 / 7 Participant Profile The Venture Capital: Investing in Early-Stage Startups program is designed for: Aspiring venture capitalists or angel investors who want to understand how investors evaluate startups Founders who want to understand how early-stage investors evaluate startups Individuals interested in the startup landscape who want to better understand its language and players Note: This program is not intended for those who want to deep dive into a particular sector or who are interested in later stages of venture investing. Columbia Business School alumni and up to four of their colleagues are eligible for a 25 percent tuition benefit for this program. More on the Alumni Tuition Benefit. Industry Industry % Finance 15 Government 8 Consulting 6 IT/Technology 4 Healthcare / Pharma 3 Manufacturing / CPG 2 Other 8 , ckeditor Geographic Spread Industry % Africa 0 Asia 0 Europe 5 Middle East 9 N. America 26 Oceana 1 S. America 2 , ckeditor Faculty Angela Lee Professor of Professional Practice, Finance Faculty Director of the Lang Center for Entrepreneurship Faculty Director Angela Lee Professor of Professional Practice, Finance Faculty Director of the Lang Center for Entrepreneurship Angela Lee is an award-winning professor and the faculty director of the Lang Center for Entrepreneurship at Columbia Business School, where she teaches venture capital and leadership courses. Lee started her career in product management and then moved to consulting at McKinsey. She has started four startups and is also the founder of 37 Angels, an investing network that has evaluated over 15,000 startups, invested in over 80 of them, and activates new investors. She also serves as a venture partner at Fresco Capital, an early-stage venture fund that focuses on the future of work, digital health, and sustainability. Lee has spoken at the White House and NASA and is an expert in teaching online and making learning scalable. She is a sought-after expert on CNBC, Bloomberg TV, MSNBC and Fox Business. She was recognized by Inc. as one of 17 Inspiring Women to Watch, by Entrepreneur Magazine as one of 6 Innovative Women to Watch, and by Crain’s as a Notable Women in Tech. In 2020, she was awarded the Dean's Award for Teaching Excellence at Columbia Business School. Read full bio Read full bio FAQ Expand Certification I’m interested in the Certificate in Business Excellence (CIBE), how do I get started? At Columbia Business School Executive Education, you’ll be able to customize a unique learning experience by selecting programs that best interest you and are most suited for your needs. Any completed program, regardless of format (live online, in-person, or online), will count towards the Certificate in Business Excellence. Which programs qualify for the CIBE? Any completed executive education program, regardless of format (live-online, in-person, or online), will count towards the Certificate in Business Excellence. Partner programs will also count towards the certificate. What programs are considered partner programs? Executive education programs developed and administered with our educational partners, bring the best of our combined knowledge, thought leadership, resources, and expertise. Kindly find a list of our partners here on our partnership page. What are the costs of the certificate? There’s no set cost associated with the certificate path since you’re able to customize your learning journey with in-person and online programs (price will vary depending on the program type and length). Are there any tuition assistance or scholarships? At Columbia Business School Executive Education, we offer non-degree and non-credit-based professional development programs to the global business community. As our programs are non-degree and non-credit, they do not qualify for financial aid. How are CIBE credits determined? Credits for a program are determined by the program duration and total learning hours. Where do I find information on the credit value for a program? You will find this information on each program page. Credits range from 0.5 credits – 26 credits per program. How do I get enrolled in the CIBE? Your certificate journey will start with your first program, and you have 4 years to complete your CIBE. You may register for any of our executive education programs on each program page. You may enroll using the “Enroll Now” button, and the application process should take 5-10 minutes. How do I receive credits? You are required to fully attend a program and complete all necessary coursework in order to receive CIBE credits. Credits are only awarded after you complete a program. How do I check the status of my Certificate completion? Kindly reach out to a Learning Solutions representative for any questions on the status of your CIBE credit count. Do CIBE credits expire? Credits are only valid for four years (Please note: While we are not able to offer in-person programming due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the duration to complete the programming has been extended to five years.). If you have not completed your CIBE within four years, we will only count non-expired credits towards your CIBE credit total. Does the Certificate in Business Excellence expire? Your Certificate in Business Excellence does not expire. Once you become a certificate recipient, you will join the greater alumni community at Columbia Business School. I’ve reached 18 CIBE credits, what’s next? Congratulations! You should receive a digital copy of your certificate at the end of your program. If you do not receive a copy from your program manager, kindly contact your Learning Solutions representative or your program manager for next steps. Will I receive a physical certificate? Yes, all certificate recipients will receive a physical plaque. If you completed your last CIBE credits through an online or live online program, you will receive a plaque in the mail. We will ask for you to provide us with your preferred mailing address and our vendor will ship the plaque directly to you. We kindly ask for your patience as the processing time takes a few weeks. Please contact your program manager for the status of your plaque. If you completed your last CIBE credits through an in-person program, you will receive a plaque at the end of the program. How do I get access to my alumni benefits? Once you complete your CIBE, we kindly ask for your patience as we process your alumni credentials. The processing time can take anywhere from 8 to 10 weeks long. Can I refer colleagues to the Certificate in Business Excellence? If you are a certificate holder, you may sponsor up to four colleagues each year for full-price in-person programs lasting up to seven days and all full-price online programs. Can I add the Certificate in Business Excellence to LinkedIn? Yes! We will provide you with instructions on how to add your certificate to your LinkedIn profile after you become a Certificate recipient. Expand Preferred Pricing and Tuition Benefits for Alumni Are there preferred pricing options available for live online programs? Yes, preferred pricing is available for groups of two or more. To inquire, email execed@gsb.columbia.edu. As a Columbia Business School alumni am I eligible for tuition benefit? Columbia Business School alumni and up to four of their colleagues are eligible for a 25 percent tuition benefit for this program. More on the Alumni Tuition Benefit. Expand Assignments Will there be any homework or assignments? For select programs, there will be some assignments to complete after the end of select program sessions. Assignments will typically consist of readings, self-reflections, and brief assessments. This approach is designed to help you practice your learnings. How long will assignments take? We do not expect that homework assignments will take up a large amount of time to complete. Will there be any examinations or grades? There will be no examinations or grades for our live online programs. Expand Access When will I receive information on how to log in? You will receive your login information immediately before the program start date. Kindly reach out to your Program Manager for further instructions on how to prepare and log in for the program. What platform do you use to deliver live online programs? We use the Zoom platform. Expand Recordings Will sessions be recorded? Most live online sessions (depending on the faculty and program) will be recorded and will be available for you upon request. In-person programs are not recorded. How long will they be available for? Recordings will be available for the duration of the program. Depending on the program, some recordings may have additional availability post-program. How do I gain access to the recordings? Your Program Manager will provide you with further instructions on how to gain access to recorded sessions. Expand Experience How do participants network during the live online programs? Will I participate in group work? Our live online programs are fully virtual and highly interactive. Most programs also feature small group work for a high-touch learning experience. The virtual program experience allows participants to feel comfortable and productive learning at home while preserving the interconnectivity of an in-person program. What are the networking opportunities during the live online sessions? Yes. Examples of this may include: virtual lunches, virtual receptions, use of the chat function, and virtual office hours for you to connect with participants and faculty. Please refer to the agenda of the specific live online program you are interested in for details. Expand Live Online Format What are live online programs? Now, more than ever, executives need the knowledge and insights to help them adapt to change and solve complex problems. As the business world has evolved, we have applied new best practices to continuously improve your learning experience. With our live online programs, we are taking select in-person programs and are translating them to a fully live and virtual format, delivering the same interactive sessions with faculty and real-time application of the knowledge you would experience in person. What is the difference between live online and online programs? Compare our two formats for distance learning here. What does “live online” mean? Live online programs are fully virtual, highly interactive programs taking place in real-time, often featuring small group work for a high-touch learning experience. Our Columbia Business School faculty stream to you live and virtually, no matter where you are located. Are all live online programs the same in terms of format and length? No. Please refer to the agenda of the specific live online program you are interested in. For any questions, please reach out to the Contact person listed on the program's web page. Do I have to attend all live sessions? Participants are expected to attend all sessions. However, we understand that participants may have scheduling conflicts. Kindly let us know in advance whenever possible and your Program Manager would be happy to discuss how we can help you get up to speed. We will also record most faculty sessions, which you can review upon request. Will I need to attend the live sessions even if I’m based in a different time zone? You are required to attend all live sessions even if you are based in a different time zone. (Kindly reach out to the Learning Solutions team to learn more about our asynchronous program offerings, which consist predominantly of pre-recorded videos that you can watch on your own time). More Finance & Investing Programs Finance & Investing $2,600 Scenario Planning (Online): Learn how to Model, Predict and Prepare for the FutureNEW 1 CIBE Credits June 2–July 21, 2022 Finance & Investing $29,000 Global Banking Program: Fintech, Digital, and Analytics CIBE Credits June 6, 2022–February 10, 2023 Learn More General ManagementFinance & Investing $28,000 Chief Financial OfficerNEW 18 CIBE Credits June 20, 2022–May 8, 2023 Finance & Investing $2,600 Leveraged Buyouts (Online): A Roadmap for Evaluating, Structuring, and Executing LBOsNEW 2 CIBE Credits June 23–August 11, 2022 Earn a Certificate Upon completion of this program, you will earn credits towards a Certificate with select alumni and tuition benefits. Learn more Sign Up for Email Alerts Sign up for program updates and content relevant to today's business leaders from Columbia Business School Executive Education. First Name* Last Name* Email* Sign up Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificates Webinars About Columbia Business School Executive Education Geffen Hall 645 West 130th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel. +1 212-854-3395Maps and Directions Back to TopTOP © 2022 Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements