Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Maps and Directions Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Overview By Car By Train or Bus By Air Public Transportation Columbia’s Morningside campus runs from West 114th Street to West 120th Street between Broadway and Amsterdam Avenue. You may enter campus through the main gates at 116th Street or through the 117th Street gates during business hours. The EMBA Office at Columbia Business School is located on campus in Warren Hall, Room 404; the address is 1125 Amsterdam Avenue at 115th Street. By Car Columbia is best reached by taking the 95th / 96th Street exit of the Henry Hudson Parkway (West Side Highway). Use the 95th Street off-ramp and turn left onto Riverside Drive. Proceed north to 116th Street. A right turn at 116th Street leads you to the campus gate. To reach the Henry Hudson Parkway: From the North Take the New York Thruway (Route 87) to the Cross Bronx Expressway in the direction of the George Washington Bridge. Bear right as you approach the bridge and take the exit for the Henry Hudson Parkway south. The New England Thruway (I-95) becomes the Cross Bronx Expressway. Proceed as above. Take the Saw Mill River Parkway south or the Cross County Parkway west to the Henry Hudson Parkway south. From the West Take the New Jersey Turnpike (I-95) north or I-80 east to the George Washington Bridge. As you cross the bridge, follow signs to the exit for the Henry Hudson Parkway south. By Train or Bus Trains and buses arrive at New York’s Grand Central Station, Pennsylvania Station or Port Authority Bus Terminal, from which you can take public transportation or a taxi north to campus. By Air If you are arriving at LaGuardia, Kennedy or Newark airport, taxi service (from LaGuardia, about $20–$25; from Kennedy, a flat fare of $35 plus tolls; from Newark, a flat fare ranging from $34 to $51, determined by zone, plus tolls) is available to campus, and bus service is available to Grand Central Station and the Port Authority Bus Terminal. The M60 city bus can be taken directly from LaGuardia Airport to Columbia. Public Transportation Five bus lines (M4, M5, M11, M60, M104) and one subway line (the No. 1 local) serve the Columbia neighborhood. The M60 bus is a direct link between the campus and LaGuardia Airport. When taking the subway, the Columbia stop is 116th Street. Do not take IRT express trains Nos. 2 and 3, which eventually follow a different route and do not stop at Columbia University. If you take these express trains, be certain to transfer at 96th Street to the No. 1 local. Sign Up for Email Alerts Sign up for program updates and content relevant to today's business leaders from Columbia Business School Executive Education. First Name* Last Name* Email* Sign up Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificates Webinars About Columbia Business School Executive Education Geffen Hall 645 West 130th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel. +1 212-854-3395Maps and Directions Back to TopTOP © 2022 Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements