Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Homepage Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Programs for Individuals Transform your professional life at a program with Columbia Business School Executive Education. Our programs bring you right to the very center of business, immersing you in relevant information and providing you with actionable skills that you can use both immediately and over the long term. Learn more Programs for Organizations Columbia Business School Executive Education’s custom programs blend scholarly research and practical approaches to address your organization’s specific challenges. We see custom programming as a partnership, collaborating to create an effective experience. Learn more Online Learning These are not just online courses. This is technology putting you at the center of business. Our online programs create a forum for you to meet other executives where they are and connect with thought leadership, diverse talent, and a vast community of leaders. Learn more Certificate in Business Excellence Create your customized learning path that will best help you meet your professional development goals and gain extensive access to Columbia’s world-class thought leaders and the powerful, global Columbia Business School community of more than 47,000 alumni. Learn more Upcoming Programs Corporate Governance $2,600 Corporate Governance (Online): Driving Business Value Creation and GrowthNEW 2 CIBE Credits June 2–July 28, 2022 Finance & Investing $2,600 Scenario Planning (Online): Learn how to Model, Predict and Prepare for the FutureNEW 1 CIBE Credits June 2–July 21, 2022 Finance & Investing $29,000 Global Banking Program: Fintech, Digital, and Analytics CIBE Credits June 6, 2022–February 10, 2023 Learn More LeadershipNegotiation & Decision Making $2,950 Strategic Storytelling: Maximum Impact in a Digital World 2 CIBE Credits June 8–10, 2022 View all programs Download the Executive Education Brochure and Portfolio Columbia Business School Executive Education offers you a variety of programs, approaches, and means to excel. Download our brochure and portfolio to explore learning opportunities designed to help address your business challenges now. Download Join the Community Exchange ideas. Talk about today's business challenges. Share experiences. And be at the center of new ideas. LinkedIn Facebook Twitter YouTube Contact Us Phone: +1 800-692-3932 within the US +1 212-854-3395 outside the US General inquiries: execed@gsb.columbia.edu Programs for organizations: custom@gsb.columbia.edu Your health and safety are our top priority. Please review the latest COVID-19 related protocols at Columbia Business School. Sign Up for Email Alerts Sign up for program updates and content relevant to today's business leaders from Columbia Business School Executive Education. First Name* Last Name* Email* Sign up Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificates Webinars About Columbia Business School Executive Education Geffen Hall 645 West 130th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel. +1 212-854-3395Maps and Directions Back to TopTOP © 2022 Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements