Skip to main content Toggle navigation UNM A-Z myUNM Directory The University of New Mexico UNM A-Z myUNM Directory Help StudentInfo FastInfo Executive Search UNM Home EVP for Health Sciences EVP for Health Sciences University of New Mexico President Garnett S. Stokes has appointed Douglas Ziedonis, MD, MPH, Executive Vice President (EVP) for UNM Health Sciences and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the UNM Health System. The selection culminates a 10-month national search to identify the next executive leader for the UNM Health Sciences Center which includes the education, research, clinical, and community activities of UNM Health Sciences and the UNM Health System. Dr. Ziedonis follows in the legacy of Dr. Paul Roth who retired this summer as the previous executive leader of UNM Health Sciences and the UNM Health System. Dr. Ziedonis’ appointment begins on December 1, 2020. "I look forward to this leadership role at The University of New Mexico and getting to know the state of New Mexico and how to better serve its people. This is an exciting time to join an amazing group of faculty, staff, and students at Health Sciences and the Health System,” said Dr. Ziedonis. "I’ve enjoyed getting to know President Stokes and everyone at the Health Sciences Center and across the campus. I look forward to working with President Stokes and further developing the spirit of one university." "This opportunity is such a great fit with my experiences, interests, and passions to improve public health and clinical health care through innovation, discovery, compassion, education, and support for faculty, staff, and students. I deeply value serving at a public university that has a strong commitment to the state. It’s an exciting time to come to The University of New Mexico and become a Lobo." For the full story, visit UNM names Dr. Douglas Ziedonis Executive Vice President for UNM Health Sciences and Chief Executive Officer of the UNM Health System EVP for Health Sciences Search Advisory Committee Public Forums EVP for Health Sciences © The University of New Mexico Albuquerque, NM 87131, (505) 277-0111 New Mexico's Flagship University UNM on Facebook UNM on Instagram UNM on Twitter UNM on YouTube more at social.unm.edu Accessibility Legal Contact UNM Consumer Information New Mexico Higher Education Dashboard