Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Emerging Leader Development Program Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Select Date(s) October 10–14, 2022 Cost $10,950 CIBE Credits 5 Format In-Person Location Manhattanville Campus, NYC Add to Cart Download Brochure Contact Us Requirements This program is suitable for midlevel executives with fewer than 10 years of experience who seek to reinforce their potential with a strong foundation of skills and self-awareness. Emerging Leader Development Program Add to Cart Download Brochure Select Date(s) October 10–14, 2022 Cost $10,950 CIBE Credits 5 Format In-Person Location Manhattanville Campus, NYC Download Brochure Overview The Emerging Leader Development Program provides participants with a wide range of learning opportunities. A 360-degree feedback tool, combined with one-on-one consultation on the results*, helps participants take an in-depth look at their leadership strengths and weaknesses. The program covers several key business skills, always with a focus on how to apply them, both personally and within an organizational context. Effective leadership, strategy formulation, better decision making and negotiating skills, and successful change management form the core of the program's curriculum. Please contact our Learning Solutions Specialists at +1 212-854-3395 for a personal conversation to learn more. *To participate in the one-on-one coaching session, participants need to complete the 360 survey prior to the start of the program. “An outstanding balance of theory, experiential learning, and sharing between participants. A week well spent towards my future career development.” Past Participant Lynne KnittelManager Corporate Benefits at Barnes Group Inc. Faculty director Bob Bontempo discusses how the program helps participants get to the next level in their careers. Impact Benefits in the Current Context "An executive's softer skills can determine his/her ability to create value, drive change, and build institutions. Mastery of the softer interpersonal skills is what will separate those who merely survive economic turmoil from those who will thrive and grow as leaders." –Professor Robert Bontempo, faculty director Summary of Benefits Learn to organize your thinking and successfully implement your plans Develop your ability to formulate effective strategy Gain insights into the strengths and weaknesses of your leadership style Analyze how organizational culture can impede or bolster success Learn to create an atmosphere that allows change and innovation to thrive Upon completion of this program, you will earn two credits towards a Certificate with select alumni and tuition benefits. Learn more. Program Structure During the program participants acquire the skills needed for managerial success, such as strategy formulation, negotiation, conflict resolution, decision making, implementing change, and managing culture. With the help of 360-degree feedback, participants return to their organizations with the ability to communicate effectively and maximize both individual and team performance. Hear more about the tool from Columbia Business School Professor Joel Brockner: The curriculum for the first few sessions includes the latest research and practical applications related to diagnosing and solving the root cause of organizational problems. Readings cover such topics as organizational behavior, motivation and improving self-management abilities. Participants receive one-on-one consultations regarding their 360-degree feedback results.* By mid-program, participants focus on formulating and implementing effective strategy. Discussions cover such questions as: Is your company's strategy working well? Are you clear on what you need to do to support the strategy? Participants also continue their one-on-one feedback sessions. The end of the program concerns negotiations and includes case study readings, discussions, and role plays. The program concludes with intensive discussions on leadership, constructive conflict, and implementing change. Schedule Five consecutive full days of in-person sessions on the Manhattanville campus in NYC. View the in-person schedule. Includes breakfast, lunch, and all materials. Dates, fees, and locations are subject to change. *To participate in the one-on-one coaching session, participants need to complete the 360 survey prior to the start of the program. “This program has exceeded my expectations. So much knowledge and inspiration in just 5 days. I can only recommend. And on top of everything you get to know so many interesting people from all over the world.” Anne Kathrine PetersenChief Sales Manager at Nordea Markets “After attending the Emerging Leader Development Program, I have stronger leadership skills that I will immediately apply in my personal and professional life. I will definitely be a different leader with a broader perspective after being at Columbia Business School.” Alejandro MejiaNational Sales Director, PepsiCo Foods Venezuela “I was in charge of an acquisition of a small company in a neighboring country and I specifically used the takeaways from the Emerging Leader Development Program to negotiate with the people from whom we were buying the business. I used a lot of techniques from the program to convince the sellers. The course came at the right time for me to successfully achieve this merger.” Didier HazoumeCOO, Lababidi Holdings “An invaluable part of my career progression. I will certainly be attending Columbia Business School Executive Education for future study.” Anthony MooreSenior Accountant, HA Jacob & Sons Pty Ltd (Jacob Group of Companies) “It was a great learning experience for a budding leader like me. Bob was phenomenal and so were the visiting faculty. I would recommend the course to all those interested in becoming leaders in their respective fields.” Otima BhanotMD at Green Fitness Club LLC “In my professional career as well as in my personal life I came across a dilemma. How I perceived myself was not the same my co-workers, peers, and managers perceived me. In order to improve, I needed a fair assessment of myself from an outside eye. I came across the Emerging Leader Development Program at Columbia Business School and read about its 360 feedback that is combined with one-on-one consultation and group discussion. It provided me with an opportunity to discover my weaknesses so I could turn them into my strengths. After the program, I moved away from how I perceived myself to how I wanted to be perceived. I gained insight into my strengths and weaknesses, which allowed me to become more effective in dealings with my superiors, peers, friends, and family.” Andria JokhtaberidzeConsultant (M&A), Magticom 1 / 6 Participant Profile The Emerging Leader Development Program is designed for midlevel executives with fewer than 10 years of experience who seek to reinforce their potential with a strong foundation of skills and self-awareness. Columbia Business School Alumni and up to four of their colleagues are eligible for a 25 percent tuition benefit for this program. More on the Alumni Tuition Benefit. Years of Management Experience Years of Management Experience % 20+ 0 16-20 3 11-15 17 6-10 35 1-5 42 <1 3 , ckeditor Geographic Spread Years of Management Experience % Africa 17 Asia 5 Europe 16 MIddle East 9 N. America 49 Oceana 2 S. America 2 , ckeditor Faculty Robert N. Bontempo Adjunct Professor of Business Faculty Member, Executive Education Faculty Director Robert N. Bontempo Adjunct Professor of Business Faculty Member, Executive Education Robert Bontempo is a leading advisor to senior executives worldwide. He advises on the leadership of organizational change and the implementation of business strategy to such companies as Goldman Sachs, Boeing, Glaxo-Welcome, and NASA. Bontempo has advised the US State Department under both democratic and republican administrations, and has worked closely with the UN Population Fund. His observations on leadership have been featured in The New York Times, the Wall Street Journal, and The Economist, and he has been named by Businessweek magazine as one of the top MBA professors in the U.S. Read full bio Read full bio FAQ Expand Certification I’m interested in the Certificate in Business Excellence (CIBE), how do I get started? At Columbia Business School Executive Education, you’ll be able to customize a unique learning experience by selecting programs that best interest you and are most suited for your needs. Any completed program, regardless of format (live online, in-person, or online), will count towards the Certificate in Business Excellence. Which programs qualify for the CIBE? Any completed executive education program, regardless of format (live-online, in-person, or online), will count towards the Certificate in Business Excellence. Partner programs will also count towards the certificate. What programs are considered partner programs? Executive education programs developed and administered with our educational partners, bring the best of our combined knowledge, thought leadership, resources, and expertise. Kindly find a list of our partners here on our partnership page. What are the costs of the certificate? There’s no set cost associated with the certificate path since you’re able to customize your learning journey with in-person and online programs (price will vary depending on the program type and length). Are there any tuition assistance or scholarships? At Columbia Business School Executive Education, we offer non-degree and non-credit-based professional development programs to the global business community. As our programs are non-degree and non-credit, they do not qualify for financial aid. How are CIBE credits determined? Credits for a program are determined by the program duration and total learning hours. Where do I find information on the credit value for a program? You will find this information on each program page. Credits range from 0.5 credits – 26 credits per program. How do I get enrolled in the CIBE? Your certificate journey will start with your first program, and you have 4 years to complete your CIBE. You may register for any of our executive education programs on each program page. You may enroll using the “Enroll Now” button, and the application process should take 5-10 minutes. How do I receive credits? You are required to fully attend a program and complete all necessary coursework in order to receive CIBE credits. Credits are only awarded after you complete a program. How do I check the status of my Certificate completion? Kindly reach out to a Learning Solutions representative for any questions on the status of your CIBE credit count. Do CIBE credits expire? Credits are only valid for four years (Please note: While we are not able to offer in-person programming due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the duration to complete the programming has been extended to five years.). If you have not completed your CIBE within four years, we will only count non-expired credits towards your CIBE credit total. Does the Certificate in Business Excellence expire? Your Certificate in Business Excellence does not expire. Once you become a certificate recipient, you will join the greater alumni community at Columbia Business School. I’ve reached 18 CIBE credits, what’s next? Congratulations! You should receive a digital copy of your certificate at the end of your program. If you do not receive a copy from your program manager, kindly contact your Learning Solutions representative or your program manager for next steps. Will I receive a physical certificate? Yes, all certificate recipients will receive a physical plaque. If you completed your last CIBE credits through an online or live online program, you will receive a plaque in the mail. We will ask for you to provide us with your preferred mailing address and our vendor will ship the plaque directly to you. We kindly ask for your patience as the processing time takes a few weeks. Please contact your program manager for the status of your plaque. If you completed your last CIBE credits through an in-person program, you will receive a plaque at the end of the program. How do I get access to my alumni benefits? Once you complete your CIBE, we kindly ask for your patience as we process your alumni credentials. The processing time can take anywhere from 8 to 10 weeks long. Can I refer colleagues to the Certificate in Business Excellence? If you are a certificate holder, you may sponsor up to four colleagues each year for full-price in-person programs lasting up to seven days and all full-price online programs. Can I add the Certificate in Business Excellence to LinkedIn? Yes! We will provide you with instructions on how to add your certificate to your LinkedIn profile after you become a Certificate recipient. Expand Preferred Pricing and Tuition Benefits for Alumni Are there preferred pricing options available for live online programs? Yes, preferred pricing is available for groups of two or more. To inquire, email execed@gsb.columbia.edu. As a Columbia Business School alumni am I eligible for tuition benefit? Columbia Business School alumni and up to four of their colleagues are eligible for a 25 percent tuition benefit for this program. More on the Alumni Tuition Benefit. Expand Assignments Will there be any homework or assignments? For select programs, there will be some assignments to complete after the end of select program sessions. Assignments will typically consist of readings, self-reflections, and brief assessments. This approach is designed to help you practice your learnings. How long will assignments take? We do not expect that homework assignments will take up a large amount of time to complete. Will there be any examinations or grades? There will be no examinations or grades for our live online programs. Expand Access When will I receive information on how to log in? You will receive your login information immediately before the program start date. Kindly reach out to your Program Manager for further instructions on how to prepare and log in for the program. What platform do you use to deliver live online programs? We use the Zoom platform. Expand Recordings Will sessions be recorded? Most live online sessions (depending on the faculty and program) will be recorded and will be available for you upon request. In-person programs are not recorded. How long will they be available for? Recordings will be available for the duration of the program. Depending on the program, some recordings may have additional availability post-program. How do I gain access to the recordings? Your Program Manager will provide you with further instructions on how to gain access to recorded sessions. Expand Experience How do participants network during the live online programs? Will I participate in group work? Our live online programs are fully virtual and highly interactive. Most programs also feature small group work for a high-touch learning experience. The virtual program experience allows participants to feel comfortable and productive learning at home while preserving the interconnectivity of an in-person program. What are the networking opportunities during the live online sessions? Yes. Examples of this may include: virtual lunches, virtual receptions, use of the chat function, and virtual office hours for you to connect with participants and faculty. Please refer to the agenda of the specific live online program you are interested in for details. Expand Live Online Format What are live online programs? Now, more than ever, executives need the knowledge and insights to help them adapt to change and solve complex problems. As the business world has evolved, we have applied new best practices to continuously improve your learning experience. With our live online programs, we are taking select in-person programs and are translating them to a fully live and virtual format, delivering the same interactive sessions with faculty and real-time application of the knowledge you would experience in person. What is the difference between live online and online programs? Compare our two formats for distance learning here. What does “live online” mean? Live online programs are fully virtual, highly interactive programs taking place in real-time, often featuring small group work for a high-touch learning experience. Our Columbia Business School faculty stream to you live and virtually, no matter where you are located. Are all live online programs the same in terms of format and length? No. Please refer to the agenda of the specific live online program you are interested in. For any questions, please reach out to the Contact person listed on the program's web page. Do I have to attend all live sessions? Participants are expected to attend all sessions. However, we understand that participants may have scheduling conflicts. Kindly let us know in advance whenever possible and your Program Manager would be happy to discuss how we can help you get up to speed. We will also record most faculty sessions, which you can review upon request. Will I need to attend the live sessions even if I’m based in a different time zone? You are required to attend all live sessions even if you are based in a different time zone. (Kindly reach out to the Learning Solutions team to learn more about our asynchronous program offerings, which consist predominantly of pre-recorded videos that you can watch on your own time). Expand COVID-19 Safety Plans Please review the latest COVID-19 related protocols at Columbia Business School. More General Management Programs General ManagementFinance & Investing $28,000 Chief Financial OfficerNEW 18 CIBE Credits June 20, 2022–May 8, 2023 General Management $52,452 Advanced Management Program 27 CIBE Credits September 8, 2022–March 16, 2023 Learn More MarketingGeneral Management $28,000 Chief Marketing OfficerNEW 18 CIBE Credits September 20, 2022–August 15, 2023 General Management $35,000 Executive Development Program: Leading Into the FutureNEW 18 CIBE Credits October 24, 2022–March 9, 2023 Earn a Certificate Upon completion of this program, you will earn credits towards a Certificate with select alumni and tuition benefits. Learn more Sign Up for Email Alerts Sign up for program updates and content relevant to today's business leaders from Columbia Business School Executive Education. First Name* Last Name* Email* Sign up Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificates Webinars About Columbia Business School Executive Education Geffen Hall 645 West 130th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel. +1 212-854-3395Maps and Directions Back to TopTOP © 2022 Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements