Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Digital Marketing Strategy: Customers, Planning, and ROI Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Select Date(s) June 14–16, 2022 Cost $6,650 CIBE Credits 3 Format In-Person Location Manhattanville Campus, NYC Select Date(s) November 14–16, 2022 Cost $6,950 CIBE Credits 3 Format In-Person Location Manhattanville Campus, NYC Add to Cart Download Brochure Contact Us Requirements Attendees are mid to upper-level executives responsible for developing and implementing marketing strategy in b2b and b2c companies. Digital Marketing Strategy: Customers, Planning, and ROI Add to Cart Download Brochure Select Date(s) June 14–16, 2022 Cost $6,650 CIBE Credits 3 Format In-Person Location Manhattanville Campus, NYC Select Date(s) November 14–16, 2022 Cost $6,950 CIBE Credits 3 Format In-Person Location Manhattanville Campus, NYC Download Brochure Overview Marketers today face a constant proliferation of marketing channels, the growing power of the connected customer, and an explosion of new digital tools. To succeed, marketers must be able to plan, implement, and measure the impact of their digital strategies and integrate them with their traditional marketing and business goals. The Digital Marketing Strategy program teaches executives about the key digital marketing channels and strategies available to them. And while social networks come and go and apps gain fame and decline in popularity, the program teaches the managerial frameworks and strategies behind them, so that your decision making can be applied to whatever the next big thing in digital marketing might be. You'll learn how to think strategically and develop an ROI-based marketing plan, so that you can identify what's right for your customer and your organization. Guest speakers illustrate best practices from across industries, and you'll leave with applicable frameworks and planning tools to lead new initiatives as you return to work. Please contact our Learning Solutions Specialists at +1 212-854-3395 for a personal conversation to learn more. “In a world where digital marketing changes in the blink of an eye, it is important to get real world insights. A course like this provides that forum where theory, application, and diverse professionals intersect.” Kevin StrawbridgeProgram Participant, Vice President Global eCommerce at Rackspace Hear from Jeremy Kagan, the program's faculty director, as he introduces the program. Impact The program provides executives with the strategies, best practices, and tools for digital marketing that meet the needs of their organizations. Participants learn to think strategically and achieve a variety of marketing goals, such as customer acquisition and loyalty, brand building, market entry, customer insight, and new product innovation. Summary of Benefits: Learn how to identify digital marketing technologies and digital tools that are right for your organization Understand how to use content, mobile, and influencer marketing to target customers more effectively Learn how to develop analytics to measure the impact, effectiveness, and ROI of your digital marketing strategy Understand the power of testing and targeting in digital marketing Know how to integrate digital marketing with your offline strategies and traditional media Learn how to determine the skill sets required for your own digital initiatives Upon completion of this program, you will earn three credits towards a Certificate with select alumni and tuition benefits. Learn more. Program Structure The program starts with an in-depth look at what makes digital different from the traditional marketing world so many executives and organizations are rooted in. Next, participants explore outbound marketing like advertising and promotional channels, inbound marketing like content creation and demand nurturing, and engagement strategies like customer relationship and community management. Each of these types of marketing uses different sets of channels and tools to achieve success. Participants review each through hands-on exercises, applicable tools, and informed demonstrations to build experience with real-world tactics and data. Instructors highlight key areas of importance and industry guest speakers complement the sessions with their expertise on topics like influencer marketing, content and community strategies, and data analytics. The program also strategically taps into the New York ecosystem to showcase digital marketing best practices. Learn more about the New York advantage of the program in this video: Schedule Three consecutive full days of in-person sessions on the Manhattanville campus in NYC. View the in-person schedule. Includes breakfast, lunch, and all materials. Dates, fees, and physical locations are subject to change. “This course delivers an indescribable learning experience for anyone involved in connecting with customers. It's not digital marketing. It's marketing in the digital era.” Michael StroberSVP, Turner Entertainmnet Ad Sales, Time Warner “A great program combining concrete tools, inspiration, and a fantastic exchange of ideas with experience from B2C and B2B and all parts of the world.” Annika SvenssonHead of Marketing Programs, Ericsson AB “Anyone can learn what tools to use, but combining them in unique and creative ways to drive business outcomes is challenging. This program achieves it.” Steven HammondDirector - Global Partner Marketing, Emerson Electric Co. “Since the program concluded, I am leading a project to 'connect & engage' with teens & tweens for a Yoghurtsnack brand. We launched a huge social media activation program as part of the overall marketing strategy. I've used the things I learned at the program almost every day for this project. I put everything into practice almost immediately.” Eric PrinsenMarketing & New Business Development Consultant “I was specifically searching for a digital marketing program and looked at all the top business schools in the U.S. and Europe. Columbia offered the course content and faculty that was perfect for me.” Nancy CookeHead of International Marketing, Bath Spa University “A change in my role added our company's marketing strategy to my responsibilities. Having attended the Digital Marketing Strategy program, I am ready to think about what my company is trying to achieve and where we should lay the train tracks.” Eric WoernerSVP, Direct Energy US Home Services 1 / 6 Participant Profile Digital Marketing Strategy is designed for mid- and upper-level executives responsible for developing and implementing marketing strategy in b2b and b2c companies. It also is well suited for executives who develop or lead digital marketing for client companies. This program is ideal for participants who have digital competency and even some vertical expertise, but who seek the high-level managerial tools and techniques to effectively manage a team or an agency for execution of their digital marketing plans. Columbia Business School alumni and up to four of their colleagues are eligible for a 25 percent tuition benefit for this program. More on the Alumni Tuition Benefit. Job Function Job Function % Marketing 55 General Mgmt 20 Sales 7 Info Systems / Tech 3 Operations 2 Administrative 2 Other 11 , ckeditor Years of Management Experience Years of Management Experience % 20+ 9 16-20 10 11-15 26 6-10 26 1-5 25 <1 4 , ckeditor Faculty Jeremy Kagan Adjunct Professor of Business, Columbia Business School Faculty Director Jeremy Kagan Adjunct Professor of Business, Columbia Business School Jeremy Kagan is a professor of Business at Columbia Business School, where he teaches marketing and the internet. He has previously taught interactive business and entrepreneurship courses as a professor in Metropolitan College's Media MBA program. Kagan is the founder and CEO of Pricing Engine, a web service that empowers users to benchmark, optimize, and expand their digital marketing campaigns. He has been a strategy consultant and corporate trainer in the digital media industry, where his clients include companies in content, services, and e-commerce as well as traditional companies needing digital media expertise. Kagan previously worked at Sony Music Entertainment as vice president of Global Account Management, working with large partners such as Nokia and Sony Ericsson. He has also worked at Publicis Modem, IBM Business Consulting Services (formerly PriceWaterhouse Coopers), and as an independent consultant to a variety of media and technology clients, from cable channels to email technology companies. Read full bio Read full bio FAQ Expand Certification I’m interested in the Certificate in Business Excellence (CIBE), how do I get started? At Columbia Business School Executive Education, you’ll be able to customize a unique learning experience by selecting programs that best interest you and are most suited for your needs. Any completed program, regardless of format (live online, in-person, or online), will count towards the Certificate in Business Excellence. Which programs qualify for the CIBE? Any completed executive education program, regardless of format (live-online, in-person, or online), will count towards the Certificate in Business Excellence. Partner programs will also count towards the certificate. What programs are considered partner programs? Executive education programs developed and administered with our educational partners, bring the best of our combined knowledge, thought leadership, resources, and expertise. Kindly find a list of our partners here on our partnership page. What are the costs of the certificate? There’s no set cost associated with the certificate path since you’re able to customize your learning journey with in-person and online programs (price will vary depending on the program type and length). Are there any tuition assistance or scholarships? At Columbia Business School Executive Education, we offer non-degree and non-credit-based professional development programs to the global business community. As our programs are non-degree and non-credit, they do not qualify for financial aid. How are CIBE credits determined? Credits for a program are determined by the program duration and total learning hours. Where do I find information on the credit value for a program? You will find this information on each program page. Credits range from 0.5 credits – 26 credits per program. How do I get enrolled in the CIBE? Your certificate journey will start with your first program, and you have 4 years to complete your CIBE. You may register for any of our executive education programs on each program page. You may enroll using the “Enroll Now” button, and the application process should take 5-10 minutes. How do I receive credits? You are required to fully attend a program and complete all necessary coursework in order to receive CIBE credits. Credits are only awarded after you complete a program. How do I check the status of my Certificate completion? Kindly reach out to a Learning Solutions representative for any questions on the status of your CIBE credit count. Do CIBE credits expire? Credits are only valid for four years (Please note: While we are not able to offer in-person programming due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the duration to complete the programming has been extended to five years.). If you have not completed your CIBE within four years, we will only count non-expired credits towards your CIBE credit total. Does the Certificate in Business Excellence expire? Your Certificate in Business Excellence does not expire. Once you become a certificate recipient, you will join the greater alumni community at Columbia Business School. I’ve reached 18 CIBE credits, what’s next? Congratulations! You should receive a digital copy of your certificate at the end of your program. If you do not receive a copy from your program manager, kindly contact your Learning Solutions representative or your program manager for next steps. Will I receive a physical certificate? Yes, all certificate recipients will receive a physical plaque. If you completed your last CIBE credits through an online or live online program, you will receive a plaque in the mail. We will ask for you to provide us with your preferred mailing address and our vendor will ship the plaque directly to you. We kindly ask for your patience as the processing time takes a few weeks. Please contact your program manager for the status of your plaque. If you completed your last CIBE credits through an in-person program, you will receive a plaque at the end of the program. How do I get access to my alumni benefits? Once you complete your CIBE, we kindly ask for your patience as we process your alumni credentials. The processing time can take anywhere from 8 to 10 weeks long. Can I refer colleagues to the Certificate in Business Excellence? If you are a certificate holder, you may sponsor up to four colleagues each year for full-price in-person programs lasting up to seven days and all full-price online programs. Can I add the Certificate in Business Excellence to LinkedIn? Yes! We will provide you with instructions on how to add your certificate to your LinkedIn profile after you become a Certificate recipient. Expand Preferred Pricing and Tuition Benefits for Alumni Are there preferred pricing options available for live online programs? Yes, preferred pricing is available for groups of two or more. To inquire, email execed@gsb.columbia.edu. As a Columbia Business School alumni am I eligible for tuition benefit? Columbia Business School alumni and up to four of their colleagues are eligible for a 25 percent tuition benefit for this program. More on the Alumni Tuition Benefit. Expand Assignments Will there be any homework or assignments? For select programs, there will be some assignments to complete after the end of select program sessions. Assignments will typically consist of readings, self-reflections, and brief assessments. This approach is designed to help you practice your learnings. How long will assignments take? We do not expect that homework assignments will take up a large amount of time to complete. Will there be any examinations or grades? There will be no examinations or grades for our live online programs. Expand Access When will I receive information on how to log in? You will receive your login information immediately before the program start date. Kindly reach out to your Program Manager for further instructions on how to prepare and log in for the program. What platform do you use to deliver live online programs? We use the Zoom platform. Expand Recordings Will sessions be recorded? Most live online sessions (depending on the faculty and program) will be recorded and will be available for you upon request. In-person programs are not recorded. How long will they be available for? Recordings will be available for the duration of the program. Depending on the program, some recordings may have additional availability post-program. How do I gain access to the recordings? Your Program Manager will provide you with further instructions on how to gain access to recorded sessions. Expand Experience How do participants network during the live online programs? Will I participate in group work? Our live online programs are fully virtual and highly interactive. Most programs also feature small group work for a high-touch learning experience. The virtual program experience allows participants to feel comfortable and productive learning at home while preserving the interconnectivity of an in-person program. What are the networking opportunities during the live online sessions? Yes. Examples of this may include: virtual lunches, virtual receptions, use of the chat function, and virtual office hours for you to connect with participants and faculty. Please refer to the agenda of the specific live online program you are interested in for details. Expand Live Online Format What are live online programs? Now, more than ever, executives need the knowledge and insights to help them adapt to change and solve complex problems. As the business world has evolved, we have applied new best practices to continuously improve your learning experience. With our live online programs, we are taking select in-person programs and are translating them to a fully live and virtual format, delivering the same interactive sessions with faculty and real-time application of the knowledge you would experience in person. What is the difference between live online and online programs? Compare our two formats for distance learning here. What does “live online” mean? Live online programs are fully virtual, highly interactive programs taking place in real-time, often featuring small group work for a high-touch learning experience. Our Columbia Business School faculty stream to you live and virtually, no matter where you are located. Are all live online programs the same in terms of format and length? No. Please refer to the agenda of the specific live online program you are interested in. For any questions, please reach out to the Contact person listed on the program's web page. Do I have to attend all live sessions? Participants are expected to attend all sessions. However, we understand that participants may have scheduling conflicts. Kindly let us know in advance whenever possible and your Program Manager would be happy to discuss how we can help you get up to speed. We will also record most faculty sessions, which you can review upon request. Will I need to attend the live sessions even if I’m based in a different time zone? You are required to attend all live sessions even if you are based in a different time zone. (Kindly reach out to the Learning Solutions team to learn more about our asynchronous program offerings, which consist predominantly of pre-recorded videos that you can watch on your own time). Expand COVID-19 Safety Plans Please review the latest COVID-19 related protocols at Columbia Business School. More Marketing Programs Marketing $1,600 Digital Marketing: Customer Engagement, Social Media, Planning & Analytics 1 CIBE Credits June 29–September 14, 2022 MarketingGeneral Management $28,000 Chief Marketing OfficerNEW 18 CIBE Credits September 20, 2022–August 15, 2023 Earn a Certificate Upon completion of this program, you will earn credits towards a Certificate with select alumni and tuition benefits. Learn more Sign Up for Email Alerts Sign up for program updates and content relevant to today's business leaders from Columbia Business School Executive Education. First Name* Last Name* Email* Sign up Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificates Webinars About Columbia Business School Executive Education Geffen Hall 645 West 130th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel. +1 212-854-3395Maps and Directions Back to TopTOP © 2022 Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements