Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Value Investing Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Select Date(s) October 24–28, 2022 Cost $6,850 CIBE Credits 3 Format Live Online Location Online Requirements Attendees need to have a basic understanding of finance and accounting terms and knowledge to benefit from attending. Requirements Attendees need to have a basic understanding of finance and accounting terms and knowledge to benefit from attending. Learn more Add to Cart Download Brochure Contact Us Requirements Attendees need to have a basic understanding of finance and accounting terms and knowledge to benefit from attending. Requirements Attendees need to have a basic understanding of finance and accounting terms and knowledge to benefit from attending. Learn more Value Investing Add to Cart Download Brochure Select Date(s) October 24–28, 2022 Cost $6,850 CIBE Credits 3 Format Live Online Location Online Requirements Attendees need to have a basic understanding of finance and accounting terms and knowledge to benefit from attending. Requirements Attendees need to have a basic understanding of finance and accounting terms and knowledge to benefit from attending. Learn more Download Brochure Overview Based on the Ben Graham or Warren Buffett approach to allocating capital, this exclusive program will teach the frameworks and processes of investing that some of the most successful investors in the world employ to manage and preserve capital. Value investing focuses on the economic analysis and the valuation of the business operations of the firm with the aim of obtaining an estimate of its fundamental value. It calls to invest in the firm if the fundamental value is sufficiently above the market value so that there is a margin of safety to protect the investor against unforeseen contingencies. The approach is integrated, with the economic analysis of the business operations of the firm, and the valuation of those business operations inform and support each other. In this way, the value investor obtains a coherent view of the firm. With unmatched access to Wall Street, renowned finance and accounting divisions, and the Heilbrunn Center for Graham and Dodd Investing resources, Columbia Business School is the only school to offer this unparalleled program in investing. Please contact our Learning Solutions Specialists at +1 212-854-3395 for a personal conversation to learn more. “If you don't believe in value investing, what do you believe in?” Warren Buffett '51 Faculty director Tano Santos introduces the program. Impact Participants in Value Investing are exposed to an intense introduction to value investing, taught by thought leaders in the field. You'll walk away with a coherent view of investing, one that integrates a sound understanding of the economics of the business operation of the firm, a robust valuation approach, and a toolbox of risk management techniques beyond mindless diversification. Hear from Faculty Director Tano Santos on What Distinguishes the Value Investing Approach "The valuation approach in value investing differs from DCF-like calculations that are standard in the industry. While correct, the DCF method is both difficult to implement and tries to do “too much.” It starts by positing a model of the dynamics of cash flows. These cash-flows, properly discounted, are then added up to provide an estimate of the value of the firm. Operationally, these models typically start with an assumption regarding the rate of growth of earnings and the payout policy of the firm. DCF models are notoriously unreliable and moreover unnecessary in most situations. In contrast, the value investing approach starts with the economics of the firms and in particular with the competitive position of the firm in the industry in which it operates. Assumptions on the rate of growth of earnings are needed if and only if the business operations of the firm are protected by barriers to entry. Otherwise, we can simply forget about modeling (real) earnings growth for the simple reason that there is none. In that case, an investor should not be willing to pay for any growth option, just for the existing operations of the firm. This is the earnings power value calculation. But how does the valuation support that conclusion: because if the business operations of the firm are not protected by barriers to entry, the asset value of the firms should be equal to the earnings power value." —Tano Santos, David L. and Elise M. Dodd Professor of Finance at Columbia Business School Upon completion of this program, you will earn three credits towards a Certificate with select alumni and tuition benefits. Learn more. Program Structure The Value Investing program familiarizes you with the principles and techniques of value investing through a combination of formal lectures and in-class valuation discussions. Hands-On Tools and Exercises A key component of the value investing process is the assessment of the existence of barriers to entry. In this program, participants develop a protocol to assess the competitive position of the firm and what kind of evidence they should be looking for to ascertain the existence of competitive advantages. In the presence of barriers to entry, they develop a valuation approach that estimates the expected rate of return of investing in the company — an approach pioneered by Charlie Munger and Warren Buffett at Berkshire. To illustrate the approach, participants will use a hands-on valuation tool to look at a set of companies in different industries: Walmart and Dollar General in the retail industry, Deere in equipment manufacturing, Nike in sports apparel, Nestle in food and beverage and finally, Facebook in Big Tech. Schedule Live Online: Five consecutive daily live sessions from 1 to 5 p.m. ET. View the live online schedule. In-Person: Three consecutive full days of in-person sessions on the Manhattanville campus in NYC. View the in-person schedule. Includes breakfast, lunch, and all materials for the in-person program. Dates, fees, and locations are subject to change. Download Sample Lecture To view a sample lecture from the program, please download the program materials. “This course is well worth the 20 hours of travel to get to New York from New Zealand.” Bruce RobertsonManaging Director, JBWere “In just three days, I learned more on valuation than a couple of years in university, plus more than a decade of work experience.” Francisco ErrandoneaHead of Equities, Santander Corredores de Bolsa “The Value Investing class has resulted in my personal investments outperforming the market and has enabled me to better advise my clients in their business strategy.” Alexander SharpePrincipal at Sharpe Consulting LLC “A practical framework and process. Applicable at the workplace from day one.” Sudeep SrikantaswamyDirector at o3securities “Forget FCF or highly complex valuation methods. Value investing offers a simple method for looking at investments.” Maria Teresa MataManduca Management “Tano Santos was outstanding and very clear. Great presenter with a great sense of humor and terrific content.” Donald B. CravenAttorney and Energy Consultant 1 / 6 Participant Profile Value Investing is appropriate for executives at all levels who want to refine their understanding of value-based investing principles for professional and personal use. Columbia Business School alumni and up to four of their colleagues are eligible for a 25 percent tuition benefit for this program. More on the Alumni Tuition Benefit. Industry Industry % Finance/Accounting 67 Consulting 5 Healthcare 3 Real Estate 3 IT / Technology 2 CPG 2 Energy / Resources 2 Other 16 , ckeditor Job Function Industry % Finance/Accounting 48 General Mgmt 16 R&D 4 Sales 4 Operations 3 Administrative 2 Marketing 1 Other 22 , ckeditor Faculty Tano Santos David L. and Elise M. Dodd Professor of Finance Co-Director of the Heilbrunn Center for Graham & Dodd Investing Faculty Director Tano Santos David L. and Elise M. Dodd Professor of Finance Co-Director of the Heilbrunn Center for Graham & Dodd Investing Tano Santos is one of Columbia Business School’s value investing experts. His research focuses on two distinct areas. A first interest is the field of asset pricing with a particular emphasis on theoretical and empirical models that can account for the predictability of returns, both in the time series and the cross section. A second interest of Professor Santos is applied economic theory, specifically, the economics of financial innovations as well as the theory of organizations. Santos joined the Columbia Business School faculty in 2003. Read full bio Read full bio FAQ Expand Certification I’m interested in the Certificate in Business Excellence (CIBE), how do I get started? At Columbia Business School Executive Education, you’ll be able to customize a unique learning experience by selecting programs that best interest you and are most suited for your needs. Any completed program, regardless of format (live online, in-person, or online), will count towards the Certificate in Business Excellence. Which programs qualify for the CIBE? Any completed executive education program, regardless of format (live-online, in-person, or online), will count towards the Certificate in Business Excellence. Partner programs will also count towards the certificate. What programs are considered partner programs? Executive education programs developed and administered with our educational partners, bring the best of our combined knowledge, thought leadership, resources, and expertise. Kindly find a list of our partners here on our partnership page. What are the costs of the certificate? There’s no set cost associated with the certificate path since you’re able to customize your learning journey with in-person and online programs (price will vary depending on the program type and length). Are there any tuition assistance or scholarships? At Columbia Business School Executive Education, we offer non-degree and non-credit-based professional development programs to the global business community. As our programs are non-degree and non-credit, they do not qualify for financial aid. How are CIBE credits determined? Credits for a program are determined by the program duration and total learning hours. Where do I find information on the credit value for a program? You will find this information on each program page. Credits range from 0.5 credits – 26 credits per program. How do I get enrolled in the CIBE? Your certificate journey will start with your first program, and you have 4 years to complete your CIBE. You may register for any of our executive education programs on each program page. You may enroll using the “Enroll Now” button, and the application process should take 5-10 minutes. How do I receive credits? You are required to fully attend a program and complete all necessary coursework in order to receive CIBE credits. Credits are only awarded after you complete a program. How do I check the status of my Certificate completion? Kindly reach out to a Learning Solutions representative for any questions on the status of your CIBE credit count. Do CIBE credits expire? Credits are only valid for four years (Please note: While we are not able to offer in-person programming due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the duration to complete the programming has been extended to five years.). If you have not completed your CIBE within four years, we will only count non-expired credits towards your CIBE credit total. Does the Certificate in Business Excellence expire? Your Certificate in Business Excellence does not expire. Once you become a certificate recipient, you will join the greater alumni community at Columbia Business School. I’ve reached 18 CIBE credits, what’s next? Congratulations! You should receive a digital copy of your certificate at the end of your program. If you do not receive a copy from your program manager, kindly contact your Learning Solutions representative or your program manager for next steps. Will I receive a physical certificate? Yes, all certificate recipients will receive a physical plaque. If you completed your last CIBE credits through an online or live online program, you will receive a plaque in the mail. We will ask for you to provide us with your preferred mailing address and our vendor will ship the plaque directly to you. We kindly ask for your patience as the processing time takes a few weeks. Please contact your program manager for the status of your plaque. If you completed your last CIBE credits through an in-person program, you will receive a plaque at the end of the program. How do I get access to my alumni benefits? Once you complete your CIBE, we kindly ask for your patience as we process your alumni credentials. The processing time can take anywhere from 8 to 10 weeks long. Can I refer colleagues to the Certificate in Business Excellence? If you are a certificate holder, you may sponsor up to four colleagues each year for full-price in-person programs lasting up to seven days and all full-price online programs. Can I add the Certificate in Business Excellence to LinkedIn? Yes! We will provide you with instructions on how to add your certificate to your LinkedIn profile after you become a Certificate recipient. Expand Preferred Pricing and Tuition Benefits for Alumni Are there preferred pricing options available for live online programs? Yes, preferred pricing is available for groups of two or more. To inquire, email execed@gsb.columbia.edu. As a Columbia Business School alumni am I eligible for tuition benefit? Columbia Business School alumni and up to four of their colleagues are eligible for a 25 percent tuition benefit for this program. More on the Alumni Tuition Benefit. Expand Assignments Will there be any homework or assignments? For select programs, there will be some assignments to complete after the end of select program sessions. Assignments will typically consist of readings, self-reflections, and brief assessments. This approach is designed to help you practice your learnings. How long will assignments take? We do not expect that homework assignments will take up a large amount of time to complete. Will there be any examinations or grades? There will be no examinations or grades for our live online programs. Expand Access When will I receive information on how to log in? You will receive your login information immediately before the program start date. Kindly reach out to your Program Manager for further instructions on how to prepare and log in for the program. What platform do you use to deliver live online programs? We use the Zoom platform. Expand Recordings Will sessions be recorded? Most live online sessions (depending on the faculty and program) will be recorded and will be available for you upon request. In-person programs are not recorded. How long will they be available for? Recordings will be available for the duration of the program. Depending on the program, some recordings may have additional availability post-program. How do I gain access to the recordings? Your Program Manager will provide you with further instructions on how to gain access to recorded sessions. Expand Experience How do participants network during the live online programs? Will I participate in group work? Our live online programs are fully virtual and highly interactive. Most programs also feature small group work for a high-touch learning experience. The virtual program experience allows participants to feel comfortable and productive learning at home while preserving the interconnectivity of an in-person program. What are the networking opportunities during the live online sessions? Yes. Examples of this may include: virtual lunches, virtual receptions, use of the chat function, and virtual office hours for you to connect with participants and faculty. Please refer to the agenda of the specific live online program you are interested in for details. Expand Live Online Format What are live online programs? Now, more than ever, executives need the knowledge and insights to help them adapt to change and solve complex problems. As the business world has evolved, we have applied new best practices to continuously improve your learning experience. With our live online programs, we are taking select in-person programs and are translating them to a fully live and virtual format, delivering the same interactive sessions with faculty and real-time application of the knowledge you would experience in person. What is the difference between live online and online programs? Compare our two formats for distance learning here. What does “live online” mean? Live online programs are fully virtual, highly interactive programs taking place in real-time, often featuring small group work for a high-touch learning experience. Our Columbia Business School faculty stream to you live and virtually, no matter where you are located. Are all live online programs the same in terms of format and length? No. Please refer to the agenda of the specific live online program you are interested in. For any questions, please reach out to the Contact person listed on the program's web page. Do I have to attend all live sessions? Participants are expected to attend all sessions. However, we understand that participants may have scheduling conflicts. Kindly let us know in advance whenever possible and your Program Manager would be happy to discuss how we can help you get up to speed. We will also record most faculty sessions, which you can review upon request. Will I need to attend the live sessions even if I’m based in a different time zone? You are required to attend all live sessions even if you are based in a different time zone. (Kindly reach out to the Learning Solutions team to learn more about our asynchronous program offerings, which consist predominantly of pre-recorded videos that you can watch on your own time). More Finance Programs Finance & Investing $2,600 Scenario Planning (Online): Learn how to Model, Predict and Prepare for the FutureNEW 1 CIBE Credits June 2–July 21, 2022 Finance & Investing $29,000 Global Banking Program: Fintech, Digital, and Analytics CIBE Credits June 6, 2022–February 10, 2023 Learn More General ManagementFinance & Investing $28,000 Chief Financial OfficerNEW 18 CIBE Credits June 20, 2022–May 8, 2023 Finance & Investing $2,600 Leveraged Buyouts (Online): A Roadmap for Evaluating, Structuring, and Executing LBOsNEW 2 CIBE Credits June 23–August 11, 2022 Earn a Certificate Upon completion of this program, you will earn three credits towards a Certificate with select alumni and tuition benefits. Learn more. Learn more Sign Up for Email Alerts Sign up for program updates and content relevant to today's business leaders from Columbia Business School Executive Education. First Name* Last Name* Email* Sign up Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificates Webinars About Columbia Business School Executive Education Geffen Hall 645 West 130th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel. +1 212-854-3395Maps and Directions Back to TopTOP © 2022 Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements