Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Investment Strategies (Online)NEW Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Select Date(s) July 21–September 29, 2022 Cost $3,500 CIBE Credits 2 Format Online Location Online Requirements This program is suitable for financial professionals seeking to advance their competencies, entrepreneurs looking for a deeper understanding of investment management, and individual investors pursuing advanced skills. Requirements This program is suitable for financial professionals seeking to advance their competencies, entrepreneurs looking for a deeper understanding of investment management, and individual investors pursuing advanced skills. Learn more Requirements This program is suitable for financial professionals seeking to advance their competencies, entrepreneurs looking for a deeper understanding of investment management, and individual investors pursuing advanced skills. Requirements This program is suitable for financial professionals seeking to advance their competencies, entrepreneurs looking for a deeper understanding of investment management, and individual investors pursuing advanced skills. Learn more Investment Strategies (Online) Select Date(s) July 21–September 29, 2022 Cost $3,500 CIBE Credits 2 Format Online Location Online Requirements This program is suitable for financial professionals seeking to advance their competencies, entrepreneurs looking for a deeper understanding of investment management, and individual investors pursuing advanced skills. Requirements This program is suitable for financial professionals seeking to advance their competencies, entrepreneurs looking for a deeper understanding of investment management, and individual investors pursuing advanced skills. Learn more Download Brochure Overview Having the tools and knowledge to develop smart investment strategies has perhaps never been the current global climate. You need a solid understanding of how markets work combined with cutting-edge analytical skills and advanced quantitative tools that can guide management through uncertainty and into the future. As a participant in the Investment Strategies (Online) program, you get an introduction to the investing as well as an incisive overview of capital markets and modern risk management. And you can put your knowledge into practice immediately. Succeeding in active investing requires knowledge of the markets, confidence in crunching the numbers, and skill in analyzing and managing your investment instruments and risks. In this program, you will: Analyze the performance of actively managed investment products Discuss the underlying empirical evidence that informs investment decisions Understand the theoretical foundation of active investment management Apply modern risk management and analytical theory to stock selection Please contact our partners at Emeritus at columbia@emeritus.org, +1 315-982-5094, or +1 315-277-2746 for a personal conversation to learn more. Delivered in collaboration with “Blending financial history, theory, and data, this program emphasizes prudent risk management and data-driven decision making to help you make sound financial choices, avoid common investing pitfalls, and set you on a path of lifelong learning about markets and investing.” Harry MamayskyThe Program's Faculty Director Impact This program is designed around four value-driving methods: Foundational Knowledge Deepen your understanding of capital markets, liabilities, major asset classes, leverage, and databases. Empirical Skills Measure risk, analyze volatility, identify correlation, run regression analyses, define the yield curve, and evaluate drawdown. Forecasting Regression Explore bond markets along with expected return from the bond market as a function of the yield of the bond and the slope of the yield structure. Active Management Analyze the performance of investment products over time, understand the bond market and yield, define passive vs. active investing, learn the tools and limits of forecasting. Upon completion of this program, you will earn two credits towards a Certificate with select alumni and tuition benefits. Learn more. Program Structure Our approach provides the tools and frameworks that will help you measure risk, analyze bond markets, run regression analyses, define the yield curve, and learn the tools of forecasting. The program is comprised of the following weekly sessions: Week 1: Orientation Week 2: Introduction to Capital Markets Week 3: Major Asset Classes Week 4: Risk and Investing Week 5: Active Management Week 6: Market Risk Premium, Part I Week 7: Market Risk Premium, Part II Week 8: Patterns in Stock Returns, Part I Week 9: Patterns in Stock Returns, Part II Week 10: Portfolio Considerations Real-World Tools and Examples During the program, you’ll be introduced to and will interact with real-world tools and examples that reinforce the lessons presented in powerful and concrete ways. Some examples include: FRED & Yahoo Finance Use FRED, the online Federal Reserve Economic Database, Jordà-Schularick-Taylor Macrohistory Database website, and the Yahoo Finance database to collect data needed to complete financial calculations that will help you make informed financial decisions in various activities. Financial Times or the Wall Street Journal Use these periodicals as a general resource to help expand your knowledge in investing and finance. LTCM Hedge Fund Explore this real-world example of a hedge fund that was publicly affected by leverage and learn what went wrong. For full details of the curriculum, please download the brochure. Participant Profile Investment Strategies (Online) is ideal for financial professionals seeking to advance their competencies, entrepreneurs looking for a deeper understanding of investment management, and individual investors pursuing advanced skills. Participants may include professionals with the following titles: Investment Bankers Asset and Portfolio Managers Risk Managers Financial Advisors Financial Planners Investment Strategists Wealth Advisors Traders Investment and Fund Management Executives High Net-Worth Individuals Entrepreneurs Faculty Harry Mamaysky Professor of Professional Practice in the Faculty of Business Faculty Director Harry Mamaysky Professor of Professional Practice in the Faculty of Business Mamaysky teaches capital markets and asset pricing to MBA, Masters, and PhD students as well as Executive Education programs on the use of text data in finance and on corporate bonds. His research focuses on equity, exchange rate, volatility, and credit markets, the role of information in the trading process, and on market microstructure. He has consulted for a quantitative investment firm and a nationally recognized statistical rating organization. Prior to his return to academia, he founded the Systemic Risk Group at Citigroup and served as a member of the firm’s Risk Executive Committee. He has held portfolio management positions with Citi Principal Strategies, Old Lane, and Morgan Stanley. He joined Columbia Business School in 2015. Read full bio Read full bio FAQ Expand Certification I’m interested in the Certificate in Business Excellence (CIBE), how do I get started? At Columbia Business School Executive Education, you’ll be able to customize a unique learning experience by selecting programs that best interest you and are most suited for your needs. Any completed program, regardless of format (live online, in-person, or online), will count towards the Certificate in Business Excellence. Which programs qualify for the CIBE? Any completed executive education program, regardless of format (live-online, in-person, or online), will count towards the Certificate in Business Excellence. Partner programs will also count towards the certificate. What programs are considered partner programs? Executive education programs developed and administered with our educational partners, bring the best of our combined knowledge, thought leadership, resources, and expertise. Kindly find a list of our partners here on our partnership page. What are the costs of the certificate? There’s no set cost associated with the certificate path since you’re able to customize your learning journey with in-person and online programs (price will vary depending on the program type and length). Are there any tuition assistance or scholarships? At Columbia Business School Executive Education, we offer non-degree and non-credit-based professional development programs to the global business community. As our programs are non-degree and non-credit, they do not qualify for financial aid. How are CIBE credits determined? Credits for a program are determined by the program duration and total learning hours. Where do I find information on the credit value for a program? You will find this information on each program page. Credits range from 0.5 credits – 26 credits per program. How do I get enrolled in the CIBE? Your certificate journey will start with your first program, and you have 4 years to complete your CIBE. You may register for any of our executive education programs on each program page. You may enroll using the “Enroll Now” button, and the application process should take 5-10 minutes. How do I receive credits? You are required to fully attend a program and complete all necessary coursework in order to receive CIBE credits. Credits are only awarded after you complete a program. How do I check the status of my Certificate completion? Kindly reach out to a Learning Solutions representative for any questions on the status of your CIBE credit count. Do CIBE credits expire? Credits are only valid for four years (Please note: While we are not able to offer in-person programming due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the duration to complete the programming has been extended to five years.). If you have not completed your CIBE within four years, we will only count non-expired credits towards your CIBE credit total. Does the Certificate in Business Excellence expire? Your Certificate in Business Excellence does not expire. Once you become a certificate recipient, you will join the greater alumni community at Columbia Business School. I’ve reached 18 CIBE credits, what’s next? Congratulations! You should receive a digital copy of your certificate at the end of your program. If you do not receive a copy from your program manager, kindly contact your Learning Solutions representative or your program manager for next steps. Will I receive a physical certificate? Yes, all certificate recipients will receive a physical plaque. If you completed your last CIBE credits through an online or live online program, you will receive a plaque in the mail. We will ask for you to provide us with your preferred mailing address and our vendor will ship the plaque directly to you. We kindly ask for your patience as the processing time takes a few weeks. Please contact your program manager for the status of your plaque. If you completed your last CIBE credits through an in-person program, you will receive a plaque at the end of the program. How do I get access to my alumni benefits? Once you complete your CIBE, we kindly ask for your patience as we process your alumni credentials. The processing time can take anywhere from 8 to 10 weeks long. Can I refer colleagues to the Certificate in Business Excellence? If you are a certificate holder, you may sponsor up to four colleagues each year for full-price in-person programs lasting up to seven days and all full-price online programs. Can I add the Certificate in Business Excellence to LinkedIn? Yes! We will provide you with instructions on how to add your certificate to your LinkedIn profile after you become a Certificate recipient. Expand Preferred Pricing and Tuition Benefits for Alumni Are there preferred pricing options available for live online programs? Yes, preferred pricing is available for groups of two or more. To inquire, email execed@gsb.columbia.edu. As a Columbia Business School alumni am I eligible for tuition benefit? Columbia Business School alumni and up to four of their colleagues are eligible for a 25 percent tuition benefit for this program. More on the Alumni Tuition Benefit. Expand Assignments Will there be any homework or assignments? For select programs, there will be some assignments to complete after the end of select program sessions. Assignments will typically consist of readings, self-reflections, and brief assessments. This approach is designed to help you practice your learnings. How long will assignments take? We do not expect that homework assignments will take up a large amount of time to complete. Will there be any examinations or grades? There will be no examinations or grades for our live online programs. Expand Access When will I receive information on how to log in? You will receive your login information immediately before the program start date. Kindly reach out to your Program Manager for further instructions on how to prepare and log in for the program. What platform do you use to deliver live online programs? We use the Zoom platform. Expand Recordings Will sessions be recorded? Most live online sessions (depending on the faculty and program) will be recorded and will be available for you upon request. In-person programs are not recorded. How long will they be available for? Recordings will be available for the duration of the program. Depending on the program, some recordings may have additional availability post-program. How do I gain access to the recordings? Your Program Manager will provide you with further instructions on how to gain access to recorded sessions. Expand Experience How do participants network during the live online programs? Will I participate in group work? Our live online programs are fully virtual and highly interactive. Most programs also feature small group work for a high-touch learning experience. The virtual program experience allows participants to feel comfortable and productive learning at home while preserving the interconnectivity of an in-person program. What are the networking opportunities during the live online sessions? Yes. Examples of this may include: virtual lunches, virtual receptions, use of the chat function, and virtual office hours for you to connect with participants and faculty. Please refer to the agenda of the specific live online program you are interested in for details. Expand Live Online Format What are live online programs? Now, more than ever, executives need the knowledge and insights to help them adapt to change and solve complex problems. As the business world has evolved, we have applied new best practices to continuously improve your learning experience. With our live online programs, we are taking select in-person programs and are translating them to a fully live and virtual format, delivering the same interactive sessions with faculty and real-time application of the knowledge you would experience in person. What is the difference between live online and online programs? Compare our two formats for distance learning here. What does “live online” mean? Live online programs are fully virtual, highly interactive programs taking place in real-time, often featuring small group work for a high-touch learning experience. Our Columbia Business School faculty stream to you live and virtually, no matter where you are located. Are all live online programs the same in terms of format and length? No. Please refer to the agenda of the specific live online program you are interested in. For any questions, please reach out to the Contact person listed on the program's web page. Do I have to attend all live sessions? Participants are expected to attend all sessions. However, we understand that participants may have scheduling conflicts. Kindly let us know in advance whenever possible and your Program Manager would be happy to discuss how we can help you get up to speed. We will also record most faculty sessions, which you can review upon request. Will I need to attend the live sessions even if I’m based in a different time zone? You are required to attend all live sessions even if you are based in a different time zone. (Kindly reach out to the Learning Solutions team to learn more about our asynchronous program offerings, which consist predominantly of pre-recorded videos that you can watch on your own time). Expand COVID-19 Safety Plans Please review the latest COVID-19 related protocols at Columbia Business School. More Finance & Investing Programs Finance & Investing $2,600 Scenario Planning (Online): Learn how to Model, Predict and Prepare for the FutureNEW 1 CIBE Credits June 2–July 21, 2022 Finance & Investing $29,000 Global Banking Program: Fintech, Digital, and Analytics CIBE Credits June 6, 2022–February 10, 2023 Learn More General ManagementFinance & Investing $28,000 Chief Financial OfficerNEW 18 CIBE Credits June 20, 2022–May 8, 2023 Finance & Investing $2,600 Leveraged Buyouts (Online): A Roadmap for Evaluating, Structuring, and Executing LBOsNEW 2 CIBE Credits June 23–August 11, 2022 Earn a Certificate Upon completion of this program, you will earn credits towards a Certificate with select alumni and tuition benefits. Learn more Sign Up for Email Alerts Sign up for program updates and content relevant to today's business leaders from Columbia Business School Executive Education. First Name* Last Name* Email* Sign up Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificates Webinars About Columbia Business School Executive Education Geffen Hall 645 West 130th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel. +1 212-854-3395Maps and Directions Back to TopTOP © 2022 Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements