Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Corporate Governance Program: Developing Exceptional Board Leaders Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Select Date(s) October 19–21, 2022 Cost $7,750 CIBE Credits 3 Format In-Person Location Manhattanville Campus, NYC Add to Cart Download Brochure Contact Us Requirements This program is suitable for attendees who are current and aspiring board member of public and private companies. Corporate Governance Program: Developing Exceptional Board Leaders Add to Cart Download Brochure Select Date(s) October 19–21, 2022 Cost $7,750 CIBE Credits 3 Format In-Person Location Manhattanville Campus, NYC Download Brochure Overview The Corporate Governance Program equips executives and professionals who currently serve or are interested in serving on corporate boards with the knowledge required to excel as stewards of shareholders that promote long-term and sustainable value creation. Drawing on thought leadership from world-renowned experts at Columbia Business School and leading practicing directors, this program integrates academic research with a deep understanding of the emerging issues that boardrooms face. A unique aspect of the program is a series of panel discussions entirely devoted to emerging issues in the field of corporate governance, such as CEO succession plans, shareholder activism, the disruptive impact of technology and cyber risk, and corporate social responsibility. Program participants interact with round tables of top US directors, moderated by a Columbia Business School faculty expert in an engaging format. Fast-paced, dynamic, and practical, this interactive program is a must-attend for current and aspiring corporate directors and chief executives. Those attending gain valuable insight from fellow board members while also having the opportunity to share their own best practices. Whether a seasoned director or new to the boardroom, participants emerge from this program with new insights and the sharpened skill set needed to serve effectively. NACD Directorship Certification® This program awards 10 recertification credits for directors working toward maintaining their NACD Directorship Certification®. Please contact our Learning Solutions Specialists at +1 212-854-3395 for a personal conversation to learn more. “Columbia offers a unique meeting ground of best-in-class academic thinking and practical boardroom experience to provide participants with frameworks, strategies, and best practices to lead their companies in today’s constantly evolving environment.” Shiva RajgopalFaculty Director Hear from Shiva Rajgopal, the program's faculty director, as he introduces the program. Impact Board leaders are an undervalued resource in many organizations. Our Corporate Governance Program equips aspiring and existing board members and directors with the insights needed to ensure high performance and value creation in the long and short term. The program uniquely combines the best of cutting-edge classroom learning with a series of action-packed conversations about emerging issues that boardrooms are facing. During the classroom portion, participants learn from world-renowned Columbia Business School faculty and guest speakers to gain insights needed to ensure high performance in the long and short term, including: Appreciating value creation via financial statements Harnessing finance to realize the company’s strategy Minimizing financial reporting risks as a member of the audit committee Minimizing the threat of litigation for you and your company Incentivizing the CEO to create long-term sustainable value as a member of the compensation committee Planning for the succession of the CEO Benchmark against best practices of corporate governance Implementing best practices for private and early-stage boards During the panel discussions, participants interact with round tables of top US directors on emerging topics the boardroom is facing like: Anticipating and preparing for the next activist challenge Increasing the board’s visibility into disruptive technologies and business models Leveraging diversity and inclusion to create long-term value Special Feature: Optional Bonus Sessions for Aspiring Board Members In addition to the above, the program also features the following optional sessions for aspiring board members: Board Resume Workshop Board Recruiting and Interview Process Upon completion of this program, you will also earn three credits towards a Certificate in Business Excellence from Columbia Business School, granting select alumni and tuition benefits. Learn more. Program Structure The program features a combination of lectures and panel discussions. Schedule Three consecutive full days of in-person sessions on the Manhattanville campus in NYC. View the in-person schedule. Includes breakfast, lunch, and all materials for the in-person program. Dates, fees, and physical locations are subject to change. The academic lectures The panelist discussions The academic lectures feature interactive exercises and case studies involving real-world scenarios. Sample session titles include: Setting Management Compensation The Stewardship Function of the Board Private and Early-Stage Boards Understanding the Oversight Function of the Board Getting the Best From Your Investment Banker “Excellent program. The content and speakers were amazing. Very good panel discussion with realistic advice and perspectives. I would recommend this program without reservation.” Karen FangSenior Portfolio Manager, Managing Director at Fiduciary Trust Co., Int'l “Loved this program. Great diversity and a great balance of practice and theory.” Rebecca KerrFounder and CEO of Global Creative Solutions Group, LLC 1 / 2 Participant Profile This program is ideal for: Current board members of US public companies Board members of foreign corporations Board members of private, family-owned, or nonprofit organizations, although the specific regulations of public companies may not apply to such institutions Executives looking to develop the skills needed to get on corporate and non-profit boards Management Experience Years of Management Experience % 20+ 37 16-20 5 11-15 6 6-10 3 1-5 2 , ckeditor Industry Industry % Finance/Accounting 19 Consulting 5 Energy & Resources 4 Healthcare 4 IT/Technology 4 Consumer Products 3 Non-Profit 2 Other 11 , ckeditor Columbia Business School alumni and up to four of their colleagues are eligible for a 25 percent tuition benefit for this program. More on the Alumni Tuition Benefit. Faculty Shiva Rajgopal Roy Bernard Kester and T.W. Byrnes Professor of Accounting and Auditing Faculty Director Shiva Rajgopal Roy Bernard Kester and T.W. Byrnes Professor of Accounting and Auditing Shiva Rajgopal is the Kester and Byrnes Professor at Columbia Business School. A highly regarded academic, Shiva is one of the world’s leading experts on measuring how well managers serve as responsible stewards of the corporation’s resources. He is perhaps best known for his finding that around 40 percent of Chief Financial Officers would sacrifice a positive net present value project to meet quarterly analyst consensus earnings estimate. Apart from conducting pioneering research on short-termism, Shiva's extensive body of academic and practitioner focused work covers a wide range of contemporary issues in financial reporting and governance such as accounting restatements, frauds, SEC enforcement actions, efficacy of board and executive compensation schemes in delivering shareholder value, whistle blowing, and the paramount importance of corporate culture as an under-appreciated economic asset of the firm. He has wide-ranging experience in solving applied business problems with global private equity funds, leading insurance companies, financial services firms, hedge funds, and cyber security ratings agencies. His work has been featured extensively in the Harvard Business Review, The New York Times, the Wall Street Journal, The Financial Times, Barrons, Bloomberg, Fortune, Forbes and The Economist. Read full bio Read full bio Panelists Each iteration of the Corporate Governance Program features an incredible caliber of panelists, who lead the panel discussions held at the end of each program day. Past panels and panelists have included: Panel 1 Panel 2 Panel 3 Panel 4 Panel 5 Private Companies and Early Stage Boards Patricia Angus, CEO of Angus Advisory Group; Director, Family Business program, Columbia Business School Andrew Hindman, CFO, Theravance Biopharma Doug Maine, Senior Advisor to Brown Brothers Harriman Capital Partners, Former CFO, IBM FAQ Expand Certification I’m interested in the Certificate in Business Excellence (CIBE), how do I get started? At Columbia Business School Executive Education, you’ll be able to customize a unique learning experience by selecting programs that best interest you and are most suited for your needs. Any completed program, regardless of format (live online, in-person, or online), will count towards the Certificate in Business Excellence. Which programs qualify for the CIBE? Any completed executive education program, regardless of format (live-online, in-person, or online), will count towards the Certificate in Business Excellence. Partner programs will also count towards the certificate. What programs are considered partner programs? Executive education programs developed and administered with our educational partners, bring the best of our combined knowledge, thought leadership, resources, and expertise. Kindly find a list of our partners here on our partnership page. What are the costs of the certificate? There’s no set cost associated with the certificate path since you’re able to customize your learning journey with in-person and online programs (price will vary depending on the program type and length). Are there any tuition assistance or scholarships? At Columbia Business School Executive Education, we offer non-degree and non-credit-based professional development programs to the global business community. As our programs are non-degree and non-credit, they do not qualify for financial aid. How are CIBE credits determined? Credits for a program are determined by the program duration and total learning hours. Where do I find information on the credit value for a program? You will find this information on each program page. Credits range from 0.5 credits – 26 credits per program. How do I get enrolled in the CIBE? Your certificate journey will start with your first program, and you have 4 years to complete your CIBE. You may register for any of our executive education programs on each program page. You may enroll using the “Enroll Now” button, and the application process should take 5-10 minutes. How do I receive credits? You are required to fully attend a program and complete all necessary coursework in order to receive CIBE credits. Credits are only awarded after you complete a program. How do I check the status of my Certificate completion? Kindly reach out to a Learning Solutions representative for any questions on the status of your CIBE credit count. Do CIBE credits expire? Credits are only valid for four years (Please note: While we are not able to offer in-person programming due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the duration to complete the programming has been extended to five years.). If you have not completed your CIBE within four years, we will only count non-expired credits towards your CIBE credit total. Does the Certificate in Business Excellence expire? Your Certificate in Business Excellence does not expire. Once you become a certificate recipient, you will join the greater alumni community at Columbia Business School. I’ve reached 18 CIBE credits, what’s next? Congratulations! You should receive a digital copy of your certificate at the end of your program. If you do not receive a copy from your program manager, kindly contact your Learning Solutions representative or your program manager for next steps. Will I receive a physical certificate? Yes, all certificate recipients will receive a physical plaque. If you completed your last CIBE credits through an online or live online program, you will receive a plaque in the mail. We will ask for you to provide us with your preferred mailing address and our vendor will ship the plaque directly to you. We kindly ask for your patience as the processing time takes a few weeks. Please contact your program manager for the status of your plaque. If you completed your last CIBE credits through an in-person program, you will receive a plaque at the end of the program. How do I get access to my alumni benefits? Once you complete your CIBE, we kindly ask for your patience as we process your alumni credentials. The processing time can take anywhere from 8 to 10 weeks long. Can I refer colleagues to the Certificate in Business Excellence? If you are a certificate holder, you may sponsor up to four colleagues each year for full-price in-person programs lasting up to seven days and all full-price online programs. Can I add the Certificate in Business Excellence to LinkedIn? Yes! We will provide you with instructions on how to add your certificate to your LinkedIn profile after you become a Certificate recipient. Expand Preferred Pricing and Tuition Benefits for Alumni Are there preferred pricing options available for live online programs? Yes, preferred pricing is available for groups of two or more. To inquire, email execed@gsb.columbia.edu. As a Columbia Business School alumni am I eligible for tuition benefit? Columbia Business School alumni and up to four of their colleagues are eligible for a 25 percent tuition benefit for this program. More on the Alumni Tuition Benefit. Expand Assignments Will there be any homework or assignments? For select programs, there will be some assignments to complete after the end of select program sessions. Assignments will typically consist of readings, self-reflections, and brief assessments. This approach is designed to help you practice your learnings. How long will assignments take? We do not expect that homework assignments will take up a large amount of time to complete. Will there be any examinations or grades? There will be no examinations or grades for our live online programs. Expand Access When will I receive information on how to log in? You will receive your login information immediately before the program start date. Kindly reach out to your Program Manager for further instructions on how to prepare and log in for the program. What platform do you use to deliver live online programs? We use the Zoom platform. Expand Recordings Will sessions be recorded? Most live online sessions (depending on the faculty and program) will be recorded and will be available for you upon request. In-person programs are not recorded. How long will they be available for? Recordings will be available for the duration of the program. Depending on the program, some recordings may have additional availability post-program. How do I gain access to the recordings? Your Program Manager will provide you with further instructions on how to gain access to recorded sessions. Expand Experience How do participants network during the live online programs? Will I participate in group work? Our live online programs are fully virtual and highly interactive. Most programs also feature small group work for a high-touch learning experience. The virtual program experience allows participants to feel comfortable and productive learning at home while preserving the interconnectivity of an in-person program. What are the networking opportunities during the live online sessions? Yes. Examples of this may include: virtual lunches, virtual receptions, use of the chat function, and virtual office hours for you to connect with participants and faculty. Please refer to the agenda of the specific live online program you are interested in for details. Expand Live Online Format What are live online programs? Now, more than ever, executives need the knowledge and insights to help them adapt to change and solve complex problems. As the business world has evolved, we have applied new best practices to continuously improve your learning experience. With our live online programs, we are taking select in-person programs and are translating them to a fully live and virtual format, delivering the same interactive sessions with faculty and real-time application of the knowledge you would experience in person. What is the difference between live online and online programs? Compare our two formats for distance learning here. What does “live online” mean? Live online programs are fully virtual, highly interactive programs taking place in real-time, often featuring small group work for a high-touch learning experience. Our Columbia Business School faculty stream to you live and virtually, no matter where you are located. Are all live online programs the same in terms of format and length? No. Please refer to the agenda of the specific live online program you are interested in. For any questions, please reach out to the Contact person listed on the program's web page. Do I have to attend all live sessions? Participants are expected to attend all sessions. However, we understand that participants may have scheduling conflicts. Kindly let us know in advance whenever possible and your Program Manager would be happy to discuss how we can help you get up to speed. We will also record most faculty sessions, which you can review upon request. Will I need to attend the live sessions even if I’m based in a different time zone? You are required to attend all live sessions even if you are based in a different time zone. (Kindly reach out to the Learning Solutions team to learn more about our asynchronous program offerings, which consist predominantly of pre-recorded videos that you can watch on your own time). More Corporate Governance Programs Corporate Governance $2,600 Corporate Governance (Online): Driving Business Value Creation and GrowthNEW 2 CIBE Credits June 2–July 28, 2022 Earn a Certificate Upon completion of this program, you will earn credits towards a Certificate with select alumni and tuition benefits. Learn more Sign Up for Email Alerts Sign up for program updates and content relevant to today's business leaders from Columbia Business School Executive Education. First Name* Last Name* Email* Sign up Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificates Webinars About Columbia Business School Executive Education Geffen Hall 645 West 130th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel. +1 212-854-3395Maps and Directions Back to TopTOP © 2022 Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements