The following fields are required: Error has occurred. Please reload this page and try the operation again. Login Menu Participant Login Instructor Login Group Login Toggle navigation Participant Login Instructor Login Group Login Degree Programs Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Technology Leadership Executive Education American Healthcare in the Post Pandemic Era Custom Programs for Organizations Leader as Coach for Healthcare | Live Online Leader as Coach | Live Online Leadership and Performance Coaching Certification Powerful and Persuasive Communication Team Coaching Program Certificates Digital Health Innovation Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Training Admissions Requirements & Deadlines Funding Opportunities Admissions FAQ Student & Alumni Ambassadors Admitted Students About The Brown Difference Our Location Our Community Our Values Contact Us Covid-19 Privacy Policy Search Results Search Again S-PPC0101 - Powerful and Persuasive Communication 1009323 Email this information to yourself or a friend Remind me of this course at a later date Course Inquiry Print Version Loading... Sections Available for Registration In this video, Professor Barbara Tannenbaum discusses "Effective Communication: The Skill That Makes Good Leaders Great." Course Description Powerful communicators achieve more. Excellent communication skills are not innate, they are learned and are essential to maximize the impact of your work. This interactive and intensive online four-week program will transform how you communicate. Through live sessions with Brown's renowned faculty member Dr. Barbara Tannenbaum, practice in teams and individualized coaching from experts, you will build on your strengths to dramatically improve your communication skills in every scenario: one-on-one, small groups, large audiences — both live and online. Each week, you will apply key concepts from the course in your own work in real-time. Distinguished Senior Lecturer Barbara Tannenbaum, Ph.D. has partnered with Brown University’s School of Professional Studies to design this live online, limited enrollment course. This unique program gives you direct access to the highly-effective core concepts, practices and one-on-one coaching techniques/skills that are hallmarks of Dr. Tannenbaum’s academic and professional programs. She has taught thousands of students and professionals how to communicate effectively. Participants will receive a Certificate of Completion from Brown School of Professional Studies upon successful completion of the program. Learner Outcomes What You’ll Learn This course will change how you communicate and how you evaluate others’ communication. Learn the key elements of persuasive communication, including audience-centered communication Gain acceptance for your proposals or ideas by learning how to use different techniques for compelling audiences to take action or change their attitudes Understand the impact of non-verbal, vocal and message elements of communication and manage these elements to maximize your effectiveness as a speaker Find and develop your own authentic style of communication by building on your strengths and embracing your opportunities for growth Testimonials “ The PPC program is a focused experience I'm glad to have been a part of. The style Barbara brings to lectures is welcoming & informative, & the feedback I received from my coach Jennifer was relevant & personalized.” PAUL CONSTANTINOU, MSC PHD, IMAX Director, R&D and Hardware Engineering Loading... Enroll Now - Select a section to enroll in S-PPC0101 - 003 Expand or collapse S-PPC0101 - 003 Fall Quarter-22 Available Add to Cart Section Title Powerful and Persuasive Communication Section Schedule Oct 20, 2022 to Nov 17, 2022 Type Online-Synchronous Days THURSDAY Time 10:00AM to 11:30AM Dates Oct 20, 2022 Type Online-Synchronous Days TUESDAY Time 10:00AM to 1:30PM Dates Oct 25, 2022 Type Online-Synchronous Days THURSDAY Time 10:00AM to 11:30AM Dates Oct 27, 2022 Type Online-Synchronous Days TUESDAY Time 10:00AM to 11:30AM Dates Nov 01, 2022 Type Online-Synchronous Days THURSDAY Time 10:30AM to 1:30PM Dates Nov 03, 2022 Type Online-Synchronous Days THURSDAY Time 10:00AM to 1:30PM Dates Nov 10, 2022 Type Online-Synchronous Days TUESDAY Time 10:00AM to 1:30PM Dates Nov 15, 2022 Type Online-Synchronous Days THURSDAY Time 10:00AM to 11:30AM Dates Nov 17, 2022 Schedule and Location View Details Contact Hours 19.5 Course Fee(s) (USD) Registration Fee $2,995.00 Eligible Installment Plan 50.0% deposit and 1 installments Potential Discount(s) 10% Group Discount Drop Request Deadline Oct 06, 2022 Transfer Request Deadline Oct 06, 2022 Required fields are indicated by . Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-7901 Contact Us Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Footer Navigation Privacy Policy Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University We use cookies to help give you the best experience on our website. By continuing without changing your cookie settings, we assume you agree to this. Please read our cookie policy and privacy policy to find out more. Session Time-Out For security reasons and the protection of your personal information, your session will time out due to a period of inactivity in minute(s) and second(s). Click Extend My Session to continue. For security reasons and the protection of your personal information, your session timed out after a period of inactivity. You will be redirected to the home page. Extend My Session OK Confirm OK Cancel Alert OK Close dialog S-PPC0101 - 003 - Powerful and Persuasive Communication Processing... Close Close dialog Registration Fee Close Close dialog 2x Installment Plan Processing... Close Close dialog 10% Group Discount Description A group discount of 10% is available for 3 more registrants from the same organization. Discount is applied at registration. Amount 10.00% Close Processing... Close dialog Privacy Policy PRIVACY POLICY 2020 and Before Application Form Current applicants to the Brown School of Professional Studies apply via CollegeNET (privacy policy), managed by Brown's Graduate School. Future applicants will apply in Technolutions Slate (privacy policy) beginning in September 2020, managed by the Brown School of Professional Studies. All future applications will apply in Technolutions Slate as of January 2021. Inquiry Form All information collected from our opt-in inquiry form is used solely for the purposes of contacting and providing interested prospects with information on our program offerings. We will never sell or share any of your information with third-party vendors. Mailchimp We use an email management service called mailchimp to manage all newsletter email communications. Please see their privacy policy for more information. You can opt-out of email communications via the “unsubscribe from this list” link at the bottom of each email. Pardot and Salesforce We use Pardot as a lead collection and nurturing system and Salesforce (Pardot's parent company) as our system of record and for contact management purposes. Please see their privacy policy for more information. 2020 and Beyond Technolutions Slate As of April 2020, all activities above will be replaced with Technolutions Slate. Existing data will remain in the existing systems of record, new/future data will be maintained in Technolutions Slate, and former inquiries will be invited to opt-in to the new inquiry form/communications. Cookies Google Analytics We use a tool called “Google Analytics” to collect information about use of this site. Google Analytics collects information such as how often users visit this site, what pages they visit when they do so, and what other sites they used prior to coming to this site. We use the information we get from Google Analytics only to improve this site. Google Analytics collects only the IP address assigned to you on the date you visit this site, rather than your name or other identifying information. We do not combine the information collected through the use of Google Analytics with personally identifiable information. Although Google Analytics plants a permanent cookie on your web browser to identify you as a unique user the next time you visit this site, the cookie cannot be used by anyone but Google. Google’s ability to use and share information collected by Google Analytics about your visits to this site is restricted by the Google Analytics Terms of Use and the Google Privacy Policy. You can prevent Google Analytics from recognizing you on return visits to this site by disabling cookies on your browser. Remarketing We use tools such as Google Adwards and Google Display to remarket to individuals who visit our program pages. Third-party vendors, such as Google, show our ads on sites across the internet, and in some cases, use cookies to serve ads based on someone’s past visits to our website. You can opt out of Google’s use of cookies by visiting Google’s Ads Settings. You can also opt out of all third-party vendor’s use of cookies by visiting the Network Advertising Initiative opt-out page. Executive Education Refund Policy All cancellation requests must be made in writing to Brown. Requests can be submitted to execeducation@brown.edu or initiated from the Student Portal of your Brown Registration Account. You must submit a request to cancel your enrollment and receive a refund no later than 14 days prior to the course start date to receive a full refund. Refunds will be processed the same way the original payment was made and within 30 days following the receipt request. If cancellation is requested less than 14 days prior to the course start date funds may be credited to the same course scheduled within the next 12 months. If the course price changes in the 12 months from the start of the course, you will be responsible for paying the price differential. If the course is not presented again within the 12-month window, you may apply the credit towards another course. All unclaimed credits expire at the end of 12 months from the start of the course. If a cancellation is made after the course start date, no refund or credit will be granted. If registrants cannot attend for extenuating reasons, the enrollment fee paid may be credited for a future course only after review and approval by Brown. (execeducation@brown.edu) Close Close dialog Cookie Policy Cookie policy This statement explains how we use cookies on our website. For information about what types of personal information will be gathered when you visit the website, and how this information will be used, please see our privacy policy. How we use cookies All of our web pages use "cookies". A cookie is a small file of letters and numbers that we place on your computer or mobile device if you agree. These cookies allow us to distinguish you from other users of our website, which helps us to provide you with a good experience when you browse our website and enables us to improve our website. Types of cookies we use We use the following types of cookies: Strictly necessary cookies- these are essential in to enable you to move around the websites and use their features. Without these cookies the services you have asked for, such as signing in to your account, cannot be provided. Performance cookies- these cookies collect information about how visitors use a website, for instance which pages visitors go to most often. We use this information to improve our websites and to aid us in investigating problems raised by visitors. These cookies do not collect information that identifies a visitor. Functionality cookies- these cookies allow the website to remember choices you make and provide more personal features. For instance, a functional cookie can be used to remember the items that you have placed in your shopping cart. The information these cookies collect may be anonymized and they cannot track your browsing activity on other websites. Most web browsers allow some control of most cookies through the browser settings. To find out more about cookies, including how to see what cookies have been set and how to manage and delete them please visit http://www.allaboutcookies.org/. Specific cookies we use The list below identify the cookies we use and explain the purposes for which they are used. We may update the information contained in this section from time to time. JSESSIONID: This cookie is used by the application server to identify a unique user's session. registrarToken: This cookie is used to remember items that you have added to your shopping cart locale: This cookie is used to remember your locale and language settings. cookieconsent_status: This cookie is used to remember if you've already dismissed the cookie consent notice. _ga_UA-########: These cookies are used to collect information about how visitors use our site. We use the information to compile reports and to help us improve the website. The cookies collect information in an anonymous form, including the number of visitors to the website, where visitors have come to the site from and the pages they visited. This anonymized visitor and browsing information is stored in Google Analytics. Changes to our Cookie Statement Any changes we may make to our Cookie Policy in the future will be posted on this page. Close