Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Cart (0) Login Search Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Cart Login Suggestions Menu Executive Education For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificate Webinars About Executive Access: Global Economic Update Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Select Date(s) September 14, 2022 Cost $300 CIBE Credits 0 Format Live Online Location Online/Single Session Select Date(s) September 14, 2022–May 17, 2023 Cost $1,000 CIBE Credits 1 Format Live Online Location Online/Subscription Select Date(s) November 16, 2022 Cost $300 CIBE Credits 0 Format Live Online Location Online/Single Session Select Date(s) February 15, 2023 Cost $300 CIBE Credits 0 Format Live Online Location Online/Single Session Select Date(s) May 17, 2023 Cost $300 CIBE Credits 0 Format Live Online Location Online/Single SessionShow more Add to Cart Download Brochure Contact Us Executive Access: Global Economic Update Add to Cart Download Brochure Select Date(s) September 14, 2022 Cost $300 CIBE Credits 0 Format Live Online Location Online/Single Session Select Date(s) September 14, 2022–May 17, 2023 Cost $1,000 CIBE Credits 1 Format Live Online Location Online/Subscription Select Date(s) November 16, 2022 Cost $300 CIBE Credits 0 Format Live Online Location Online/Single Session Select Date(s) February 15, 2023 Cost $300 CIBE Credits 0 Format Live Online Location Online/Single Session Select Date(s) May 17, 2023 Cost $300 CIBE Credits 0 Format Live Online Location Online/Single SessionShow more Download Brochure We're excited to present you with our first ever subscription offering in our Executive Access series. Hosted by Columbia Business School Professor Pierre Yared — a world-renowned macroeconomist — the Global Economic Update: What You Need to Know for Your Business programs provide you with the latest economic insights in an executive briefing format. To get started, sign up for individual sessions or purchase all four programs in the series, which is a limited-time subscription offer only available starting with the September program. Format: 90-minutes, live online Fees: Single session: $300 1-year subscription: $1,000 Available for purchase for a limited time starting with the September 14, 2022 session. The subscription will not be available after this date. Only individual sessions can be purchased at this time. Session date: September 14, 2022 November 16, 2022 February 15, 2023 May 17, 2023 Time: 8–9:30 a.m. ET (Calculate your timezone.) Overview How will the recent trends in inflation impact your business? What does the slowing population growth mean for your customer base? How will the pandemic’s impact on globalization affect your industry? Understanding macroeconomic trends and developments is a key skill in every executive's tool kit. In this new program series, you'll gain access to Columbia Business School thought leadership on the latest trends in the global economy that every business should pay attention to, keeping you informed at all times — so you are equipped to make sound business and financial decisions, better see around corners, and lead your organization into the future. The format is designed to be brief yet impactful, with a highly interactive mix of lectures, group breakouts, and discussions. If you’re feeling stuck or confused about what is happening in a global economy in a constant state of flux, this is a time-efficient program that focuses attention on the most pressing issues today. Learning Outcomes Identify the most important macroeconomic risks and trends for your business Apply a proprietary three-step Macro Scenario Playbook to gauge the impact of changes in the global economy on your business Brief others in your organization on how global developments inform your strategy Program Structure The session follows a three-part structure: First, the professor will share insights on current macroeconomic conditions, with topics ranging from global growth, monetary policy, fiscal policy, financial conditions, exchange rates, and globalization Next, you will engage in high-impact group breakouts to discuss how current macroeconomic conditions affect your business and how you can scenario plan for different future situations Finally, you'll learn about emerging macroeconomic trends that your business should focus on in your scenario planning Faculty Pierre Yared MUTB Professor of International Business Vice Dean for Executive Education Columbia Business School Pierre Yared MUTB Professor of International Business Vice Dean for Executive Education Columbia Business School Pierre Yared joined the faculty of Columbia Business School in 2007. He currently teaches Global Economic Environment, a Core MBA course in macroeconomics for which he received the Dean's Award for Teaching Excellence. His research, which has been published in leading academic journals, focuses on macroeconomic policy, political economy, and growth. Pierre is a research associate of the National Bureau of Economic Research and an associate editor of the American Economic Review, the Journal of Monetary Economics, and The Review of Economic Studies. In addition, he is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and the Economic Club of New York. He earned his AB in economics from Harvard University and his PhD in economics from Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Read full bio Read full bio Sign Up for Email Alerts Sign up for program updates and content relevant to today's business leaders from Columbia Business School Executive Education. First Name* Last Name* Email* Sign up Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School For Organizations For Individuals Program Finder Certificates Webinars About Columbia Business School Executive Education Geffen Hall 645 West 130th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel. +1 212-854-3395Maps and Directions Back to TopTOP © 2022 Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements