“Never forget that justice is what love looks like in public.” Cornel West This site was created in order to capture and celebrate the tremendous amount of work that Union Theological Seminary students, alumni/ae, and faculty have done to demonstrate #LoveInAction. All Union students, alumni/ae, and faculty are invited and encouraged to contribute their original digital content, such as images, video, audio, and/or writings that they feel help to document #LoveInAction. Below you can view all of the items that have been contributed. Please check back frequently as this site is updated as contributions are made! If you have any questions about the project please contact Carolyn V. Bratnober, Public Services Librarian at Burke Library: cb3161@columbia.edu or (212) 851-5609. UTS @ Moral March Kairos Center and Poverty Initiative ran a class, CS 205, and we went to Raleigh, North Carolina to march with the Moral Movement. This is run by the NAACP and coordinated by Rev. Dr. William Barber. This was a great saturday morning with a few… Love Hub sign "Trust Your Struggle" Sign used for NYC protests. The Hub Image taken of "The Hub," students protest headquarters at Union Theological Seminary. "Black Lives Matter" Protest poster made in "The Hub," students protest headquarters at Union Theological Seminary. Millions March Union Theological Seminary students and community gathering in front of Union to head down to the Millions March in Washington Square Park. Millions March Union Theological Seminary students and community gathering in front of Union to head down to the Millions March in Washington Square Park. Candace Simpson is pictured in this image. Millions March Union Theological Seminary students and community gathering in front of Union to head down to the Millions March in Washington Square Park. Union alums Anne R. Elliott and Teresa Delgado pictured. "I can't Breathe" Sign created and used for NYC protests "Ferguson is Everywhere! Justice for Michael Brown and Eric Garner/Police Brutality and Murder MUST STOP!/www.revcom.us" Poster from NYC protests Memorial Memorial put up in "The Hub" (AD30), student protest headquarters, in Union Theological Seminary. "Welcome to this Space" "The Hub," student protest headquarters in Union Theological Seminary, signage. Protest Schedule Daily protest plan during NYC protests in December 2014. LoveInAction Union Theological Seminary's #LoveInAction banner in Millions March to Washington Square Park, NYC. Timothy Wotring at the Moral Mondays Rally. Timothy Wotring at the Moral Mondays Rally. Occupy Wall Street in Zuccotti Park Cell phone picture taken on October 22, 2011 in Zuccotti Park of Occupy Wall Street. Moral Mondays in Raleigh, North Carolina Moral Mondays in Raleigh, North Carolina Occupy Wall Street in Zuccotti Park Cell phone picture taken on October 22, 2011 in Zuccotti Park of Occupy Wall Street. We Occupy Cell phone picture taken on October 22, 2011 in Zuccotti Park of the sign "We Occupy." Cross in Ferguson UTS Ferguson Trip Assata Taught Me Wesley Morris, Ashley Ellis, Candace Simpson and Keshia Pendigrast marching in the Millions March protest in hoodies that support the Millennial Activists United organization. Night Time in Ferguson UTS Ferguson Trip Occupied St. Louis University Police line in Occupied St. Louis UTS Ferguson Trip Occupied St. Louis University Police Line in the Rain UTS Ferguson Trip Flyer at Ferguson UTS Ferguson Trip Chapel Service to honor Ferguson Union Theological Service Chapel Service in James Chapel, to Honor Ferguson and Black Lives Matter Reflection, Hands Up Don't Shoot UTS Ferguson Trip, Reflection from a skyscaper The Dissident's Survival Guide: A Field Manual to Encounters with Law Enforcement, Corporate Security, and Other Hazards A thorough discussion on the multitude of ways to protect oneselves during protests as well as explanations of tactics found in corporate and penile systems. Mutant Jail Support Guide NYC Information and specific details of what to and not to do when encountering jail situations including resources, phone numbers, and websites. Shooting the Wounded How to document your injuries for lawsuits and the media IF YOU GOT A DESK APPEARANCE TICKET (DAT): WHAT TO EXPECT AT YOUR FIRST COURT APPEARANCE Turn it up don't turn it down we're doing this for Mike Brown.mp4 Turn It Up Don't Turn It Down, We're Doing This for Mike Brown Protest chant at Union Square Black Lives, Matter.mp4 Black Lives, Matter Protest chant while in Union Square Collective Speech before moving as a group.mp4 Collective Speech Before Moving One of the protest organizers prepared the group in Union Square to move by having us repeat the message he gave us in short phrases so that everyone could hear. It was a tactic used in many demonstrations so that everyone could hear and was also… Hey Hey Ho Ho These Racist Cops Have Got to Go.mp4 Hey Hey Ho Ho These Racist Cops have Got to Go One of the many protest chants. This one includes horns! No Justice No Peace No Racist Police.mp4 No Justice No Peace, No Racist Police Protest chant Protest Speech in Union Square.mp4 Protest Speech Protest Speech in Union Square. #BlackMindsMatter This image was taken during the #StudyingWhileBlack demonstrations at Columbia University Union Students at the People's Climate March Left to right: Ross Jesmont, Benjamin VanDyne, Kate Newell, Heidi Thorsen, Roisin McMillan, unknown. Program, Community Hearing on Poverty: A Renewal of Rev. Dr. King's Poor People's Campaign Program from the Community Hearing on Poverty during the 50th anniversary of the Edmund Pettus Bridge crossing in Selma, Alabama, convened by the Kairos Center for Religions Rights and Social Justice at Union Theological Seminary. (Also available… Union Children in the Moral March in Raleigh, NC Children of Union students and alumni take part in the Historic Thousands on Jones Street March in Raleigh, NC, traveling with 60 students and community leaders as part of the delegation from Union's Kairos Center for Religions, Rights and Social… Kairos Center delegation in the 2015 Moral March in Raleigh, NC Delegation of 60 students, alumni, community and religious leaders traveling with the Kairos Center's January immersion course (CS205) to the Historic Thousands on Jones Street March in Raleigh, NC. Kairos Center's Rev. Dr. Liz Theoharis (2004, 2014) and her son Luke at the 2015 Moral March in Raleigh, NC Kairos Center Co-director Rev. Dr. Liz Theoharis, course instructor of the 2015 January immersion course traveling to Raleigh, NC to learn from the NC NAACP and the Historic Thousands on Jones Street March. This was the Poverty Initiative's… Kairos Center participants in the 2014 Climate March Students, staff and children from Union's Kairos Center join the Climate March alongside President Serene Jones. Kairos Center Directors Arrested with Walmart Workers Outside Alice Walton's Mansion Union's Kairos Center Co-directors Larry Cox and Rev. Dr. Liz Theoharis block traffic just before arrest in the OUR-Walmart action for fair wages and hours outside Alice Walton's New York mansion. Moral Day of Action in Albany, NY The Kairos Center for Religions, Rights, and Social Justice and Poverty Initiative at Union Theological Seminary traveled with students, alumni, staff and community and religious leaders (including Picture the Homeless) to the Moral Day of Action at… Rev. Dr. William Barber, II at Kairos Center Launch NC NAACP's Rev. Dr. William Barber, II delivers keynote sermon in James Chapel at the launch of the Kairos Center for Religions, Rights and Social Justice. Photo by Jose Vasquez. House band at the launch of the Kairos Center House band of Union alumni, staff and community leaders in James Chapel at the launch of the Kairos Center for Religions, Rights and Social Justice. Photo by Jose Vasquez. Union staff and alumni learn how devastation continues years after the BP oil spill Union's Poverty Scholar in Residence Willie Baptist (center right) listens as Vietnam veteran and oysterman Byron Encalade (center) and two fisherman in Point A’La Hache, Louisiana describe how their livelihoods have been devastated by the BP oil… Praying for the end of the eviction of Hurricane Katrina survivors The Kairos Center and leaders from Safe Harbor, a housing development built for Katrina survivors, pray together with a delegation from the Poor People’s Campaign from across the US. They were delivering a letter to city hall demanding an end to… Call for a Poor People's Campaign for Today Organizing Pamphlet Booklet outlining call for and possibility of a new Poor People's Campaign for Today created by the Kairos Center for Religions, Rights and Social Justice together with other community leaders and organizations. People's Resurrection March Photograph from the People's Resurrection March led by Daniel Ismael Aguilar (pictured here with megaphone). This was part of the Holy Week of Resistance movement: http://www.holyweekofresistance.net/vision/ Larry Cox and Julio Torres Larry Cox and Julio Torres hold the Karios banner at the Moral Mondays Protest. Moral Mondays March Moral Mondays March in Raleigh, NC Moral Mondays March in front of the NC State Capitol Moral Mondays March in Raleigh, NC Timothy Wotring at the Fight for 15 March Timothy Wotring at the Fight for 15 March in Greenville, SC against the Republican Debate. Fight for 15 march in Greenville, SC at the Republican Debate Fight for 15 with Larry Cox, co-director of the Kairos Center, and Timothy Wotring, a Union Theological Seminary student. The Burke Library (Columbia University Libraries) / 3041 Broadway at 121st Street / New York, NY 10027 / (212) 851-5606 / burke@libraries.cul.columbia.edu Copyright & Permissions