Historical Accountability Student Research Program Research Opportunities Fellowship Externship Internship Digital Exhibits Professor Hannah T. Croasdale Early Life Woods Hole, MA Rising Through the Ranks Truth to Power International Renown Remembering Hannah The Black Student Experience, 1960-1979 ABC Project BSAEC Black Studies George Wallace Protests Shockley Incident MLK Visits Campus Malcolm X Visits Campus Cutter Hall Black Student Voices Moving Towards Accessibility The Very Beginnings Advisory Committee on the Handicapped Early Building Alterations First Departmental Self-Evaluations Section 504 Committee on the Handicapped Ode to Dave Eckels A Look at Today Fundraising for Female Communities Female Breadwinners on Campus Communities of Couples: Isolated by Geography From Cents to Scholarships: Early Communities Et Tu, Dartmouth Women? Dartmouth's First "Alumnae" Club Modern Day Legacies Dartmouth Fraternities First Fraternities at Dartmouth Early Incidents of Jewish Discrimination Establishment of Jewish Fraternities on Campus President Dickey and the Beginning of the Fraternity Desegregation Movement 1949 Poll and 1950 Referendum 1954 Referendum and Continued Fraternity Discrimination At the April 1960 Deadline... Coeducation and the First Female Members of Dartmouth Fraternities Alpha Phi Alpha Calls to Shut Down the Fraternities, 1978-2000 Student Projects Final Projects Modern Dartmouth Liberatory Protest and Administrative Accountability: A multimedia timeline Research Presentations About People Research at Dartmouth Library Lists & Bibliographies Slavery and Dartmouth College Civil Rights at Dartmouth College Library Catalog Archives & Manuscripts Search Explore Historical Materials Research Opportunities Fellowship Externship Internship Digital Exhibits Professor Hannah T. Croasdale Early Life Woods Hole, MA Rising Through the Ranks Truth to Power International Renown Remembering Hannah The Black Student Experience, 1960-1979 ABC Project BSAEC Black Studies George Wallace Protests Shockley Incident MLK Visits Campus Malcolm X Visits Campus Cutter Hall Black Student Voices Moving Towards Accessibility The Very Beginnings Advisory Committee on the Handicapped Early Building Alterations First Departmental Self-Evaluations Section 504 Committee on the Handicapped Ode to Dave Eckels A Look at Today Fundraising for Female Communities Female Breadwinners on Campus Communities of Couples: Isolated by Geography From Cents to Scholarships: Early Communities Et Tu, Dartmouth Women? Dartmouth's First "Alumnae" Club Modern Day Legacies Dartmouth Fraternities First Fraternities at Dartmouth Early Incidents of Jewish Discrimination Establishment of Jewish Fraternities on Campus President Dickey and the Beginning of the Fraternity Desegregation Movement 1949 Poll and 1950 Referendum 1954 Referendum and Continued Fraternity Discrimination At the April 1960 Deadline... Coeducation and the First Female Members of Dartmouth Fraternities Alpha Phi Alpha Calls to Shut Down the Fraternities, 1978-2000 Student Projects Final Projects Modern Dartmouth Liberatory Protest and Administrative Accountability: A multimedia timeline Research Presentations About People Research at Dartmouth Library Lists & Bibliographies Slavery and Dartmouth College Civil Rights at Dartmouth College Library Catalog Archives & Manuscripts Search Explore Historical Materials Hannah T. Croasdale, Dartmouth's first tenured female faculty member, pictured at Woods Hole, MA. Dartmouth community members protest the speech of segregationist George Wallace on campus, 1963 David T. Eckels, Class of 1944, dedicated campus accessibility advocate, exercises on Memorial Track Field. Representative of the “women's section” of a Church of Christ at Dartmouth College fundraiser Alpha Phi Alpha in the Aegis, 1979 Welcome! The Historical Accountability Student Research Program at the Dartmouth Library offers research opportunities for Dartmouth undergraduates to explore primary sources in our collections related to issues of diversity and inclusion in Dartmouth history. On this website, you can view digital exhibitions, browse the projects of Historical Accountability Student Researchers, and learn how to get started with research of your own! Digital Exhibitions Explore the research of past Historical Accountability Student Researchers through digital exhibits of images and archival materials. Browse Moving Towards Accessibility Diversity and Inclusion in Dartmouth Fraternities Throughout the 20th Century Featured Materials Special Collections is full of primary sources that haven't yet made it into a historical accountability research project. Here are some examples to pique your interest! Samuel Ashpo (Mohegan) confesses to forsaking the rules of Christian marriage by taking another wife after discovering that his first wife has been unfaithful. In the confession, he specifically apologizes for being "married in the old Indian mode." Petition of a committee of students to the Dartmouth College Faculty in which they ask that Edward Mitchell, a Black applicant to the College, not be refused admission to Dartmouth College because of his color. An undated letter with an unknown recipient in which the writer, who is assumed to be Louis Benezet, shares his memories of Asakawa Kan’ichi on campus. Email: HASRP@dartmouth.edu Phone: (603) 646-0538 © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Designed by Agile Humanities Inclusive Excellence Dartmouth Library Dartmouth College Go to top of page