Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links About Contact us Staff directory Events Office of Global Affairs Students Advising & events Find programs Resources Health & safety Pre-departure steps Credit conversion Faculty & Staff Program Directors Department chairs Administrators Advisers Departmental exchange coordinators Visiting Students Application Academics Practical matters About the UW FAQs Parents & family Emergency Log In UW login Non-UW login Study Abroad Menu About Contact us Staff directory Events Office of Global Affairs Students Advising & events Find programs Resources Health & safety Pre-departure steps Credit conversion Faculty & Staff Program Directors Department chairs Administrators Advisers Departmental exchange coordinators Visiting Students Application Academics Practical matters About the UW FAQs Parents & family Emergency Log In UW login Non-UW login Home Study Abroad Students Resources Money Scholarships Scholarships Close Menu Home Money Financial aid Scholarships Program Cost Comparisons Budgeting & Fundraising Tips GET Funding Study Abroad Fees 2020-2021 Deferrals Students who received the UW Study Abroad Scholarship for programs canceled between spring 2020 and spring 2022 can defer their awards to a future term until they graduate, or through the end of 2025 (whichever comes first). Students who were awarded the Chang Scholarship over that same period can defer their awards to a future term so long as they are still undergraduates at the time they go abroad. UW Study Abroad Scholarships UW Study Abroad Scholarships are intended to support students participating in programs run through UW Study Abroad. The goal of the UWSA Scholarship program is to promote accessibility to international opportunities for UW students. Overview For students pursuing programs run through UW Study Abroad No additional application required It is easy to be considered for a UW Study Abroad Scholarship. If you fill out the Scholarships Eligibility questionnaire in your application and you are accepted to your program, you will automatically be considered for a UW Study Abroad Scholarship. Any UW student selected to participate in a UW Study Abroad program is eligible to be considered. Non-matriculated students are ineligible. Washington state residents with the greatest financial need are given priority for most scholarships. You must have a FAFSA or WASFA on file with the UW Office of Financial Aid to demonstrate financial need Washington State Pell Grant recipients accepted to exchange programs are guaranteed a UW Study Abroad Scholarship.* Award amounts Standard awards based on length of program: Up to $2,500 for programs lasting 1 quarter or less Up to $4,000 for programs lasting longer than 1 quarter Awards may be less than the amounts above if the program is highly subsidized OR if financial need is otherwise met Important eligibility considerations You may only receive one UW Study Abroad Scholarship during your time at the UW. If you have already received a UW Study Abroad Scholarship, you are not eligible to receive the guaranteed exchange program scholarship for Pell Grant recipients. You must be accepted to a program in order to receive a scholarship. Scholarship award notifications go out after program acceptances and before the deadline to submit a payment contract. If you have applied to more than one program, you may wait until you receive a scholarship notification to commit to a program. You may only receive an award for a program to which you applied and were accepted. Because of restrictions on funding sources, UWSA awards are based on your participation in a specific program. You cannot transfer the award to another program or term. You must be enrolled through UW Study Abroad for credit. UW Study Tours are not eligible for UW Study Abroad Scholarships as students are not earning credit or enrolled through UW Study Abroad. If you are a financial aid recipient, you will receive one of the award amounts stated above based on the duration of your program unless your unmet financial need is less than the scholarship amount. In that case, the amount of the scholarship will be equal to your unmet need. You can login to the Finances page through MyUW to review your financial aid package. Example – Scholarship award amount: $2,500 – Unmet need: $1,000 – Final award amount possible: $1,000 Awarding timeline You will find out whether you have been awarded a scholarship by the dates outlined in the table below. For most study abroad programs, a payment contract will not be due until after this notification date to allow you to plan your finances accordingly. Scholarship Cycle Date on which you are accepted to the program Scholarship notification date* Autumn A May 28 – September 13 September 24 Autumn B September 14 – November 13 November 24 Autumn C November 14 – November 27 December 9 Winter A November 28 – February 12 February 25 Winter B February 13 – February 27 March 12 Winter C February 28 – March 13 March 25 Spring A March 14 – April 13 April 26 Spring B April 14 – May 27 June 5 *If you completed your application after the program deadline, you may be considered for a scholarship in the following scholarship cycle. Look for other funding options – get started early! The key to funding your study abroad is to identify multiple scholarships to support your goals. UW Study Abroad scholarships are a great starting point, but they are not the only option. Tips Identify scholarships you want to apply for a full year in advance – this is particularly important if you are participating in a study abroad program that begins in winter or spring quarter. Don’t wait until you are accepted into a study abroad program to begin your scholarship search. Don’t limit your search just to study abroad scholarships! Many other kinds of scholarships can be used toward your study abroad. Email goglobal@uw.edu to make an appointment with UW Study Abroad Adviser for additional guidance. More scholarships Below is a list of scholarships all students should look through early in the planning process. Pay close attention to deadlines. For those scholarships connected to a study abroad, the application deadline may vary depending on when your program starts. If you prefer a printable list, click the Scholarship List link on the right-hand side of this page. Things to keep in mind about the scholarships on this list: The scholarships on this list are not managed by UW Study Abroad Many of the scholarships listed are NOT study abroad scholarships but still can be used to support a study abroad Many of these scholarships are linked either to financial need or academic/professional interest. Want help applying? Make an appointment with the Office of Merit Scholarships in 171 Mary Gates Hall. You can make appointments online or email scholarq@uw.edu. All regions Foundation for Global Scholars Applicants must be U.S. or Canadian citizens and receive academic credit for study abroad. Priority given to students from underrepresented populations in study abroad. Gilman Scholarship For U.S. citizen undergraduates eligible for Pell Grants. Students studying critical need languages can qualify for additional funds. Our Gilman Writing Guide and submission checklist will help you put together a competitive essay. Scott’s Cheap Flights Scholarship Open to all U.S. citizen or permanent resident undergraduates. For graduate students Chester A. Fritz Fellowships Competitive funding for international study or research for one quarter. Gerberding-Rome Studies Fellowship Competitive funding for graduate study at the UW Rome Center. Region-specific “Critical need” regions Boren Undergraduate Scholarships Boren Scholarships for U.S. undergraduate students to study less commonly taught languages in world regions critical to U.S. interests, and underrepresented in study abroad, including Africa, Asia, Central and Eastern Europe, Eurasia, Latin America, and the Middle East. Boren Graduate Fellowships Awards up to $30,000 to U.S. graduate students for area or language studies and research in countries critical to U.S. interests. Applicants must be U.S. citizens. Foreign Language Area Studies Fellowships (FLAS) For U.S. citizen or permanent resident undergraduate, graduate, and professional students to pursuing area or language studies in critical need locations. Africa and the Middle East Center for Arabic Study Abroad Round trip airfare, tuition, and a monthly living stipend for advanced Arabic language studies in Egypt. Applicants must be U.S. citizens or permanent residents with a minimum of three years of formal instruction in Arabic prior to application. Ottenberg-Winans Fund For UW undergraduate and graduate student research in Africa. Fellowships range from $400 to $1000. Turkish Coalition of America Scholarships for American students of Turkish heritage and U.S. minority students who wish to study in Turkey. Stroum Center Opportunity Grants Grants of up to $1500 are available to UW undergraduate students in UW-approved study abroad experiences related to Jewish studies. The grants are also open to graduate students for research, conference attendance, or further study in topics related to Jewish studies. Americas Gary & Consuelo Corbett Canada-U.S. Fellowships Program Fellowships of $5000 for one semester or $10,000 for two semesters of undergraduate study at the University of British Columbia or the University of Victoria. Killam Fellowships Two annual $10,000 awards to UW students attending a Canadian University per the UW Canadian Studies-Killam Exchange. Applicants must be U.S. citizens. Organization of American States Scholarships for undergraduate and graduate study or research in an OAS Member State. Asia Bridging Japan Scholarship $2500 scholarships for semester-long programs, $4000 for academic year programs to U.S. citizen undergraduate students for study in Japan. Freeman-ASIA Scholarship The Freeman-Asia Scholarship is designed to support American undergraduates with demonstrated financial need who are planning to study overseas in East or Southeast Asia. Awards of up to $3000 are available for summer, $5000 for semester-long programs and $7000 for year-long programs. Japanese Government Scholarships Undergraduate study or graduate research in Japan. Students should contact the Consulate General of Japan in Seattle to learn more. Japan Student Services Organization (JASSO) For undergraduate and graduate students enrolled at Japanese universities as participants of a UW Exchange. Students are nominated and selected for the scholarship by the partner institution in Japan. Atsumi International Scholarship Foundation Scholarship for Ph.D. candidates for study or research in universities in Japan’s Kanto area. Europe Scan | Design Fellowship Program (Denmark) Funding for undergraduate and graduate students accepted to a UW study abroad program or exchange in Denmark for a semester, academic year or summer. Denmark’s International Study Program (Denmark) Up to $5,000 for semester programs and $1,000 for summer programs to DIS program participants. Northwest Danish Association (Denmark) Scholarships for OR or WA resident students. Preference is given to students with Danish heritage. Gudrun Gytel Foundation (Denmark) For semester or year-long study at Danish universities in the fields of humanities, social sciences, architecture, engineering, technology, and related fields. Finlandia Foundation National Scholarships (Finland) For undergraduate and graduate students in all academic disciplines. Baden-Wuerttemberg Scholarships (Germany) Provided in the form of a monthly stipend to undergraduate and graduate students studying at a university in Baden-Württemberg, Germany, for one or two semesters as a participant of a UW exchange. DAAD (Germany) Many scholarships for undergraduate and graduate students at U.S. and Canadian institutions for study and research in Germany. UW Scandinavian Studies (Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Iceland, and Finland) Offers a variety of scholarships to UW undergraduate and graduate students for study and research. UW Ellison Center (Russia, Eastern Europe, and Central Asia) Offers a variety of scholarships and fellowships to UW undergraduate and graduate students for study and research. Partner program scholarships IES IES offers a variety of scholarships in addition to an automatic $2,000 scholarship for semester-long programs for all UW students. Additionally, UW students are eligible and highly encouraged to apply for additional funding from IES Abroad: including over 3 million dollars in need-based, diversity, and donor-funded scholarships awarded each year. CET CET awards over $100,000 in scholarships every year. UW students receive an automatic scholarship of $1,000 for all semester-long programs. Non-study abroad scholarships These scholarships aren’t specifically for study abroad, but any of these awards could be used to help cover the cost of studying abroad. MAP Scholarship Scholarships for continuing UW students who need financial assistance to assist with their progress toward a degree at the UW. Mary Gates Research Scholarships Up to $5,000 to engage in undergraduate research, which can include research abroad. Class of 1954,1957 & 1962 Awards provide funding to support UW undergraduates. Open to all majors. George Newsome Humanitarian Scholarship $1,000 award for an OMAD student at UW Seattle. Application opens in April. Contact your OMAD Adviser for more information. Sonneblick Del Rio Global Citizen Scholarship Must be a UW EOP student or participate in OMAD affiliated programs. Contact your EOP/OMAD adviser for more information. FLAS Fellowship For U.S. citizen or permanent resident undergraduate, graduate, and professional students to pursuing area or language studies in critical need locations. Fred G. Zahn Scholarship Fund 12 scholarships of $1500 for students who graduated from a high school in WA and with financial need. Open to undergrad and grad students. Washington Women in Need Scholarship This scholarship seeks to remove financial barriers to low-income students seeking higher education. Funding events UW Study Abroad offers funding-oriented info sessions and workshops designed to help you navigate all things financial. Come and let us help you figure out how to pay for study abroad! Financial Planning Workshop This workshop provides an overview of how to financially plan for study abroad. It will cover financial aid basics, budgeting, scholarships, money saving strategies and tips on generating extra cash before you go abroad. The Financial Planning Workshop is also available online! Gilman Scholarship Information Sessions The U.S. Department of State’s Benjamin A. Gilman International Scholarship is a grant program that enables students of limited financial means to study or intern abroad, thereby gaining skills critical to our national security and economic competitiveness. Come to this session to learn how to create a competitive application. Our Gilman Writing Guide and submission checklist help you put together a competitive essay. I didn’t get a UW Study Abroad scholarship…now what? So you didn’t get a UW Study Abroad Scholarship…come and meet with our Global Opportunities Adviser to learn what other options are available to pay for your program. Visit our Events page for the schedule Home Money Financial aid Scholarships Program Cost Comparisons Budgeting & Fundraising Tips GET Funding Study Abroad Fees We’re here to help KIANA PARKER (she/her) Scholarships Adviser Advises on funding study abroad, financial planning, and scholarships goglobal@uw.edu Make an appointment UWB Global Initiatives uwbworld@uw.edu UWT Study Abroad uwtintl@uw.edu Scholarship list Download a printable version of the list of scholarships. Download the list Funding events UW Study Abroad offers funding-oriented info sessions and workshops designed to help you navigate all things financial. Come and let us help you figure out how to pay for study abroad! View the schedule Office of Merit Scholarships Searchable scholarships database, workshops and advising Learn more University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA