Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box OSU Experience » Career Discovery and Development Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Well-Being Connect & Engage Career Development Academic Support Student Resources COVID-19 Info Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift CONNECT & ENGAGE WELL-BEING CAREER DEVELOPMENT ACADEMIC SUPPORT STUDENT RESOURCES COVID-19 INFO Career Development The Career Development Center is open and here to support you. We offer a broad range of services to help you work toward your career goals. See below for information on one-on-one support, career fairs and events, and online tools. Visit the main Career Development Center website to find resources and answers for the most common career-related questions. Contact the center for specific questions or help in your own career journey. Career Development Center OSU-Cascades Career Development Center Drop-ins & Advising College Resources Virtual Events Online Resources Drop-in and advising appointments Meet with a career advisor who can provide support relating to your major and area of study. Virtual drop-ins — where career assistants share resources and provide help with résumés, cover letters, job searching strategies and interview preparation — are also available during the academic year. Learn more on the career center site College career resources Need more specialized help for your field or industry? Speak with an assistant director of career education for your college. Find out who they are at our directory. Make an appointment with them in Handshake. Business students may access the College of Business Career Success Center at the link below. Visit the College of Business Career Success Center Career Events During the academic year, the Career Development Center offers workshops on résumés and cover letters, LinkedIn profiles, networking strategies, CDC resources and salary negotiation. Online resources Our online resources provide feedback on your résumé or CV, resources for career exploration, and job searching and practice interviewing tools you can use from anywhere. You can also download our career guide to guide you wherever you are in your career path. Check out the Career Development Center overview or download our career guide for more comprehensive career advice. handshake.jpg Explore jobs internships and fellowships, employers, career expos, workshops and more. focus2.jpg Get a free career assessment. Explore careers, job outlook and your working personality. vmock.png Obtain instant and personalized feedback on your résumé or CV. standout.jpg Practice interviewing on an interactive video platform. Contact Info Division of Student Affairs [email protected] Links to external sites from this website are provided for your information, and do not represent an endorsement of Oregon State University. Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer