Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin UTExperts The University of Texas at Austin Menu The University of Texas at Austin UTExperts Search Experts Search Search Experts Browse By Event/Special Topic Name College, School or Unit Subject News Media Contacts Media Rep Login Home University Communications UT Experts Browse by Event/Special Topic Browse by Event/Special Topic Austin's Growth and Economic Development Austin is one of the fastest growing metropolitan areas in the country and a hub for technological innovation. Experts from The University of Texas at Austin are available to discuss this unprecendented growth across a wide variety of industries, from healthcare, technology and business to arts and entertainment. Browse Now Juneteenth As Juneteenth is celebrated throughout the United States, experts at The University of Texas at Austin are available to discuss a range of topics, from the origins and history of the Texas-born holiday to its impact today. Browse Now Severe Weather and the Texas Energy Infrastructure UT Austin has experts available to speak on severe weather and its impact on the state's energy infrastructure and water resources. Browse Now Texas Legislative Session As lawmakers convene to tackle complex issues for the state, experts at The University of Texas at Austin can provide rich commentary and insight based on years of research and work in the field. Browse Now 2020 Presidential Election From campaign strategy to policy issues and voter turnout, faculty experts at UT Austin are poised to provide insights for coverage of the presidential election. Topics include: Browse Now Coronavirus As Coronavirus continues to be an issue of international concern, experts at The University of Texas at Austin can provide commentary and insight based on years of research and work in medical and economic fields. Browse Now U.S. and Iran Relations UT Austin has foreign policy experts available to discuss escalating tensions between the United States and Iran, following the airstrike that killed prominent Iranian general Qassem Soleimani. Browse Now Summit on Race UT Austin has multiple experts on race and related topics covered at the 2019 Summit on Race in America. Browse Now Black History Month As Black History Month is celebrated throughout February, experts at the The University of Texas at Austin are available to discuss a range of topics from the intersection of race and politics to health and educational outcomes for African Americans. Browse Now 2018 Midterm Elections From campaign finance to policy issues to voting trends in Texas and at the national level, faculty experts at UT Austin are poised to provide insight for coverage of the 2018. Browse Now Flooding and Severe Weather UT Austin has experts available to speak on the causes and impacts of flooding in Texas and beyond, from flood risk forecasting to water resource management. Browse Now UT Austin Experts Available to Speak About Tragedy Related to Police Shootings In light of recent events in Dallas, Baton Rouge and Minnesota, UT Austin has experts available to speak on any number of topics from law enforcement tactics to the psychology of tragedy. Browse Now Memorial Day and Veterans History experts at UT Austin are on hand to address veterans affairs and war in the context of Memorial Day. Browse Now Memorial Day Travel Many people will kick off the Memorial Day Weekend and the summer with a car trip. Last year, AAA Travel said 37.2 million Americans traveled 50 miles or more from home during Memorial Day. Numbers that are expected to increase this year. The University of Texas at Austin has a wide variety of experts available with backgrounds ranging from traffic congestion to autonomous vehicles to transportation planning and policy-making. Browse Now Vietnam War Summit The Vietnam War Summit held April 26-28 at the LBJ Presidential Library at UT Austin dives into a range of topics in an attempt to shed light on the lessons and legacy of the war. Browse Now 2016 Presidential Election From campaign strategy to policy issues to voting rights, faculty experts at UT Austin are poised to give insight for coverage of the presidential election. Browse Now Texas Legislative Session As lawmakers convene to tackle complex issues for the state, experts at The University of Texas at Austin can provide rich commentary and insight based on years of research and work in the field. Browse Now Texas Tribune Festival The eighth-annual Texas Tribune Festival held Sep. 27-29 at UT Austin dives into a range of topics that affect all Texans. Faculty members from across campus offer expertise on the issues addressed by sessions and speakers in the festival's tracks. For journalists covering the upcoming Texas legislative session, specialized guides to experts who can provide rich commentary and insight are available online at http://experts.utexas.edu/event. Browse Now UTExperts The University of Texas at Austin News Media Contacts Media Rep Login News Resources University Communications Research Support Units Related Links UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Disability Resources © The University of Texas at Austin 2015