Skip to main navigation Skip to search Skip to main content University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign Home Help & FAQ Welcome to UIUC's portal for research & scholarship Explore profiles, expertise and research at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign Search for... expertise/content linked to pre-defined concept(s) relating to search term Search across key concepts mined from publication metadata (titles, abstracts, etc.) any content that matches search term (default) Search across indexed text content in Illinois Experts, such as names, titles, descriptions etc. Advanced search Illinois researchers are developing innovative approaches to addressing the coronavirus pandemic Explore our COVID-19 research and expertise 2866 Profiles 147 Research Units 197003 Research & Scholarship 480 Datasets 358 Press / Media 2260 Activities 692 Honors Find U of I Research, View Scholarly Works, and Discover New Collaborators Identify potential collaborators. Find cutting-edge scholarly works. Showcase research expertise. Illinois Experts aims to facilitate the discovery of campus research expertise and enable access to the works of over 2,500 Illinois researchers and scholars via automated connections to the Illinois Data Bank, Scopus, and other sources. As Illinois Experts continues to expand in disciplinary coverage, we are actively working to develop a resource that is both inclusive and representative of the breadth of research and scholarship strengths at Illinois. Learn more about Illinois Experts, a joint project of the University Library and the Office of the Vice Chancellor for Research & Innovation. Edit your profile Terms of use Collaborations and top research areas from the last five years Click dots and donuts to bring up details. Select a country/territory from the list Dive into details Select a country/territory to view shared publications and projects Close Select a country/territory from the list Powered by Pure, Scopus & Elsevier Fingerprint Engine™ © 2022 Elsevier B.V We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content. By continuing you agree to the use of cookies Log in to Pure University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign data protection policy About web accessibility Contact us