Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Academic Success Office of Academic Programs & Experiential Learning myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Experiential Learning Certificates Select to follow link Certificates Register for a Certificate Manage or Complete a Certificate Certificate Coordinators Frequently Asked Questions Courses & Seminars Select to follow link First-Year Courses Select to follow link UNIV 101 First-Year Seminars UNIV 120 Career Courses Service Learning Courses Professional Development Common Book Learning Communities Select to follow link Overview Themed Learning Communities Linked Course Learning Communities Enroll in a Learning Community Hopes and Dreams Survey Visit Center for Service Learning Center for Undergraduate Research University Career Center Office of Fellowships Study Abroad & Global Engagement myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Academic Success Office of Academic Programs & Experiential Learning Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home KU Experiential Learning Certificate Programs Arts Engagement Certificate Program Equips you with the tools to experience, appreciate, and thoughtfully respond to the arts. Learn more about Arts Engagement! Certificate in Professional Selling The mission of the professional selling program is to prepare students for successful careers in consultative selling. Graduates of the program will help consumers and businesses define their needs, understand and evaluate buying options, facilitate effective purchase decisions, and forge enduring relationships. Learn more about the Professional Selling Program! Certificate in Service Learning Develops civic engagement as you apply academic learning to real-world issues and community-identified needs. Completion of this certificate fulfills KU Core Goal 5. Learn more about Service Learning! Entrepreneurship Certificate Program Designed to help you start, finance, plan and launch your own business in your major or favorite subject area. Learn more about Entrepreneurship! Global Awareness Program Recognizes your global knowledge and experience at KU through cultural courses, co-curricular activities, and international experience. Learn more about Global Awareness Program! Leadership Engagement Certificate Program Introduces you to leadership theories and practices, such as connecting shared values and interests among diverse populations. Learn more about the Leadership Engagement Program! Research Experience Program** Recognizes your full participation in undergraduate research, from coursework to the completion & presentation of a faculty-mentored project. Completion of this certificate fulfills KU Core Goal 6. Learn more about the Research Experience Program! Sustainability Certificate Program** Designed to help you develop a holistic understanding of sustainability challenges and solutions. Learn more about the Sustainability Certificate! **The Sustainability and Research Experience Certificate Programs are not currently taking new enrollees. Experiential Learning Certificates Register for Certificates Manage or Complete a Certificate Certificate Coordinators Certificate FAQ Summerfield Hall 1300 Sunnyside Avenue Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 27, 41, 42 celadmin@ku.edu 785-864-3624 Center for Service Learning Center for Undergraduate Research University Career Center Office of Fellowships Study Abroad & Global Engagement Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.