Skip to main content Stanford University Academic Calendar 2021-22 Schedule of Classes Bulletin Archive Get Help Stanford Bulletin Home Programs Courses Academic Policies Policies Overview Admission and Financial Aid Tuition, Fees, and Housing Undergraduate Degrees and Programs Undergraduate Major Unit Requirements Coterminal Master's Degrees Graduate Degrees Transfer Work Veterans and Military Benefits University Policies and Statements Nonacademic Regulations Stanford Bulletin 2021-2022 Use this guide to navigate your academic journey: Explore and compare degree programs Discover and develop your passions Find incredible courses Understand your options Review detailed degree requirements Plan for your success The opportunities are boundless. Your opportunity is now. Explore Programs Academics at Stanford With more than 7,000 undergraduates and 9,000 graduates studying across our seven schools on our one campus, Stanford’s abundant offerings provide our community rich experiences and endless possibilities to pursue interests, master skills, and develop one’s whole self. Undergraduate Education The Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education (VPUE) provides classes and seminars, opportunities for research and travel abroad, along with resources, support, and programs for all undergraduate students at Stanford. Schools Stanford is unique in having seven schools co-located on one contiguous campus, and all of them possess exceptional breadth and depth of excellence. This naturally facilitates multidisciplinary collaboration. Graduate Education The Office of the Vice Provost for Graduate Education (VPGE) provides professional development resources, fellowship programs, interschool networking opportunities, and other support for Stanford’s master's, doctoral, and professional degree students in over 200 graduate degree programs within all seven schools. Academic Policies Students are expected to know and abide by Stanford University policies, rules, requirements, and regulations. These pertain to registration, academic performance, student conduct, health and safety, housing, use of the libraries and computing resources, intellectual property, payment of fees, and more. Student Services Center We’re here to help you and your family navigate your academic journey. Think of us as your go-to partner and lean on us to answer questions about enrollment, academic policies, tuition and fees, and more. Reach out to us through one of these four options: Submit an online request for support Make a virtual Zoom appointment Chat with us live Give us a call: (866) 993-7772 Student Quick Links Get Help Academic Calendar Tuition & Fees Enrolling in Courses Registrar's Office Bulletin Quick Links 2021-22 Dedication Mission and History University Administration and Governance Share Feedback Schools Graduate School of Business School of Earth, Energy and Environmental Sciences Graduate School of Education School of Engineering School of Humanities and Sciences School of Law School of Medicine Download Catalog as PDF Powered by Coursedog Stanford University Stanford Home (link is external) Maps & Directions (link is external) Search Stanford (link is external) Emergency Info (link is external) Terms of Use (link is external) Privacy (link is external) Copyright (link is external) Trademarks (link is external) Non-Discrimination (link is external) Accessibility (link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.