Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Undergraduate Advising Center Exploratory Pathways myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link Contact Us The Exploratory Pathways Select to follow link Communication & Leadership Creative Arts & Design Education & Public Service Health & Behavioral Sciences Languages & Cultures Science & Technology Why Explore? Prospective Students First Year Students Second Year Students Ready to Declare Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Undergraduate Advising Center Exploratory Pathways Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Why Explore? A Student Perspective "The end result of my many major changes and 4-year plans is not as important as the process itself: the process of finding what it is that you love learning about, the process of finding the classes that make you excited to go to class, and the process of finding the path that will help you maximize your college experience." - Benji Hawkins, former UAC Peer Advisor and exploratory student Benefits of Beginning College as an Exploring Student Gather information and gain experiences to help you make an informed decision. There are so many opportunities KU has to offer you may not know exist yet! We want to help you find them before you make decisions. Discovering new options is a large piece of exploring. You can save time and money by exploring now rather than years from now. We truly believe that the more informed your academic decision is - the more you will excel and feel passionate about it for life. Exploring leads you to finding the best combination of majors, minors, and certificates that maximize your interests. Don't limit yourself to one thing! Our Foundation: Appreciative Advising As an exploratory student navigates their exploration journey, advisors are with them every step of the way. From admission events, new student orientation, enrollment, and declaration, advisors intentionally track the progress and movement of each Exploratory Pathway student. Pathways students work one-on-one with a dedicated advisor at least two times a semester, if not more! Appreciative Advising guides our office within each milestone and appointment we have. We discover who students are, we help them design their own path, and we guide them on delivering their own feasible goals. Exploratory Pathways is a program within the Undergraduate Advising Center at The University of Kansas, a department within Academic Success. Meet with an Academic Advisor to Learn about your Options At KU, Exploratory Pathways students have an academic home in the Undergraduate Advising Center (UAC). If you are a current KU student, and would like to meet with an academic advisor, please contact the UAC today at 785-864-2834 or advising@ku.edu to schedule an appointment. If you have not started your KU journey yet, you can contact your KU Admissions Representative to get help scheduling an academic visit with the UAC! Summerfield Hall, Room 315 1300 Sunnyside Avenue Lawrence, KS 66045 advising@ku.edu 785-864-2834 facebook instagram twitter youtube Undergraduate Advising Center Center for Orientation & Transition Programs Centers for Orientation & Academic Advising Programs Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.