Skip to content Experiential Learning Division of Student Learning and Academic Success Main Menu About UsMenu Toggle Meet The Team Contact Us Policies StudentsMenu Toggle Gain Experience Virtual Services UCF Job Shadow Program Knights of DistinctionMenu Toggle FAQ Videos Advising Appointments Apply Contact Us Student Resources Service-Learning FAQ Employers & Community PartnersMenu Toggle Post Your Position Attend Our Internship Fair Build Your Brand UCF Job Shadow Program Faculty/StaffMenu Toggle Support for Faculty and Colleges Service-Learning Resources Experiential Learning Data Requests Integrative-Learning Experience Course Designation Service-Learning Course Designation Service-Learning Course Criteria ResourcesMenu Toggle Resumes and Cover Letters Donate Visit Handshake Coronavirus Update: UCF is sharing more information and updates here. Students We help you find service learning, co-ops or internships that best match your interests. Find out more at the UCF Handshake website. Employers We’re the one-stop shop for companies, non-profits and organizations of all shapes and sizes to find, recruit and hire the best students. Faculty Collaborating with faculty from all UCF colleges to create experiences and provide mentorship that will distinguish the university’s graduates in whatever their plans are for graduation. With Handshake, students can: Search and apply to internships and jobs Schedule an advising appointment Sign up for interviews See upcoming events and workshops Join Us on Handshake Upcoming Events Jun 9 11:00 am Handshake: Employers and Opportunities at Your Fingertips Workshop Have you heard of Handshake? Did you think it was spam? Learn about navigating Handshake and how to make it work for you to find internships, jobs, career events, employers, and peers interning in your field. Jun 14 2:30 pm Experiential Learning Q&A: Let’s Talk Internships Workshop Have you ever met with a Faculty member from Experiential Learning? Here’s your opportunity to connect via a discussion-based panel that will cover topics related to searching for an internship, building a resume that stands out, internship interviewing tips, registering… Jun 16 1:30 pm UCF Job Shadow Program Information Session Ever wondered what a “day in the life” of a particular job or career looks like? During spring break, students will have the chance to apply to shadow employers and industry professionals, throughout the state of Florida, to gain insight… Lets Get Social! Tweets by ucf_el Experiential Learning Division of Student Learning and Academic Success Excellence, Innovation, and Distinction ✦ Copyright © 2022 Division of Student Learning and Academic Success | College of Undergraduate Studies The University of Central Florida is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC) to award degrees at the associate, baccalaureate, master’s, specialist, and doctoral levels. Questions about the accreditation of UCF may be directed in writing to the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, GA 30033-4097, by calling (404) 679-4500, or by using information available on SACSCOC’s website (www.sacscoc.org).