Skip to content ExploreLLC Menu Close About ExploreLLC Meet the Staff Prospective Students FAQs Application Process Current Students First Year Fall 2022 Students Summer Transition to GT Mentors 2021 Course Options Research Trainings Parents Campus Partners Student Mentor Login Student Mentor Login Georgia Tech Campus Map Directory Offices Twitter Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: Monitoring Coronavirus (COVID-19): Please follow Campus Updates and the College of Sciences Continuity Plan. Home Welcome to Explore Living Learning Community (LLC)! Statement of Solidarity with the Black Community: We Stand for Equity and Justice. "I encourage all of us at Georgia Tech to be true to our motto of Progress and Service, to deliver on our mission to develop leaders who advance technology and improve the human condition. Those aren’t just words on a page. We have a responsibility to our campus community, to our local community, and to our nation to help change our world for the better. We have a responsibility to empower and include more people, backgrounds, and perspectives in the process." -Ángel Cabrera Are you an incoming first year student? Check out our new Summer Transitions and Prospective Students pages! Undergraduate Research & PreHealth Community! Where we transform your love of mathematics and scientific inquiry into academic, social, and professional opportunities. First year student? Interested in a degree in Biology, BioChem, Chemisty, Earth and Atmospheric Sciences, Mathematics, Neuroscience, Psychology, Physics? Love research? or are you interested in a career in healthcare? Explore is the place for you!!! Explore Feel confident in exploring all of the new opportunities that Tech has to offer with your Explore cohort on your side. The Explore team will join you as you take your first steps on campus, check out new student organizations, enter labs for research opportunities, visit campus resources, and step out into the Atlanta community. Experiment Georgia Tech challenges students to work together to find solutions and experiment with new personal curiosities. Explore LLC offers common sections of first-year science courses to help students develop team building skills, as well as relationships with professors and peers; essential building blocks as you experiment with finding your passions and interests on campus. Implement From spring break international medical service trips to on-campus paid lab positions, there is no shortage of world-renowned faculty and scientists who are excited to work with Explore LLC students. As you explore and experiment with your own education at Tech, you will demonstrate a true passion for learning and fulfilling curiosities. These are incredible strengths that make you desirable to any lab or clinical placement. How can we help you? Learn About Explore Prospective Students Current Students Parents Explore Our Partners Contact Us Cameron Tyson, Ph.D Faculty Director in the College of Sciences Explore Living Learning Communities Ashley Edwards College of Sciences Program Manager General Contact & questions Follow us! @explore.llc @explorellc Georgia Tech Explore LLC Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment GT Login © Georgia Institute of Technology