Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Undergraduate Advising Center Exploratory Pathways myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link Contact Us The Exploratory Pathways Select to follow link Communication & Leadership Creative Arts & Design Education & Public Service Health & Behavioral Sciences Languages & Cultures Science & Technology Why Explore? Prospective Students First Year Students Second Year Students Ready to Declare Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Undergraduate Advising Center Exploratory Pathways Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Exploratory Pathways: Discover. Develop. Declare. Gather information and gain experiences to help you make informed decisions to find the best combination of majors, minors, and certificates that maximize your interests. Need help exploring and evaluating your options? Schedule an appointment with your academic advisor at the Undergraduate Advising Center (UAC). Helping you explore options to achieve your dreams, goals, and potential is what we do best! Exploratory Pathways Access the complete overview of Exploratory Pathways. Exploratory Pathways For students who identify an interest in management and collaboration, would like to strategically plan company and project outcomes, influence and guide employee development, enjoy motivating and networking with others, and/or want to explore the multitude of opportunities available in a corporate setting. Communication & Leadership For students who identify interest in experiencing new identities and ways of thinking; using media, sound, language, or objects to express their understanding of the world; enjoy exhaustive brainstorming and experimentation; can be in the moment to produce works of art, video, or music, enjoy performance; and/or love design in its various forms. Creative arts & Design For students who identify an interest in teaching, facilitating, or training individuals of any age; have a strong desire to be an advocate for others; would like to evaluate and assess individual or community needs; have interest in law and public policy; and/or seek to help individuals thrive in their environments. Education & Public Service Exploratory Pathways - 2 For students who identify interest in understanding how humans grow and develop, feel a strong desire to help and heal, seek to build healthy relationships and serve others, and/or want to implement strategies the promote individual and community wellness. Health & Behavioral Sciences For students who identify the interest of learning about people and cultures, would like to strengthen their writing, reading, and communications skills, want to broaden their understanding of beliefs, art, and literature, and/or want to better understand our complex and diverse global society. Languages & Cultures For students who identify interest in innovative construction and design, hands-on learning, exploring how things work, experimenting to determine what is possible, diving into data, and/or solving equations using observations and analysis. Science & Technology Follow Us! Stay up-to-date on helpful resources, campus life, important deadlines, and more! Instagram Instagram Facebook Facebook Twitter Twitter Summerfield Hall, Room 315 1300 Sunnyside Avenue Lawrence, KS 66045 advising@ku.edu 785-864-2834 facebook instagram twitter youtube Undergraduate Advising Center Center for Orientation & Transition Programs Centers for Orientation & Academic Advising Programs Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.