This website uses scripting to enhance your browsing experience. Enable JavaScript in your browser and then reload this website. This website uses resources that are being blocked by your network. Contact your network administrator for more information. Jump to HeaderJump to Main ContentJump to FooterSkip navigation links Group 37Created with Sketch. Group 37Created with Sketch. Office of Admissions Michigan State University is transitioning to a new application system. If you submitted your MSU application before Aug. 1, 2021, please log in using the legacy system. If you started your MSU application after Aug. 1, 2021, log in below. Contact the Office of Admissions with any questions. My account See where you stand in the admissions process, and keep it moving forward. Log in to: Check your application status. Submit required documents. Edit your personal information. Change your major. Submit your deposit. To log in, please enter your email address and password. Email Address Password Forgot Your Password? Login To create an account: Just apply to MSU! Contact information| Site map| Privacy statement| Site accessibility Call MSU: (517) 355-1855| Visit: msu.edu| MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer. | Notice of Nondiscrimination SPARTANS WILL. | © Michigan State University Office of Admissions Academics Life at MSU Cost and aid Visit Apply Admitted Contact < Academics Overview Majors, degrees and programs Honors programs Living-learning communities Entrepreneurship Research Education abroad Academic support Graduate programs More than 200 undergraduate and graduate programsFind yours < Life at MSU Overview Living and dining Diversity Campus safety Health and wellness Getting around campus East Lansing Chat with a current student to learn about life at MSU.Get connected < Cost and aid Overview Tuition and fees Financial aid Return on investment Student employment Freshman scholarships Transfer scholarships International scholarships Review tuition and feesSee detailed costs < Visit Overview Virtual admissions events Maps and directions Travel and accommodations Take a virtual tour of campusExplore < Apply Freshman applicants Transfer applicants International applicants Graduate applicants Agricultural Technology Certificate applicants Non-degree applicants College planning guide Information for counselors See where you stand in the admissions process, and keep it moving forward.Check application status < Admitted Overview Freshman next steps Transfer next steps International next steps Submit your deposit to secure your spot at MSULog in to your account Request information For counselors My account