Skip Navigation ISU ISU Extension and Outreach College of Agriculture & Life Sciences Agronomy Extension Contact Us Iowa State University Organic Agriculture Home Research & Education Reports Publications Production Soil Fertility Pest Management Crops Livestock Resources Suppliers Buyers Services Regulations Standards Certifying Agencies Links ISU Contacts In State and Federal Industry and Private Upcoming Events April-May, 2022 Iowa Learning Farm Conservation Webinars Wednesdays, 12pm April 7 and 21, 2022 Advanced Grain Marketing for Women Contact Information Dr. Kathleen Delate Professor/Extension Organic Ag Specialist Phone: 515-294-7069 E-mail: kdelate@iastate.edu Welcome to the Iowa State University Organic Agriculture Program Our mission is to educate producers, consumers and policy makers in the research and extension activities in Organic Agriculture both on-farm and in the Universities. Organic Agriculture involves a production management system based on the ecological principles of nutrient cycling, biotic regulation of pests and biodiversity. Synthetic fertilizers and pesticides are replaced by sunlight-based inputs, such as plant and animal residues. Premium prices for certified organic products drive the immediate economic benefits of Organic Agriculture. Long-term benefits to human and environmental health are also derived through these practices. We encourage you to explore this website and send us your comments or questions. ISU operates an Organic Agriculture Program to provide research information and extension presentations for Iowa citizens through Field Days, workshops and an Annual Iowa Organic Conference every November in Iowa City. A 16-week course on "Organic Agriculture" is offered every other year: next class -- January 2023. 21st Annual Iowa Organic Conference November 28-29, 2021 Agenda Save the date for the 2022 conference: November 20-21, in Iowa City! Past conferences Featured Value of wheat and rye as forages for grazing Integrating Organic Crops and Livestock Organic No-Till Video Long-Term Agroecological Research Organic Research Shows Higher Water Quality under Organic Conditions Julia Roberts Support for Organic Practices to Save Soils Highlighted Publications Adapting Enterprise Budgets for Organic Crops Crop Rotations, Composting, and Cover Crops for Organic Vegetable Production Food Safety Considerations in Integrated Organic Crop-Livestock Systems Organic Vegetable Growing Organic Apple Production Transitioning CRP Land into Organic Related Links ISU Alternative Ag Leopold Center for Sustainable Agriculture IDALS Organic Ag Program The Organic Center Organic Agriculture, Dr. Kathleen Delate, Depts. of Agronomy/Horticulture, 106 Horticulture Hall Iowa State University, Ames, IA 50011, kdelate@iastate.edu, 515-294-7069. Copyright © 2022, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved.