Skip to content Coronavirus Updates: See latest COVID-19 news from Harvard Extension School. COVID-19 Updates Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Academics Take a Course Graduate Degrees Graduate Certificates Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Academic Gap Year Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students Apply to Premedical Program Academic Calendar Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Blog Events Press and Announcements Contact Us MyDCE Login Request Information Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Request Information Academics Take a Course Graduate Certificates Graduate Degrees Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Browse Courses Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students International Students Academic Calendar Forms Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Harvard Extension School Blog Contact Us Events Press and Announcements Media and Photo Information For Enrolled Students Support and Services Student Policies and Conduct Harvard Extension Alumni Association Website Archives Privacy Statement Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn For Enrolled Students Support and Services Support and Services Academic Advising Math Question Center The Writing Center Career Services Academic Skills Building Computer and E-mail Services Libraries Study and Collaboration Spaces Accessibility Services Sexual Assault and Harassment Resources Requesting Your Certificate Request a Transcript or Enrollment Certification Using Sources Effectively and Responsibly Campus Safety Campus Transportation and Parking Visiting Campus and Finding Housing Degree Candidate Academic Opportunities Student Policies and Conduct By registering for a course at the Extension School, you become eligible for many Harvard benefits and resources. Computer and Research Tools The computer facilities at 53 Church Street allow you to utilize hundreds of the latest programs and tools to get projects—large and small—done on time. See Computer and E-mail Services for more information. Academic Assistance The Writing Center is a great place to get assistance with your coursework, find answers to grammar questions, work on structuring an essay, and get feedback on a thesis. You may also find our resources for building academic skills and tips for avoiding plagiarism helpful. Also, check out the Math Question Center online and in Sever Hall, available to students in a range of math classes. If you need to request an academic accommodation, refer to Accessibility Services. Harvard Extension Ready Has it been a few years since you were in a classroom? Harvard Extension Ready is a series of free online lessons on core writing skills. In this free prep tool, you’ll have the opportunity to: Refresh your writing skills There are two options to sign up. If you already have a Harvard Key, simply sign in to enroll. If you are new to Harvard Extension School, create a Canvas account to get started. Dean of Students Office The Dean of Students Office (DSO) offers holistic support to students throughout their time at the Harvard Extension School. This includes providing programming designed to promote academic achievement, self-development, and overall socio-emotional wellbeing. To address COVID-19 concerns, DOS has created resources on various topics, such as Managing Your Finances and Balancing Family, School, and Work. Course Materials Each term, books are for sale at the Harvard Coop in Harvard Square, (617) 499-2000. Some instructors list course materials on course syllabi or websites. Career Advice Career services can help you strengthen your networking skills, improve your résumé and more. Visiting Campus, Parking, and Transportation We offer some tips for visiting campus and finding housing if you are coming to campus for a short course or you plan to move to Boston to attend the Extension School. Also learn more about transportation and parking. Community We invite you to join our on-campus events and activities. You can also take advantage of the many Harvard Chaplains on campus, representing 26 religions. If you want to learn outside the classroom and in a social setting, attend lectures and events sponsored by the Harvard Extension Alumni Association, the Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement, and the Harvard Extension Student Association. From green marketing to Faustian irony and Shakespeare, these events and lectures are sure to enrich your learning experience and your life. For other events around campus, see the Hub and the Harvard Gazette’s event calendar. Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! Harvard Extension is delighted to celebrate our students’ tremendous commitment and hard work. Read more about our students' journey to this big day! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Archives Follow Harvard Extension School Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Harvard Division of Continuing Education A division of Harvard University dedicated to bringing rigorous programs and innovative online teaching capabilities to distance learners, working professionals, high school students, college students, and those seeking higher learning in retirement. Harvard Extension School Harvard degrees, certificates and courses—online, in the evenings, and at your own pace. Harvard Summer School Academic summer opportunities for adult, college and high school students—at Harvard and abroad. Harvard Professional Development Short, intensive programs to develop skills and strengthen your professional profile. Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement Peer learning in the liberal arts—a community program for retired and semi-retired professionals. Harvard Division of Continuing Education Privacy Statement Accessibility Rights & Regulations Digital Accessibility Policy Harvard.edu Cookie Settings Copyright ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College