Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Pests, Weeds, and Diseases Nuisance Wildlife Photo: Richard Griffin, CC BY-NC-SA 2.0 (Cropped from original) Nuisance Wildlife Home Browse Resources Our Experts In Your Community Share Featured Resources Photo by Louise Liebenberg (Cropped from original) Using Coyotes to Protect Livestock. Wait. What? Livestock losses are an unfortunate reality of ranching and the use of traps and snares is a common way to attempt to reduce predator-livestock conflict. However, one USDA study (Shivik et al. 2003) noted that for many types... Randy Comeleo | Jun 2018 | Article Wildlife Damage Collection of articles and publications on preventative measures and handling wildlife damage. Jul 2018 | Collection Photo: Terry Spivey, USDA Forest Service, Bugwood.org (Cropped from original) Dueling with Diggers: Gophers, Moles, Voles, and Ground Squirrels This presentation will increase your understanding of the biology of common digging pests including gophers, moles, voles, and ground squirrels. Dana Sanchez, Brooke Edmunds | Apr 2020 | Video Yellow jackets General information about yellow jackets. Jul 2018 | Article Nonlethal Bird Deterrent Strategies: Methods for reducing fruit crop losses in Oregon Bird predation is a significant threat to marketable yields in fruit crops. Loss estimates are about 10% to 20% in blueberries, 5% to 30% in cherries, and 5% to 10% in grapes. Learn more https://www.flickr.com/photos/[email protected] (Cropped from original) Latest Resources Photo: Christina Friehauf (Cropped from original) Episode 18: Small Landowner Management In this episode, Lauren Grand and Lindsay Reaves discuss forest management at the Bauman Family Tree Farm. Reaves lives and works on the farm with her husband Tom Bauman. Lauren Grand, Lindsay Reaves | Apr 2022 | Podcast episode Photo: Pete Petryszak (Cropped from original) Elk trampling and eating everything Q: We had a new elk herd in our area last year. We have lived here for over forty years. A few deer got into things, sure. But this is crazy. At least a dozen were seen once or twice. They managed to eat all of ... A: View answer | View all featured questions Photo: Centers for Disease Control, public domain (Cropped from original) Dealing with Ticks Ticks are a common nuisance pest on hikers, gardeners, and those who enjoy or work in the outdoors. Ticks are arthropods that feed on blood of humans and other mammals (dogs, horses, deer), birds, and reptiles. It is ... Brooke Edmunds | Jun 2021 | Article Peer reviewed (Gray level) Browse All Resources Latest News Pandemic leads to unprecedented burst of questions to Ask an Expert tool Questions have ballooned to 6,625 in the first half of 2020, more than all of the questions answered in 2019. Kym Pokorny | Jul 29, 2020 | News story Tips for keeping rats out of home and garden When neighbors work together to discourage rats, the results are better than going it alone. Kym Pokorny | Aug 16, 2019 | News story Beneficial bats help control insects in the garden Bats can eat their weight in insects in one day, providing important pest control. Kym Pokorny | Jun 15, 2018 | News story All News Explore more resources Wildlife Integrated Pest Management Pesticide Safety and Education Meet Our Experts Dana Sanchez Wildlife Specialist See All Nuisance Wildlife Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Photo: Pete Petryszak (Cropped from original) Elk trampling and eating everything Q: We had a new elk herd in our area last year. We have lived here for over forty years. A few deer got into things, sure. But this is crazy. At least a dozen were seen once or twice. They managed to eat all of ... A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility