Skip to content Coronavirus Updates: See latest COVID-19 news from Harvard Extension School. COVID-19 Updates Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Academics Take a Course Graduate Degrees Graduate Certificates Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Academic Gap Year Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students Apply to Premedical Program Academic Calendar Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Blog Events Press and Announcements Contact Us MyDCE Login Request Information Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Request Information Academics Take a Course Graduate Certificates Graduate Degrees Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Browse Courses Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students International Students Academic Calendar Forms Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Harvard Extension School Blog Contact Us Events Press and Announcements Media and Photo Information For Enrolled Students Support and Services Student Policies and Conduct Harvard Extension Alumni Association Website Archives Privacy Statement Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn About Online Learning at Harvard Extension School Deep learning springs from human connection. That’s why we work so hard to bring people together. Our approach to online learning fosters interaction without sacrificing flexibility. Our online courses are grounded in a live experience. You will engage with your instructor, participate in peer discussions, and receive one-on-one support from teaching staff—all from your home or office. Our online courses are grounded in live experience. 70% Courses offered online 4.3/5 Satisfaction rate HELIX: Harvard Extension Live Interactive eXperience To support active learning, we created a platform called the Helix classrooms and web conferences. The technology brings together students from around the globe to join an instructor in a live classroom. Helix classrooms and web conferences are “hyflex” – a combination of hybrid and flexible formats. Students may join professors live in the classroom Live online students join the class through Zoom displayed on large monitors and seamlessly interact with students in the classroom On-demand students watch professional recordings of the class on their own schedule and interact through online discussion tools Students participate in thoughtful discussion with their peers and engage with their instructor in real time Education is about being vulnerable. It’s about being unsettled, unnerved, unhoused – being open to that which you are not used to. To have to de-familiarize yourself to ways of being in the world – Harvard Extension is magnificent in that regard.Cornel West Benefits of Online Learning Online education is fundamentally changing the paradigm of higher education. At Harvard Extension School, we think about online learning a little differently: We focus on human-centered learning People are at the core of every interaction—we’re connecting people for a shared learning experience Our courses respect the full lives and varied preferences of adult, part-time learners You receive personal, individualized feedback on your work You will be part of a strong community of learners Iterative course design keeps courses fresh and relevant for students and instructors Everyone has the opportunity to earn credit in rigorous, Harvard-quality courses Distance Education Trailblazers for Over 110 Years Harvard Extension School believes learners should be at the helm of their own education, while instructors act as mediators who introduce ideas, ask questions, and encourage students to explore new ways of thinking on their own. Online courses present a rich opportunity for this kind of teaching and learning. As an early adopter and national leader in distance education, we are perfectly positioned to offer an outstanding, world-class academic experience online, with no compromise on quality. Check Out Course Formats Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! Harvard Extension is delighted to celebrate our students’ tremendous commitment and hard work. Read more about our students' journey to this big day! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Archives Follow Harvard Extension School Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Harvard Division of Continuing Education A division of Harvard University dedicated to bringing rigorous programs and innovative online teaching capabilities to distance learners, working professionals, high school students, college students, and those seeking higher learning in retirement. Harvard Extension School Harvard degrees, certificates and courses—online, in the evenings, and at your own pace. Harvard Summer School Academic summer opportunities for adult, college and high school students—at Harvard and abroad. Harvard Professional Development Short, intensive programs to develop skills and strengthen your professional profile. Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement Peer learning in the liberal arts—a community program for retired and semi-retired professionals. Harvard Division of Continuing Education Privacy Statement Accessibility Rights & Regulations Digital Accessibility Policy Harvard.edu Cookie Settings Copyright ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College