Skip to content Coronavirus Updates: See latest COVID-19 news from Harvard Extension School. COVID-19 Updates Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Academics Take a Course Graduate Degrees Graduate Certificates Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Academic Gap Year Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students Apply to Premedical Program Academic Calendar Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Blog Events Press and Announcements Contact Us MyDCE Login Request Information Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Request Information Academics Take a Course Graduate Certificates Graduate Degrees Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Browse Courses Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students International Students Academic Calendar Forms Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Harvard Extension School Blog Contact Us Events Press and Announcements Media and Photo Information For Enrolled Students Support and Services Student Policies and Conduct Harvard Extension Alumni Association Website Archives Privacy Statement Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Celebrating Our Graduates Congratulations to the HES Class of 2022 This year has showcased the strength, resilience, and strong connections of the Harvard community. As the world emerges from the COVID-19 pandemic, the class of 2022 has greeted each challenge with aplomb. HES is delighted to celebrate our students’ tremendous commitment and hard work during the University’s long-awaited, in-person Commencement on Thursday, May 26. Congratulations graduates, your next adventure awaits you! Share your Commencement story: #WeAreHES2022 The Class of 2022 1,450 185+ ALB and 1,265+ ALM degrees conferred 37 Average Age 48 States and Washington, DC represented 51 Countries represented, including Aruba, Australia, Bangladesh, Canada, Guatemala, Jordan, Norway, and South Africa 2022 Commencement Spotlights Bart Kuebler Bachelor of Liberal Arts (ALB) in the field of Philosophy and Ethics, ’22 Laurie L. Dove Master of Liberal Arts (ALM) in the field of Creative Writing and Literature, ’22 Dorottya Barna Bachelor of Liberal Arts (ALB) in the field of Psychology, ’22 Kevin Lamar Simmons Bachelor of Liberal Arts (ALB), Master of Liberal Arts (ALM) in the field of Management, ’22 Linda T. Kennedy Master of Liberal Arts (ALM) in the field of Journalism, ’22 Larisa Svechin Master of Liberal Arts (ALM) in the field of Government, ’22 Rose Nyte Master of Liberal Arts (ALM) in the field of Industrial-Organizational Psychology, ’22 David Enciso Master of Liberal Arts (ALM) in the field of Finance, ’22 Kim Horsnell Master of Liberal Arts (ALM) in the field of Psychology, ’22 Romina Ruiz Master of Liberal Arts (ALM) in the field of Journalism, ’22 David Joseph Desrosiers Master of Liberal Arts (ALM) in the field of Finance, ’22 Gairik Sachdeva Master of Liberal Arts (ALM) in the field of Creative Writing and Literature, ’22 Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! Harvard Extension is delighted to celebrate our students’ tremendous commitment and hard work. Read more about our students' journey to this big day! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Archives Follow Harvard Extension School Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Harvard Division of Continuing Education A division of Harvard University dedicated to bringing rigorous programs and innovative online teaching capabilities to distance learners, working professionals, high school students, college students, and those seeking higher learning in retirement. Harvard Extension School Harvard degrees, certificates and courses—online, in the evenings, and at your own pace. Harvard Summer School Academic summer opportunities for adult, college and high school students—at Harvard and abroad. Harvard Professional Development Short, intensive programs to develop skills and strengthen your professional profile. Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement Peer learning in the liberal arts—a community program for retired and semi-retired professionals. Harvard Division of Continuing Education Privacy Statement Accessibility Rights & Regulations Digital Accessibility Policy Harvard.edu Cookie Settings Copyright ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College