Skip to content Coronavirus Updates: See latest COVID-19 news from Harvard Extension School. COVID-19 Updates Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Academics Take a Course Graduate Degrees Graduate Certificates Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Academic Gap Year Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students Apply to Premedical Program Academic Calendar Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Blog Events Press and Announcements Contact Us MyDCE Login Request Information Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Request Information Academics Take a Course Graduate Certificates Graduate Degrees Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Browse Courses Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students International Students Academic Calendar Forms Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Harvard Extension School Blog Contact Us Events Press and Announcements Media and Photo Information For Enrolled Students Support and Services Student Policies and Conduct Harvard Extension Alumni Association Website Archives Privacy Statement Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Payment Options and Policies Harvard Employee Tuition Assistance Plan Funding for Veterans and Active Military Refunds Health Insurance Financial Aid Financing Options for Non-Admitted Students Financial Wellness You may register for courses without an initial payment, however full payment of tuition and fees is due by the payment deadline (see calendar). If you register for courses after the payment deadline, you must pay in full immediately. If the payment information you submit is incomplete or if payments are nonnegotiable, you risk being dropped from your courses. While we do not accept cash payments, we do accept all of the following forms of payment. Payment Options Credit or Debit Card Harvard Extension School accepts MasterCard, Visa, American Express, and Discover. If the credit card information you submit is incomplete or if the credit card payment is declined, you are not registered in your course(s). To avoid a delay in the registration process, you should use a credit or debit card without a daily charge or transaction limit and enter the billing address exactly as it appears on your credit card statement. Harvard Extension School is not responsible for fluctuations in international exchange rates or interest charges due to the timing of credit or debit card charges or refunds. Checks Harvard Extension School accepts e-checks, online bank checks, money orders, personal checks, and company checks made payable to Harvard Extension School. Checks must be drawn on a US bank and include proper routing numbers. Starter checks, unnumbered or not personalized, are not accepted. Any bank collection charges are your responsibility. Please note, if your only option is to submit payment via paper check, please be advised there may be processing delays. They can be addressed to: Student Financial Services 51 Brattle Street, Cambridge, MA 02138 Checks may be converted and processed using the Automated Clearing House (ACH) Network, under the rules governed by the National Automated Clearing House Association and the Federal Reserve Bank. If your check payment is returned unpaid by your bank for insufficient funds, stopped payment, or account closure, you are assessed a $25 charge per returned check. Authorized Users You may authorize others (parents, employers, other third parties) to access your financial account information – to view your student account details and submit a payment directly to your account via credit card or electronic check (U.S. bank accounts only). In compliance with the Family Education Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (FERPA), your student financial records may not be shared with a third party without your written consent. Adding an authorized user serves as your written consent that an third party may view your account information and make payments on your behalf via the Student Finance Portal. Please note that the courses in which you are enrolled for the term will be included on your financial statement, and will be visible to any authorized users you choose. Authorized users: do not have access to your stored payment methods, academic records, or other personal information can only view permitted information through signing into the Student Finance Portal To authorize a User: sign into the Student Finance Portal in MyDCE by selecting Financial Services at the top of the page. once you have consented to the Billing and Payment Terms and Conditions, you will find the Authorized Users link on the Finance Portal main page. You may manage your authorized users by adding, deleting and editing authorized users information from the Student Finance Portal main page. You may authorize multiple users. Please note that authorized user access is granted for the online portal only. Student Financial Services staff are unable to discuss a student’s account details with an authorized user via phone or email. Payment Plan for Admitted Degree Candidates The interest-free payment plan allows admitted degree candidates to pay in four installments each term. Payment plans are offered per term. You enroll in the plan for a non-refundable $35 fee each term. Plan enrollment is open from the first day of course registration through the course change deadline, after which you can no longer enroll for the term. You pay installments by the due date each month. Your monthly payment is based on your current term charges less payments and pending credits, including financial aid such as grants and loans. Any change to your student account balance will automatically update your installment amounts within 24 hours (an email notification will be sent to you when this occurs). Charges for health insurance and other fees, such as program fees, are not included in the payment plan and are reflected in the amount due. Financial aid or outside award credits will be applied to the total balance before it is divided into installments. Past due charges must be paid before the start of each term to remain eligible to participate. To enroll in the payment plan, log into your MyDCE account and choose the “Financial Services” option. Once in the Student Finance Portal, choose “Payment Plans” and select the appropriate term. Any available plan will show up in the drop-down menu. Financial Aid There are financial aid options for students admitted to degree programs and the Premedical Program (see Admitted Students), as well as limited funding opportunities for students who are taking courses but are not admitted to a program (see Nonadmitted Students). Harvard University Tuition Assistance Plan (TAP) Harvard’s Tuition Assistance Plan (TAP) makes it possible for University staff, faculty, part-time employees and retirees to take Extension School courses. See Harvard University Tuition Assistance Plan (TAP) for more information. Veterans’ education benefits and active military tuition assistance (TA) Veterans may be eligible to receive education benefits through the Veterans Administration. Veterans and active military service members may be eligible to receive TA. See Benefits for the Military for more information. Payment Policies Student Account Billing As a student, you have an account that includes individual charges and credits for each term. Charges include course tuition and other fees, such as registration and late fees, health insurance fees, and program fees, as applicable. Credits applied to your account may include a combination of payments, such as credit cards, personal checks, and financial aid. If you have an outstanding balance from a prior term, any payment is applied first to the oldest charges on your account. To view your student account, log in to MyDCE and select “Financial Services” to enter the Student Finance Portal. When you register online, your registration changes are automatically applied to your account. If additional charges are applied to your account at a later date, an email notification is sent to you stating that you have a balance due. The balance is due before the payment deadline and immediately once the deadline has passed. Stopping Payment on Checks or Credit Cards Stopping payment on checks or credit cards is not a valid method of dropping or withdrawing from your courses. If you stop payment on a check or credit card without following Extension School policies and procedures for dropping or withdrawing from your courses, you are responsible for all course tuition and fees posted to your student account. Refer to Course Changes and Withdrawals. Past Due Student Accounts Your account is considered past due if you have not paid in full by the payment deadline. If your account remains past due, you risk being dropped from your courses and you remain responsible for all unpaid course tuition and fees. You are not eligible to register for any classes at the Extension School or the Harvard Summer School, or to receive an official transcript, until your account is paid in full. If you are a degree candidate, you must be in good financial standing with Harvard Extension School and Summer School, as well as Harvard University, before your degree will be conferred. Returned Check Policy If your check is returned unpaid by your bank for insufficient funds, stopped payment, or account closure, Student Financial Services notifies you to make full payment by bank check, money order, or credit card. If full payment is not received by the payment deadline, you risk being dropped from all of your courses, including waitlists. You are responsible for all course tuition and fees on your account. You are charged a $25 fee for any check returned unpaid for any reason. If your check is returned unpaid by your bank, you may only use bank checks or money orders as methods of payment to Harvard Summer School or Harvard Extension School for one year. If you stop payment on a check, you are no longer eligible to pay by check. Invalid Credit Cards and Credit Card Chargebacks If you request a credit card chargeback or attempt to pay with an invalid card, you are removed from your course(s) immediately. If you use a credit card without the cardholder’s knowledge or permission, you are removed from your course(s) immediately, and you may face prosecution. If you use another’s credit card and the cardholder requests a credit card chargeback, you are removed from your courses immediately. You are responsible for all course tuition and fees on your account. Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! Harvard Extension is delighted to celebrate our students’ tremendous commitment and hard work. Read more about our students' journey to this big day! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Archives Follow Harvard Extension School Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Harvard Division of Continuing Education A division of Harvard University dedicated to bringing rigorous programs and innovative online teaching capabilities to distance learners, working professionals, high school students, college students, and those seeking higher learning in retirement. Harvard Extension School Harvard degrees, certificates and courses—online, in the evenings, and at your own pace. Harvard Summer School Academic summer opportunities for adult, college and high school students—at Harvard and abroad. Harvard Professional Development Short, intensive programs to develop skills and strengthen your professional profile. Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement Peer learning in the liberal arts—a community program for retired and semi-retired professionals. Harvard Division of Continuing Education Privacy Statement Accessibility Rights & Regulations Digital Accessibility Policy Harvard.edu Cookie Settings Copyright ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College