Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Outdoors and Environments Wildlife Photo: Betsy Hartley (Cropped from original) Wildlife Home Browse Resources Get Involved Events Our Experts Share Featured Resources Manage Wildlife Conflicts in Your Home and Garden Our homes and gardens often overlap with spaces and resources used by wild animals, both native and non-native. A "shared habitat" situation can pose some challenges when the animals' day-to-day activities come into conflict with ... Dana Sanchez | Mar 2019 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Wildlife Habitat: Nurturing a Diverse Mix of Flora and Fauna Property owners can play key roles in wildlife habitat. Learn how to manage your land to promote a diverse native habitat and support ecological systems. One of a series of Land Steward Rural Resource Guidelines. Rachel Werling | Jul 2020 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Credit: Jim Rivers, © Oregon State University (Cropped from original) Enhance songbird habitat on your forest Songbirds are more than just a beautiful tune; they are an essential part of a healthy woodland. Want to know how to keep those birds coming back year after year? Get tips on maintaining critical habitat for the many songbirds that may be visiting your property. Lauren Grand | Jun 2020 | Article Latest Resources Photo: Ask Extension (Cropped from original) Scorpions in Oregon? Q: Hello! I would like to know more about this scorpion I found in my garden. I live near Jacksonville, up in the Griffin Creek area. We found three of these little guys. Never seen one before! Very cool. Thanks in advance! A: View answer | View all featured questions Healthy streams: a family’s journey toward fish habitat restoration This class will cover how a small woodland family northeast of Estacada embarked on a ten-year effort (ongoing) to restore their creek to improve fish habitat and allow for fish passage. Topics covered include planning, ... David Bugni, Glenn Ahrens, Dan Stark | Apr 2022 | Video Photo: Christina Friehauf (Cropped from original) Episode 18: Small Landowner Management In this episode, Lauren Grand and Lindsay Reaves discuss forest management at the Bauman Family Tree Farm. Reaves lives and works on the farm with her husband Tom Bauman. Lauren Grand, Lindsay Reaves | Apr 2022 | Podcast episode Browse All Resources Latest News Credit Rachel Werling (Cropped from original) Online course extends reach of OSU Extension Land Steward Program In 2021, the Land Steward Program expanded to 18 counties led by five regional OSU Extension instructors. Kym Pokorny | Feb 4, 2022 | News story Picking up baby birds can do more harm than good Identifying the age of a bird is crucial in how you deal with one that's on the ground. Kym Pokorny | Apr 9, 2021 | News story Photo: Ramesh Rasaiyan / CC BY-NC (Cropped from original) Offer robins what they need and they’ll stick around Oregon State University Extension Service wildlife experts encourage Oregonians to learn more about these underappreciated native birds. Kym Pokorny | Mar 5, 2021 | News story All News Explore more resources Community Science Fish and Aquatic Life Nuisance Wildlife Upcoming Events Sep 13 - Nov 29 2022 Land Steward Training Program 12:00 pm - 5:00 pm Central Point, OR See All Events Meet Our Experts Dana Sanchez Wildlife Specialist Jason O'Brien Master Naturalist Program Coordinator Contact me with questions about the Master Naturalist Program. Lauren Grand Forestry Contact with questions about forests and small woodland management in Lane County Amanda Gladics Sea Grant Coastal Fisheries See All Wildlife Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Photo: Ask Extension (Cropped from original) Scorpions in Oregon? Q: Hello! I would like to know more about this scorpion I found in my garden. I live near Jacksonville, up in the Griffin Creek area. We found three of these little guys. Never seen one before! Very cool. Thanks in advance! A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility