Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Food Food Security Photo: Tiffany Woods (Cropped from original) Food Security Home Browse Resources Get Involved Our Experts In Your Community Share Featured Resources Are You Hungry Tonight? An Educational Simulation of Hunger in Our Communities This CD contains print-ready color files for all simulation materials and a facilitator's guide. Role-play raises participants' awareness and understanding of hunger as a public policy issue. Scenarios demonstrate difficulty of ... Sally Bowman | Sep 2008 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Photo: USDA Food & Nutrition Service (Cropped from original) Childhood Food Insecurity - Professional & Continuing Education Childhood Food Insecurity is a free online course developed in partnership with the Childhood Hunger Initiative of Oregon covering various topics associated with child health and wellness. The course covers food access and choices, the relationship between food insecurity and health and development, along with intervention strategies in circumstances of childhood hunger. Healthcare professionals seeking continuing medical education can earn valuable CME credit by taking an optional exam following the five online modules. Anne Hoisington | Apr 2018 | Online resource Square Foot Gardening Foundation Dedicated to educating on the importance of a plant-based diet and making nutritious food available both internationally and in low-income U.S. communities. Square Foot Gardening focuses on local resources and a simple gardening method that can be done in all types of outdoor spaces. May 2018 | Online resource Latest Resources Courtesy Jared Hibbard-Swanson (Cropped from original) Extension taps Hibbard-Swanson for new food safety and security position Jared Hibbard-Swanson is OSUExtension's inaugural program manager for food security and safety. Chris Branam | Apr 4, 2022 | News story Credit Alan Dennis (Cropped from original) Extension educates Oregonians to prepare for massive earthquake, tsunami A free online course consists of four modules that contain narrated sessions and additional resources. Glenda Hyde, Lynette Black | Apr 2021 | Impact story Credit Oregon State University (Cropped from original) Food pantries receive fresh blueberry donations during pandemic Pantry coordinators reported that the berries “flew off the shelves,” and many grateful recipients said it was the first time during the season that they were able to take berries home to share with their families. Bernadine Strik, Kelly Streit, Dani Lightle, Amanda Davis | Apr 2021 | Impact story Browse All Resources Latest News Courtesy Jared Hibbard-Swanson (Cropped from original) Extension taps Hibbard-Swanson for new food safety and security position Jared Hibbard-Swanson is OSUExtension's inaugural program manager for food security and safety. Chris Branam | Apr 4, 2022 | News story Photo by John Brunoe (Cropped from original) Garden box project helps increase food security for Warm Springs families The Grow Where You Are project is helping tribal members on the Warm Springs reservation grow their own food at home through garden kits. Chris Branam | Dec 7, 2020 | News story Credit Shara Weiss (Cropped from original) OSU Extension helps launch long-needed Boardman Food Pantry The pantry, which didn't exist before March, is distributing weekly meal boxes to more than 100 families. Chris Branam | Sep 1, 2020 | News story All News Explore more resources Local, Regional, and Community Food Systems Garden Vegetables and Herbs Family Emergency Preparedness Meet Our Experts Shannon Caplan OSU Open Campus, Rural Community Explorer Program/Department of Human Development & Family Sciences, Assistant Professor of Practice, SNAP-Ed state team Lauren Kraemer Associate Professor, Family and Community Health Contact me with all your health and wellness questions in the Columbia River Gorge. Dusti Linnell Family & Community Health Joanne Lyford SNAP-Ed Site Manager See All Food Security Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility