Skip to main content utexas.edu Request information utexas.edu Request information Header Menu Program Finder Custom Training Getting Started Events About Us Contact Us Extended Campus The University of Texas at Austin UTA Building, Suite 2.408 1616 Guadalupe Street Austin, TX 78701 Getting Started UT Austin's continuing and professional education ecosystem is vast. Don't worry. We've got you covered. This page is designed to serve as a starting point in finding the optimal program for you. MOST COMMONLY USED TERMS 1. First, Know the Terminology GENERAL TERMS Continuing Education: A broad term describing courses and programs that are designed for post-baccalaureate audiences. Professional Education: Courses and programs designed for professionals seeking advancement in their current role or preparation for a new position or industry. Credit-bearing: “Credit-bearing” courses or programs grant transcribable academic credit that can be applied to a degree program. Enrollment methods: “Open enrollment” programs do not require an application process for enrollment, while “Application-based” programs do. CEUs: Continuing education units are non-academic credits conferred after completion of a course or set of courses. CEUs can be general or industry-specific. See individual programs for specific information. PROGRAM TYPES Graduate Degree: Master’s and Doctoral programs designed for working professionals. Typical duration is 12-24 months. Graduate Certificate: Credit-bearing programs focused on a set of related topics/issue areas. Professional Certificate: Non-credit-bearing short programs focused on a set of related topics/issue areas (may confer CEUs). Boot Camp: Non-credit-bearing short programs focused on increasing mastery of a singular skill set (may confer CEUs). Course or Conference: One or multi-day events that confer CEUs. LEARNING FORMATS Classroom: In-person programs held on the UT Austin campus or another specified location Live Online: Synchronous (real-time) online programs Self-Paced Online: Asynchronous (at your own pace) online programs 2. Find the Right Program For You We provide several ways for you to identify which of our programs is the best fit for you. USE OUR PROGRAM FINDER Select your preferences and our program finder will identify the most applicable offerings available. Explore Courses ATTEND AN INFO SESSION Information sessions are a great way to interact with staff, faculty, and alumni and learn more about the programs that meet your needs. Attend PLAN A CUSTOM TRAINING If you are seeking tailored solutions for your team or organization, reach out to our program development team. Learn More USE OUR PROGRAM FINDER Select your preferences and our program finder will identify the most applicable offerings available. Explore Courses ATTEND AN INFO SESSION Information sessions are a great way to interact with staff, faculty, and alumni and learn more about the programs that meet your needs. Attend PLAN A CUSTOM TRAINING If you are seeking tailored solutions for your team or organization, reach out to our program development team. Learn More 3. Explore Your Funding Options 3. FUNDING VARIES ACROSS UNITS The decision to invest in your continued education provides immediate and long-term returns. Many of our learners receive financial assistance to fund the cost of their education. See below for more information on employer support, scholarships, grants, military/veteran’s benefits, and other opportunities. THE VALUE OF YOUR EDUCATION The pursuit of continuing and professional education is a great resume booster. In addition, by equipping you with critical new skills and knowledge, your UT Austin experience will boost your personal and professional confidence. STUDENT SPOTLIGHT Investing in Education Pays Off “Studying in HDO was one of the most rewarding experiences of my life, and I know I will see the ROI for decades to come.” – Lisa Dalgleish Human Dimensions of Organizations Class of 2019 SUPPORT FROM YOUR EMPLOYER Many employers offer financial support for continuing and professional education. If this is an option for you, our experienced staff will work with you and your employer to manage the funding process. ASK QUESTIONS Talk with an enrollment advisor for your specific program about what discounts, scholarships, or other funding options are available for that specific program. Options vary, but some programs may accept military, military spouse, or veteran’s benefits; Segal AmeriCorps Education Awards, and funding from the Texas Workforce Commission. 4. Apply or Enroll If you are ready to join UT Austin’s extensive network of learners, we are ready to work with you. Use our program finder or chat with us. FIND YOUR PROGRAM Student Spotlight When employers invest in continuing education for their staff, both enjoy the rewards. WIN-WIN WITH PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT When Kerbey Lane wanted to introduce a new restaurant concept to the Austin community, they paid for Kelly Detlefsen to enroll in the Project Management Certificate Program offered by the Center for Professional Education. The investment paid off for both company and employee, when Kelly’s class project group chose her restaurant project to focus on for the semester, developing a project charter she used to plan the restaurant project when class finished. Learn more Faculty Spotlight UT Law Continuing Legal Education (CLE) is one of the oldest and most distinguished providers of professional legal education in the country, offering more than 40 Texas MCLE-accredited live conferences annually. MEET BRYN POLAND, ESQ. Bryn Poland, Esq. is licensed to practice law in Texas and Kansas. She focuses her practice on estate planning, special needs trust planning and administration, Medicaid planning, and qualified settlement funds, and she is a frequent speaker on these topics at continuing education conferences for attorneys and trust officers. Learn more Program Spotlight Rig School™ – Intro to Offshore Operations has been educating oil and gas professionals from across the industry and around the world. A PETEX LEGACY FOR OVER 35 YEARS This intro-level course is perfect for attorneys and insurance, finance and administrative personnel needing a baseline knowledge of offshore operations. Some of the topics covered include geology and geophysics in offshore exploration, Maritime and state law, offshore catastrophes and emergency response. Learn more WE’RE HERE TO HELP! TAKE THE FIRST STEP TODAY. REQUEST INFORMATION Extended Campus The University of Texas at Austin UTA Building, Suite 2.408 1616 Guadalupe Street Austin, TX 78701 Program Finder Custom Training Getting Started Events About Us Contact Us Subscribe» Powered by Extended Education Ventures | © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Emergency Information | Web Privacy Policy | Site Policies | Web Accessibility Policy