CSUF is closed for Winter Recess, December 24 - January 2. We will re-open to serve you on January 3. 2022. Website and online services unavailable on May 29. See IT Disaster Recovery website ► For International Students FAQs, click here ›COVID-19 Vaccine Requirement for Students and Instructors ► Professional Development Professional Development Certificate programs provide working professionals with evening and weekend courses, as well as networking opportunities to advance their careers or enter new fields. Certificate Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Educator Courses and Programs Community & Corporate Engagement Leadership for Public AgenciesShort-Term Courses & Events Degrees Degrees EIP partners with CSUF colleges and departments to offer bachelor’s and master’s degrees, as well as preparation programs for those looking to apply to professional health-care, law and business schools. Online Degree Completion Programs Master’s Programs Pre-Health Program Test Preparation Courses University Courses University Courses EIP expands access to University classes through Open University, Summer Session and Winter Session. Open University registration is open to the general public; Summer and Winter Sessions help Cal State Fullerton students graduate on-time or early. Open University Summer Session Winter Session Lifelong Learning Lifelong Learning Our lifelong learning opportunities range from programs for children to retirees, and include an on-campus arboretum with classes and events for those of all ages. Fullerton Arboretum Osher Lifelong Learning Institute Career Exploration Online Online Programs Online programs are structured with lectures and assignments, and allow you to interact and communicate with students and instructors/professors online. Online Certificate Programs Online Degree Completion Programs Online Programs for Educators International International Programs International students may study for one semester or complete an entire bachelor's or master's degree at CSUF. Visit International Programs International Admissions University Semester Abroad International Students & ScholarsStudy Abroad & Global Engagement Search this site or CSUF general sites SiteCSUF Site Menu searchSearch this site CSUF International Programs +Study at CSUF International Admissions University Semester Abroad +Services International Students & Scholars New International Students Maintaining Status Employment Travel & Visa Health Insurance Housing +CSUF Students Study Abroad +Faculty & Staff Fulbright Program International Partnerships Visiting Scholars/Exchange Visitors +About International Programs California State University, Fullerton Contact International Programs Extension and International Programs +Professional Development Certificate Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Educator Courses and Programs Community & Corporate Engagement Leadership for Public Agencies Short-Term Courses & Events +Degrees Online Degree Completion Programs Master’s Programs Pre-Health Program Test Preparation Courses +University Courses Open University Summer Session Winter Session +Lifelong Learning Fullerton Arboretum Osher Lifelong Learning Institute Career Exploration +Online Online Certificate Programs Online Degree Completion Programs Online Programs for Educators +International International Admissions University Semester Abroad International Students & Scholars Study Abroad & Global Engagement There was a problem with the left navigation. Extension and International Programs International Programs Study at CSUF International Admissions University Semester Abroad Services International Students & Scholars New International Students Maintaining Status Employment Travel & Visa Health Insurance Housing CSUF Students Study Abroad Faculty & Staff Fulbright Program International Partnerships Visiting Scholars/Exchange Visitors About International Programs California State University, Fullerton Contact International Programs COVID-19 Updates & Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) International Students and Scholars is committed to supporting you during this COVID-19 pandemic. We are closely monitoring the developments of this pandemic situation and its impact on international students and scholars. This page has been created to help answer some frequently asked questions and provide additional resources. Please frequently check this ISS COVID-19 FAQ webpage for updates as this global health crisis is rapidly evolving. ISS Services While Operating Remotely ISS Advising: International Student Advisors are available by virtual appointments: https://extension.fullerton.edu/international/students/advising Appointment times are made available on a daily basis (when CSUF is open). Increased Processing Timeframe We are currently accepting all requests, but are prioritizing requests that are time-sensitive (i.e., OPT, STEM OPT Extensions, extensions of I-20s, or other requests requiring immediate action). Due to high volume and limited resources, processing times have increased. ISS is unable to respond to inquiries about the status of the below listed services/requested received. Please plan ahead by submitting requests well in advance as we are unable to accommodate rush requests. Please do not send multiple emails or submissions for the same request, or sign up for virtual appointments to check on status of requests. This only adds to our volume and further delays processing of email/request. Processing times listed below are subject to change without notice, especially during peak request periods. Requests/emails that are either incomplete or requiring additional follow-up will further extend processing times. TYPE OF SERVICE/REQUEST PROCESSING TIME FRAMES (does not include time frame for shipping of I-20 or other documents from ISS^) Release of ISS Holds related to health insurance 5 business days* after ISS confirms payment Letter Requests Travel Signature Request Concurrent Enrollment Requests Reduced Course Load Requests Leave of Absence Requests Program Extension Requests 10 business days* Curricular Practical Training (CPT) Optional Practical Training (OPT) OPT Employer Updates STEM OPT Extension Requests STEM OPT Employer Updates STEM OPT Validation Reporting 15 business days* *Business days are Mondays through Fridays, except CSUF holidays. Processing of requests and emails received after business hours begin on next business day. In other words, if you submit your request/email after 5:00 PM (California Time) on a Friday, then processing will count and begin on the following Monday. Form I-20 Issuance (updated January 12, 2022) SEVP (Student & Exchange Visitor Program), Department of State and CBP (Customs and Border Protection) accept digitally signed, electronic copies of the Form I-20. However, the DMV (Department of Motor Vehicles) may require a wet signed Form I-20. If you need to submit an application to the DMV, you can request a wet signed I-20 by setting up Express Mail here: extension.fullerton.edu/international/students/express-mail. ISS will then print and ship your I-20 for use with DMV. Outgoing shipments will occur on Thursdays and Fridays (subject to change without notice). If you are requesting an I-20 in which an electronic signature is permitted (all but DMV), ISS will issue it and send it to your CSUF email. Upon receiving the electronic I-20 via email, you need to print it and sign it with black ink in the Student Attestation Section. Frequently Asked Questions (updated January 12, 2022) Here are some frequently asked questions pertaining to maintenance of F1/J1 immigration status during the COVID-19 pandemic, based on available guidance from the Student & Exchange Visitor Program (SEVP), U.S. Department of State, and U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS). As situations related to the COVID-19 crisis change and more guidance becomes available, this webpage will be updated. Please continue to check your CSUF email for campus and ISS updates. New Students for Spring 2022 What is CSUF's mode of instruction for Spring 2022? On January 7, 2022, CSUF President Virjee announced that all instruction will be virtual for the first two weeks of the Spring 2022 semester (January 22 to February 6). By February 7, CSUF plans to resume primarily in-person instruction, with some courses delivered virtually and some delivered as hybrid (mixture of in-person and virtual). Please frequently check your CSUF email and the Titans Return website for more updates. I am admitted for Spring 2022. Will I be issued a Form I-20? Consistent with current SEVP's COVID-19 guidance for 2021-2022 academic year, ISS will issue a CSUF Form I-20 to admitted students who plan to enroll in at least one in-person or hybrid Spring 2022 course. (This in-person course enrollment requirement does not apply to F1 students currently in the U.S.) Please check the ISS New Student webpage for documents and action needed to receive your CSUF Form I-20. You will receive your Form I-20 via your CSUF email. Please note that you do not need the Form I-20 to enroll in Spring 2022 fully online/web courses to begin your CSUF academic program remotely from outside the U.S. I have returned to my home country. I have already transferred my SEVIS record to CSUF. Can I attend CSUF remotely from my home country? Yes, in most cases you can enroll full time in fully online/web courses for Spring 2022 and study remotely from your home country. Please be sure to inform ISS of your Spring 2022 plans to remain outside the U.S. I have returned to my home country due to the COVID19 situation. I have already transferred my SEVIS record to CSUF. Can I return to the U.S. to begin my first semester at CSUF this Spring 2022? Consistent with SEVP's COVID-19 guidance, ISS will issue your CSUF Form I-20 for Spring 2022 if you plan to enroll in at least one in-person or hybrid Spring 2022 course. Please note that the Form I-20 is a certificate of eligibility for the F-1 status. Entry to the U.S. remains at the discretion of U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP). I cannot get my visa to come to the U.S. for the Spring 2022 semester. What can I do? You can still begin your CSUF academic program by enrolling in fully online/web courses for the Spring 2022 semester and study remotely from outside the U.S. This will allow you more time to obtain the F-1 visa. If you choose to study from outside the U.S., please notify ISS immediately so that adjustments can be made to your Spring 2022 I-20. Please note that your CSUF admission offer is specific to the Spring 2022 semester. If you do not enroll in at least one Spring 2022 course, then you must reapply for admission for a future term and wait for an admission decision before a new I-20 can be issued to you. Please check the Spring 2022 Registration Guide for enrollment deadlines. If any further questions related to your CSUF admission, please contact the Admissions Office: admissions@fullerton.edu. Due to COVID-19, can I postpone my admission to Fall 2022 or a future term? Your CSUF admission offer is specific to beginning your academic program in the Spring 2022 semester. If you do not enroll in the Spring 2022 term, then you must reapply for admission for a future term. If any further questions about your CSUF admission offer, please contact the Admissions Office: admissions@fullerton.edu. Continuing Students Continuing students are international students who entered the U.S. in a previous semester and have remained enrolled and in Active F-1 or J-1 status at CSUF or on approved OPT/STEM OPT since March 9, 2020 (based on SEVP Broadcast messages, March 9, 2020 and April 26, 2021). Maintaining Immigration Status I was admitted (in Fall 2020 or Spring 2021 or Fall 2021) and plan to begin in-person coursework in Spring 2022 semester. What do I need to do? Please expect an email from ISS regarding documents needed for your updated Form I-20 for Spring 2022, along with visa and travel information. Based on current SEVP COVID-19 guidance, if Spring 2022 is your first semester as an F1 student, then you must plan to enroll in at least one in-person or hybrid Spring 2022 course. I am not able to secure an F1 visa. What should I do? In most cases, you can enroll in fully online (100% web) courses for the semester and study remotely from outside the U.S. To maintain your F1 status, you must enroll in a full course load. If you are not enrolling in any CSUF courses, you may request a Leave of Absence if eligible. Please meet virtually with an ISS Advisor to discuss your situation, eligibility for Leave Request and explore other options. Can I remain in the U.S. while doing online instruction for Spring 2022 semester? Yes, you can remain in the U.S. as long as you maintain a full course of study (or have ISS approved reduced course load) for Spring 2022 semester. If you are unable to maintain a full course of study, please schedule a virtual appointment with an ISS Advisor before submitting withdrawal requests. Will my SEVIS record or immigration (F1/J1) status be terminated if I leave the US and continue doing online instruction from my home country? No. As long as you maintain a full course of study and follow instructions from your Professors to complete course requirements, your SEVIS record will remain in Active status. Please note that if your SEVIS record was transferred to CSUF, you must be in the U.S. at the start of your first semester in order for your SEVIS record to remain in Active status. Will my SEVIS record or F1/J1 status be terminated if I drop my classes or do not virtually attend online classes? Yes, in most cases. Please refer to https://extension.fullerton.edu/international/students/status/ I returned to my home country and am facing difficulties with virtual coursework due to the time difference. What should I do? Please be sure to clearly communicate your situation with your professor(s) and ask if any accommodations can be made available. Please discuss your situation with an ISS Advisor before any repeated or extended absences from course participation and before submitting withdrawal request from course. Health Insurance Do I have to purchase health insurance for Spring 2022 semester if I am studying from my home country? Can I get a health insurance refund? If you will remain outside the U.S. for the entire duration of the Spring 2022 semester while studying virtually, you are not required to purchase the CSUF International Student Health Insurance Plan for the Spring 2022 semester. Please be reminded that if you decide to remain in the U.S., the CSUF International Student Health Insurance is a condition of your enrollment and F-1 status. To request an exception to the health insurance requirement based on being outside the U.S., please submit the appropriate form found on the ISS Health Insurance webpage. You may use this form if you have already purchased the Spring 2022 health insurance coverage and would like to request a refund or if you have not purchased the Spring 2022 health insurance coverage and would like to request for your ISS hold to be removed. To be eligible for the health insurance exception, you must provide proof that you have departed the U.S. (examples of acceptable proof include I-94 Travel History, copy of airline ticket, copy of arrival date stamp in passport). If you have been admitted for Spring 2022 semester and you are not transferring from a SEVIS approved school, you are not required to provide proof of departure. In the event that I actually have Coronavirus, does my CSUF International Student Health insurance cover the hospital and testing fees? Please view your COVID-19 Coverage information on Anthem's Individual and Family webpage: https://www.anthem.com/ca/coronavirus/individual-and-family/ Health & Wellness Resources Employment I am planning to graduate in Spring 2022. After I complete my classes virtually, can I apply for Post-Completion OPT while I am overseas? If you are currently outside the U.S. and have not yet applied for Post-Completion OPT, you must re-enter the U.S prior to your program completion date in order to qualify for OPT. You cannot submit your OPT application to USCIS while you are outside the U.S. Please discuss your situation with an ISS Advisor well in advance. I am on approved OPT or STEM OPT Extension and my employer has reduced my hours. Does working less than 20 hours per week affect my F1 status? During the COVID19 emergency, SEVP considers employment that is less than 20 hours per week to be valid for OPT employment. I am on approved OPT or STEM Extension OPT and my employer has instructed me to work from home. What steps do I need to take to report this? According to the SEVP FAQ released on April 14, 2020, your SEVIS record does not need to be updated if you are working from home due to COVID19. Additionally, students on STEM OPT are not required to update their I-983 if working from home due to COVID19. I am on approved OPT or STEM Extension OPT and my employer has placed me on a paid/unpaid leave. Does this count as unemployment or affect my status? Time off work consistent with the employer’s leave-related policies does not count as unemployment. As long as you are expected to resume work after the leave, you do not need to take any action to update your SEVIS record or Form I-20. Please be sure to save any documentation and/or communication from your employer pertaining to the leave. If you are on approved OPT or STEM OPT and your employment has been permanently terminated, you must report the end of your employment to ISS within 10 days. I am on approved OPT or STEM Extension OPT and I am unable to find a job. Will USCIS allow for additional unemployment days? At this time, there have not been any changes or flexibility in regards to the limit on unemployment days. If you are on OPT and want to avoid exceeding the unemployment limit, you may want to consider a qualifying volunteer position. Unlike OPT, STEM Extension OPT cannot be maintained with volunteer and/or unpaid positions. Otherwise, you must depart the U.S. or transfer to a new school before exceeding the unemployment limit. I am on approved STEM Extension OPT or plan to apply for STEM Extension OPT. Can I submit the form I-983 with electronic signatures? At this time, there has not been an official announcement indicating that an electronic signature on the I-983 is permitted. We therefore must defer to the instructions on the I-983 form itself which indicates “sign in ink”. Travel Alerts & FAQs Negative COVID-19 Test Results Required Prior to Air Travel to U.S. Starting December 6, 2021, if entering the U.S. by air travel, you are required to present proof of a negative COVID-19 viral test result taken within one day of the flight's departure. If you recently recovered from COVID-19, you must show documentation of recovery. For more details, please see U.S. State Department's COVID-19 Travel Requirements and CDC website for detailed info. Proof of COVID-19 Vaccination Status Required before Boarding Flight to U.S. Effective November 8, 2021, all non-immigrant air travelers to the U.S. are required to be fully vaccinated and present proof of COVID-19 vaccination before boarding an airplane bound for the U.S. For more details, please see CDC's website. After International Travel Guidance from CDC For your health and safety, please see CDC's After International Travel Guidance. Can I travel internationally? ISS does not recommend non-essential travel due to the current COVID-19 pandemic, travel restrictions for certain foreign nationals, and temporary suspension of visa services in most US Embassies. If you choose to depart the U.S., please be prepared for delays and possible inability to re-enter the U.S. Can I travel within the U.S.? ISS does not recommend non-essential travel within the U.S. due to the current COVID-19 pandemic. Various parts of the U.S. have travel restrictions. Please refer to CDC: COVID-19 Cases in the U.S. If you choose to travel within the U.S., please seriously consider your health and safety. Be sure to follow the recommendations provided by Centers of Disease Control and Prevention. Do I need to submit my Form I-20 or Form DS-2019 before departing the US? No. Please submit the online Travel Signature Request prior to departure. F1 students will receive their signed Form I-20 via CSUF email. J1 students will have their reprinted Form DS-2019 mailed to mailing address provided (or shipped overseas at students' expense). Do I need to apply for a new visa if I am outside the U.S.? A visa is valid until its expiration date. You are not required to apply for a new visa if it has not yet expired or been revoked. What should I do if I am unable to depart the United States before the end of my Grace Period? F-1 Visa Holders: If you are unable to depart the U.S. before the end of your Grace Period, your options to extend your F-1 status include receiving admission to another SEVP certified School and transferring your SEVIS record or applying for OPT. Please consult with an ISS Advisor regarding procedures and eligibility. Additionally, we encourage you to also contact your home country’s local consulate or embassy in the U.S. for support and information regarding travel home. J-1 Visa Holders: Please contact ISS to request an appointment with ISS Associate Director to discuss your situation. If I apply for unemployment benefits, will it affect my F-1 status? Unemployment benefits do not impact your F1 status or eligibility for future benefits. It is important to note that unemployment insurance eligibility requirements vary from state to state. Check with the unemployment insurance agency in the state where you worked regarding eligibility guidelines. Click here to search for your state’s program. Archives CSUF President Virjee's July 8, 2020 message: Supporting our International Students FAQ for Spring & Summer 2020 FAQ for Fall 2020 FAQ for Spring 2021 FAQ for Fall 2021 Updated January 12, 2022 This site is maintained by Extension and International Programs. Mailing Address: 800 N. State College Blvd., #THall 1403, Fullerton, CA 92831 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact eipcommunications@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. ©