Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Food Wine, Beer, Cider, and Spirits Photo: Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Wine, Beer, Cider, and Spirits Home Browse Resources Events Our Experts Share Latest Resources Credit: OSU Marketing (Cropped from original) High Resolution Vineyard Nutrition Project Learn more about this multi-disciplinary national project aimed at better monitoring and measuring vineyard nutrition. Patricia A. Skinkis | Sep 2021 | Online resource Credit: Patty Skinkis (Cropped from original) Where can I buy grapes to make wine? Learn how to find small quantities of grapes for winemaking. Patricia A. Skinkis | Sep 2021 | Article Photo: Marcelo Moretti (Cropped from original) Mechanical Weed Control for Under the Vine Dr. Marcelo Moretti, Assistant Professor of Weed Science in the Department of Horticulture at Oregon State University, provides a summary of research evaluating different implements for under-vine weed control in vineyards. Jul 2021 | Online resource Browse All Resources Impact of Smoke Exposure on Wine Recent wildfires have exposed grapes in some areas to high levels of smoke that can affect wine quality. While there’s still a lot we don’t know, certain practices can help. Access the catalog publication Photo: Patty Skinkis (Cropped from original) Featured Resources Starting a Distilled Spirit Business: A Guide to Completing the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau Application and Oregon Liquor Control Commission Licensing Process Craft distilling is a growing industry, particularly in the Pacific Northwest. This guide provides step-by-step instructions for registering a distilled spirit business and getting the proper permits. Lisbeth Goddik | Jan 2018 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Hard Cider Production and Orchard Management in the Pacific Northwest Making hard cider for both commercial and private enjoyment is the target of renewed interest in areas that are well suited to growing apples. This manual provides basic information on the many considerations that go into the ... Nov 2010 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Photo: James Osborne (Cropped from original) Yeast nutrients and 'stuck fermentations' Fermentation doesn't always go as planned. Sometimes, a warm growing season can stall the process of turning grapes into wine. Here's what winemakers need to know to guard against "stuck fermentation," and a guide to the steps you can take to restart a slow or sluggish fermentation. James Osborne | Sep 2018 | Article Latest News Photo by Nik Wiman (Cropped from original) Extension’s experimental cider orchard to boost budding Oregon industry The orchard, established at Oregon State University’s North Willamette Research and Extension Center – 23 miles south of downtown Portland – is the brainchild of Nik Wiman, OSU Extension orchard crops specialist. Kym Pokorny | Jan 12, 2021 | News story Given more information about how wine is made, consumers less likely to pay for organic Consumers are more willing to pay for wine that comes with an organic or organic grape label but providing information about certification standards and organic production practices reduces consumer willingness to pay for all wines, , according to an Oregon State University-led study. Chris Branam | Jun 25, 2019 | News story Photo: Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) This “whey” to make vodka could add value to creameries, lessen environmental impact Researchers say artisan creameries can add value and lessen harmful environmental impacts by converting whey into vodka. Jun 11, 2018 | News story All News Photo by Lynn Ketchum Learn the science of beer Online: May 17 - June 20, 2021 On site: June 21 - 25, 2021 Designed for professional and advanced hobbyist brewers, Microbiology and Beer Analysis for the Brewer is an intensive learning experience, covering the fundamental techniques & microbiology essential to making the perfect brew. Dive into six weeks of online course material that emphasizes yeast, yeast handling, identification of wort/beer spoilage organisms using microscopy, staining and differential media. Request more info or register Upcoming Events Jun 29 Vineyard Scouting Workshop 2022 8:30 am - 3:00 pm Umpqua, OR See All Events Meet Our Experts James Osborne Enologist Contact for questions related to commercial wine production See All Wine, Beer, Cider, and Spirits Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Photo: EESC slide collection (Cropped from original) I made my cider in an aluminum pot, is it safe? Q: Hi, I am processing a bunch of apple cider into quarts and 1/2 gallons. I brought all of the apple cider to a boil to pasteurize it, before processing it in a water bath. Now (unfortunately after the fact) I have ... A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility