Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Featured Ask an Expert Questions Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Have a question for us? Ask an Expert Recent answers Photo: Ask Extension (Cropped from original) Scorpions in Oregon? Q: Hello! I would like to know more about this scorpion I found in my garden. I live near Jacksonville, up in the Griffin Creek area. We found three of these little guys. Never seen one before! Very cool. Thanks in advance! A: View answer | View all featured questions Photo: Michaela Kash (CC BY 2.0) (Cropped from original) Is bark mulch a fire hazard? Q: I want to use mulch in my backyard around my flowers and trees, lots of trees. Fire experts want me to clear around my plants and down to the dirt!! I want to conserve water and I know I need mulch to do that since I cannot afford gravel. Besides, I do not like gravel. HELP!!! A: View answer | View all featured questions Photo: OSU Extension Service (Cropped from original) Can I regrow carrots by planting the tops? Q: There is conflicting information all over the internet about regrowing carrots from tops. I know you can grow the greens, however, can you grow the actual root vegetable again? And if not, what is the scientific reason why not? - Yamhill County A: View answer | View all featured questions Photo: nodigio / CC BY-NC-ND (Cropped from original) Is no mow May a good idea? Q: We've been asked to consider a "No Mow May" proclamation to encourage support for insects by not mowing lawns for one month. Do you have an opinion specifically about the natural resource value of this messaging and action? A: View answer | View all featured questions Photo: Ask Extension (Cropped from original) Is this the end for my venerable daphne? Q: My 20 year old daphne’s flowers were smallish and lacked fragrance. Now the leaves have turned yellow and are falling. Can I save it? A: View answer | View all featured questions Photo: Ask Extension (Cropped from original) Is there hope for my snow-damaged tree? Q: The recent, heavy snow combined with rain pulled over an ornamental plum I’ve had for 20 years. Unfortunately, it drew the base partly out of the ground, though no roots are exposed. Can I right it and fix it with cables? Do I need an arborist? Or is it just toast? A: View answer | View all featured questions Photo: Melissa McMasters / CC BY (Cropped from original) How can I organically get rid of Italian Arum? Q: I have been manually trying to dig this plant up in my yard and it keeps coming back. Does it respond to salt/vinegar treatment or burning? It seems to put out a lot of bulbs and tubers and is in several parts of my yard. I don't like using chemicals in my yard, so that isn't an option. A: View answer | View all featured questions Photo: OSU College of Ag Sciences (Cropped from original) How can I make my salamanders feel welcome? Q: We have a small backyard pond, and salamanders have moved in. I’m looking for info on how to take of their pond so they can thrive. Like, is it ok to add water from a hose? Can I put food in there for them? A: View answer | View all featured questions Photo: Ask Extension (Cropped from original) How do we help our backyard hummingbird? Q: I am wondering if I can get more information on the hummingbird that has decided to nest outside my Portland window. Can you tell me what kind of hummingbird it is and are there any interesting facts about their nesting ... A: View answer | View all featured questions Photo: Renée Johnson (Flickr CC BY-SA 2.0) (Cropped from original) Are forgotten potatoes still safe to eat? Q: I recently bought a house in Ashland with a large, much-neglected garden. There are two raised beds with potatoes under several inches of straw. I don’t know how long they’ve been there. They look mature. Would it be ... A: View answer | View all featured questions Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Next page ›› Last page Last » Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility