Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Animals and Livestock Sheep and Goats Photo by Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Sheep and Goats Home Browse Resources Events Our Experts In Your Community Share Featured Resources Credit: Shelby Filley (Cropped from original) When to consider culling sheep from your flock Culling is the practice of selling off animals that you no longer want to or no longer can keep. People may cull sheep because it makes economic sense, or because they want to improve the health or aesthetics of the ... Shelby Filley | Nov 2009 | Article Photo: Bill Hoyt (Cropped from original) Price of goats What's the price of goats? This USDA Ag. Marketing Service website has prices for goats across the US. Use these as a guide to prices for goats in Oregon. USDA | Jul 2020 | Online resource Living on the Land: Getting Started with Sheep and Goats This publication is part of the Living on the Land series. It provides concise information on first steps in starting a small flock of sheep or goats for the backyard and small flock producer. Topics include how to choose ... Brian Tuck | Apr 2015 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Latest resources Credit: Shelby Filley (Cropped from original) How to get ewes to adopt orphan lambs Getting ewes to adopt orphan lambs requires the orphans to smell like the ewe's own brood. There are several ways to transfer the ewe's smell to the orphan and pull off a successful adoption. Here's how to do it. Cassie Bouska | Jan 2022 | Article Peer reviewed (Gray level) Photo by Shelby Filley (Cropped from original) How to give your livestock the nutrients they need The practice of matching the nutrient content of feeds with the nutrient requirements of your livestock is very important, especially if you are using feeds that you are not familiar with. Balancing rations can help keep feed ... Shelby Filley | Nov 2021 | Article Artisan Goat Cheese from the Willamette Valley Presenter: Shawn Fels, Owner and President of Portland Creamery Description: Learn about how the Portland Creamery balances the art, business, and science of cheese making Kristen Moore, Shawn Fels | Nov 2021 | Video Browse all resources Explore more resources Agritourism Pasture and Forages Irrigation Upcoming Events Jun 3 - Jun 5 Jackson County Spring Fair 2022 See All Events Meet Our Experts Shelby Filley Regional Livestock & Forage See All Sheep and Goats Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Photo: Amaury Laporte / CC BY (Cropped from original) To graze or not to graze that is my question. Q: I have a small dairy goat farm, and at the moment have 5 adult does plus 2 donkeys. In the winter they are confined to the paddock around the barn, but in spring I begin rotating them between 3 small pastures, one ... A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility