Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Pests, Weeds, and Diseases Weeds Photo: Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Weeds Home Browse Resources Events Our Work Our Experts In Your Community Share Weeds are considered the #1 pest in agroecosystems. They compete with desirable plants and can reduce yields, and alter soil structure and quality. Weed management requires thoughtful planning and action. Use the resources below to help reduce the effect of weeds in your crop, garden, or landscape. Browse All Resources Photo by Robert Emanuel. (Cropped from original) Featured Resources Puncturevine A member of the Caltrop family, this weed produces woody fruits that always land with one sharp spine pointed upward. Spines injure hooves, feet, and vehicle tires. A toxin from the plant may be linked to photosensitization ... Robert (Bob) Parker | Apr 2020 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Integrated Management of Feral Rye in Winter Wheat Feral rye (Secale cereale L.), also known as volunteer rye, is a troublesome weed in winter wheat production in the low- and intermediate-rainfall zones of eastern Washington and Oregon and southern Idaho. This publication ... Andy Hulting, Judit Barroso | Jun 2020 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Photo: Christy Tanner (Cropped from original) Malheur Experiment Station Virtual Field Tour - Controlling Glyphosate Resistant Weeds in Sugarbeets Learn about an applied research project that is testing herbicides for the control of glyphosate resistant weeds in sugarbeets. Christy Tanner, Joel Felix | Aug 2020 | Video Peer reviewed (Gray level) Photo by OSU's EESC. (Cropped from original) Malheur Experiment Station Virtual Field Tour - Sonalan Tank Mixes for Weed Control in Potato Learn about an applied research project evaluating tank mixes of the herbicide Sonalan for controlling weeds in potato. Christy Tanner, Joel Felix | Aug 2020 | Video Peer reviewed (Gray level) Latest Resources Credit: Stephen Ward (Cropped from original) Safe Weed Control With Herbicides When used correctly, organic or synthetic herbicides can be a useful part of an integrated weed management program. Selecting and applying the appropriate herbicide(s) for your IPM program can be challenging. The tips provided focus on key considerations for herbicide selection and their use on small farms. Evie Smith | May 2022 | Fact Sheet Peer reviewed (Gray level) Manage weeds on your farm: A guide to ecological strategies This extensive resource provides you with in-depth information about agricultural weeds and the best ways of managing them. It includes a general discussion of weed biology, plus a reference section that describes the identification, ecology and management of 63 most common and difficult-to-control weed species in crop and forage production systems. The ecological approach to weed management seeks to first understand the biology and behavior of problem weeds and then develop an integrated set of control strategies. Viewable as a webpage or in print, produced by Sustainable Agriculture Research and Education (SARE) Outreach. Charles L. Mohler, John R. Teasdale, and Antonio DiTommaso | May 2022 | Online resource Managers of over 200,000 acres of farmland gain knowledge in OSU Extension’s virtual Coffee Hours The Coffee Hour conversations attracted 37-61 people each week, including farmers who manage over 34,500 acres and agronomists who make crop management recommendations on over 209,000 acres. May 2022 | Impact story Browse All Resources Latest News Credit Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) As Russian thistle becomes resistant to glyphosate, OSU Extension weed scientist finds alternatives for wheat farmers Russian thistle thrives in the dry climate of eastern Oregon and Washington and if left unchecked develops an extensive root system that competes with wheat for water and nutrients. Kym Pokorny | Nov 2, 2021 | News story Credit Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Could weeds be controlled by zapping them? Extension is investigating As organic production increases in the United States and Europe, non-chemical control becomes more essential. Kym Pokorny | Sep 21, 2021 | News story Roll up your sleeves: Use multiple strategies to control invasive weeds Keeping weeds at bay can be frustrating, but it can be done. Kym Pokorny | Aug 14, 2020 | News story All News Explore more resources Field Crops Gardening Techniques Pesticide Safety and Education Meet Our Experts Ed Peachey Horticulture Weeds Contact for questions on vegetable production: processed, fresh market, and seeds Andy Hulting Weed Control Judit Barroso Weed Science Cassie Bouska Agriculture Contact with me with questions about agriculture in Coos and Curry counties See All Weeds Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Photo: Melissa McMasters / CC BY (Cropped from original) How can I organically get rid of Italian Arum? Q: I have been manually trying to dig this plant up in my yard and it keeps coming back. Does it respond to salt/vinegar treatment or burning? It seems to put out a lot of bulbs and tubers and is in several parts of my yard. I don't like using chemicals in my yard, so that isn't an option. A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility