Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Crop Production Pasture and Forages Photo by Gordon Jones (Cropped from original) Pasture and Forages Home Browse Resources Events Our Experts In Your Community Share Featured Resources Introduction to Pasture and Grazing Management in Western Oregon Farmers and ranchers new to pasture management in the Pacific Northwest can learn the basics of establishing and maintaining a productive pasture for their livestock. Melissa Fery, David Hannaway, Maud Powell, Garry Stephenson | Dec 2020 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Invertebrate Pest Management for Pacific Northwest Pastures A well-managed pasture has several ecological and economic benefits. However, several species of arthropods (insects, mites and garden symphylans), and gastropods (slugs) inhabit pastures of the Pacific Northwest of the United States and can diminish those benefits. Mylen Bohle, David Hannaway, Silvia I. Rondon | Aug 2020 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Photo: Shelby Filley (Cropped from original) How to manage the production and use of hay in a drought Drought conditions have drastically reduced hay yields in the last year or two. With dry conditions forecast to continue, livestock producers need to rethink strategies for conserving forage. Shelby Filley | Feb 2022 | Article Photo by Shelby Filley © Oregon State University (Cropped from original) Living with Droughty Pastures At times we see many of our cool-season perennial and annual forages looking stressed and growing very slow as they struggle with heat and no rain. The hot, dry conditions we sometimes experience in western Oregon have many ... Shelby Filley | Aug 2019 | Article Latest Resources Forage production with limited irrigation By selecting the right forages and using efficient management practices with limited irrigation or drought conditions, producers can achieve reasonable forage production with reduced input costs. This publication from the University of Nebraska highlights irrigation and crop options, water-use efficiency of different forages, and more. Jerry D. Volesky and Aaron L. Berger | Apr 2010 | Online resource Alfalfa irrigation during drought Alfalfa grown for forage in the arid Northwest requires 1.8-acre feet to 3.2-acre feet of water per year, depending on length of the growing season. This drought advisory publication recommends steps producers can take when water availability is reduced. Thomas Ley | Apr 2022 | Online resource Managing irrigated pastures and haylands in drought Drought (a period of limited or no water during the growing season) reduces forage production for grazing and haymaking. Prolonged drought forces livestock and hay producers to need special strategies. This document provides information about maintaining healthy perennial pastures and hayfields, reducing livestock loss due to diet, and how to improve recovery of pastures after the drought ends. Steve Fransen, Justen Smith, and Sarah Smith | Apr 2022 | Online resource Browse All Resources Livestock and Forages E-News Seasonal articles, announcements on educational programs and important news & notices for western Oregon producers of beef cattle, sheep and goats, plus forages to support this livestock. Read issues and subscribe Credit: Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) News Credit Rachel Werling (Cropped from original) Online course extends reach of OSU Extension Land Steward Program In 2021, the Land Steward Program expanded to 18 counties led by five regional OSU Extension instructors. Kym Pokorny | Feb 4, 2022 | News story Photo: Melissa Fery (Cropped from original) OSU Extension offers new resource for pasture and grazing management Growing Farms: An Introduction to Pasture and Grazing Management is a free online course for livestock producers. Chris Branam | May 18, 2020 | News story Photo: Ryan Creason (Cropped from original) Oregonians learn homesteading at Rural Living Day Annual event included classes ranging from composting to water rights and well-water management, and small engine maintenance to wildlife management. Chris Branam | May 7, 2020 | News story All News Explore more resources Beef Cattle Horses Sheep and Goats Weeds Irrigation Upcoming Events Jun 15 QPR Suicide Prevention Training for Farmers & Ranchers 6:00 pm - 7:30 pm PDT Online See All Events Meet Our Experts Shayan Motazedi Ghajar Assistant Professor (Practice), Extension Organic Pasture and Forages I focus on organic, transitioning, and low-input sustainable pasture and forage management for producers in Oregon. Shelby Filley Regional Livestock & Forage Guojie Wang Assistant Professor, Forage Agronomist Ian McGregor Assistant Professor, Livestock & Irrigation, Open Campus Coordinator, Klamath County See All Pasture and Forages Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Photo: Ask Extension (Cropped from original) What is bubbling up in my pasture? Q: I have a very small (2-3 inches wide and 1 inch deep) puddle in my pasture that is blowing bubbles. I can stick my finger in it and feel the air coming up from beneath. I first noticed this puddle on January 24 ... A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility