Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Forests, Woodlands, and Rangelands Forest Health and Management Photo: Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Forest Health and Management Home Browse Resources Get Involved Events Our Experts In Your Community Share Featured Resources Ecology and Management of Eastern Oregon Forests: A Comprehensive Manual for Forest Managers Gives an overview of Eastern Oregon forest types and various silvicultural systems for managing them. Discusses in depth the ecology and management of ponderosa pine, lodgepole pine, and mixed-conifer forests. Describes major pests ... Stephen Fitzgerald, Nicole Strong, Robert (Bob) Parker, Leticia Henderson (Varelas), Tim Deboodt | Oct 2018 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Tools for Measuring Your Forest Describes tools that woodland owners need to measure property acreage, boundaries, and characteristics of standing timber, including individual log volumes. Francisca Belart, Lauren Grand | Mar 2019 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Wildlife Habitat: Nurturing a Diverse Mix of Flora and Fauna Property owners can play key roles in wildlife habitat. Learn how to manage your land to promote a diverse native habitat and support ecological systems. One of a series of Land Steward Rural Resource Guidelines. Rachel Werling | Jul 2020 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Latest Resources Photo: Carrie Berger (Cropped from original) Forestry & Natural Resources Extension Fire Program: 2021 Impact Report The Extension Fire Program uses education, outreach, and boundary spanning partnerships to foster the resiliency of communities and landscapes to wildfire at scale. Learn more! Carrie Berger, Emily Jane Davis | May 2022 | Educational document Photo: Christina Friehauf (Cropped from original) Episode 20: Fire Adapted Communities In this episode, Lauren Grand is joined by Carrie Berger & Emily Jane Davis to discuss how communities can be better prepared for wildfires. Lauren Grand, Carrie Berger, Emily Jane Davis | May 2022 | Podcast episode Photo: Christina Friehauf (Cropped from original) Episode 19: OSU Extension Fire Program Team In this episode, Lauren Grand gets to know the members of the OSU Extension Fire Program. Lauren Grand, Aaron Groth, Carrie Berger, Ariel Cowan, Katherine Wollstein, Christopher Adlam, John Rizza, Emily Jane Davis | May 2022 | Podcast episode Browse All Resources Latest News Credit Rachel Werling (Cropped from original) Online course extends reach of OSU Extension Land Steward Program In 2021, the Land Steward Program expanded to 18 counties led by five regional OSU Extension instructors. Kym Pokorny | Feb 4, 2022 | News story Credit Kym Pokorny (Cropped from original) Prescribed fire training builds foundation for effective landscape restoration OSU Extension's controlled burning curriculum, modeled after practices used by Indigenous peoples for millenia, supports wildlife habitat and plays an important part in the traditions, culture and sovereignty of tribes. Kym Pokorny | Jan 14, 2022 | News story Credit OSU Extension (Cropped from original) New book reviews Oregon forest management, water quality issues Trees to Tap: How Forest Practices Affect Oregon’s Municipal Water, is a comprehensive new book exploring how forest management impacts Oregon’s water. Kym Pokorny | Nov 4, 2021 | News story All News Upcoming Events Jun 7 Removing Dead Trees from Steep Terrain - In person & Via Zoom! 6:00 pm - 7:30 pm Central Point, OR Jun 11 Community Forestry Day - June 11, 2022 8:30 am - 2:30 pm Oregon City, OR Jun 11 A Family Forestry Celebration 9:00 am - 2:00 pm Springfield, OR Jul 12 Planning your year on the Forest 3:30 pm - 5:00 pm PDT Online See All Events Meet Our Experts Glenn Ahrens Forestry Max Bennett Forestry & Natural Resources Alicia Christiansen Forestry & Natural Resources Ariel Cowan Regional Fire Specialist, Central Region See All Forest Health and Management Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Photo: Tom Gentle (Cropped from original) Should we give away our tree seedlings? Q: I have many Douglas fir seedlings that sprout up on my property and I hate to pull them out. I also have a few that are a foot or two tall now. Would it be beneficial to anyone if I donated the seedlings/trees? I have maybe 12-24 or more per year, and so do my neighbors. A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility