Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Pests, Weeds, and Diseases Invasive Species Photo: Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Invasive Species Home Browse Resources Get Involved Our Experts In Your Community Share Featured Resources Controlling Invasive Plants Some common garden plants have become invasive pests in wild habitats. In Oregon, these invasives include some favorites such as English ivy and butterfly bush. Jul 2018 | Collection Don't Let it Loose: Common Carp Koi Educational poster of invasive Koi fish May 2018 | OSU Sea Grant Publication Peer reviewed (Gray level) Oregon Forest Pest Detector Oregon Forest Pest Detectors (OFPDs) are volunteers that help prevent the damaging impacts of invasive forest pests by monitoring for and reporting potential infestations. They usually already have some baseline knowledge of ... Program Latest Resources Credit Sergio Arispe (Cropped from original) Extension research finds dormant-season grazing might keep wildfire at bay As a result, 2,500 tons of fine fuels has been removed during off-season grazing, removing biomass that would otherwise burn in a rangeland wildfire in the 23,000 acres of public lands in Malheur County. Mar 2022 | Impact story Photo by Stephen Ward (Cropped from original) Insect Identification So you have captured a 'creature' in a jar, or your field is full of tiny bugs, now what? Accurate identification of insects is a key first step. Use the resources below to help. If you have a sample and would like ... Jessica Green | Aug 2021 | Article Insects in the Trees: Pests or Non-Pests? This class will focus on the identification, biology, and management of pest and non-pest insects found on trees in Oregon. Insects covered will include bark beetles as well as wood boring, defoliating, and sapsucking insects. ... Jun 2020 | Video Browse All Resources Zebra and Quagga Mussels To date, the Columbia River basin is the only region left in the U.S. that is not infested with zebra mussels, or the closely related quagga mussels. According to the Oregon Invasive Species Council, the most significant concern is that zebra mussels may be unknowingly released and introduced into waterways. This could potentially cost millions of dollars in response efforts, monitoring, and ultimately maintenance costs if the mussels become established. Once they get established, zebra and quagga mussels quickly take over a body of water and the chance that they will be eradicated is slim. Learn More About Invasive Aquatics Credit USFWS (Cropped from original) Latest News Credit USDA-ARS, Stephen Ausmus (Cropped from original) Sightings of spotted lanternflies worry farmers, nursery industry So far, there’s no known infestation in Oregon. If one establishes, many of Oregon’s high-value industries may be affected, including wine grapes, nursery and tree crops, small fruits and timber. Kym Pokorny | Jul 15, 2021 | News story Invasive jumping worms leap into Oregon Jumping worms stay in the debris on top and eat two to three times the amount of leaf litter as the other worms. Kym Pokorny | Jul 2, 2021 | News story Microscopic insect that liquefies slugs may be answer to controlling this invasive pest In Oregon at least half of the 20 top agricultural commodities suffer from slug damage. Kym Pokorny | Nov 16, 2020 | News story All News Explore more resources Insects Nuisance Wildlife Weeds Meet Our Experts David C. Shaw Director, Swiss Needle Cast Cooperative Dan Stark Forestry and Natural Resources, Assistant Professor of Practice Vaughn Walton Entomologist Nik Wiman Orchard Crops Specialist See All Invasive Species Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Should I plant wildflowers in burn areas? Q: I am wondering if it is a good idea to spread wildflower seeds in the burned out old growth forest in the Detroit area. A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility