Your browser does not support inline frames or is currently configured not to display inline frames Skip to Navigation Skip to Main Content Website and online services unavailable on May 29. See IT Disaster Recovery website ► Quick Register | Cart Professional Development Extension and International Programs California State University, Fullerton All Programs Areas of Study: Business Crime & Forensics Fiduciary Management Technology & Engineering Program Types: Certificate Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Educator Courses and Programs Community & Corporate Engagement Leadership Development for Public Agencies Short-Term Courses & Events Test Preparation Online Degree Completion Programs Career Tech Foundation Online Programs Online Certificate Programs Online Degree Completion Programs Educator Courses and Programs Getting Started What is a Certificate? Selecting a Program Alumni Success Stories Current Student Resources Program & Course Policies Financial Aid Parking Forms Online Learning Request a Certificate About Fullerton Campus Community & Corporate Engagement Student Resources Teach for EIP FAQ Contact Us Donate × Email a friend To: Invalid E-Mail address From: Message: Page Link: Data Science Professional Certificate | CSUF Extension and International Programs Data-Science Submit × Email a friend Mail Sent Succesfully Page Link: Data Science Professional Certificate | CSUF Extension and International Programs Data-Science Close Data Science Projected outlook for some certified Data Science experts: 104,100Number of Jobs, 2020 $82,360Median Pay per year, 2021 25%Job Growth, 2020-2030 *U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics, Occupational Outlook Handbook – Operations Research Analysts Earn A CSUF Data Science Certificate in 9 Months Earn your data science certification in 9 months. This program is ideal for a range of analysts, scientists and engineers. CSUF Science Program Benefits: You Will: Learn the fundamentals of statistics and computer science. Understand how organizations use data to be successful. Master the data-analytics project lifecycle. Apply various statistical-analysis and modelling tools. Translate business challenges into analytical frameworks. Present data results. Ideal for: Data analysts who want to move beyond using basic analysis tools. Computer scientists and statisticians who want to lead data-science projects. Graduates of math, statistics, computer engineering or natural sciences. Professional analysts who want to advance their skills. Managers looking to enhance business performance. Program Stats: Five required courses (90 hours of lecture and discussion) 9 months long 100% online 9 continuing education units (CEUs) For optimal viewing of the course schedule below, please view on a tablet or desktop Schedule Eligibility Program Benefits Who Should Attend Note: Click on the course title to view all available course sections. Hover over the colored labels to view where the course will be offered. Course Title Collapse All Winter / Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Data Science in a Data-Driven World O O No sections available. Sign up and stay connected. View the course description. Introduction to Analyzing Data O O No sections available. Sign up and stay connected. View the course description. Introduction to Programming Basics for Data Science O O No sections available. Sign up and stay connected. View the course description. Data Science and Machine Learning O Learn More Days Date Time Location 06/13/22-08/21/22 Online Online-Variable Fee $1350.00 Close Please select one of the two options. Please select your state of residence: --Select One-- Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas American Samoa California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Puerto Rico Northern Mariana Islands U.S. Virgin Islands American Samoa Guam Marshall Islands I currently live outside of the United States Your enrollment in a CSU Fullerton, University Extended Education professional development certificate class/program does not constitute admission to the University, nor does it provide eligibility for any type of student Visa. English Proficiency Requirement It is recommended that participants who reside outside of United States and whose first language is not English must possess English language proficiency equivalent to a minimum TOEFL score of 550 (paper), 80 (iBT) or IELTS score of 6.5. It the participant’s responsibility to demonstrate English language proficiency necessary to fully participate in the class lectures and discussions. Continue Cancel Register Register Now Data Science Capstone O O No sections available. Sign up and stay connected. View the course description. Upon completion of the certificate program, graduates will be able to: 1. Articulate how today's organizations are using data to gain strategic business advantage. 2. Understand how businesses are adapting to compete in today's data driven world and the types of tools, technology, processes, and people needed. 3. Identify new career opportunities and how to use knowledge of statistical and data sciences to evolve in current workplace settings, or for career advancement. 4. Understand the complete data analysis project lifecycle: from retrieving data, validating and preparing data for analysis, finding anomalies, performing statistical analyses, building descriptive and predictive models, to presenting and communicating findings. 5. Understand the tools companies are using to acquire, store, and process data. 6. Formally form a hypothesis and identify a statistical procedure appropriate to determine if there is statistical evidence to support the hypothesis. 7. Be able to build a statistical model to identify the most important factors that influence an outcome, describe relationships among variables, and use a statistical model to make predictions and quantify the statistical uncertainty. - Professionals interested in learning how to leverage data for better decision making. - Data analysts who wish to move beyond using basic analysis tools. - Decision makers who want to understand how data can better inform their efforts. - Computer scientists and statisticians who wish to take a lead role in data science projects. - Graduates with degrees in math, statistics, computer engineering and natural sciences who wish to enter the data science field. - Professional analysts (e.g., financial analysts, business analysts, systems analysts) who wish to advance their skills in data science. - Managers who wish to utilize data science to enhance business performance. There are no prerequisites for admittance to this program which is intended for participants who have an interest in learning how to analyze and better understand data. It is recommended that students have a bachelor's degree with some college level course work in statistics or mathematics or have some basic programming experience. Avram Aelony Data Scientist- BeachMint Rahul Bhaskar Faculty- Department of Information Systems/Decision Science, California State University, Fullerton Gulhan Bourget Assistant Professor- Department of Mathematics, California State University, Fullerton Tom Deutsch Program Director- Information Management, Big Data and Advanced Analytics IBM Alicia Fan Program Developer- University Extended Education California State University, Fullerton David Kale Co-founder and Data Scientist, Podimetrics Kari A Knutson Miller Associate Vice President- International Programs, Dean- University Extended Education California State University, Fullerton Yasmin Lucero Senior Statistician- Gravity.com Kevin J Potcner Director of Consulting- Minitab, Inc. Ryan Swanstrom Data Analyst/Developer- Wells Fargo Yun Tian Assistant Professor- Department of Computer Science, California State University, Fullerton Shelly Wang Manager- Program Development, University Extended Education California State University, Fullerton Program Details Location: Online, Weekly modules Length: 9 months Cost: $4,230* Next Start: August 2022 *Cost is approximate and subject to change. View Schedule Request a Certificate View Related Programs Non-California Residents English Proficiency Requirement It is recommended that participants who reside outside of United States and whose first language is not English must possess English language proficiency equivalent to a minimum TOEFL score of 550 (paper), 80 (iBT) or IELTS score of 6.5. It is the participantís responsibility to demonstrate English language proficiency necessary to fully participate in the class lectures and discussions. Professional Licensure and Certification *Have a question? Please contact us. Online Form - Prof Dev Master Email Sign-up (untitled_form_1_copy) Email Us: eipconnect@fullerton.edu Phone: (657) 278-2611 Address: 800 N. State College Blvd., #THall 1403, Fullerton, CA 92831 California State University, Fullerton / Extension and International Programs Download Adobe Reader