Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Animals and Livestock Horses Photo: Bob Rost (Cropped from original) Horses Home Browse Resources Events Our Experts In Your Community Share Featured Resources 4-H Horse Project This is a basic resource for 4-H members doing a horse project in Oregon, Washington, and Idaho. Book sections cover horse breeds, psychology, and how to choose a horse; the horse's health, care, and management; raising a ... Nov 2013 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Horse Hoof and Leg Anatomy An overview of horse hoof and leg anatomy Scott Duggan | Sep 2019 | Presentation Managing Small-Acreage Horse Farms in Western Oregon and Western Washington Horses, grass, manure, soil and water are all interconnected. How you manage one affects the others. Following these seven steps can make your horse farm safe, efficient, and environmentally friendly. Learn more about horse grazing... Melissa Fery, David Hannaway, Garry Stephenson, Linda Brewer, Scott Duggan | Sep 2019 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Latest Resources Courtesy Shirley Byrne (Cropped from original) Clackamas 4-H volunteer’s compassion leads to donation in her name The Clackamas 4-H Horse Advisory Board recently voted to use the $750 donation made in Shirley Byrne's name to pay for all of the members’ pre-fair entry fees. Chris Branam | Mar 1, 2022 | News story Credit Eastern National 4-H Horse Roundup (Cropped from original) Oregon 4-H boasts several top-10 results at national horse, poultry contests Oregon 4-H finished second in horse bowl, third in horse judging and 10th in hippology at the Eastern National 4-H Horse Roundup, and sixth in avian bowl at the National 4-H Poultry and Egg Conference. Chris Branam | Feb 3, 2022 | News story Photo: Betsy Hartley (Cropped from original) When should we stop pasture grazing our horse? Q: We have had a horse grazing on our approx. 6 acre field which is normally cut for mixed grass hay. The horse has been on the field since we had it cut and baled into hay this past summer. In general, when is the ... A: View answer | View all featured questions Browse All Resources Latest News Courtesy Shirley Byrne (Cropped from original) Clackamas 4-H volunteer’s compassion leads to donation in her name The Clackamas 4-H Horse Advisory Board recently voted to use the $750 donation made in Shirley Byrne's name to pay for all of the members’ pre-fair entry fees. Chris Branam | Mar 1, 2022 | News story Credit Eastern National 4-H Horse Roundup (Cropped from original) Oregon 4-H boasts several top-10 results at national horse, poultry contests Oregon 4-H finished second in horse bowl, third in horse judging and 10th in hippology at the Eastern National 4-H Horse Roundup, and sixth in avian bowl at the National 4-H Poultry and Egg Conference. Chris Branam | Feb 3, 2022 | News story Photo: Melody Larson (Cropped from original) Extension coordinates hay donations to relieve those affected by wildfires More than 500 tons have been donated and moved around the state through partnerships. Kym Pokorny | Oct 19, 2020 | News story All News Upcoming Events Oct 13 - Oct 16 PNW 4-H Horse Judges' School Wenatchee, WA See All Events Meet Our Experts Candi Bothum State 4-H Animal Science Coordinator, 4-H Youth Development Scott Duggan Livestock See All Horses Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Photo: Betsy Hartley (Cropped from original) When should we stop pasture grazing our horse? Q: We have had a horse grazing on our approx. 6 acre field which is normally cut for mixed grass hay. The horse has been on the field since we had it cut and baled into hay this past summer. In general, when is the ... A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility