Skip to content Coronavirus Updates: See latest COVID-19 news from Harvard Extension School. COVID-19 Updates Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Academics Take a Course Graduate Degrees Graduate Certificates Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Academic Gap Year Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students Apply to Premedical Program Academic Calendar Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Blog Events Press and Announcements Contact Us MyDCE Login Request Information Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Request Information Academics Take a Course Graduate Certificates Graduate Degrees Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Browse Courses Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students International Students Academic Calendar Forms Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Harvard Extension School Blog Contact Us Events Press and Announcements Media and Photo Information For Enrolled Students Support and Services Student Policies and Conduct Harvard Extension Alumni Association Website Archives Privacy Statement Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Ready for your next step? Harvard Extension is ready for you. Build next-level knowledge wherever you are in your career and life. And join a global Harvard community dedicated to shaping a better future. Courses Graduate Degrees & Certificates Undergraduate Degrees & Certificates Premedical Studies Academic Gap Year What Makes Extension Unique Deep learning springs from human connection. That’s why we work so hard to bring people together — whether in a live virtual classroom or an in-person seminar on campus. Access Our flexible pathways and transparent admissions emphasize what you’re capable of today—not a test or course you took years ago. Quality Expect to be challenged. You'll learn from industry experts and faculty from Harvard and peer institutions. Flexibility You're balancing a lot. We get it. Our courses are designed to help you study while managing career and life commitments. Impact Gain meaningful insights and make valuable connections. Then put them to work in your career and life pursuits. Why Study at Harvard Extension School? Most of the students come to Harvard Extension with vast backgrounds and work experiences ... They recognize that education and hard work are vital to achieving their goals. And it is inspiring to study alongside them.” Tanuja Korlepra Meet Our Students & Alumni Learning & Connection Deep learning springs from human connection. That’s why we work so hard to bring people together — whether in a live virtual classroom or an in-person seminar on campus. Our approach to online learning fosters interaction without sacrificing flexibility. Each week, you’ll engage with your instructor, participate in peer discussions, and receive one-on-one support from teaching staff—all from your home or office. Online Learning at Harvard Extension School About Extension School Harvard Extension School has changed a lot over the years. But our mission remains the same: open access and active learning for every student who has the drive and commitment to succeed at Harvard. About Harvard Extension School Explore Our Programs Graduate Certificates Develop new skills and build expertise to advance your career. Graduate Degrees Gain critical insights and practical skills for success in your career or scholarly pursuits. Undergraduate Certificates Explore a topic for enrichment or achieve a professional goal. Undergraduate Degree Complete your degree part-time without disrupting your career. Premed Studies Prepare for medical or dental school. Course Catalog Learn something new in a fall or spring class. Latest Blogs, News, & Announcements Six Benefits of Connecting with an Enrollment Coach Blog Building a Career in Industrial-Organizational Psychology Blog Professor Reflects on Enduring Memories of Toni Morrison Blog 10 Skills You Need to Become an Industrial-Organizational Psychologist Blog Teaching on Global Health and Coronavirus Interventions Blog Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! Harvard Extension is delighted to celebrate our students’ tremendous commitment and hard work. Read more about our students' journey to this big day! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Archives Follow Harvard Extension School Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Harvard Division of Continuing Education A division of Harvard University dedicated to bringing rigorous programs and innovative online teaching capabilities to distance learners, working professionals, high school students, college students, and those seeking higher learning in retirement. Harvard Extension School Harvard degrees, certificates and courses—online, in the evenings, and at your own pace. Harvard Summer School Academic summer opportunities for adult, college and high school students—at Harvard and abroad. Harvard Professional Development Short, intensive programs to develop skills and strengthen your professional profile. Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement Peer learning in the liberal arts—a community program for retired and semi-retired professionals. Harvard Division of Continuing Education Privacy Statement Accessibility Rights & Regulations Digital Accessibility Policy Harvard.edu Cookie Settings Copyright ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College