Skip to content Coronavirus Updates: See latest COVID-19 news from Harvard Extension School. COVID-19 Updates Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Academics Take a Course Graduate Degrees Graduate Certificates Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Academic Gap Year Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students Apply to Premedical Program Academic Calendar Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Blog Events Press and Announcements Contact Us MyDCE Login Request Information Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Request Information Academics Take a Course Graduate Certificates Graduate Degrees Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Browse Courses Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students International Students Academic Calendar Forms Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Harvard Extension School Blog Contact Us Events Press and Announcements Media and Photo Information For Enrolled Students Support and Services Student Policies and Conduct Harvard Extension Alumni Association Website Archives Privacy Statement Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Larisa Svechin Be prepared to work hard for that certificate or degree, while at the same time not wanting it to ever end. Place of Residence Sunny Isles Beach, Florida Program Master of Liberal Arts (ALM) in the field of Psychology; Graduate Certificate in Philosophy & Ethics Professional Field Politician Share Why did you decide to earn a degree at Harvard Extension? It was always my goal to earn a higher degree and I often reflected on how quickly the years passed and life “happened.” In researching some summer options for my oldest child, I came across a New York Times article featuring a student who graduated high school with a Harvard Extension degree. I’d never heard of Harvard Extension and once I started researching the school, I knew this was my second chance. A chance to study what I love, get my masters degree, and show my four children that learning is lifelong—that despite both my grandmothers never learning to read, my parents never going to college, and despite being a political refugee from the Soviet Union, it is never too late to build on your knowledge and better yourself. What was the most challenging aspect of your time at Extension? What was the most rewarding? The most challenging aspect during this journey was balancing work, campaigning, raising my children, and at the same time giving my education the time and dedication I wanted to give. I accepted that I could only manage all these aspects successfully by taking it slow and steady. The biggest reward was the excitement it created in my home, when I would discuss what I was learning with my children. Do you have a favorite class or faculty member? Why? It is hard to pick one class or faculty member that was my favorite because each course, professor, and TA, built brilliantly on the previous courses. Deliberative Justice, taught by Professor Sergio Imparato, was the course which I never wanted to end, because it allowed for a deeper understanding and layering of previous course work, readings, and allowed for greater depth in my research and writing. Explore our Government Graduate Degree Program. What types of student resources and special options did you take advantage of as a student at Harvard? How did they help? I took advantage of the writers’ workshop as well as meeting with the Hollis librarians. Regrettably due to Covid, I was limited to zero on-campus options. Both the workshops and Zoom meetings were a fabulous value added to my course work. It is something I should have taken advantage of from the beginning. Do you have any advice for new students? My advice for new students is to truly consider your level of commitment, your availability, and your reasons for taking courses at HES. The courses were consistently rigorous, expectations were set very high, and while your fellow students will inspire you, their brilliance can also be intimidating. Be prepared to work hard for that certificate or degree while at the same time not wanting it to ever end. Describe your Extension School experience in one word. Intentional *This interview has been edited for length and clarity. Discover your graduate program at Harvard Extension School today. May 11, 2022 Share Read Next Rose Nyte The most rewarding moment was when one of my professors got excited about something I shared in class—that look they get when they know you’re really getting it. Share Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Close Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! Harvard Extension is delighted to celebrate our students’ tremendous commitment and hard work. Read more about our students' journey to this big day! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Archives Follow Harvard Extension School Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Harvard Division of Continuing Education A division of Harvard University dedicated to bringing rigorous programs and innovative online teaching capabilities to distance learners, working professionals, high school students, college students, and those seeking higher learning in retirement. Harvard Extension School Harvard degrees, certificates and courses—online, in the evenings, and at your own pace. Harvard Summer School Academic summer opportunities for adult, college and high school students—at Harvard and abroad. Harvard Professional Development Short, intensive programs to develop skills and strengthen your professional profile. Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement Peer learning in the liberal arts—a community program for retired and semi-retired professionals. Harvard Division of Continuing Education Privacy Statement Accessibility Rights & Regulations Digital Accessibility Policy Harvard.edu Cookie Settings Copyright ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College