CSUF is closed for Winter Recess, December 24 - January 2. We will re-open to serve you on January 3. 2022. Website and online services unavailable on May 29. See IT Disaster Recovery website ► For International Students FAQs, click here ›COVID-19 Vaccine Requirement for Students and Instructors ► Professional Development Professional Development Certificate programs provide working professionals with evening and weekend courses, as well as networking opportunities to advance their careers or enter new fields. Certificate Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Educator Courses and Programs Community & Corporate Engagement Leadership for Public AgenciesShort-Term Courses & Events Degrees Degrees EIP partners with CSUF colleges and departments to offer bachelor’s and master’s degrees, as well as preparation programs for those looking to apply to professional health-care, law and business schools. Online Degree Completion Programs Master’s Programs Pre-Health Program Test Preparation Courses University Courses University Courses EIP expands access to University classes through Open University, Summer Session and Winter Session. Open University registration is open to the general public; Summer and Winter Sessions help Cal State Fullerton students graduate on-time or early. Open University Summer Session Winter Session Lifelong Learning Lifelong Learning Our lifelong learning opportunities range from programs for children to retirees, and include an on-campus arboretum with classes and events for those of all ages. Fullerton Arboretum Osher Lifelong Learning Institute Career Exploration Online Online Programs Online programs are structured with lectures and assignments, and allow you to interact and communicate with students and instructors/professors online. Online Certificate Programs Online Degree Completion Programs Online Programs for Educators International International Programs International students may study for one semester or complete an entire bachelor's or master's degree at CSUF. Visit International Programs International Admissions University Semester Abroad International Students & ScholarsStudy Abroad & Global Engagement Search this site or CSUF general sites SiteCSUF Site Menu searchSearch this site CSUF Master's Degree Programs Counseling MBA Social Work Software Engineering Extension and International Programs +Professional Development Certificate Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Educator Courses and Programs Community & Corporate Engagement Leadership for Public Agencies Short-Term Courses & Events +Degrees Online Degree Completion Programs Master’s Programs Pre-Health Program Test Preparation Courses +University Courses Open University Summer Session Winter Session +Lifelong Learning Fullerton Arboretum Osher Lifelong Learning Institute Career Exploration +Online Online Certificate Programs Online Degree Completion Programs Online Programs for Educators +International International Admissions University Semester Abroad International Students & Scholars Study Abroad & Global Engagement There was a problem with the left navigation. Extension and International Programs Master's Degree Programs Counseling MBA Social Work Software Engineering Master’s Programs Extension and International Programs provides advanced degrees from Cal State Fullerton with flexible formats – such as evening classes or an accelerated schedule – that match the diverse needs of our students. Earn Your Master's Degree at CSUF Extension and International Programs (EIP) partners with the University’s academic departments and colleges to create master’s programs with more flexibility. This includes classes scheduled in the evening or an accelerated schedule. The curriculum, faculty and academic advisement for all of these programs are managed by the CSUF academic department—and you will earn a Master's degree from Cal State Fullerton. Below is the current list of Master’s degrees we offer. Click on the program name for more information, including cost, program dates and application details. Choose a CSUF Degree to Advance Your Career Program Name Units Time Commitment Location Description Accelerated MS in Software Engineering (AMSE) 30 units 1 ½ years (full-time) Fullerton Campus The accelerated program prepares you for a career as a software engineer or manager in the industry or government agency; or for advanced study as a researcher. Fully Employed MBA (FEMBA) 42 units 3 years (part-time) Fullerton Campus The program allows you to continue working full-time while pursuing your MBA to further your leadership skills and gain the tools you need to be a strong competitor in today’s marketplace. Master of Social Work Flex (MSW Flex) 60 units 3 years (part-time) Fullerton Campus The CSWE accredited program prepares you to take on leadership roles in public social service organizations. It offers conveniently scheduled evening classes and fieldwork experiences. MS in Counseling 63 units 3 years plus 1 term (part-time) Fullerton Campus The cohort program prepares you to work in a variety of environments, like schools or mental health agencies, and also qualifies you to pursue LMFT and LPCC licensure. Can't decide between MSW Flex and MS in Counseling program? View our comparison fact sheet to help you make an informed decision. All graduate programs are managed by a CSUF academic department, but administered by Extension and International Programs. This means programs are self-support (not funded by state tax revenue) and tuition reflects a slightly higher rate than similar programs. Stay in touch To receive program and application updates, join the email list for the degree program you are interested in. If you submit a question with your email sign-up, a staff member will get back to you as soon as possible. Online Form - Online Form - Master Stay in touch To receive program and application updates, join the email list for the degree program you are interested in. If you submit a question with your email sign-up, a staff member will get back to you as soon as possible. This site is maintained by Extension and International Programs. Mailing Address: 800 N. State College Blvd., #THall 1403, Fullerton, CA 92831 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact eipcommunications@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. ©