Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Programs About Us About Us Our Leadership Program Areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our History Get Involved Donate News Career opportunities OSU Extension Service Internship Program Extension Community Advisory Network ECAN Members Program Areas Share Print OSU Extension’s educational programming and activities center around seven major focus areas. Within each area, our network of diverse educators and researchers provide practical, research-based information, engage learners, and collaborate with partners and volunteers in communities across Oregon to support and sustain healthier individuals and families, thriving ecosystems, and growing economies. 4-H Youth Development Program Leader: Cathy Haas 4-H provides young people with intentional, high quality learning experiences that promote positive interactions with adults and peers, sustained and active participation across time, and opportunities to make meaningful contributions to the world around them. 4-H is the largest out-of-school youth program in the United States. There are more than 6 million 4-H members nationwide, and thousands of young people participate in Oregon 4-H each year. Because 4-H uses an active, learn-by-doing approach, young people see how their actions make a difference in the lives of others and the world around them. Agriculture and Natural Resources Program Leader: Sam Angima Agriculture and Natural Resources Extension helps grow Oregon’s economy, keep family farms vibrant, strengthen ecosystems, and support safe and sustainable food and water systems. Our programs and expertise include Small Farms Program, Master Gardener, agricultural technology, crops, environmental quality, food processing, livestock, pollinator health, wildlife, and more. Family and Community Health Interim Program Leader: Allison Myers Extension Family and Community Health partners with families and communities to enhance health and wellness. We promote statewide and local changes that impact school lunchrooms and physical activity policies, child and elder care issues, and community vitality. We provide science-based programs at every stage of life. Our health-enhancing programs include physical activity, nutrition, parenting education, and food preservation and safety. Forestry and Natural Resources Program Leader: Holly Ober Forestry and Natural Resources Extension brings scientific knowledge and expertise to our communities, ensuring our forests are resilient and continue to provide the wide array of benefits that Oregonians treasure—now and always. Our programs and expertise include Tree Schools, Citizen Fire Academy, Master Woodland Manager, Master Naturalist, Women Owning Woodlands, Ties to the Land, forest health, forest management, logging and selling timber, non-timber forest products, and more. OSU Open Campus Program Leader: Jeff Sherman OSU Open Campus, a community-based education partnership convened by Oregon State University, provides local access to learning in order to address the unique educational needs of Oregon’s communities. Through a statewide network of Open Campus education coordinators, working in partnership with community colleges, regional economic development groups, the K-12 education systems, business community and local government, the university is delivering education to underserved and place-bound Oregonians. Our focus areas include college and career readiness, degree completion, economic and community development, and the Juntos program. Outdoor School Director: Kris Elliott Outdoor School is a transformative, immersive experience that instills environmental literacy and positive learning behaviors in students. It also encourages a belief that Oregon is a special place, with ecosystems they can enjoy and protect. The OSU Extension Service is a trusted partner with the state and with local school districts for administering Outdoor School. As entrusted by voters, directed by Oregon law, and with input from an advisory committee, we provide fiscal, programmatic, and administrative responsibility for the program, which currently serves Oregon 5th and 6th grade students. We work in collaboration with school districts, partners, and communities to support and grow the statewide Outdoor School program, building on a legacy that began in 1966. Sea Grant Program Leader: Dave Hansen Oregon Sea Grant serves the state, region and nation through an integrated program of research, outreach, and education that helps people understand, rationally use and conserve marine and coastal resources. Based at Oregon State University and working with scientists, scholars and communities statewide, we're part of the national network of NOAA Sea Grant College Programs. Outreach and public engagement are integrated into everything Sea Grant does. They are the tools we use to ensure that our work is not only relevant to society, but directly connected with it. Our programs and expertise include earthquake and tsunami preparedness, sustainable fisheries, seafood product innovation, aquatic invasive species, environmental literacy, and more. Was this page helpful? YesNo Send feedback Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility