Skip to content Coronavirus Updates: See latest COVID-19 news from Harvard Extension School. COVID-19 Updates Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Academics Take a Course Graduate Degrees Graduate Certificates Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Academic Gap Year Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students Apply to Premedical Program Academic Calendar Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Blog Events Press and Announcements Contact Us MyDCE Login Request Information Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Request Information Academics Take a Course Graduate Certificates Graduate Degrees Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Browse Courses Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students International Students Academic Calendar Forms Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Harvard Extension School Blog Contact Us Events Press and Announcements Media and Photo Information For Enrolled Students Support and Services Student Policies and Conduct Harvard Extension Alumni Association Website Archives Privacy Statement Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Academics Psychology Graduate Program Request Information Earn Your Way In Excel in 3 Degree Courses to Qualify for Admission Format Online for 2021–2022 Average Course Tuition $2,980 Examine the science of psychology and gain an understanding of human behavior. Explore core theories and the latest research, gaining insights into how human beings think, feel, behave, and navigate their social world. What You'll Learn Student Snapshot Getting Started: Admissions and Degree Requirements Student Story Cost and Financial Aid Request Information What You'll Learn Through the degree in the field of psychology you will: Be exposed to a range of topics in the fields of psychology, cognitive science, and human development. Develop greater understanding of how environmental and biological factors interact in determining cognitive, emotional, and psychological functioning across the lifespan. Have the opportunity to conduct empirical research (thesis track) or apply research to practice (capstone track). Learn ethical standards that ensure human subjects are protected in every aspect of the study of human behavior. Your Harvard Degree Master of Liberal Arts (ALM) in Extension Studies, field: Psychology. Our graduates work in the fields of mental health, research, health care, human resources, and education (secondary and higher education). 35 Average Age 1-2 Courses Taken Each Semester 57% Work Full Time 96% Would Recommend the Program 13 Years Professional Experience Most Pursued For Career Change Getting Started: Admissions and Degree Requirements At Harvard Extension School, your admission is based largely on your performance in three specific Harvard Extension courses that you complete before submitting an application. To get started, we invite you to explore degree requirements, confirm your initial eligibility, and learn more about our unique “earn your way in” admissions process. Get Started I am so grateful for the flexibility Harvard gave me to study and work at the same time. It helped me to inform my work with evidence and to create physical spaces and therapy approaches that are usable for other therapists, in order to help more children globally. Read Rawan Alhawamdeh's Story Cost and Financial Aid Affordability is core to our mission. When compared to our continuing education peers, it’s a fraction of the cost. Our Tuition (2021–22 rate) $2,980 per 4-credit course ($745 per credit) Average Tuition of Peer Institutions $5,476 per course Average Total Cost $35,760 After admission, you may qualify for financial aid. Typically, eligible students receive grant funds to cover a portion of tuition costs each term, in addition to federal financial aid options. Paying For School Stackable Certificate Choose degree electives relevant to a certificate topic, and earn a second graduate credential. Topics in Human Behavior Graduate Certificate Psychology Graduate Program Request Information Explore Courses Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! Harvard Extension is delighted to celebrate our students’ tremendous commitment and hard work. Read more about our students' journey to this big day! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Archives Follow Harvard Extension School Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Harvard Division of Continuing Education A division of Harvard University dedicated to bringing rigorous programs and innovative online teaching capabilities to distance learners, working professionals, high school students, college students, and those seeking higher learning in retirement. Harvard Extension School Harvard degrees, certificates and courses—online, in the evenings, and at your own pace. Harvard Summer School Academic summer opportunities for adult, college and high school students—at Harvard and abroad. Harvard Professional Development Short, intensive programs to develop skills and strengthen your professional profile. Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement Peer learning in the liberal arts—a community program for retired and semi-retired professionals. Harvard Division of Continuing Education Privacy Statement Accessibility Rights & Regulations Digital Accessibility Policy Harvard.edu Cookie Settings Copyright ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College