Skip to content Coronavirus Updates: See latest COVID-19 news from Harvard Extension School. COVID-19 Updates Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Academics Take a Course Graduate Degrees Graduate Certificates Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Academic Gap Year Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students Apply to Premedical Program Academic Calendar Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Blog Events Press and Announcements Contact Us MyDCE Login Request Information Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Request Information Academics Take a Course Graduate Certificates Graduate Degrees Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Browse Courses Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students International Students Academic Calendar Forms Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Harvard Extension School Blog Contact Us Events Press and Announcements Media and Photo Information For Enrolled Students Support and Services Student Policies and Conduct Harvard Extension Alumni Association Website Archives Privacy Statement Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Kevin Lamar Simmons Harvard Extension School has made my dream come true. Place of Residence Germantown, MD Program Bachelor of Liberal Arts (ALB), Master of Liberal Arts (ALM) in the field of Management, '22; Graduate Certificate in Strategic Management and Organizational Behavior Professional Field Government IT (Information Technology) Acquisitions Share Why did you decide to earn a degree at Harvard Extension? A work colleague suggested that I complete my college degree at Harvard. She earned her PhD from Harvard and stated that I would be a fantastic candidate for HES (Harvard Extension School). At the time, I knew little about Harvard Extension and doubted that I would be accepted or finish a program at Harvard University. Moreover, I could not quit my full-time job and move to Cambridge, MA, as I was living in the Washington DC area. Like many students who take decades to complete a college degree, I attended various schools, specifically online institutions, later in my academic career. I enjoy online schools more than traditional brick and mortar schools because attending classes online gives me the flexibility to study anywhere. This colleague also informed me that HES was 85 – 90% online, and the in-person classes were flexible and specifically designed for working students. For years, she pushed me to try HES but I doubted that I would be accepted into the program. Finally, after obtaining a federal government position, I decided to complete my degree to improve my professional development. HES was always in the back of my mind, so I went to the website and researched the requirements. To my surprise, I met all the criteria, and so I applied. That was five years ago, and now I am a Harvard Extension School, and Harvard University, graduate. What was the most challenging aspect of your time at Extension? What was the most rewarding? The most challenging aspect of my time at Extension was balancing studying and completing my coursework with my personal and professional life. Before attending HES, I took my leisure time for granted. After taking my first class, I realized I had to plan every aspect of my life to keep up with the coursework and studying. I have postponed attending birthday parties, events with family and friends, and family vacations for the last four years. Furthermore, I work in a high-intensity environment which was also challenging in conjunction with my assignments. Some days, I felt like quitting, but I persevered to complete my ALB and ALM with prayer, determination, and support from my family, friends, and trusted colleagues. The most rewarding aspects of Harvard Extension are completing not just one degree but two and realizing that I will be walking across the stage as a Harvard University graduate receiving my degrees. Many who desire to obtain a college degree can only dream of walking across the stage as a Harvard graduate. As a graduate, Harvard Extension School has made my dream come true. Explore our Management Graduate Degree Program. In which ways did you connect with the Harvard community? I connected to the Harvard community through my Cohort III (three) brothers and sisters; Cohort III was the last joint ALB and ALM program at Harvard Extension School. This program was designed to group HES students to support one another with their four-year ALB and ALM journeys. We spent one summer together (before the pandemic) and were there for one another when studying, classes, and life got rough. As we networked with academic advisors, other students, and student council members, we shared study strategies and info about campus politics and educational policy changes. When some of us attended the same classes, we partnered together and shared our collective experiences with other students. We became close friends, but we all also became an immediate family. Do you have any advice for new students? The advice that I would give to new students is, don’t quit. The late nights and entire weekends dedicated to studying will all pay off. Additionally, connecting with study groups for motivation and moral support is vital. New students should also remember that on occasion, you will fail—be it a paper, exam, or an entire class, you will fail. Learn from your failures, persevere, try again, and don’t ever quit or give up! Describe your Extension School experience in one word. Honored *This interview has been edited for length and clarity. Start earning your graduate degree at Harvard Extension today. May 11, 2022 Share Read Next Laurie L. Dove Along the way, it became clear that the challenge was actually the most rewarding part of earning this degree. Harvard Extension School offers an ideal model for lifelong learning, and earning a graduate degree from HES will rank amongst the best moments of my life. Share Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Close Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! Harvard Extension is delighted to celebrate our students’ tremendous commitment and hard work. Read more about our students' journey to this big day! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Archives Follow Harvard Extension School Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Harvard Division of Continuing Education A division of Harvard University dedicated to bringing rigorous programs and innovative online teaching capabilities to distance learners, working professionals, high school students, college students, and those seeking higher learning in retirement. Harvard Extension School Harvard degrees, certificates and courses—online, in the evenings, and at your own pace. Harvard Summer School Academic summer opportunities for adult, college and high school students—at Harvard and abroad. Harvard Professional Development Short, intensive programs to develop skills and strengthen your professional profile. Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement Peer learning in the liberal arts—a community program for retired and semi-retired professionals. Harvard Division of Continuing Education Privacy Statement Accessibility Rights & Regulations Digital Accessibility Policy Harvard.edu Cookie Settings Copyright ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College