Skip to content Coronavirus Updates: See latest COVID-19 news from Harvard Extension School. COVID-19 Updates Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Academics Take a Course Graduate Degrees Graduate Certificates Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Academic Gap Year Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students Apply to Premedical Program Academic Calendar Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Blog Events Press and Announcements Contact Us MyDCE Login Request Information Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Request Information Academics Take a Course Graduate Certificates Graduate Degrees Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Browse Courses Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students International Students Academic Calendar Forms Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Harvard Extension School Blog Contact Us Events Press and Announcements Media and Photo Information For Enrolled Students Support and Services Student Policies and Conduct Harvard Extension Alumni Association Website Archives Privacy Statement Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Kim Horsnell If you ever have the chance to enroll in an on-campus course: Do so! Go spend time with fellow students and have fun. Place of Residence The Netherlands Program Master of Liberal Arts (ALM) in the field of Psychology, '22 Professional Field Transgender Healthcare Share Why did you decide to earn a degree at Harvard Extension? We moved to Boston for a couple of years and I wanted to do something fun. I decided to enroll for a semester of Introduction to Psychology. We moved back home before I finished my masters, so I was delighted I could continue online. How has/will your HES experience help you in your career or personal development? I totally changed careers; I went from working as a pediatric intensivist to counseling transgender children and adolescents. When we moved back home, I decided to open a practice for children and adolescents with gender identity quests. The practice just boomed; we now work with a team of nine counselors. What was the most challenging aspect of your time at Extension? What was the most rewarding? Getting my thesis done in time while I was running the practice full-time was the most challenging aspect of my time at HES, and obviously, finishing my thesis was the most rewarding because of it. But also meeting so many interesting people, fellow students, advisors, and lectures. How did you manage to balance your studies with work and family responsibilities? I had to schedule time in our family plan; there were weekends when I couldn’t be available for family life because I had exams coming up or I had to write my thesis. Do you have a favorite class or faculty member? Why? My favorite class was Psychological Resilience with Dr. Shelley Carson. It taught me to look at problems as challenges and learn from what goes well instead of what goes wrong. This is the class where I started to rethink my career and wonder if I should do something different. Explore our Psychology Degree Program. In which ways did you connect with the Harvard community? I became friends with a couple of other students from my semesters. Sometimes we would study together and go out for beers after lectures. We are still in touch! What types of student resources and special options did you take advantage of as a student at Harvard? How did they help? Mainly the Harvard online library. I needed the online search tools for research for both papers and my thesis. Do you have any advice for new students? If you ever have the chance to enroll in an on-campus course: Do so! Go spend time with fellow students and have fun. Describe your Extension School experience in one word. Life-changing Discover your graduate program at Harvard Extension School today. May 11, 2022 Share Read Next Romina Ruiz The great news is that unlike other programs out there, Harvard is really developed for people like me who have very full adult lives and need these safeguards in place to complete a degree program. Share Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Close Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! Harvard Extension is delighted to celebrate our students’ tremendous commitment and hard work. Read more about our students' journey to this big day! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Archives Follow Harvard Extension School Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Harvard Division of Continuing Education A division of Harvard University dedicated to bringing rigorous programs and innovative online teaching capabilities to distance learners, working professionals, high school students, college students, and those seeking higher learning in retirement. Harvard Extension School Harvard degrees, certificates and courses—online, in the evenings, and at your own pace. Harvard Summer School Academic summer opportunities for adult, college and high school students—at Harvard and abroad. Harvard Professional Development Short, intensive programs to develop skills and strengthen your professional profile. Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement Peer learning in the liberal arts—a community program for retired and semi-retired professionals. Harvard Division of Continuing Education Privacy Statement Accessibility Rights & Regulations Digital Accessibility Policy Harvard.edu Cookie Settings Copyright ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College