Skip to content Coronavirus Updates: See latest COVID-19 news from Harvard Extension School. COVID-19 Updates Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Academics Take a Course Graduate Degrees Graduate Certificates Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Academic Gap Year Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students Apply to Premedical Program Academic Calendar Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Blog Events Press and Announcements Contact Us MyDCE Login Request Information Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Request Information Academics Take a Course Graduate Certificates Graduate Degrees Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Browse Courses Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students International Students Academic Calendar Forms Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Harvard Extension School Blog Contact Us Events Press and Announcements Media and Photo Information For Enrolled Students Support and Services Student Policies and Conduct Harvard Extension Alumni Association Website Archives Privacy Statement Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn David Enciso Completing a degree at HES has raised the bar for my ability to take on new challenges. The education and experience received at HES has allowed me to see the big picture. Place of Residence Clifton, New Jersey Program Master of Liberal Arts (ALM) in the field of Finance, '22; Graduate Certificate in Real Estate Investment Professional Field Aerospace & Defense Industry Share Why did you decide to earn a degree at Harvard Extension? I chose a master’s in finance degree at Harvard Extension School because I wanted to build a strong financial acumen on top of my technical training. The biggest deciding factor was the flexibility to choose classes, in alignment to my areas of personal interest (financial markets and real estate investing), with world-class leaders in their industries. How has/will your HES experience help you in your career or personal development? Completing a degree at HES has raised the bar for my ability to take on new challenges. The education and experience received at HES has allowed me to see the big picture, widening my opportunity options in three different industries: finance, real estate and aerospace. What was the most challenging aspect of your time at Extension? What was the most rewarding? The most challenging part has been completing the degree while working full time, which is especially true during semesters while taking two courses. You quickly learn to become more efficient in your studying habits. The most rewarding part of my experience has been putting the teachings of world-renowned professors into practice and achieving the second place award for the 2021 Global Investment Contest. Explore our Finance Degree Program. Do you have a favorite class or faculty member? Why? Everyone at HES is top class, but two professors really stood out to me. Teo Nicolais has developed the best online teaching experience I have ever taken at Harvard or anywhere else. His passion for real estate truly transpires through his teaching. But his classes left a strong impression on me because I learned that through real estate, I can make a direct positive social impact on the communities I live in. Dr. Peter Marber is another professor that stood out to me. Not only is he a great teacher but professionally, he is one of the early pioneers in the emerging market space. Being born in an emerging country myself, his courses opened my eyes to look for opportunities within international markets. Do you have any advice for new students? The pursuit (or not) of an educational degree is one of life’s big decisions. I believe that the degrees offered at HES can create opportunities for career advancement in your current industry, allow you to pivot into a new one or even prepare you for the entrepreneurship path. My advice for new students is to be confident in your decisions because you can achieve them. Describe your Extension School experience in one word. Meaningful Discover your graduate program at Harvard Extension School today. May 11, 2022 Share Read Next Kim Horsnell If you ever have the chance to enroll in an on-campus course: Do so! Go spend time with fellow students and have fun. Share Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Close Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! Harvard Extension is delighted to celebrate our students’ tremendous commitment and hard work. Read more about our students' journey to this big day! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Archives Follow Harvard Extension School Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Harvard Division of Continuing Education A division of Harvard University dedicated to bringing rigorous programs and innovative online teaching capabilities to distance learners, working professionals, high school students, college students, and those seeking higher learning in retirement. Harvard Extension School Harvard degrees, certificates and courses—online, in the evenings, and at your own pace. Harvard Summer School Academic summer opportunities for adult, college and high school students—at Harvard and abroad. Harvard Professional Development Short, intensive programs to develop skills and strengthen your professional profile. Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement Peer learning in the liberal arts—a community program for retired and semi-retired professionals. Harvard Division of Continuing Education Privacy Statement Accessibility Rights & Regulations Digital Accessibility Policy Harvard.edu Cookie Settings Copyright ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College