Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Youth, Families and Health Physical Activity Photo: USDA AMS (Cropped from original) Physical Activity Home Browse Resources Get Involved Events Our Work Our Experts In Your Community Share Description: Our Family and Community Health Program has a robust set of resources and programs for active living. These tools help individuals, families, organizations, and communities adopt, implement, and sustain a physically active lifestyle. We also provide expertise and tools to assess programs’ effectiveness and to understand the quality of physical activity environments. Statewide Programs BEPA 2.0 BEPA 2.0 is a classroom-based physical activity program aligned to health and physical education standards. BEPA 2.0 can be used before, during, or after school, both inside and outside of the classroom, to increase children’s physical activity time at school. Program Photo by Karl Maasdam (Cropped from original) Better Bones and Balance® Better Bones and Balance® is an exercise program designed to gradually improve balance and strength to avoid falls and maintain independence. Program StrongPeople™ StrongPeople™ is a nationally recognized, evidence-based community exercise program designed to increase the number of mid-life and older women participating in safe and effective strength training. Program Photo by iStock (Cropped from original) Walk With Ease Walk With Ease (WWE) is an exercise program that can reduce pain and improve overall health. If you can be on your feet for 10 minutes without increased pain, you can have success with Walk With Ease! Program SNAP-Ed The Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program Education (SNAP-Ed) program teaches people how to make their food dollars stretch further and how to be physically active. OSU Extension faculty and staff deliver health education in all 36 Oregon Counties. Visit the website Food Hero Food Hero strives to help low-income Oregonians improve their health via improving fruit and vegetable consumption. In addition to improving nutrition, Food Hero offers resources for increasing physical activity at home and at school. Available in English and Spanish. Visit the website Physical Activity and COVID-19 Finding ways to stay physically active during the global COVID-19 pandemic can be challenging. The following fact sheets provide ideas and resources to get you moving while at home. Physical Activity for Mental Health, Moving in-the-midst of COVID-19 Physical activity can immediately reduce symptoms of anxiety. This fact sheet provides simple ways to fit physical activity into your daily at-home routine! May 2020 | Fact Sheet Physical Activity for Immune Function, Moving in-the-midst of COVID-19 Physical activity can reduce your risk of infections. This fact sheet provides simple ways to fit physical activity into your daily at-home routine! May 2020 | Fact Sheet Physical Activity to Reduce Fall Risk, Moving in-the-midst of COVID-19 Strength and balance activities can reduce the risk of falls. This fact sheet provides resources for older adults to get active while at home! May 2020 | Fact Sheet View More Factsheets StrongWomen™ & StrongPeople™ Keeping older women strong reduces the risk of fractures from falls and helps older adults maintain their independence. Extension Family and Community Health faculty train local volunteer leaders who guide their StrongWomen™ groups two to three times per week. StrongWomen™/StrongPeople™, one of the many diverse programs offered by OSU Extension Service, is a national evidence-based community exercise program for older women to improve muscle strength and balance. Extension Family and Community Health have over 20 programs working in 16 communities reaching over 400 Oregonians. Watch now Photo by Oregon State University (Cropped from original) Videos Photo by Spruce & Smoke Studios (Cropped from original) BEPA 2.0 Inclusion Webinar Watch this video to learn how to promote inclusion and adapt activities to fit the unique needs of all children in the classroom. Jun 2020 | Video Related Tools SPAN-ET The School Physical Activity and Nutrition Environment Tool (SPAN-ET) was developed to assess school resources and readiness to improve nutrition and physical activity environments, suggest appropriate improvement strategies, and score impacts resulting from environmentally-based treatments. Project HEAL MAPPS™ HEAL MAPPS™ helps community stakeholders document people’s experience of place with respect to supports and barriers for habitual healthy eating and physical activity. Project R-CFPA We engage people in the communities we serve in assessing the conditions that most affect them where they live, work, learn, and play. We do this to learn what will work best to improve weight healthy behaviors for children and families, and food and physical activity resources in the community. Project Latest Resources Credit Stephen Ward (Cropped from original) Virtual Walk With Ease class increases accessibility to disabled adults Because of this class, all virtual Walk With Ease classes are now more accessible, and the images represent a broader spectrum of physical abilities, as well as ages and race and ethnicities. Allison Harris | Apr 2021 | Impact story Credit Stephen Fitzgerald (Cropped from original) OSU Get Outdoors Day connects families to the natural world The event connects youth to the outdoors and support the ideals of sustainability, fitness and nutrition while strengthening the ties between Extension and communities in the mid-Willamette valley. Stephen Fitzgerald | Mar 2021 | Impact story Credit Sam Doak (Cropped from original) StrongWomen participants and volunteers gain a resource in new website The website provides participants with everything they need to know about the program, including exercise videos that allow them to follow along at home. Chris Branam | Feb 24, 2021 | News story Browse All Resources Explore more resources Health Outreach Nutrition and Healthy Eating Healthy Aging Upcoming Events Jun 18 The Longest Day Coastal Memory Walk 9:00 am - 11:00 am Bandon, OR See All Events Meet Our Experts Kathy Gunter Professor and Extension Specialist Physical Activity and Active Living Program Director Allison Harris Nutrition Program Coordinator Walk With Ease Lauren Kraemer Associate Professor, Family and Community Health Contact me with all your health and wellness questions in the Columbia River Gorge. See All Physical Activity Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility