Skip to content Coronavirus Updates: See latest COVID-19 news from Harvard Extension School. COVID-19 Updates Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Academics Take a Course Graduate Degrees Graduate Certificates Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Academic Gap Year Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students Apply to Premedical Program Academic Calendar Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Blog Events Press and Announcements Contact Us MyDCE Login Request Information Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Request Information Academics Take a Course Graduate Certificates Graduate Degrees Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Browse Courses Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students International Students Academic Calendar Forms Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Harvard Extension School Blog Contact Us Events Press and Announcements Media and Photo Information For Enrolled Students Support and Services Student Policies and Conduct Harvard Extension Alumni Association Website Archives Privacy Statement Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Media and Photo Information For press and media requests, the Harvard Extension School can provide information on the school and connect journalists with experts on a variety of subjects related to continuing higher education. Please see the Division of Continuing Education media request information. About Harvard Extension School The following links can provide more information about the Harvard Extension mission, curriculum, faculty, and history. Turning a Chipper 100: Convocation Launches Harvard Extension Centennial A Century of Everyday Learning Degrees and Credentials Offered Extension School Blog The Harvard Extension School Blog houses recent articles, students profiles, videos, and events. You can explore stories through our various channels or tags, and even subscribe to channels via RSS. News Archive 2010-11 news 2009-10 news Media coverage and videos from our centennial year (2009-10) 2008-09 news 2007-08 news Student Stories Learn about the Harvard Extension experience from people who have lived it. Meet our students. External Media, Filming, and Photography Policies Harvard University has strict policies about filming and taking photographs on campus. The following guidelines have been established to protect the privacy of all members of the Harvard community and to promote an environment conducive to learning. We appreciate your cooperation. Reporters, photographers, video/motion picture cameras, and media recording equipment are not permitted inside Faculty of Arts and Sciences (FAS) and Harvard Extension School buildings, including classrooms, laboratories, office buildings, or other facilities unless assigned by the director of PR/media relations. Only exteriors of buildings may be photographed or filmed with approval in advance. To request a permission form, call (617) 998-8530. This permission form must be completed in advance of shooting, and the photographers or film crew must carry the form with them during the shoot. Please secure the permission, in advance, of any students who will be photographed or filmed in wide shots of the Yard or elsewhere. Special events, conferences, seminars, speeches, etc. may be recorded or filmed by the Harvard Extension School sponsoring organization, for archival purposes and news posts. Such recording may not be sold or distributed to other internal or external organizations. Filming and reporting of Harvard Extension School sponsored events inside Harvard buildings may be permitted at the discretion of the director of PR and media relations, in advance. Photo Requests Harvard Extension School maintains an electronic database of thousands of photos suitable for media use. You cannot republish our photographs without specific permission. For photo permissions, please email photo_services@harvard.edu. All photos are copyrighted and must be properly credited and used for the stated purpose only. Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! Harvard Extension is delighted to celebrate our students’ tremendous commitment and hard work. Read more about our students' journey to this big day! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Archives Follow Harvard Extension School Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Harvard Division of Continuing Education A division of Harvard University dedicated to bringing rigorous programs and innovative online teaching capabilities to distance learners, working professionals, high school students, college students, and those seeking higher learning in retirement. Harvard Extension School Harvard degrees, certificates and courses—online, in the evenings, and at your own pace. Harvard Summer School Academic summer opportunities for adult, college and high school students—at Harvard and abroad. Harvard Professional Development Short, intensive programs to develop skills and strengthen your professional profile. Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement Peer learning in the liberal arts—a community program for retired and semi-retired professionals. Harvard Division of Continuing Education Privacy Statement Accessibility Rights & Regulations Digital Accessibility Policy Harvard.edu Cookie Settings Copyright ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College