CSUF is closed for Winter Recess, December 24 - January 2. We will re-open to serve you on January 3. 2022. Website and online services unavailable on May 29. See IT Disaster Recovery website ► For International Students FAQs, click here ›COVID-19 Vaccine Requirement for Students and Instructors ► Professional Development Professional Development Certificate programs provide working professionals with evening and weekend courses, as well as networking opportunities to advance their careers or enter new fields. Certificate Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Educator Courses and Programs Community & Corporate Engagement Leadership for Public AgenciesShort-Term Courses & Events Degrees Degrees EIP partners with CSUF colleges and departments to offer bachelor’s and master’s degrees, as well as preparation programs for those looking to apply to professional health-care, law and business schools. Online Degree Completion Programs Master’s Programs Pre-Health Program Test Preparation Courses University Courses University Courses EIP expands access to University classes through Open University, Summer Session and Winter Session. Open University registration is open to the general public; Summer and Winter Sessions help Cal State Fullerton students graduate on-time or early. Open University Summer Session Winter Session Lifelong Learning Lifelong Learning Our lifelong learning opportunities range from programs for children to retirees, and include an on-campus arboretum with classes and events for those of all ages. Fullerton Arboretum Osher Lifelong Learning Institute Career Exploration Online Online Programs Online programs are structured with lectures and assignments, and allow you to interact and communicate with students and instructors/professors online. Online Certificate Programs Online Degree Completion Programs Online Programs for Educators International International Programs International students may study for one semester or complete an entire bachelor's or master's degree at CSUF. Visit International Programs International Admissions University Semester Abroad International Students & ScholarsStudy Abroad & Global Engagement Search this site or CSUF general sites SiteCSUF Site Menu searchSearch this site CSUF Study Abroad & Global Engagement +Programs How to Search Summer Session Winter Session +Considerations Academics Costs Scholarships +Resources Diversity Virtual Resource Centers Black Global Titans Global Titans Men Global Titan Pride Visa Health & Safety Financial Aid FAQ Parent & Guardian Testimonials +About Contact Donate Advising +Faculty & Staff Global Engagement Suite Global Engagement Toolkit Fulbright International Partnerships Visiting Scholars/Exchange Visitors Search Programs Extension and International Programs +Professional Development Certificate Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Educator Courses and Programs Community & Corporate Engagement Leadership for Public Agencies Short-Term Courses & Events +Degrees Online Degree Completion Programs Master’s Programs Pre-Health Program Test Preparation Courses +University Courses Open University Summer Session Winter Session +Lifelong Learning Fullerton Arboretum Osher Lifelong Learning Institute Career Exploration +Online Online Certificate Programs Online Degree Completion Programs Online Programs for Educators +International International Admissions University Semester Abroad International Students & Scholars Study Abroad & Global Engagement There was a problem with the left navigation. Extension and International Programs Study Abroad & Global Engagement Programs How to Search Summer Session Winter Session Considerations Academics Costs Scholarships Resources Diversity Virtual Resource Centers Black Global Titans Global Titans Men Global Titan Pride Visa Health & Safety Financial Aid FAQ Parent & Guardian Testimonials About Contact Donate Advising Faculty & Staff Global Engagement Suite Global Engagement Toolkit Fulbright International Partnerships Visiting Scholars/Exchange Visitors Search Programs Expand Your World The Study Abroad & Global Engagement (SAGE) Office strives to connect its diverse community of students, faculty and staff with global opportunities that enrich their academic and professional lives and drive personal development and transformation. Search Programs Login Start your SAGE Journey Study Abroad | Study Away (U.S. Territories) | Internships | Volunteer | Post-Grad | Virtual and more Step 1: Attend an Info Session Step 2: Meet with a SAGE advisor Step 3: Search SAGE programs Step 4: Apply via SAGE program National Study Abroad Day 2022 Black Global Titans Global Titans Men Global Titan Pride We will celebrate the 3rd annual National Study Abroad Day by featuring our growing Diversity Virtual Resource Centers (DVRCs) series. SAGE acknowledges, respects, and welcomes the richness, diversity, and complexity of our campus community and the intersecting identities of its members. We endeavor toward inclusion of all students, faculty and staff in the myriad global education opportunites CSUF has to offer. With these guiding principles, we offer the DVRCs as a resource that will affirm, inspire, support, educate, and empower Titans to begin their own global education journeys. Information Sessions The Study Abroad Office offers regular information sessions to all CSUF students looking to find the ideal program that fits their interests, budget and academic goals. Visit our Information Session page to learn more and reserve a spot for an upcoming session. Upcoming Sessions Calendar of Events Want to know what's going on at Global Titan Center? Come check out our calendar listing on the CSUF website. See What's Coming Up View Past Events × International Education Week, 2021 It Takes a Global Titan Revisit a week's worth of FREE virtual events and activities highlighting the cultural diversity of our CSUF community and the high impact of global education and engagement. IEW 2021 Virtual Global Engagement Expo Fall 2021! This three-day expo placed a spotlight global opportunities including information about future study abroad programming, studying away within the United States, dozens of current virtual global programs, global internships, post-graduate opportunities, internationally focused activities at CSUF, and more! Session recordings from this and past expos available. Global Expo Fall 2021 Hear what our students have to say! Student Testimonials Important Considerations Academics Make sure your destination fits with your educational goals. Costs Programs are available for all kinds of budgets. Scholarships A variety of funding sources may be available. Advising No matter where you are in the Study Abroad process, our advisors are always here to help you create an ideal Study Abroad experience that will align with both your personal and academic goals. To schedule an appointment or learn more about walk-in advising, please visit our Contact page. Schedule Advising Study Abroad over Summer Earn credit, get closer to graduation and see the world during Summer Session 2020. With approximately two dozen programs offered, there are options for nearly every academic interest and budget. View Summer Programs This site is maintained by Extension and International Programs. Mailing Address: 800 N. State College Blvd., #THall 1403, Fullerton, CA 92831 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact eipcommunications@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. ©