Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Community Vitality Coronavirus (COVID-19) Photo: Lauren Bishop, CDC (Cropped from original) Coronavirus (COVID-19) Home Browse Resources Our Work Our Experts In Your Community Share Description: OSU Extension Service supports COVID-19 and vaccine community outreach OSU Extension continues to work closely with local partners to reduce the risk and spread of COVID-19 in Oregon communities. This includes sharing research-based information and resources related to COVID-19 vaccine distribution and ongoing public health measures. Image from CDC Vaccine eligibility and information All Oregonians 5 years old or older are eligible for a COVID-19 vaccine. Vaccines are free. No documentation needed for eligibility. Who is eligible for a COVID-19 vaccine booster shot? Todos los habitantes de Oregón mayores de 5 años serán elegibles para recibir la vacuna contra el COVID-19. Las vacunas serán gratuitas y sin costo para usted. No necesita ninguna documentación o identificación específica para demostrar su elegibilidad. Cómo encontrar una vacuna contra el COVID-19 en Oregon. ¿Quién es elegible para recibir la dosis de refuerzo de la vacuna contra el COVID-19? How to get a COVID-19 vaccine Health and Well-Being How to get effective protection from your mask When choosing a mask, look at how well it fits, how well it filters the air, and how many layers it has. The CDC provides these tips to consider about double masking and how to test if you have a snug fit. Jan 2022 | Online resource Credit: Immense Imagery (Cropped from original) Lavado de Manos de Alta Velocidad Video de entrenamiento para adultos en el lugar de trabajo (COVID-19) ¡Mantenga su lugar de trabajo seguro! Ahorre tiempo, agua, energía y evite la propagación de enfermedades. Lauren Kraemer, Ann Marie Murphy, Glenda Hyde, Emily Whittier, Robbie Denning | Jun 2021 | Video Peer reviewed (Gray level) Credit: Immense Imagery (Cropped from original) High Speed Hand Washing Adult Workplace Training Video (COVID-19) Keep your workplace safe! Save time, water, energy and prevent the spread of disease. Lauren Kraemer, Ann Marie Murphy, Glenda Hyde, Emily Whittier, Robbie Denning | Jun 2021 | Video Peer reviewed (Gray level) More resources for your health Strengthening immunization education Extension Collaboration on Immunization Teaching and Engagement (EXCITE) partnership focuses on adult vaccination hesitancy around both COVID-19 and other vaccines. It is a partnership with Extension and the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and Prevention. Get connected Photo by Laura Bishop (Cropped from original) In the News Foto: Chris Branam (Cropped from original) El servicio de Extensión de Oregon State University (OSU) comienza esfuerzos comunitarios para incrementar vacunación entre latinos Extensión de Oregon (OSU), a través de su Programa de Salud Familiar y Comunitaria en la Facultad de Salud Pública y Ciencias Humanas, recibió fondos para agilizar la divulgación local y establecer la confianza y aceptación de las vacunas en la población latina del estado. Chris Branam | Aug 19, 2021 | News story See all news Our impact Credit Karl Maasdam (Cropped from original) 'Healing Through Art' show provides outlet for Portland-area youth When Portland-area youth affected by the pandemic and a social justice movement taking place in their city needed an outlet to express themselves publicly through art, an Oregon State University team of educators and specialists planned and executed the inaugural OSU Virtual Art Show. Nov 2021 | Impact story See all impact stories COVID-19 updates Looking for places you can trust for coronavirus information? We have gathered some credible sources. The government agencies offer the option to sign up to receive the latest updates via email. For general information on COVID-19 in Oregon, call 211. Photo: USDA's Food and Nutrition Service (FNS), Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (Cropped from original) Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Find what to expect at your vaccine appointment, how to protect yourself against the coronavirus and traveling during the pandemic. Also learn what you need to know about symptoms and when to get tested, when to quarantine and when you can be near others. In multiple languages including ASL. Mar 2020 | Online resource Photo from USDA (Cropped from original) Oregon Health Authority Learn the latest on the local situation, risk levels and executive orders in Oregon related to COVID-19. OHA provides guidance about vaccinations. Ver el menú en español. Juntos podemos detener la propagación de COVID-19. Mar 2020 | Online resource Photo by Amanda Mills and from the CDC (Cropped from original) US Food and Drug Administration Ways to stay up to date on COVID-19 and vaccines and get answers to common questions and guidance on response efforts. Mar 2020 | Online resource Photo: OHA (Cropped from original) COVID-19 Vaccine in Oregon Find information from the Oregon Health Authority about COVID-19 vaccines in Oregon, including vaccine distribution, eligibility, safety and effectiveness, and FAQs. Jan 2021 | Online resource More credible resources Know the Facts Before considering vaccine information on the Internet, check that the information comes from a credible source and is updated on a regular basis. Find credible vaccine information. Rumors can easily circulate within communities during a crisis, FEMA has gathered information on what is rumor versus fact related to the coronavirus response. The World Health Organization lists its advice for the public to bust the myths circulating about COVID-19. Browse all resources Latest resources Photo: fasterinternetoregon.org (Cropped from original) Broadband Connectivity Outreach Extension collaborates to help communities learn how low-income households can pay for internet service and connected devices, test their internet speeds and partner to deploy broadband on tribal lands. Lucas Turpin | Project Credit Oregon State University (Cropped from original) OSU Extension supports Warm Springs COVID-19 vaccinations clinics In each of the vaccine clinics, Extension faculty and staff assisted in directing traffic and parking, the sign-in process, cleaning furniture and supplies, flow management and scheduling. Apr 2022 | Impact story Credit Cindy Brown (Cropped from original) Students enriched through OSU Extension Sherman County after-school program A total of 315 students had attended Extension Afterschool through January 2022. Apr 2022 | Impact story Browse resources Explore more resources Nutrition and Healthy Eating Family Emergency Preparedness Youth Education Resources Meet Our Experts Roberta Riportella Professor and Extension Specialist Contact me with questions about COVID safety protocols and outreach for Latino populations. See All Coronavirus (COVID-19) Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility