CSUF is closed for Winter Recess, December 24 - January 2. We will re-open to serve you on January 3. 2022. Website and online services unavailable on May 29. See IT Disaster Recovery website ► For International Students FAQs, click here ›COVID-19 Vaccine Requirement for Students and Instructors ► Professional Development Professional Development Certificate programs provide working professionals with evening and weekend courses, as well as networking opportunities to advance their careers or enter new fields. Certificate Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Educator Courses and Programs Community & Corporate Engagement Leadership for Public AgenciesShort-Term Courses & Events Degrees Degrees EIP partners with CSUF colleges and departments to offer bachelor’s and master’s degrees, as well as preparation programs for those looking to apply to professional health-care, law and business schools. Online Degree Completion Programs Master’s Programs Pre-Health Program Test Preparation Courses University Courses University Courses EIP expands access to University classes through Open University, Summer Session and Winter Session. Open University registration is open to the general public; Summer and Winter Sessions help Cal State Fullerton students graduate on-time or early. Open University Summer Session Winter Session Lifelong Learning Lifelong Learning Our lifelong learning opportunities range from programs for children to retirees, and include an on-campus arboretum with classes and events for those of all ages. Fullerton Arboretum Osher Lifelong Learning Institute Career Exploration Online Online Programs Online programs are structured with lectures and assignments, and allow you to interact and communicate with students and instructors/professors online. Online Certificate Programs Online Degree Completion Programs Online Programs for Educators International International Programs International students may study for one semester or complete an entire bachelor's or master's degree at CSUF. Visit International Programs International Admissions University Semester Abroad International Students & ScholarsStudy Abroad & Global Engagement Search this site or CSUF general sites SiteCSUF Site Menu searchSearch this site CSUF Extension and International Programs +About About Us Annual Report Community & Corporate Engagement Fullerton Campus International Programs Student Resources Teach for EIP FAQ Contact +Connect Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Donate Extension and International Programs +Professional Development Certificate Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Educator Courses and Programs Community & Corporate Engagement Leadership for Public Agencies Short-Term Courses & Events +Degrees Online Degree Completion Programs Master’s Programs Pre-Health Program Test Preparation Courses +University Courses Open University Summer Session Winter Session +Lifelong Learning Fullerton Arboretum Osher Lifelong Learning Institute Career Exploration +Online Online Certificate Programs Online Degree Completion Programs Online Programs for Educators +International International Admissions University Semester Abroad International Students & Scholars Study Abroad & Global Engagement There was a problem with the left navigation. Extension and International Programs Extension and International Programs About About Us Annual Report Community & Corporate Engagement Fullerton Campus International Programs Student Resources Teach for EIP FAQ Contact Connect Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Donate FAQ If you can’t find the answer to your question, please contact us and we will get back to you as soon as possible. Certificates What Is a Certificate Program? Certificate Programs are groups of classes designed to provide in-depth study in a particular subject area. These programs are subject to continuous review to ensure that they provide the knowledge and skills required to meet current industry needs. Most certificate classes can be taken individually or as part of a certificate program. Why Enroll In A Certificate Program? Certificate Programs are a tangible way to demonstrate acquisition of new skills for your current career, for career advancement, or to launch a whole new career. Certificate programs are also an excellent way to network with others and enhance your expertise in a selected field. How Are Certificate Programs Created? The curriculum for each certificate program is created through the efforts of university faculty, business people, industry leaders, and Extension and International Programs program developers. Each certificate program is continually evaluated by these academic and industry experts who contribute their experience and expertise as Advisory Board members. How Long Does It Take to Earn A Certificate? The length of certificate programs varies. Some programs are one-semester programs. Others are longer. For details and a completion schedule, please choose a specific certificate program. How Do I Receive My Certificate? All graduating students must submit a Study Plan/Request for Certificate in order to receive a certificate. Please submit the form after you have completed the last class of the program. Your certificate will be mailed to you in approximately 4-6 weeks. Can I Take Just One Class From A Certificate Program? Yes! Many classes can be taken individually or as part of a certificate program. You may want to take one class, and then decide to move forward to earn a certificate. The choice is yours! Can I receive an I-20 or a F-1 visa for attendance in certificate programs? We are not authorized to issue I-20s for part-time study. In general, non-credit certificate programs do not qualify as full-time study. If you are here on an I-20 and are a full-time student in a U.S. school, you can take classes in a certificate program, but it would be in addition to your full-time study. Class Credit What Are Continuing Education Units (CEUs)? The Continuing Education Unit (CEU) is a nationally recognized uniform unit of measurement to record individual participation in non-credit academic, professional development educational and training programs. It is based upon attendance in non-degree non-credit academic classes of continuing professional education programs sponsored by organizations following the guidelines established by the International Association for Continuing Education and Training (IACET). The hour equivalency for reporting education and training to professional and state licensing organizations is: ten (10) hours of instruction = 1.0 CEU or one (1) hour of instruction = 0.1 CEU. The primary purpose of the CEU is to provide a permanent record of the educational accomplishments of an individual who has completed significant non-credit educational and career enhancement experiences. The CEU is also used for licensed professionals such as nurses, engineers, fiduciaries, social workers, etc., who are required to submit proof of continuing education and professional development activity in order to maintain their license. For organizations to award CEUs, they must follow the criteria and guidelines set forth by the International Association for Continuing Education and Training (IACET), 1620 I Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20006 Are Credits Earned From Classes Transferrable to Another Institution? Some class credits may be transferable to another institution. To be certain, you should check with the institution where you wish to transfer the credits. Can I Get A Letter Grade in Classes That Are Credit/No Credit? California State University, Fullerton Extension and International Programs does not officially give letter grades for non-credit and Continuing Education Unit (CEU) classes. However, we do understand that some employers require a letter grade for reimbursement. To satisfy that requirement, Cal State Fullerton Extension and International Programs will provide you with a letter grade equivalent that will be emailed approximately two weeks after the course end date. To report a missing letter grade equivalent, please e-mail eipconnect@fullerton.edu. How Can I Get a Copy of My Transcript? Official Transcripts: Transcripts may be ordered one of two ways: Via the Internet 24/7 through the National Student Clearinghouse. By completing the Transcript Request Form and providing a personal check to cover the related fees either in person or by mail as instructed on the Form. For more information: http://www.fullerton.edu/admissions/CurrentStudent/Transcripts.asp Unofficial Transcripts: Unofficial transcripts are available through Titan Online via the Student Portal. The first time a student accesses the portal, they should login using their CWID and PIN. Once they login, they will create a personalized username and password that will be required each time they access the portal. Go to www.fullerton.edu Enter username and password (see instructions above) in the Portal Login section Click "Login" Select Titan Online In the Student Center section, click on the Student Center link (left menu) Under Academics, click "My Academics" Click "View Transcript" Note: All official transcripts are handled through A & R, including those for EIP Classes. Class Fees What Are Your Refund Policies, Payment Plans and Payment Options? Please refer to our Refund Policies, Payment Plans and Payment Options for details. Please Contact Us for more information, or call (657) 278-2611. How Do I Find Out How Much a Class Costs? Select a certificate program, select a course from the schedule and the dates and times will be shown. Click "Learn More" to get more details, including the cost. If dates and times are not listed for the course you selected, the course is not being offered in the current term. Can I Get Financial Assistance to Help Me Pay For Registration Fees For Extension and International Programs (EIP) Classes? EIP provides information that may qualify students to participate in a variety of financial assistance programs. For more information on financial assistance programs, click here . Are My Education Expenses Deductible on My Federal Income Tax Return? Under the Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997, taxpayers may be eligible to claim a non-refundable Hope Scholarship or a Lifetime Learning Credit against their federal income taxes click here for more information. How Can I Use Scholarship Funds Or Grants Towards Payment For Classes? You may be able to use funds, if your scholarship or grant stipulates that the funds can be used towards Extension and International Programs classes. Contact the source of your scholarship or grant to be certain. Make checks payable to CSUF. Please Contact Us for more information. Does Extension and International Programs Offer Its Own Scholarships? EIP does offer some scholarships. For more information, click here. General Information How Do I Find Class Dates and Times? Select a certificate program, select a course from the schedule and the dates and times will be shown. Sometimes there is more than one offering of the course. If dates and times are not listed for the course you selected, the course is not being offered in the current term. Please complete the Stay Connected form to be notified of upcoming course offerings. How do I log in to the Portal for the first time? Students are required to log in to the campus portal to access online classes. To log in for the first time, follow the instructions in this tutorial. How Do I Order Textbooks? To order a required textbook by phone or online, please visit the Titan Bookstore or call (657) 278.4998 (unless other instructions are provided in the class description). What Is A Campus-Wide Identification Number (CWID)? Students receive a campus wide identification number (CWID) when they first enroll. Your CWID will be used in place of your Social Security number to identify all your records. You will also need your CWID the first time you log into the CSUF Student Portal. If you lose your CWID, go to https://my.fullerton.edu/CSUFCWID/index.aspx Instructors Who Are Your Instructors? Classes at Extension and International Programs are taught by outstanding faculty members and practicing professionals, who are selected to be instructors based on their expertise and access to the latest developments in their field. How Do I Become an Instructor for CSUF Extension and International Programs? Visit: extension.fullerton.edu/professionaldevelopment/teaching Locations How Do I Get To Cal State Fullerton? You will find the map and address by clicking below: Fullerton How Do I Find A Classroom? For all maps and addresses, please click here How Do I Find Out Where To Park? To avoid unnecessary parking fines, it is important to ensure you are parking in the correct location and have obtained a permit if necessary. For more details regarding parking, please visit the Parking Information section on this website. If you have additional questions, please call us at (657) 278-2611. We appreciate the opportunity to be of service. Online Courses and Programs How different is an online course from a regular face-to-face course? An online course and a face-to-face course differ primarily in the way the course is facilitated. Instead of meeting on campus at a fixed location and time, you have more flexibility as to when and where you complete the course assignments and other activities. Online courses provide the convenience of working on them from home or work. They are structured to keep you on track and are actively facilitated by the instructor to ensure your success. You will have due dates and you must keep up with online discussions, readings and assignments. Online students have the added advantage of avoiding traffic and having to locate a parking spot on campus. Will I be a successful online student? A successful online student is one that is self-motivated, is able to problem solve and can manage time effectively. In an online course, the burden is on you to complete your assignments and participate in the course. Setting a schedule for yourself and being able to meet deadlines without the continual prompting of your instructor is a must. You will have access to your instructor and students in your course; however, the turn-around time is not immediate. Additionally, the online learning environment can be very textually based. You will be required to read and write in significant amounts for most courses. You should take this into consideration. If I am a computer novice, should I not take an online course? Many students who claim to be computer novices have successfully taken our online courses. Being a computer novice should not deter you from taking an online course. If you are able to access the internet, navigate to various web sites and send emails with attachments, then you have the necessary skills to take an online course. We also provide an online tutorial for our beginning online students. This will help you learn the skills you will need to be a successful online student. You are supported the entire time. What are the technical and equipment requirements for taking an online course? Before registering for an online course, view our technical recommendations to make sure you have the necessary equipment and software to be successful while learning online. Once I register for an online course, how will I know where to go to access my course? Approximately two weeks before the start of your online course you will receive a Welcome email that provides you with information on how to access your course. Included in the email is the contact information for your instructor, the textbooks you will need to purchase and any additional information your instructor feels is necessary. If you register within two weeks of the course start date, you will receive an email within 48 hours of your registration. It is extremely important that you provide a working email account when you register, as well as a phone number where you can be reached in case we need to call you with information regarding the course. What happens if I do not receive my Welcome email after I have registered for a course? You will receive the Welcome email approximately two weeks before the course starts or within 48 hours after registering if you registered within the two weeks before the class starts. Please contact Student Services at (657) 278-2611 or eipconnect@fullerton.edu if you have not received the Welcome email. Where do I go for help with technical issues about my course? You can contact the EIP Online Support Desk at eip-online@fullerton.edu. Requests submitted after the Support Desk office hours will be reviewed on the following business day (excluding holidays). We will reply to most requests within 24 hours. Registration How Do I Register? Register Online: 24 hours a day. This is the most efficient way to register. Find the program or course you're interested in and click on "Add Course." Use your credit card or ACH-electronic check to register. Phone: 657-278-2611 (Monday-Friday 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.) Have your your student I.D. or Social Security number ready. You will be directed to the portal to make your payment online. Please note a non-refundable 2.65% service charge is added to all credit/debit card transactions. When Should I Register for a Class? We highly recommend that you register no later than one to two weeks prior to the start date of each class in order to ensure your seat in the class. Please note: If the class starts today, or has already started, please contact EIP Information at (657) 278-2611. If the first class meeting is on a weekday, please be sure to register one working day prior. If the first class meeting is on a Saturday or Sunday, please be sure to register the Friday prior. If you are registering at least one working day prior to the first class meeting, you can register online by choosing the class and adding it to your shopping cart. How Many Classes Can I Take During A Term Or Session? Depending on availability, prerequisites, and/or approvals, there is no limit on the number of EIP classes you can take during a term (Spring, Summer, Fall). However, if you have specific questions, please call us at (657) 278-2611, or Contact Us. This site is maintained by Extension and International Programs. Mailing Address: 800 N. State College Blvd., #THall 1403, Fullerton, CA 92831 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact eipcommunications@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. ©