Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Gardening, Lawn, and Landscape Bees and Pollinators Photo: Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Bees and Pollinators Home Browse Resources Get Involved Events Our Experts In Your Community Share Description: The way we garden and manage landscapes can help attract bees and other pollinators. Learn how to improve the health of pollinators. And discover beekeeping resources. This information is relevant for homeowners, gardeners, landscape professionals, producers, and commercial and backyard beekeepers. Pollinator habitat Resources for building bee pollinator habitat in managed forests. Postcards showing where native bees nest in managed forests can be obtained from the Oregon Bee Project (oregonbeeproject.org). Brad Withrow-Robinson, Lauren Grand, Max Bennett, Christine Buhl | Mar 2020 | Article Pollinator Steward Program Do you want to help pollinators on your farm, managed forest, rangeland, golf-course or community garden? Are you looking for practical training on how to build, maintain and establish pollinator habitat? Program Photo: Andony Mealthopoulos (Cropped from original) Buzzing and Beautiful: Designing Pollinator Gardens with OSU Extension A recording of a webinar touring through two new OSU guides to help you garden for pollinators and then ask questions of all the authors. We covered everything from what shrubs to plant, how to use mason bees, shrubs and... Signe Danler, Andony Melathopoulos, Neil Bell, Amy Jo Detweiler, Nicole Sanchez, Heather Stoven | Jun 2020 | Video Explore pollinator habitat resources Enhancing Urban and Suburban Landscapes to Protect Pollinators The way we garden and manage the landscapes of the Northwest can help promote the health of bees, butterflies and other insects. Homeowners, gardeners, landscape professionals and volunteer groups all can work to attract a wide range of pollinators to their properties. This guide offers detailed plant lists, garden designs and advice on creating pollinator habitat. Once plants are in the ground, learn to keep them healthy without exposing pollinating insects to pesticides that are toxic to them. Explore more Photo by Karen Zimmerman (Cropped from original) Native bees Photo: Oregon Bee Atlas (Cropped from original) Oregon Bee Atlas Although we estimate there are 500 species of bees in Oregon, there has never been a concerted survey of the state’s bees. Without even a checklist of species, it is very difficult to know whether the health of Oregon ... Program PolliNation Podcast For people making bold strides to improve the health of pollinators. Podcast Photo: Sayaka Lean (Cropped from original) Wandering squash bees and their millennia-long pursuit of squash cultivation Few insects can digest the pollen of squash plants. But where squash plants go, squash bees have followed. Now, they've made it from Mexico and the Intermountain West all the way to Oregon. Learn about the journey of these special bees and their kinship to this family of plants. Miranda Jones | Mar 2021 | Article More native bee resources Mason bees Nurturing Mason Bees in Your Backyard in Western Oregon An overview of mason bee basic biology and life cycle, and detailed descriptions of what is needed to start keeping mason bees, including desirable plants, nesting sites and types of nests, and caring for the cocoons over fall and winter. There are many helpful color photos throughout. Brooke Edmunds, Ramesh Sagili | Feb 2016 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Find out more about mason bees How to Reduce Bee Poisoning from Pesticides Use this app to learn how a variety of wild and managed bees and their pollination activities are affected by pesticide application. Includes guidelines for how beekeepers, growers, and pesticide applicators can work together to prevent bee poisoning. Download the free app Honey bees Honey Bee Colony Maintenance Expenses: Supplemental Feed, Requeening and Medication Success in pollination, honey production and other aspects of a beekeeping business depends on honey bee health. Strong, thriving colonies require many inputs from the beekeeper, including feed (carbohydrates and protein), medications and new queens when necessary. Ellen Topitzhofer, Carolyn Breece, Ramesh Sagili | May 2020 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Beekeeping Equipment Expenses: Woodenware and Other Components Woodenware for a typical honey bee colony includes vertically stackable boxes with removable frames, a bottom board, lid and a queen excluder. The most common design is Langstroth equipment. Langstroth colony configuration varies ... Ellen Topitzhofer, Carolyn Breece, Ramesh Sagili | May 2020 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Revenue Sources for a Commercial Beekeeping Operation in the Pacific Northwest Pollination services and honey production are the primary revenue sources for a beekeeping business based in the Pacific Northwest. Those starting a beekeeping operation should focus on two to three revenue sources initially and ... Ellen Topitzhofer, Carolyn Breece, Ramesh Sagili | May 2020 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Learn more about honey bees Latest News Credit Oregon State University Extension Service (Cropped from original) Extension activity book ‘a perfect fit’ for nexus of pollinator, nutrition education "Explore the Bees of Oregon," geared to all ages, specifically provides knowledge to kids while they’re having fun Kym Pokorny | Apr 13, 2022 | News story Credit Dan O'Laughlin (Cropped from original) Master Melittologists garner national award for biodiversity conservation Brothers Dan and Michael O'Loughlin of Yamhill County received the national Farmer-Rancher Pollinator Conservation Award from the National Association of Conservation Districts and the Pollinator Partnership. Kym Pokorny | Nov 18, 2021 | News story OSU study will provide insight into optimal nutrition for bees With the $500,000 grant from the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Agriculture and Food Research Initiative, the team hopes to improve bee nutrition by building a database of macro and micronutrients found in the flowering plants used in the study. Kym Pokorny | Jul 26, 2021 | News story Browse all resources Explore more resources Gardening Techniques Sustainability Integrated Pest Management Upcoming Events Jun 25 Bees in your garden * 10:00 am - 12:00 pm Portland, OR Jul 23 Summer 2022 Master Gardener BioBlitz Online Jul 26 Open House: Oak Creek Center for Urban Horticulture 11:00 am - 2:00 pm Corvallis, OR Sep 24 Fall 2022 Master Gardener BioBlitz Online See All Events Meet Our Experts Brooke Edmunds Community Horticulture, Master Gardeners Contact me with gardening questions from Marion or Polk counties Gail Langellotto Master Gardener Statewide Coordinator Contact me for insect and gardening questions. Andony Melathopoulos Pollinator Health Extension Specialist, Pollinator Ecology/Ecotoxicology Elizabeth Records Outreach Program Coordinator (interim), Community Horticulture & Master Gardener Educator Contact me about becoming a Master Gardener Volunteer in Linn or Benton County. For plant/garden questions, please follow the link to "Have a Gardening Question?" See All Bees and Pollinators Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Photo: nodigio / CC BY-NC-ND (Cropped from original) Is no mow May a good idea? Q: We've been asked to consider a "No Mow May" proclamation to encourage support for insects by not mowing lawns for one month. Do you have an opinion specifically about the natural resource value of this messaging and action? A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility