CSUF is closed for Winter Recess, December 24 - January 2. We will re-open to serve you on January 3. 2022. Website and online services unavailable on May 29. See IT Disaster Recovery website ► For International Students FAQs, click here ›COVID-19 Vaccine Requirement for Students and Instructors ► Professional Development Professional Development Certificate programs provide working professionals with evening and weekend courses, as well as networking opportunities to advance their careers or enter new fields. Certificate Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Educator Courses and Programs Community & Corporate Engagement Leadership for Public AgenciesShort-Term Courses & Events Degrees Degrees EIP partners with CSUF colleges and departments to offer bachelor’s and master’s degrees, as well as preparation programs for those looking to apply to professional health-care, law and business schools. Online Degree Completion Programs Master’s Programs Pre-Health Program Test Preparation Courses University Courses University Courses EIP expands access to University classes through Open University, Summer Session and Winter Session. Open University registration is open to the general public; Summer and Winter Sessions help Cal State Fullerton students graduate on-time or early. Open University Summer Session Winter Session Lifelong Learning Lifelong Learning Our lifelong learning opportunities range from programs for children to retirees, and include an on-campus arboretum with classes and events for those of all ages. Fullerton Arboretum Osher Lifelong Learning Institute Career Exploration Online Online Programs Online programs are structured with lectures and assignments, and allow you to interact and communicate with students and instructors/professors online. Online Certificate Programs Online Degree Completion Programs Online Programs for Educators International International Programs International students may study for one semester or complete an entire bachelor's or master's degree at CSUF. Visit International Programs International Admissions University Semester Abroad International Students & ScholarsStudy Abroad & Global Engagement Search this site or CSUF general sites SiteCSUF Site Menu searchSearch this site CSUF Accelerated MS in Software Engineering Requirements Fees Schedule Advising Info Session Apply Contact Email Sign-up Current Students Extension and International Programs +Professional Development Certificate Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Educator Courses and Programs Community & Corporate Engagement Leadership for Public Agencies Short-Term Courses & Events +Degrees Online Degree Completion Programs Master’s Programs Pre-Health Program Test Preparation Courses +University Courses Open University Summer Session Winter Session +Lifelong Learning Fullerton Arboretum Osher Lifelong Learning Institute Career Exploration +Online Online Certificate Programs Online Degree Completion Programs Online Programs for Educators +International International Admissions University Semester Abroad International Students & Scholars Study Abroad & Global Engagement There was a problem with the left navigation. Extension and International Programs Accelerated MS in Software Engineering Requirements Fees Schedule Advising Info Session Apply Contact Email Sign-up Current Students Accelerated MS in Software Engineering On-campus Program—Finish in 17 Months Earn your Master’s in Software Engineering in 1.5 years at CSUF The Accelerated Master's in Software Engineering from California State University, Fullerton prepares graduates for successful careers as software engineers and managers. All classes are held on our campus in Southern California. Support and preparation: Learn from experienced faculty in the classroom and industry leaders on your capstone project. We also provide employment workshops and career preparation throughout the program. Affordable classes: cost per course is $2,880 plus campus fees, making this a cost-effective way to advance in one of the best careers in the United States and around the world. STEM Designated Program: Graduates are eligible for Optional Practical Training in the United States after graduation. The Accelerated Master’s in Software Engineering is an on-campus version of the University’s online program , which was named one of the best in the nation by U.S. News & World Report. Information Sessions To learn more about the program benefits and schedule, visit our Information Session page to reserve a spot for an upcoming session. Upcoming Sessions Application for Fall 2022 is closed. Application for Fall 2023 begins in October! Join our email list below to receive updates. You can also visit our Apply page for application instructions. Apply “We emphasize collaboration and communication skills among students, both of which are needed to become a successful software engineer.” - Dr. Song-James Choi, CSUF Professor of Computer Science and Advisor of the AMSE Program Read Dr. Choi's Interview Meet our instructors “I found out that the curriculum at CSUF had excellent alignment with the industry trends and that was what I needed to specialize and enter the industry.” - Nikita Dmello, AMSE alum Read Nikita's Interview Meet our alumni Accelerated MS in Software Engineering At a Glance: Areas of study: Comprehension of software standards; implementation and management of software process; assessment/appraisal of software process; management of legal and ethical issues; collaboration and teamwork; critical thinking and problem solving, research and communication Number of courses: 10 courses (30 units) Program Length: 17 months Cost: $2,880 per course plus mandatory campus fees (fees are subject to change at any time during the program) Ideal for: Those looking to enter or advance in the software engineering field; the program also prepares students for management roles or advanced study as a researcher Program Format: On campus (Fullerton, California) What’s your next step? Learn about admission requirements or join the AMSE email list. By joining the list you will also receive program and application updates. Admission Requirements Interested in what it takes to apply? View a list of what you will need to apply to the program. Requirements Online Form - AMSE Email List - New Website (amse_email_list) This site is maintained by Extension and International Programs. Mailing Address: 800 N. State College Blvd., #THall 1403, Fullerton, CA 92831 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact eipcommunications@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. ©