Skip to content Coronavirus Updates: See latest COVID-19 news from Harvard Extension School. COVID-19 Updates Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Academics Take a Course Graduate Degrees Graduate Certificates Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Academic Gap Year Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students Apply to Premedical Program Academic Calendar Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Blog Events Press and Announcements Contact Us MyDCE Login Request Information Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Request Information Academics Take a Course Graduate Certificates Graduate Degrees Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Browse Courses Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students International Students Academic Calendar Forms Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Harvard Extension School Blog Contact Us Events Press and Announcements Media and Photo Information For Enrolled Students Support and Services Student Policies and Conduct Harvard Extension Alumni Association Website Archives Privacy Statement Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Premedical Program Applying to the Premedical Program Interested in applying to the Premedical Program at Harvard Extension School? Learn more about: Who is eligible When to apply How to apply Who is Eligible Admission to the Premedical Program is selective. In evaluating your application, we attempt to be holistic and take many factors into consideration. These include experiences that indicate you are making an informed decision about your career choice and are capable of working to the academic standards of Harvard. Although there is no minimum GPA, it is unlikely that applicants with an undergraduate GPA below 3.0 will be accepted. Individualized credit requirement. Accepted students will be assigned a credit requirement between 20-32 credits, determined by the PMP staff based on your undergraduate overall & science GPA, and your previous level of science coursework. This credit assignment reflects what we believe will be required to make you, given your unique background, the most competitive applicant for medical, dental or veterinary school. These credits must be completed with a grade of B or higher to count toward completion of the program. To be considered for the Premedical Program, you must: Have already completed a bachelor’s degree from an accredited institution. Graduating college seniors are not eligible to apply. If you will earn your undergraduate degree in May 2022, for example, you’ll need to apply next year, February 2023. Be able to demonstrate achievement in your past academic pursuits and activities that demonstrate your interest in the healthcare field. Be in good academic and financial standing with Harvard University, with no disciplinary or administrative procedures pending (applies to current or former students only). Be a US citizen or permanent resident. We are not able to accept international students. Prove English proficiency. If your native language is not English and you have not earned a high school, bachelor’s, or graduate degree (master’s or doctorate) from a college or university in the United States, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, Republic of Ireland, or United Kingdom, you’ll need to submit a satisfactory English proficiency test score. Read more about the English Proficiency Requirement for Registration and review the list of acceptable exams and scores. When to Apply You should apply to the Premedical Program at least a year before applying to medical, dental, or veterinary school. We accept applications each year between February 1 and May 1. How to Apply Application Materials A complete application includes the following: Online application. Beginning February 1, you can access the application portal through MyDCE by logging in using your Harvard Key or DCEKey, if you have one. Otherwise, please follow the instructions to create your MyDCE student account. Then click on the “Premed Pgm Application” icon under your name at the top of the home page. A nonrefundable $50 application processing fee is required to submit the application. The online application will close by end of day on May 1. Essay. The online application requires an essay of no more than 500 words addressing the following question: Why do you want to prepare for a career in the medical field? Résumé or CV. Upload a current résumé or CV to the online application that includes all your work experience, including volunteer jobs, with dates. Also include any research you have done or research positions you have held, with dates. Transcripts. We require that you send an official transcript from each college or university in which you have enrolled for credit, including those from which you have not earned a degree. Note: To be eligible to apply, your degree must be awarded, not pending. We accept electronic transcripts, but only if they are sent from the institution or the institution’s transcript service directly to hcp@extension.harvard.edu. Do not send transcripts to Harvard University because we will not receive them If you earned a degree outside the United States, you must have your official transcript(s) evaluated by the Center for Educational Documentation (CED) or International Education Evaluations (IEE), the only two agencies from which we will accept evaluations. The company should send an electronic copy of your general evaluation (CED) or Document Report (IEE) directly to the Premedical Program Office. See our guidelines for verifying international credits for more information. Mailing Transcripts (if necessary) If transcripts must be mailed via post because your college or university does not offer electronic delivery, please have them sent to: Premedical Program Office, Harvard Extension School, 51 Brattle Street, Cambridge, MA 02138. Do not send transcripts to Harvard University Admissions because we will not receive them. Do not open envelopes addressed to you that contain official copies of documents. Mail them unopened in a larger envelope. All mailed materials must be received in the Premedical Program Office by the last date of the application cycle. Materials are accepted in and processed by the office during regular business hours, Monday through Friday, 9 am to 5 pm Eastern Standard Time. Admission Decisions Applicants are informed of their acceptance to the program on a rolling basis through the online application portal, accessed by logging in to MyDCE and clicking on the Premed Pgm Application icon under the name and profile picture section of the home page. Successful applicants must accept or decline their offers by June 1; otherwise, their offers will be rescinded. All decisions are final but unsuccessful applicants are welcome to reapply in the next cycle. Program or Application Questions? Contact the Premedical Program Office at (617) 495-2926 or hcp@extension.harvard.edu. Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! Harvard Extension is delighted to celebrate our students’ tremendous commitment and hard work. Read more about our students' journey to this big day! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Archives Follow Harvard Extension School Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Harvard Division of Continuing Education A division of Harvard University dedicated to bringing rigorous programs and innovative online teaching capabilities to distance learners, working professionals, high school students, college students, and those seeking higher learning in retirement. Harvard Extension School Harvard degrees, certificates and courses—online, in the evenings, and at your own pace. Harvard Summer School Academic summer opportunities for adult, college and high school students—at Harvard and abroad. Harvard Professional Development Short, intensive programs to develop skills and strengthen your professional profile. Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement Peer learning in the liberal arts—a community program for retired and semi-retired professionals. Harvard Division of Continuing Education Privacy Statement Accessibility Rights & Regulations Digital Accessibility Policy Harvard.edu Cookie Settings Copyright ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College