Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Home Community Vitality Health Outreach Caregivers have a new resource for trauma-informed nutrition and feeding CORVALLIS, Ore. – Lily Joslin’s first placement as a foster parent was only for a night – but the experience made a lasting impression. An 8-year-old boy arrived after a traumatic removal from his home. Joslin and her partner had prepared their home with their notion of “kid-friendly food.” The boy wasn’t interested in eating any of it. Joslin tried a different approach. “We said, ‘OK, if we were to go pick up something from a fast-food restaurant, what would you like? He told us what he wanted. We brought home chicken nuggets and fries and he happily noshed on them.” Later, the boy started talking about a play kitchen in the living room. He said that at home, he really liked making pancakes for his family. Joslin told him that they would make pancakes in the morning for breakfast. “He was so excited,” she said. “The next morning, we made pancakes together. He ate a huge plate of them, and he was just really happy when he left.” Joslin, a nutrition educator with Oregon State University Extension Service in Columbia County, used that example when she taught an in-person course on trauma-informed strategies that allow caregivers the opportunity to improve nutrition and mealtimes, and create resilience in the children in their care. The training was offered in Columbia County in early 2020 before the COVID-19 pandemic forced it to end. Now, two years later, OSU Extension has partnered with the nonprofit organization SPOON to launch “Nourished and Thriving Children,” a free, self-paced course that mirrors a toolkit SPOON created in 2018. SPOON is a nonprofit founded in Portland that’s dedicated to nourishing children who are vulnerable to malnutrition by empowering their caregivers. It was founded by two Portland neighbors in 2007 when they discovered the children they each had adopted from Kazakhstan suffered from preventable malnutrition. Kate Miller, the feeding and disability specialist at SPOON, co-instructs the course, offered through OSU’s Professional and Continuing Education unit in the Division of Extension and Engagement. According to Miller, the course contains eight learning modules that focus on the six principles of trauma-informed feeding and nutrition and how to implement them in the home environment. The course was built with foster families in mind but is appropriate for anyone who cares for or supports a child who has experienced trauma. The course discusses nutrition and mealtime challenges specific to children who have experienced trauma, and finally it offers guidance in addressing these challenges using trauma-informed principles. For many children, their trauma might have been related to food, Miller said. “We want caregivers to feel empowered,” Miller said. “There’s a whole group of kids where mealtime has become a battleground with caregivers. We want to reframe mealtime so that it’s an opportunity to connect with the child and build resilience.” Miller’s co-instructor is Jenny Rudolph, an associate professor of practice in the OSU Extension Service Family and Community Health Program and endowed outreach coordinator for the Moore Family Center for Whole Grain Foods, Nutrition and Preventive Health in the College of Public Health and Human Sciences. Rudolph, who serves Columbia County and the Portland metro area, has more than 10 years of experience partnering with the Oregon Department of Human Services’ (DHS) local Child Welfare Office to teach nutrition and cooking classes specifically for foster families. Like Joslin, this work is also close to Rudolph’s heart. Growing up her family fostered her four cousins who were placed in their care for many years. So, in 2019, Rudolph wrote a grant to the Columbia Pacific Coordinated Care Organization (CCO) to deliver SPOON’s Nourished and Thriving toolkit in partnership with the DHS child welfare office in St. Helens. They taught four classes in 2020 before the pandemic. The team shifted the class to an online environment “with varying degrees of success,” according to Rudolph. They received feedback from caregivers that with so much going on, it would be better if they had a class that they could take on their own time and at their own pace. With additional funding from the Columbia Pacific CCO, they were able to develop this interactive online course to better meet the needs of foster families. The course features videos and advice from Oregon foster parents on topics including establishing trust, overcoming mealtime challenges, and helping children try new foods. Recipes and resources from OSU Extension’s Food Hero campaign are also featured in the course to help families learn how to prepare trauma-informed meals at home. “There are some really complicated food and nutrition issues with children in foster care,” Rudolph said. “There can be lingering issues from a child’s background that can show up in ways around the dinner table or show up in food. They may have some sensory issues going on. This course focuses on the importance of building trust and establishing positive relationships before you implement healthy eating interventions.” Good nutrition is essential to helping children grow, meet milestones and heal from toxic stress. But the importance of building trust outweighs what the child currently is eating, said Joslin, who has fostered a second child for 2½ years. “Relationship comes first, and nutrition comes second,” she said. “Helping kids develop a healthy relationship with food when they’ve experienced trauma is a long game,” she said. “What I love about this course is that it trains caregivers to understand that you can’t force healthy habits down kids’ throats and expect them to stick. You take it one day at a time and have things in your toolbox to help you integrate best practices little by little during the time in your care.” It’s OK for a child in foster care to eat fast food initially if it’s their favorite meal, she said. “At the very least it provides comfort for the child,” Joslin said. “A meal that provides comfort for that child when they are in crisis is one of the best things you can do for them in that moment. When foster parents hear that concept, they breathe a sigh of relief. It’s a load off their shoulders.” Want to learn more about this topic? Explore more resources from OSU Extension: Health Outreach, Nutrition and Healthy Eating, Parenting Story Source Jenny Rudolph Family & Community Health Lily Joslin SNAP-Ed Education Program Assistant Kate Miller SPOON Credit Jenny Rudolph May 2022 Chris Branam Public Issues Education Leader Share Print Was this page helpful? YesNo Send feedback Related Content from OSU Extension Spanish/English Pictorial Recipes Set #2 Ten print-ready, illustrated, culturally appropriate recipes in Spanish and English. Designed for limited-literacy, limited-income audiences. Apr 2000 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Spanish/English Pictorial Recipes Set #3 Ten print-ready, illustrated, culturally appropriate recipes in Spanish and English. Designed for limited-literacy, limited-income audiences. Sep 2000 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Spanish/English Pictorial Recipes Set #4 Ten print-ready, illustrated, culturally appropriate recipes in Spanish and English. Designed for limited-literacy, limited-income audiences. Oct 2001 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Nurturing Resilience: Mindful Practices for Resilience/Practicas conscientes parala resiliencia Trauma and stress can have physical effects on young children. Learn mindful activities for kids that can help calm the body’s response to stress. El trauma y el estrés pueden resultar en efectos físicos en los niños ... Feb 2022 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Nurturing Resilience: Protective Factors for Resilience/Factores protectores de la resiliencia Protective factors help children respond to life’s challenges. These factors include supportive relationships, access to quality care and safe places to play. You can nurture resilience by encouraging the protective factors in ... Feb 2022 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Nurturing Resilience: Interactions are the Heart of Resilience/Las interactions son el corazon del la resiliencia One way to nurture resilience in young children is to practice “Serve and Return.” When a child expresses themselves, respond by joining them in an activity and offering encouragement. This practice helps children feel safe ... Feb 2022 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) 4-H Food and Fun Nutrition Activity Curriculum This set of 14+ hands-on nutrition activities will keep kids of all ages engaged in learning about the food they eat and its effects on their bodies. Pick and choose from a variety of lessons on meal preparation, knife ... Carolyn Ashton | Jan 2022 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Foods That Fight Cancer This publication identifies foods that contribute to or increase your risk of cancer as well as foods that decrease the risk. It also explores best practices for diet and lifestyle. Apr 2022 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) WAVE Sport Nutrition Curriculum The WAVE Sport Nutrition Curriculum uses youth's interest in sports to teach them about healthy eating and hydration to fuel a healthy, active body for life. This knowledge helps athletes manage body weight and avoid unwanted ... Siew Sun Wong | Sep 2018 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Supervivencia Básica: Reducir el Estrés En una emergencia, el miedo y la ansiedad son reacciones naturales. Sin embargo, hay maneras de prepararse para esos momentos tensos y ansiosos a través de un kit de herramientas emocionales que lo ayuden a sobrellevar esta ... Sep 2021 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Nutrition for Older Adults: Preventing Malnutrition as the Body Ages Poor nutrition can cause a cascade of health problems for older adults. This guide lists the nutrients of concern for people over 60 — from antioxidants to calcium to water. Learn how eating well can stave off chronic disease. Dec 2021 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Photo by Shutterstock Images (Cropped from original) A farmer should not be in regular pain! Farming can be a physically demanding job, which puts farmers at high risk of musculoskeletal injuries and disorders. But that risk can be significantly reduced by applying ergonomic principles to farm work. Teagan Moran | Oct 2018 | Article FoodCorps fosters culture of health in Klamath County schools Ultimately, stronger partnerships have been formed between OSU Extension and the Klamath County School District and Klamath Falls City Schools. Apr 2022 | Impact story Photo: Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Farm and Ranch Stress Assistance Network The purpose of the Farm and Ranch Stress Assistance Network (FRSAN) Program is to establish a network that connects individuals who are engaged in farming, ranching, and other agriculture-related occupations to stress assistance programs. This project is funded by a USDA NIFA grant. Project Credit Oregon State University (Cropped from original) OSU Extension supports Warm Springs COVID-19 vaccinations clinics In each of the vaccine clinics, Extension faculty and staff assisted in directing traffic and parking, the sign-in process, cleaning furniture and supplies, flow management and scheduling. Apr 2022 | Impact story Food Insecurity in Oregon and the U.S.: Uneven Recovery in the midst of overall development (2014- 2016) Oregon recently experienced its largest single-year decline in food insecurity in the past 20 years. In last year's national report, the USDA identified Oregon as the only state which had recently experienced a significant increase... Mark Edwards | Oct 2017 | Article Credit Oregon State University Extension Service (Cropped from original) Extension activity book ‘a perfect fit’ for nexus of pollinator, nutrition education "Explore the Bees of Oregon," geared to all ages, specifically provides knowledge to kids while they’re having fun Kym Pokorny | Apr 13, 2022 | News story Credit Alex Llumiquinga, Olalla Center (Cropped from original) Lincoln County Latino and Mesoamerican Indigenous families grow their own food with help from OSU Extension The Extension Master Gardener program spearheaded efforts to increase food security by creating a new community garden space for 12 Latino and Mesoamerican Indigenous families at the Lincoln County Commons. Apr 2022 | Impact story Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility