CSUF is closed for Winter Recess, December 24 - January 2. We will re-open to serve you on January 3. 2022. Website and online services unavailable on May 29. See IT Disaster Recovery website ► For International Students FAQs, click here ›COVID-19 Vaccine Requirement for Students and Instructors ► Professional Development Professional Development Certificate programs provide working professionals with evening and weekend courses, as well as networking opportunities to advance their careers or enter new fields. Certificate Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Educator Courses and Programs Community & Corporate Engagement Leadership for Public AgenciesShort-Term Courses & Events Degrees Degrees EIP partners with CSUF colleges and departments to offer bachelor’s and master’s degrees, as well as preparation programs for those looking to apply to professional health-care, law and business schools. Online Degree Completion Programs Master’s Programs Pre-Health Program Test Preparation Courses University Courses University Courses EIP expands access to University classes through Open University, Summer Session and Winter Session. Open University registration is open to the general public; Summer and Winter Sessions help Cal State Fullerton students graduate on-time or early. Open University Summer Session Winter Session Lifelong Learning Lifelong Learning Our lifelong learning opportunities range from programs for children to retirees, and include an on-campus arboretum with classes and events for those of all ages. Fullerton Arboretum Osher Lifelong Learning Institute Career Exploration Online Online Programs Online programs are structured with lectures and assignments, and allow you to interact and communicate with students and instructors/professors online. Online Certificate Programs Online Degree Completion Programs Online Programs for Educators International International Programs International students may study for one semester or complete an entire bachelor's or master's degree at CSUF. Visit International Programs International Admissions University Semester Abroad International Students & ScholarsStudy Abroad & Global Engagement Search this site or CSUF general sites SiteCSUF Site Menu searchSearch this site CSUF Extension and International Programs +About About Us Annual Report Community & Corporate Engagement Fullerton Campus International Programs Student Resources Teach for EIP FAQ Contact +Connect Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Donate Extension and International Programs +Professional Development Certificate Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Educator Courses and Programs Community & Corporate Engagement Leadership for Public Agencies Short-Term Courses & Events +Degrees Online Degree Completion Programs Master’s Programs Pre-Health Program Test Preparation Courses +University Courses Open University Summer Session Winter Session +Lifelong Learning Fullerton Arboretum Osher Lifelong Learning Institute Career Exploration +Online Online Certificate Programs Online Degree Completion Programs Online Programs for Educators +International International Admissions University Semester Abroad International Students & Scholars Study Abroad & Global Engagement There was a problem with the left navigation. Extension and International Programs Extension and International Programs About About Us Annual Report Community & Corporate Engagement Fullerton Campus International Programs Student Resources Teach for EIP FAQ Contact Connect Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Donate Fullerton Campus Location 1111 N. State College Blvd. Fullerton, CA 92831 Registration/Mail Extension and International Programs 800 N. State College Blvd. #THall 1123 Fullerton, CA 92831 Hours 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday Contact (657) 278-2611 eipconnect@fullerton.edu The Fullerton campus offers students the experience of a large, dynamic and diverse university. Since its founding in 1959, Cal State Fullerton has grown from a small college to a leading regional university with more than 265,750 graduates (January 2018). The Cal State Fullerton campus is conveniently located off the Orange Freeway (57) at the Nutwood Avenue exit. Campus Map To find a classroom location or specific parking areas, review the campus map . Virtual Tour Visit the campus through photos: www.fullerton.edu/virtualtour . Parking Being aware of CSUF parking regulations is the responsibility of the vehicle operator. Parking regulations in permit lots are enforced Monday - Thursday from 7 a.m. - 10 p.m., and on Friday from 7 a.m. - 5 p.m. Daily or semester permits are required at all times except Friday after 5 p.m., Saturday and Sunday. The California Vehicle Code is enforced 24 hours a day, seven days a week. For more information and to purchase semester permits, visit the parking website . Bookstore Textbooks for classes offered at the Fullerton campus may be purchased on campus at the Titan Bookstore in the Commons Building, second floor. More information on textbook purchasing, renting, or returning can be found here . Visitor Information Centers: Campus guests can receive parking permits, parking assistance and directions at a Visitor Information Center (VIC). The Eastside VIC is located on Folino Drive, south of the Eastside Structure. The Arts Drive VIC is located on the west side of campus, on Arts Drive, by the main entrance to the Nutwood Structure. More information here . This site is maintained by Extension and International Programs. Mailing Address: 800 N. State College Blvd., #THall 1403, Fullerton, CA 92831 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact eipcommunications@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. ©