Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Animals and Livestock Commercial Fishing, Crabbing, and Clamming Photo: Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Commercial Fishing, Crabbing, and Clamming Home Browse Resources Our Experts In Your Community Share Featured Resources Photo courtesy Katey Jacobson (Cropped from original) Guide to Oregon Fisheries A short guide to the commonly caught commercial seafood species in Oregon. Includes information on management, season, habitat and life history, fishing gear used to catch it, pounds landed and value of the fishery, and fun facts for 12 of the major fisheries in Oregon. Jamie Doyle, Amanda Gladics | May 2020 | Fact Sheet Photo: Cathy Whims (Cropped from original) Eat Oregon Seafood - Where to Buy Oregon Seafood Discover the many different types of seafood harvested in Oregon. These local foods can be used in a wide variety of recipes and are tasty substitutes for seafood shipped from further away. Use the map and business listings below to find seafood caught or grown in Oregon. Search for recipes, or share your own using #EatOregonSeafood. Amanda Gladics, Jamie Doyle, Angee Doerr, Adriene Koett-Cronn | May 2020 | Online resource Peer reviewed (Gray level) Fishing Community Resilience: Optimism and Change This oral history video features voices from Oregon's fishing communities on maintaining a sense of optimism in uncertain times. Jun 2020 | OSU Sea Grant Publication Peer reviewed (Gray level) Latest Resources Photo: Oregon Sea Grant (Cropped from original) Oregon Sea Grant: 50 years of making a difference Oregon State University was designated a Sea Grant college on Sept. 17, 1971, and thus Oregon Sea Grant was officially created. In this video, six people describe how Oregon Sea Grant has been making a difference in the ... Sep 2021 | Video Credit Trav Williams (Cropped from original) Sea Grant Extension Shop at the Dock tours return to Oregon Coast Participants are given behind-the-scenes guided tours of commercial fishing docks to learn about how seafood is caught and how to buy it directly from fishermen selling off their boats. Chris Branam | Jul 27, 2021 | News story Credit Tiffany Woods (Cropped from original) Sea Grant Extension supports creation of award-winning ocean acidification curriculum The authors have presented the curriculum to over 200 educators at several regional and national conferences, and it has been downloaded more than 200 times. Tracy Crews | Feb 2021 | Impact story Browse All Resources Latest News Credit Trav Williams (Cropped from original) Sea Grant Extension Shop at the Dock tours return to Oregon Coast Participants are given behind-the-scenes guided tours of commercial fishing docks to learn about how seafood is caught and how to buy it directly from fishermen selling off their boats. Chris Branam | Jul 27, 2021 | News story Photo by Lynn Ketchum, Oregon State University (Cropped from original) Oregon Sea Grant Extension uses pandemic survey results to guide its work The findings have already helped guide Sea Grant Extension’s response to the emergency. Chris Branam | Jan 6, 2021 | News story Photo: Tiffany Woods (Cropped from original) Sea Grant Extension partners on campaign to boost state's seafood industry In addition to showing where to buy local seafood via an interactive map, the Eat Oregon Seafood webpage offers tips on when and what types of seafood to purchase and how to freeze, smoke and prepare it at home. Chris Branam | Jul 9, 2020 | News story All News Meet Our Experts Angee Doerr Marine Fisheries Educator Jamie Doyle Marine Resources Topics Jamie works on include: marine debris, seafood education, local food systems, seafood processing, working waterfronts, coastal master naturalist, State of the Coast, and social science research. Amanda Gladics Sea Grant Coastal Fisheries See All Commercial Fishing, Crabbing, and Clamming Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility