Skip to content Coronavirus Updates: See latest COVID-19 news from Harvard Extension School. COVID-19 Updates Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Academics Take a Course Graduate Degrees Graduate Certificates Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Academic Gap Year Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students Apply to Premedical Program Academic Calendar Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Blog Events Press and Announcements Contact Us MyDCE Login Request Information Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Request Information Academics Take a Course Graduate Certificates Graduate Degrees Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Browse Courses Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students International Students Academic Calendar Forms Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Harvard Extension School Blog Contact Us Events Press and Announcements Media and Photo Information For Enrolled Students Support and Services Student Policies and Conduct Harvard Extension Alumni Association Website Archives Privacy Statement Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Bart Kuebler Aside from the perspective that I’ve gained from my field of study in Philosophy & Ethics, my renewed belief in myself and my capability has been a huge help professionally and personally. Place of Residence Norfolk, VA Program Bachelor of Liberal Arts (ALB) in the field of Philosophy and Ethics, '22 Professional Field Artistic Director at the Zeiders American Dream Theater Share Why did you decide to earn a degree at Harvard Extension? When I decided to return to school in the spring of 2018, I knew that I wanted the most challenging academic experience I could find, while continuing to work full-time and avoid relocating. I spent a lot of hours online, comparing schools and programs, and found that there were a lot of places where I could finish a degree in a short period of time, but only a couple of programs that offered the kind of academic rigor I wanted. For me, Harvard Extension School’s “prove your way in” admissions made it the clear first choice. I knew that if I could clear that hurdle, I would be able to compete at the highest academic levels. I think this policy is brilliant, as it places the responsibility for admission squarely on the student candidate, and removes the temptation to fluff up a resumé or rely on recommendations. It creates a level playing field, and contributes to the egalitarian atmosphere of the school. How has your HES experience helped you in your career or personal development? Before beginning at HES, I was adept at balancing multiple demands and complex schedules, but my time at Harvard added another dimension. Looking back now, as a new graduate, I can’t believe how much I’ve done over the last few years. I was recently listening to an episode of Marc Maron’s podcast, in which he said that Harvard folks “have a relentless confidence in their own hands.” That really resonated with me. Aside from the perspective that I’ve gained from my field of study in Philosophy & Ethics, my renewed belief in myself and my capability has been a huge help professionally and personally. What was the most challenging aspect of your time at Extension? What was the most rewarding? I took a full load of classes each summer session, for four years. With the benefit of hindsight, I likely shouldn’t have! Juggling twelve hours of regular class meetings weekly, alongside section discussions, writing deadlines, and testing requirements, stretched me to my personal limits. But, I learned that I can stretch pretty far, without breaking. The most rewarding part of my time at HES was during the early months of the pandemic. Keeping regular class meetings, while all else was in turmoil, was an emotional anchor for me and many of my classmates. And, we were meeting from all over the world; that was invaluable, as it magnified the common humanity we all share in the face of existential threats, like pandemics! I will long remember my classmates from that time. Get started on your undergraduate degree at Harvard Extension School today. How did you manage to balance your studies with work and family responsibilities? Fortunately, both my family and my work were incredibly supportive. I consulted with each before registering for classes each term, and sometimes adjusted my courses based on conflicts or concerns that other folks in my life raised, when looking over my proposed schedules. The most important thing was communicating my schedule with each, from class meetings to important deadlines. With my family, particularly, we learned to take advantage of moments of “found time,” when we had last-minute shifts in the schedule. Do you have any advice for new students? In general, learn to be open to feedback and other viewpoints. Resist the temptation to defend your writing, and realize that if someone is raising concerns about how you’ve developed your argument, or phrased a clause, you’ve likely got some clean-up to do! One specific piece of advice: fill out your course evaluations with honest, detailed feedback; and, use the course evaluations from previous years when choosing what classes to register for. You’ll soon get a feel for what classes, and professors, you’ll connect with. That will make your experience much more enriching. Describe your Extension School experience in one word. Transformative! *This interview has been edited for clarity and length. Get started on your undergraduate degree at Harvard Extension School today. May 11, 2022 Share Read Next Dorottya Barna There’s something magical about being around other people who are motivated to learn, share, and progress through academia. The environment at Harvard [Extension School] provided this experience. Share Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Close Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! Harvard Extension is delighted to celebrate our students’ tremendous commitment and hard work. Read more about our students' journey to this big day! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Archives Follow Harvard Extension School Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Harvard Division of Continuing Education A division of Harvard University dedicated to bringing rigorous programs and innovative online teaching capabilities to distance learners, working professionals, high school students, college students, and those seeking higher learning in retirement. Harvard Extension School Harvard degrees, certificates and courses—online, in the evenings, and at your own pace. Harvard Summer School Academic summer opportunities for adult, college and high school students—at Harvard and abroad. Harvard Professional Development Short, intensive programs to develop skills and strengthen your professional profile. Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement Peer learning in the liberal arts—a community program for retired and semi-retired professionals. Harvard Division of Continuing Education Privacy Statement Accessibility Rights & Regulations Digital Accessibility Policy Harvard.edu Cookie Settings Copyright ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College