Skip to main content utexas.edu Request information utexas.edu Request information Header Menu Program Finder Custom Training Getting Started Events About Us Contact Us Extended Campus The University of Texas at Austin UTA Building, Suite 2.408 1616 Guadalupe Street Austin, TX 78701 University Resources In Austin, Texas or beyond, anyone, of any age, can take advantage of The University’s resources, offerings and experts. Lifelong Learning UT Austin is here to support all your lifelong learning needs. Beyond professional education, we can support you at any stage of life from high school through retirement. Annette Strauss Institute for Civic Life Experiential civic education opportunities to educate, inspire and connect the next generation of Texas leaders. Learn more K-12 Education Initiatives Committed to increasing the academic success of Texas students from groups underrepresented in higher education. Learn more Lady Bird Johnson Wildflower Center Learning Classes and programs to learn about Texas native plants and inspire participants of all ages. Learn more OSHER Lifelong Learning Institute UT OLLI is a dynamic community of curious adults that come together to enjoy curated courses (without exams or grades) taught by leading university scholars and distinguished experts. Learn more The University Interscholastic League The largest inter-school organization of educational extracurricular academic, athletic and music contests. Learn more TOWER Fellows Program A customized program for accomplished individuals that offers access to the best courses and professors on campus. Learn more University Extension Flexible course options for individuals seeking to earn transferable academic credit from UT Austin. Learn more UT High School An accredited, public online high school district that offers online course and credit by exams. Learn more Get the Most Out of Your UT Experience On Campus We hold courses and conferences at venues such as the AT&T Hotel and Conference Center, the Thompson Conference Center and the Mulva Conference Center and Auditorium. These centers are near to dozens of museums, libraries, institutes and more. Learn More Inspiration & Rejuvination We hope you’ll find time to step outside the classroom and enjoy some of our many artistic and cultural offerings. Learn More Still Can’t Find What You’re Looking For? FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS View common questions related to continuing and professional education at UT Austin. See FAQs Custom Training Experience If you are seeking tailored solutions for your team or organization, please visit our custom training page. Learn More FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS View common questions related to continuing and professional education at UT Austin. See FAQs Custom Training Experience If you are seeking tailored solutions for your team or organization, please visit our custom training page. Learn More WE’RE HERE TO HELP! TAKE THE FIRST STEP TODAY. REQUEST INFORMATION Extended Campus The University of Texas at Austin UTA Building, Suite 2.408 1616 Guadalupe Street Austin, TX 78701 Program Finder Custom Training Getting Started Events About Us Contact Us Subscribe» Powered by Extended Education Ventures | © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Emergency Information | Web Privacy Policy | Site Policies | Web Accessibility Policy