Your browser does not support inline frames or is currently configured not to display inline frames Skip to Navigation Skip to Main Content Website and online services unavailable on May 29. See IT Disaster Recovery website ► Quick Register | Cart Professional Development Extension and International Programs California State University, Fullerton All Programs Areas of Study: Business Crime & Forensics Fiduciary Management Technology & Engineering Program Types: Certificate Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Educator Courses and Programs Community & Corporate Engagement Leadership Development for Public Agencies Short-Term Courses & Events Test Preparation Online Degree Completion Programs Career Tech Foundation Online Programs Online Certificate Programs Online Degree Completion Programs Educator Courses and Programs Getting Started What is a Certificate? Selecting a Program Alumni Success Stories Current Student Resources Program & Course Policies Financial Aid Parking Forms Online Learning Request a Certificate About Fullerton Campus Community & Corporate Engagement Student Resources Teach for EIP FAQ Contact Us Donate × Email a friend To: Invalid E-Mail address From: Message: Page Link: User Experience (UX) Certificate | CSUF Extension and International Programs UX Submit × Email a friend Mail Sent Succesfully Page Link: User Experience (UX) Certificate | CSUF Extension and International Programs UX Close User Experience (UX) Projected outlook for some certified User Experience (UX) and User Interface (UI) experts: 199,400Number of Jobs, 2020 $77,200Median Pay per year, 2021 13%Job Growth, 2020-2030 *U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics, Occupational Outlook Handbook – Web Developers and Deigital Designers Earn Your User Experience (UX) and User Interface (UI) Certificate in 5 months User Experience (UX) and User Interface (UI), the crafting of positive, effectual interactions between users and products/ technology which serve/benefit the user has become one of the strongest specializations in today’s business world. Organizations are increasingly recognizing the value and need to invest in user-centered design methods to gain competitive advantages and increase profitability. There is a significant demand for knowledgeable professionals to fill roles in the User Experience (UX) and User Interface (UI) industry. In this program, you will practice and apply full design thinking processes to an in-demand product of your choice. By creating a human-centered digital product design from the ground up, you take on the role of a professional UX/UI Designer and demonstrate the understanding of the many facets of the digital product design process. Interview with Instructor Hilary Bienstock, UX Certificate Program In this Q&A, Hilary talks about what it takes to be successful in the online classroom, tips for networking after you finish your UX program, and common career paths for graduates. Read Interview Digital Badge Showcase your professional accomplishments with digital badges from CSUF Extension & International Programs! A digital badge is a visual representation of skills and knowledge you have gained by completing a certificate program or course. After completing a course/program, you will receive a notification to claim your digital badge on the Badgr platform. From there, you can create an account where you will be able to display all the badges you've earned digitally. Though the digital badge will not appear on your university transcript or count as academic credit, these highly coveted digital badges can be placed on your résumé and on LinkedIn or other social media platforms. CSUF User Experience (UX) and User Interface (UI) Program Benefits: You Will: Master user-focused business processes. Learn to increase user satisfaction. Learn from recognized industry practitioners. Ideal for: Business analysts, consultants and scientists. Intelligence professionals - architects, scrum masters, software engineers, application developers, usability analysts and researchers. Customer relationship management and human factors practitioners. Website developers and Interaction, visual, graphic and user interface designers. Medical-device and appliance designers. Technical writers and product managers. Program Stats: Three required courses (90 hours of lecture and discussion). Fully online 5 months 9 continuing education units (CEUs). For optimal viewing of the course schedule below, please view on a tablet or desktop Schedule Eligibility Program Benefits Who Should Attend Note: Click on the course title to view all available course sections. Hover over the colored labels to view where the course will be offered. Course Title Collapse All The Design Thinking Process - Research, Define, Ideate No sections available. Sign up and stay connected. View the course description. Product Building - Plan, Design, and Develop No sections available. Sign up and stay connected. View the course description. Product Refinement - Evaluate, Iterate, Present No sections available. Sign up and stay connected. View the course description. Upon completion of the certificate program, graduates will be able to: · Write, distribute, and analyze the results of an online user research survey. · Recruit and conduct user interviews and synthesize responses from multiple interview sessions to an empathy map. · Write a clearly defined problem statement. · Design a user journey diagram, create user personas, and conduct market research and a competitive analysis of direct, indirect, and replacement competitors. · Actively participate in group brainstorm and feedback sessions. · Organize product features by user impact vs. development effort. · Identify and communicate business goals for your product such as customer segments, revenue, key metrics for success, channels/distribution, and promotion. · Compare responsive website design to mobile app design. · Design a UX sitemap and optimal user flow path to establish information architecture. · Design low fidelity, mid fidelity, and high fidelity wireframes for a responsive website or native mobile app. · Create an interactive prototype. · Recruit and conduct usability testing sessions. · Compare agile and waterfall development methodologies and identify common roles within an agile software development team. · Present work to fellow designers and industry leaders using UX/UI design vocabulary. · Work in Figma: Create and maintain files, create frames, components, color styles, text styles, resize/rotate/move elements, upload and mask photos, and connect elements on screens to develop an interactive/clickable prototype. This program is intended to support the application of design thinking for anyone interested in improving user interactions with a product, service, or technology. 1. Business Analysts and Consultants 2. Business Intelligence/Web Analytics Professionals 3. Instructional Designers 4. Product/Program Managers 5. Customer Relationship Management Practitioners 6. Human Factors Practitioners 7. Industrial and Product Design Practitioners 8. Information Architects 9. Interaction Designers 10. Library Science Practitioners 11. Medical Device and Appliance Designers 12. Mobile Applications Developers 13. Product Managers 14. Project Team Leaders/Project Managers/Scrum Masters 15. Software and Application Developers 16. Software Engineers 17. Technical Writers 18. Usability Analysts/Researchers 19. Visual/Graphic/User Interface Designers 20. Website Developers and Administrators There are no prerequisites for admission to this program. Students should have proficiency in using a computer. It is recommended that participants who reside outside of the United States and whose first language is not English possess English language proficiency equivalent to: A minimum TOEFL score of 550 (paper) or 80 (iBT) or a minimum IELTS score of 6.5 There is no need to send the test score to the University. It is the participant's responsibility to demonstrate English language proficiency necessary to fully participate in the class lectures and discussions. Blake Gastreich Learning Experience Designer Extension and International Programs California State University, Fullerton David Holifield Technology Garage Design Leader - Design & Business Strategy IBM Winnie Kang-Abreu Program Manager Extension and International Programs California State University, Fullerton David Nguyen Product Design Manager Blizzard Entertainment Christina Wagner Associate Director Extension and International Programs California State University, Fullerton Chen Wang Professor, Graphic & Interactive Design Department of Visual Arts College of the Arts California State University, Fullerton Program Details Location: Online, Weekly modules Length: 5 months Cost: $4,500* Next Start: September 2022 *Cost is approximate and subject to change View Schedule Request a Certificate View Related Programs Non-California Residents English Proficiency Requirement It is recommended that participants who reside outside of United States and whose first language is not English must possess English language proficiency equivalent to a minimum TOEFL score of 550 (paper), 80 (iBT) or IELTS score of 6.5. It is the participantís responsibility to demonstrate English language proficiency necessary to fully participate in the class lectures and discussions. Professional Licensure and Certification *Have a question? Please contact us. Online Form - Prof Dev Master Email Sign-up (untitled_form_1_copy) Email Us: eipconnect@fullerton.edu Phone: (657) 278-2611 Address: 800 N. State College Blvd., #THall 1403, Fullerton, CA 92831 California State University, Fullerton / Extension and International Programs Download Adobe Reader