Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Youth, Families and Health Family Emergency Preparedness Photo: City of Vancouver (Cropped from original) Family Emergency Preparedness Home Browse Resources Events Our Work Our Experts In Your Community Share Cascadia Earthquake Preparedness A major earthquake off the Pacific Northwest coast could happen at any time. OSU Extension is playing a critical role in helping Oregon's people and communities prepare for this predicted natural disaster. Learn more Photo by Cal OES is licensed under CC BY-NC 2.0 (Cropped from original) Featured Resources Survival Basics: Stress Less In an emergency, fear and anxiety are a natural reaction. However, there are ways to prepare for those tense, anxious moments with an emotional toolkit that helps you cope and respond effectively during a disaster. This ... Glenda Hyde, Lynette Black, Lauren Kraemer | Jun 2020 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Survival Basics: Water Explore a variety of methods for purifying and storing water for an extended emergency. Learn how to find or make safe water from additional sources. This publication is a companion piece for Oregon State University Extension ... Lynette Black, Glenda Hyde, Lauren Kraemer | Apr 2020 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Survival Basics: Food — How to Stock Up and Prepare for Natural Disasters Scientists say that a major earthquake could hit the Pacific Northwest in the next 50 years. When disaster strikes, you will need a variety of healthy foods at hand. Being able to feed yourself and your family will help ... Glenda Hyde, Lynette Black, Lauren Kraemer | Aug 2021 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Latest Resources Photo: Carrie Berger (Cropped from original) Forestry & Natural Resources Extension Fire Program: 2021 Impact Report The Extension Fire Program uses education, outreach, and boundary spanning partnerships to foster the resiliency of communities and landscapes to wildfire at scale. Learn more! Carrie Berger, Emily Jane Davis | May 2022 | Educational document Photo: ODEQ (Cropped from original) Smoke Ready Oregon: Preparing for Wildfire Smoke (Slides) When smoke fills the air during a wildfire event, do you know how to protect yourself and your family? Learn about smoke impacts to health, the air quality index, and simple steps you can do right now to reduce your risk from smoke exposure. May 2022 | Presentation Photo: ODEQ (Cropped from original) Smoke Ready Oregon: Preparing for Wildfire Smoke (Recorded) When smoke fills the air during a wildfire event, do you know how to protect yourself and your family? Learn about smoke impacts to health, the air quality index, and simple steps you can do right now to reduce your risk from smoke exposure. Carrie Berger, Lauren Kraemer | Apr 2022 | Video Browse All Resources Oregonians: stay informed and stay safe. Visit the State of Oregon's hub for government resources on air quality index, fire hotspots maps and wildfire damage relief. Access it now Photo: Pixabay / CC BY (Cropped from original) State Fire Specialist Daniel Leavell teaching wildfire science and fuels reduction. Photo by Carrie Berger Learn what is happening in your community Extension is working across Oregon and producing information that answers questions we hear from those concerned about wildfires. Browse the Fire resources Explore more resources Community Disaster Preparedness Coronavirus (COVID-19) Home Food Preservation Upcoming Events Jun 1 Zoom in on Pressure Canning 5:30 pm - 7:00 pm PDT Online See All Events Meet Our Experts Cindy Brown 4-H Youth Development Contact me for questions on 4-H youth development programming in Sherman County as well as healthy living topics such as MyPlate, gardening, food preservation and food storage! Glenda Hyde Associate Professor of Practice, Family and Community Health; OSU Extension Service Extension Disaster Education Network Delegate Contact me with questions about food safety and preservation, managing stress and emergency/disaster preparedness Lauren Kraemer Associate Professor, Family and Community Health Contact me with all your health and wellness questions in the Columbia River Gorge. Dusti Linnell Family & Community Health See All Family Emergency Preparedness Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Photo: Brian Alexander (Cropped from original) What should I do about the wildfire ash covering my yard and garden? Q: My shrubs are covered in ash. When this is over should I take a hose and spray them off? A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility