Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Programs About Us Photo: Judy Kowalski (Cropped from original) About Us Our Leadership Program Areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our History Get Involved Donate News Career opportunities OSU Extension Service Internship Program Extension Community Advisory Network ECAN Members Donate Share Print Support OSU Extension Donations help OSU Extension strengthen the health, well-being and economic security of youth, families and communities; conserve and enhance natural resources; and strengthen agriculture and food systems across Oregon. From small, one-time donations to larger gifts, everyone can help support our work across Oregon. These gifts are a critical complement to our other funding sources, which include federal, state and local government funds, grants and fees. Make a donation to the OSU Extension program(s) with the greatest impact in your life and community. Or, we can direct your gift to areas of greatest need. We greatly appreciate your support! Give to OSU Extension Beavs Gave on April 27 On this Dam Proud Day, Oregon State's day of giving, supporters everywhere came together for 24 hours dedicated to celebrating our OSU community. Thank you for the 391 gifts that raised $50,390 for our division of Extension and Engagement! See more Ways to give Individuals, corporations, associations and foundations give gifts of all sizes to various OSU Extension programs. All donations are vital to strengthening our programs and services. A one-time or recurring monthly gift from individuals is a welcome contribution, as are gifts through your retirement account. Donating a home, farm or forested property can provide you with many financial benefits while supporting OSU Extension. Donate a valuable asset in exchange for powerful tax benefits and possibly an income stream for you and/or your loved ones. The university has a review process for evaluating the suitability of these gifts. Explore planned gift options Support youth 4-H empowers young people with hands-on learning experiences to help them grow and thrive. We meet youth where they are, and kids need us now more than ever. Your gift can support camping experiences, scholarships and program grants for youth across Oregon. Learn how alumni, parents, and friends of Oregon 4-H can support our youth, faculty, and community programs. Support 4-H in Oregon Credit: Marci B Photography (Cropped from original) Support your local Extension program OSU Extension has opportunities to donate to specific areas or service locations. Look for the "Donate" link on our county or program pages or search for what you want on the donation form below to give directly to what matters to you. Select your county or program fund Giving back Discover ways OSU Extension makes an impact in Oregon communities where help is most needed. See more Extension stories Was this page helpful? YesNo Send feedback Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility