Skip to content Coronavirus Updates: See latest COVID-19 news from Harvard Extension School. COVID-19 Updates Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Academics Take a Course Graduate Degrees Graduate Certificates Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Academic Gap Year Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students Apply to Premedical Program Academic Calendar Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Blog Events Press and Announcements Contact Us MyDCE Login Request Information Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Request Information Academics Take a Course Graduate Certificates Graduate Degrees Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Browse Courses Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students International Students Academic Calendar Forms Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Harvard Extension School Blog Contact Us Events Press and Announcements Media and Photo Information For Enrolled Students Support and Services Student Policies and Conduct Harvard Extension Alumni Association Website Archives Privacy Statement Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Registration and Admissions Course Registration Course Registration Enrollment Requirements Choosing a Credit Status Limited Enrollment Courses and Waitlists Test of Critical Reading and Writing Skills English Proficiency Requirement for Registration Math Placement Test Course Changes and Withdrawals Student ID and Login Information Enrollment Policies Filing An Appeal Late Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate International Students Academic Calendar Registration for summer courses through Harvard Summer School is now open. Registration for fall courses will open in July. How To Register for Courses In the new DCE Course Search and Registration platform, you can seamlessly search for courses, add courses to carts, and submit your registration in a simple and mobile-first platform. Watch this short demo video to learn more. Create or update your account: New students: First, create a MyDCE student account. You’ll be prompted to create a DCEKey login credential before logging in to create your student account. Returning students: Log into DCE Course Search and Registration. Search and add courses to your primary cart. You may create additional carts for planning purposes but only your primary cart can be used for registration. Click “Submit Schedule” then “Submit Registration” to complete your course registration. Courses in which you’ve successfully registered will be noted with black checkmark in your primary cart. Register by the registration deadline each term. Late registration is not permitted. Watch for emails from the Extension School with additional information and updates. Need help? Have a question? Not sure who to contact? Our experienced and talented Enrollment Services team can help. They know the answers to most questions, or they can refer you to the perfect person. Call us at 617-495-4024 or email inquiry@extension.harvard.edu. Watch our webinar about summer registration on demand to get your questions answered. How to Make Course Changes See Course Changes and Withdrawals for details on how to change your credit status and drop or withdraw from courses after registering. Payment You must pay your balance in full by the payment deadline. To make payments, log into MyDCE and select “Financial Services” to enter the Student Finance Portal. If you do not pay your balance in full by the payment deadline, you risk being dropped from all courses and waitlists. If you are dropped for non-payment, you still remain eligible to register for courses until registration ends. However, there is no guarantee space will still be available in the courses or on the waitlists from which you were dropped. If you register for courses after the payment deadline, you must pay in full immediately. Otherwise, you risk being dropped from all courses and waitlists. Learn more about payment and financial aid. How to Confirm Your Registration After you register, log into MyDCE and review your course schedule. For security reasons, you may be asked to present a copy of your course schedule with a government-issued photo ID for admission to certain classrooms in the Science Center, Longwood Medical area, and other buildings and areas on the Harvard campus. Need help? Watch our webinar about summer registration on demand to get your questions answered. Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! Harvard Extension is delighted to celebrate our students’ tremendous commitment and hard work. Read more about our students' journey to this big day! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Archives Follow Harvard Extension School Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Harvard Division of Continuing Education A division of Harvard University dedicated to bringing rigorous programs and innovative online teaching capabilities to distance learners, working professionals, high school students, college students, and those seeking higher learning in retirement. Harvard Extension School Harvard degrees, certificates and courses—online, in the evenings, and at your own pace. Harvard Summer School Academic summer opportunities for adult, college and high school students—at Harvard and abroad. Harvard Professional Development Short, intensive programs to develop skills and strengthen your professional profile. Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement Peer learning in the liberal arts—a community program for retired and semi-retired professionals. Harvard Division of Continuing Education Privacy Statement Accessibility Rights & Regulations Digital Accessibility Policy Harvard.edu Cookie Settings Copyright ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College