Skip to content Coronavirus Updates: See latest COVID-19 news from Harvard Extension School. COVID-19 Updates Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Academics Take a Course Graduate Degrees Graduate Certificates Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Academic Gap Year Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students Apply to Premedical Program Academic Calendar Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Blog Events Press and Announcements Contact Us MyDCE Login Request Information Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Request Information Academics Take a Course Graduate Certificates Graduate Degrees Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Browse Courses Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students International Students Academic Calendar Forms Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Harvard Extension School Blog Contact Us Events Press and Announcements Media and Photo Information For Enrolled Students Support and Services Student Policies and Conduct Harvard Extension Alumni Association Website Archives Privacy Statement Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financing Options for Non-Admitted Students Financial Wellness We know that paying for school can feel like a daunting task. But navigating the complexities of tuition and financial aid should not stand in the way of your education. Our goal is to provide you with clear and easy-to-understand information about what it will cost to reach your education goals at Harvard Extension School. Tuition Per Course At Harvard Extension School, we believe that a quality education should also be affordable. Our tuition rates are comparable to public universities and only a fraction of tuition of our peer institutions. Tuition rate is calculated by credit. We offer 1, 2, 3, 4, and 8 credit courses. However, the large majority of courses are 4 credits. For the 2021-2022 school year, tuition per 4-credit course is as follows: Credit Level Tuition Per 4-credit Course Average Tuition of Peer Institutions Undergraduate credit $1,920 ($480 per credit) $2,738 Graduate credit $2,980 ($745 per credit) $5,476 Noncredit $1,500 ($375 per credit) n/a Cost of Completion: Tuition Per Degree or Certificate If you are planning to complete a degree or certificate, the total tuition will depend on how many courses are required. For the 2021-2022 school year, tuition estimates are as follows: Type of Program Number of Required Courses Total Tuition Undergraduate Certificate 3 $5,760 Graduate Certificate 3–5 $8,940–$14,900 Undergraduate Degree 16–32 $30,720–$61,440 Graduate Degree 10–12 $29,800–$35,760 Learn more about the reduced tuition prices for the three required admissions courses for admission into a Bachelor’s of Liberal Arts degree program. Harvard Extension School offers 42 graduate certificates and 26 graduate degree programs. How to Pay Our goal is to work closely with you to make paying for school as hassle-free as possible. We offer a variety of payment options depending on your circumstances. And we can help you understand whether you might be eligible for financial assistance. For instance, have you thought about asking your employer if they have a tuition reimbursement program? If you are planning to work while completing your education, this type of benefit could cover some or all of your tuition costs. If you are an eligible Harvard University employee, you may be able to take Harvard classes at a discount through the Tuition Assistance Program. Visit the TAP page for more details. Financial aid may be available to help admitted degree candidates pay for some or all tuition costs. Our Student Financial Services staff can help you determine your eligibility for financial aid and how to apply. Types of financial aid available to admitted degree candidates may include: Private loans Federal loans Grants and scholarships If you are active military personnel or a veteran, you may be eligible for special funding options for Military Personnel and Veterans. Other Costs to Consider As you begin your educational journey, it is important to look at other additional expenses that might be necessary. These expenses will be different for each student. However, being aware of the types of expenses you may encounter can help you anticipate and plan for them in advance. Some additional expenses you may incur while attending Harvard Extension School include: Fees. Harvard Extension School does not charge fees as a form of supplemental tuition. However, some transactions may involve small additional fees. For example, applying for a degree program requires a fee of $100. Admitted degree candidates must pay a nonrefundable fee of $35 per term to sign up for the tuition payment plan. You may encounter other, similar fees as you register for and complete coursework at Harvard Extension School. Health insurance. Massachusetts state law requires that eligible students participate in a qualifying student health insurance plan. Get information on student health insurance eligibility, requirements, and fees. Residency requirements. Some degree programs may require that you complete one or more courses on the Harvard campus. Be sure to know your residency requirements and incorporate travel, lodging, and food costs into your total budget. Technology, labs, books, and materials. For your classes, consider the costs of computers, Internet access, and specific apps and software. In addition, some courses may require additional lab fees or the purchase of specific books and materials relevant to that class. Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! Harvard Extension is delighted to celebrate our students’ tremendous commitment and hard work. Read more about our students' journey to this big day! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Archives Follow Harvard Extension School Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Harvard Division of Continuing Education A division of Harvard University dedicated to bringing rigorous programs and innovative online teaching capabilities to distance learners, working professionals, high school students, college students, and those seeking higher learning in retirement. Harvard Extension School Harvard degrees, certificates and courses—online, in the evenings, and at your own pace. Harvard Summer School Academic summer opportunities for adult, college and high school students—at Harvard and abroad. Harvard Professional Development Short, intensive programs to develop skills and strengthen your professional profile. Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement Peer learning in the liberal arts—a community program for retired and semi-retired professionals. Harvard Division of Continuing Education Privacy Statement Accessibility Rights & Regulations Digital Accessibility Policy Harvard.edu Cookie Settings Copyright ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College