Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español OSU Extension Projects Photo: fasterinternetoregon.org (Cropped from original) Broadband Connectivity Outreach Extension collaborates to help communities learn how low-income households can pay for internet service and connected devices, test their internet speeds and partner to deploy broadband on tribal lands. Lucas Turpin | Project Photo by Cal OES is licensed under CC BY-NC 2.0 (Cropped from original) Cascadia Earthquake Preparedness A major earthquake off the Pacific Northwest coast could happen at any time. OSU Extension is playing a critical role in helping Oregon's people and communities prepare for this predicted natural disaster. Project Photo: Robin Maille (Cropped from original) Coast to Forest: Mental Health Promotion in Rural Oregon The Coast to Forest Project builds on community strengths to promote mental health and reduce substance abuse in rural Oregon. Working in collaboration with community partners, we will provide resources and programs to increase ... Project Croptime Croptime introduces degree-day (DD) models for vegetable varieties and weeds. Vegetable models can help schedule planting dates and predict harvest dates. Project Foto: Chris Branam (Cropped from original) Extension Collaboration on Immunization Teaching and Engagement (EXCITE) The EXCITE partnership long-term goal is to strengthen immunization education, with a focus on adult vaccination hesitancy around both COVID-19 and other vaccines. It is a partnership with Extension and the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and Prevention. Project Photo: Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Farm and Ranch Stress Assistance Network The purpose of the Farm and Ranch Stress Assistance Network (FRSAN) Program is to establish a network that connects individuals who are engaged in farming, ranching, and other agriculture-related occupations to stress assistance programs. This project is funded by a USDA NIFA grant. Project Photo by Tiffany Woods (Cropped from original) GROW Healthy Kids and Communities Generating Rural Options for Weight (GROW) Healthy Kids and Communities was an integrated research, education, and Extension program to inspire communities, schools, and families to create environments that make it easy for children to eat healthfully and be physically active. Project HEAL MAPPS™ HEAL MAPPS™ helps community stakeholders document people’s experience of place with respect to supports and barriers for habitual healthy eating and physical activity. Project Introduction to Farm Succession Planning A thriving family agricultural business is rooted in strong planning and communication. OSU’s free online handbook, Getting Organized: Business Organization and Succession Planning for Oregon Family Farms and Ranches, teaches you how ... Christy Anderson Brekken | Project Peer reviewed (Gray level) Photo: Pixabay (Cropped from original) Microgreens Grow Along | Taller de Cultivo de Microplantas Welcome to the Microgreens Grow Along workshop hosted by Oregon State University Extension and Food Hero. This is a bilingual (English & Spanish) online workshop for beginners. Follow the daily lessons and in two weeks you'll ... Brooke Edmunds, Joyce Senior Angulo | Project Peer reviewed (Gray level) Organic Fertilizer and Cover Crop Calculators This free online tool compares the nutrient value and cost of cover crops, organic and synthetic fertilizers and compost. Use this calculator to develop well balanced and cost effective nutrient management programs for your farm. Project R-CFPA We engage people in the communities we serve in assessing the conditions that most affect them where they live, work, learn, and play. We do this to learn what will work best to improve weight healthy behaviors for children and families, and food and physical activity resources in the community. Project Soil Quality Network The Soil Quality Network is a three-year project to create a database, develop a website, and train agricultural professionals in soil quality assessment, education program development and strategies to support farmers. Project SPAN-ET The School Physical Activity and Nutrition Environment Tool (SPAN-ET) was developed to assess school resources and readiness to improve nutrition and physical activity environments, suggest appropriate improvement strategies, and score impacts resulting from environmentally-based treatments. Project Stormwater Solutions for Green Infrastructure This project provides education and technical assistance on green infrastructure (GI) practices that address these stormwater impacts. Project Photo by Alan Calvert (Cropped from original) The WAVE~Ripples for Change: Obesity Prevention in Active Youth OSU project directors Siew Sun Wong, an assistant professor of nutrition and a specialist with the Extension Service, and Melinda Manore, a professor of nutrition, were awarded $4.7 million to start the program, called “The ... Project Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility