Skip to content Coronavirus Updates: See latest COVID-19 news from Harvard Extension School. COVID-19 Updates Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Academics Take a Course Graduate Degrees Graduate Certificates Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Academic Gap Year Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students Apply to Premedical Program Academic Calendar Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Blog Events Press and Announcements Contact Us MyDCE Login Request Information Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Request Information Academics Take a Course Graduate Certificates Graduate Degrees Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Browse Courses Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students International Students Academic Calendar Forms Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Harvard Extension School Blog Contact Us Events Press and Announcements Media and Photo Information For Enrolled Students Support and Services Student Policies and Conduct Harvard Extension Alumni Association Website Archives Privacy Statement Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Paying for School Financial Aid Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Aid Eligibility How to Apply Types of Financial Aid Available How We Determine Your Financial Need Enrollment Considerations How Financial Aid is Disbursed Financial Considerations for Withdrawing from School Loan Payment and Deferment Consumer Information Financing Options for Non-Admitted Students Financial Wellness The Student Financial Services staff helps determine your eligibility for funds that will help you meet the costs of your education. Our financial aid information is tailored to two distinct audiences, outlined below. If you are interested in learning more about financial aid options, consider viewing one of our recorded presentations regarding financial aid or managing student loans at the Career and Academic Resource Center website. Funding for Admitted Candidates View More If you are an admitted candidate in an undergraduate or graduate program, or the Premedical Program, there are a variety of financial aid options available to help you meet your education expenses. As a US citizen or eligible noncitizen, you may apply for federal, state, and institutional aid. Note: Admitted candidates who have been granted Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) status may apply for institutional aid only. You fall into this category if: You have submitted the admission application, available in each program section of our website. You have been officially admitted by the dean or program director. Steps in the Financial Aid Process These are the general steps in the financial aid application and disbursement process. For more information specific to the academic period(s) for which you plan to apply for financial aid, please see How to Apply: Complete the appropriate Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) Receive a financial aid eligibility offer indicating the amount and type(s) of aid for which you are eligible. Sign a master promissory note, if borrowing a federal student loan Complete the required entrance counseling if borrowing a federal student loan for the first time Financial Aid Advising If you have questions regarding the application process, or need help understanding the types of aid for which you are eligible, please contact Student Financial Services. General or Preadmission Students View More You are a nonadmitted student if: You are taking admission courses and planning to apply to a program. You are taking courses independent of a program. You are taking courses toward a professional certificate. Learn More About Your Financial Aid Options Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! Harvard Extension is delighted to celebrate our students’ tremendous commitment and hard work. Read more about our students' journey to this big day! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Archives Follow Harvard Extension School Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Harvard Division of Continuing Education A division of Harvard University dedicated to bringing rigorous programs and innovative online teaching capabilities to distance learners, working professionals, high school students, college students, and those seeking higher learning in retirement. Harvard Extension School Harvard degrees, certificates and courses—online, in the evenings, and at your own pace. Harvard Summer School Academic summer opportunities for adult, college and high school students—at Harvard and abroad. Harvard Professional Development Short, intensive programs to develop skills and strengthen your professional profile. Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement Peer learning in the liberal arts—a community program for retired and semi-retired professionals. Harvard Division of Continuing Education Privacy Statement Accessibility Rights & Regulations Digital Accessibility Policy Harvard.edu Cookie Settings Copyright ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College