Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Business and Economics Estate and Succession Planning Via Good Free Photos (CC0) (Cropped from original) Estate and Succession Planning Home Browse Resources Get Involved Our Work Our Experts Share Featured Resources Introduction to Farm Succession Planning A thriving family agricultural business is rooted in strong planning and communication. OSU’s free online handbook, Getting Organized: Business Organization and Succession Planning for Oregon Family Farms and Ranches, teaches you how ... Christy Anderson Brekken | Project Peer reviewed (Gray level) 2017 ag census points to a lack of succession planning among farmers The 2017 Census of Agriculture offers a snapshot of agriculture in Oregon: acreage is falling, the number of farms is rising and the average age of owners is 59.7. The data also show a lack of succession planning. Christy Anderson Brekken | May 2019 | Article Fishing Community Resilience: Deep Community Ties This oral history video explores fishing community resilience and maintaining ties within and between communities as the world changes. Jun 2020 | OSU Sea Grant Publication Peer reviewed (Gray level) Step through the Process Together Ties to the Land focuses on succession planning, the human side of estate planning. Its workshops discuss strategies to maintain ties to the land from one generation to the next. The trainers seek to build awareness of the key challenges facing succession planners and their businesses, and how to address those challenges. As a facilitated and interactive workshop with DVD-based components, Ties to the Land provides effective tools families and individuals can use to decide the future of their land. Get more information on Ties to the Land Credit: Norma Kline (Cropped from original) Latest Resources Photo: Christina Friehauf (Cropped from original) Episode 16: Taxes For Woodland Owners In this episode, Jacob Putney and Tamara Cushing discuss woodland taxation and finance. Cushing is the extension forest business and economics specialist at the University of Florida. Jacob Putney, Tamara Cushing | Mar 2022 | Podcast episode Introduction to Farm Succession Planning A thriving family agricultural business is rooted in strong planning and communication. OSU’s free online handbook, Getting Organized: Business Organization and Succession Planning for Oregon Family Farms and Ranches, teaches you how ... Christy Anderson Brekken | Project Peer reviewed (Gray level) Thinking About the Future of Your Forest: Passing It Onto the Next Owner Regardless of how you acquired your property, chances are you have spent lots of time, energy, and cash on the property. Let’s face it, none of us are getting any younger. Now is the time to think through what a ... Tamara Cushing | Oct 2020 | Video Browse All Resources Latest News Credit Betsy Harley (Cropped from original) Extension program offers safety net for depressed and suicidal farmers and ranchers QPR (Question, Persuade, Refer) teaches farmers, ranchers and their family and friends how to interrupt the process that leads to suicide. Kym Pokorny | Mar 3, 2021 | News story All News Explore more resources Business Management Finance, Budgeting, and Taxes Agritourism Meet Our Experts Tamara Cushing Forest Economics See All Estate and Succession Planning Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility