Your browser does not support inline frames or is currently configured not to display inline frames Skip to Navigation Skip to Main Content Website and online services unavailable on May 29. See IT Disaster Recovery website ► Quick Register | Cart Professional Development Extension and International Programs California State University, Fullerton All Programs Areas of Study: Business Crime & Forensics Fiduciary Management Technology & Engineering Program Types: Certificate Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Educator Courses and Programs Community & Corporate Engagement Leadership Development for Public Agencies Short-Term Courses & Events Test Preparation Online Degree Completion Programs Career Tech Foundation Online Programs Online Certificate Programs Online Degree Completion Programs Educator Courses and Programs Getting Started What is a Certificate? Selecting a Program Alumni Success Stories Current Student Resources Program & Course Policies Financial Aid Parking Forms Online Learning Request a Certificate About Fullerton Campus Community & Corporate Engagement Student Resources Teach for EIP FAQ Contact Us Donate Teaching Join our Instructor Teaching Pool Who we are: Extension and International Programs works collaboratively with university and community partners to provide a diverse portfolio of programs and services designed to meet the changing needs of local, regional, and international constituencies. Our Professional Development programs are created with campus, community and business needs in mind. They provide pathways for people to change or advance their careers, learn new skills and ultimately move forward in the life and career goals. We offer an array of certificates to choose from in the fields of Business, Crime & Forensics, Fiduciary, Technology & Engineering and Education. Our courses and programs are delivered in a range of formats from online, virtual, and hybrid to in-person. Classes are offered almost exclusively during the evenings and on weekends to best accommodate our learners. What our Instructors do: Instructor responsibilities range from developing course content and student assessments, to monitoring course evaluations and improving course curriculum as needed. Instructors are also expected to complete required administrative tasks (pre/post class) to align with EIP and campus policies. Most importantly, our instructors are responsible for fostering a safe and student-centered learning environment that provides flexibility, and which promotes equity and inclusivity. What to Expect: As a Professional Development instructor, you will work closely with our experienced team of program managers, coordinators and instructional designers who manage, support and provide instructional design guidance for our programs. Here’s a quick snapshot of what we can provide: Course administration support and scheduling; instructor onboarding; course enrollment management and program marketing; student support Course design and development collaboration; course and program assessment; instructional design consultations for teaching in Canvas; multimedia support Access to university resources (academic journals, select training workshops), software (Camtasia/Adobe Suite, etc.) Connection to an instructional community of practice and access to resources and best practices which support course delivery and facilitation. What we are Looking for: Expert practitioners who want to use their real-world experiences to help students make immediate improvements in their workplace or equip them for a new career. While each certificate program may have specific qualifications, in general, we are looking for instructors who are: Practicing professionals with proven skills and a have a passion for what they do Educated in their field Experienced with teaching adult learners (though teacher credentials are not required) or have experience coaching, facilitating, or training in a professional setting If this sounds like an opportunity you would like to pursue, please start by filling out our EIP Instructor Teaching Pool Questionnaire. View Questionnaire NOTE:There may or may not be an immediate need in your area of expertise. When and if a part-time instructor position becomes available and a submitted profile aligns with a teaching vacancy, our program team will reach out to candidates in the pool for further conversation. Part-time instructor positions are on a course by course contracted basis. Email Us: eipconnect@fullerton.edu Phone: (657) 278-2611 Address: 800 N. State College Blvd., #THall 1403, Fullerton, CA 92831 California State University, Fullerton / Extension and International Programs Download Adobe Reader