Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Home Gardening, Lawn, and Landscape Gardening Techniques Frost Dates In Baker County and Areas The average dates are established at the 50% level or half the times the frost may occur before or after that date. The safe date is when there is less than a 10% chance the frost will be after (for last frost) or that it will occur before (the first frost). You certainly will have your own little micro-climates around your landscape to modify your planting times. You can always use season extenders to modify these areas. These techniques are not limited to greenhouses or row covers. Location Average Last Frost (Date) Safe Last Frost (Date) Average First Frost (Date) Safe First Frost (Date) Average Growing Season (Days) Safe Growing Season (Days) Baker Airport 6/3 6/29 9/7 8/26 95 64 Baker Area 5/30 6/20 9/22 9/8 115 89 Halfway 6/11 7/3 9/10 8/28 90 64 Huntington 4/30 5/17 10/9 9/22 161 137 La Grande 5/17 6/11 9/26 9/9 130 98 Ontario 5/12 6/3 9/28 9/14 139 108 Richland 5/22 6/12 9/26 10/8 126 94 Union 5/24 6/12 9/17 9/2 116 94 Vale 5/13 6/2 9/30 9/16 139 114 Want to learn more about this topic? Explore more resources from OSU Extension: Gardening Techniques May 2018 Share Print Was this page helpful? YesNo Send feedback Related Content from OSU Extension Sustainable Gardening: The Oregon–Washington Master Gardener Handbook Provides information about gardening techniques covering topics in home horticulture, botany, soils, plant pathology, and entomology. The handbook is 3-ring binder ready, published as a package with full-color slip cover and spine and... Oct 2008 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Tree Protection on Construction and Development Sites This publication is a guide for protecting, conserving, selecting, maintaining, removing, and replacing trees on development sites in the Pacific Northwest. Dec 2009 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Growing Your Own About this publication Growing Your Own provides basic advice on a wide range of gardening topics, including composting, container gardens, fall/winter gardens, fertilizing, insect pests, plant diseases, planting guidelines, raised beds, ... Gail Langellotto | Apr 2011 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Biology and Management of Knotweeds in Oregon: A Guide for Gardeners and Small-Acreage Landowners Woody knotweeds are listed as noxious weeds throughout most of the United States. This publication briefly describes the characteristics and biology of four species of woody knotweeds and summarizes management and control options. Intended for home gardeners and small-acreage landowners. Andy Hulting | Jun 2011 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Invasive Species: What Gardeners Need to Know Invasive nonnative plants are a serious subject for gardeners, farmers, the general public, and land managers. Understanding invasive species and how to control them is becoming increasingly important for gardeners. Lynette Black | Aug 2011 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) An Educator's Guide to Vegetable Gardening This publication is a primer on vegetable gardening written specifically for educators, including those who use gardens as part of a nutrition education curriculum. It outlines a full-circle approach to educational gardening, provides... Weston Miller, Gail Langellotto | Sep 2011 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) How to select and plant bare-root native plants Bare-root native plants are an economical way for gardeners to contribute to the health of ecosystems and watersheds. While they are affordable because of their small size, they also require careful handling. Jul 2018 | Article Keep Pets Safe Around Pesticides Pesticides can be effective in controlling pests, but they can also be dangerous to pets. This publication describes hazards to pets from use of molluscicides, insecticides aimed at fleas and ticks, rodenticides, and herbicides. ... Dave Stone | Aug 2012 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) An Introduction to Being a Master Gardener Volunteer This guide outlines the training and volunteer responsibilities of people who go through the Master Gardener program with OSU Extension. It explores the history of the program and details how volunteers can use their training to help the general public. Gail Langellotto | Oct 2014 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Harvesting Rainwater for Use in the Garden This publication describes how to collect rainwater from the roof of your home and store it for use during the dry summer months for watering your garden or lawn. Sam Angima | Dec 2014 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Ecological Design of Urban Landscapes: Economic, Social and Ecological Benefits An ecological approach to landscape design incorporates natural systems as an integral part of urban landscapes. It differs from conventional landscaping in that buildings, hardscape, and landscape are planned as a unified whole, ... Signe Danler, Gail Langellotto | Mar 2015 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) A Guide to Hedgerows: Plantings That Enhance Biodiversity, Sustainability and Functionality Hedgerows are living fences with the ability to grow food, shelter wildlife, save water, manage weeds and look beautiful all year round. Study the many benefits of hedgerows, and learn what you need to know to plant your own living fence. Pami Monnette | Jun 2020 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Photo: Heather Stoven (Cropped from original) How to help hydrangeas weather a heat wave A heat wave can turn a hydrangea's lush green leaves and beautiful blooms brown and brittle in no time. But it doesn't have to be that way. Here's what gardeners can do to protect hydrangeas from the heat. Heather Stoven | Jul 2021 | Article Peer reviewed (Gray level) Lincoln County Master Gardener E-newsletter If you are a Master Gardener, view our Master Gardener monthly E-newsletter to stay up-to-date on Master Gardener happenings. Subscribe to receive this newsletter directly to your email inbox here: http://eepurl.com/hQwvvj. If you ... Newsletter Photo: Brooke Edmunds (Cropped from original) Ecolawn: Less work and water An ecolawn is a low input alternative to a conventional perennial grass lawn. Ecolawns provide a turf-type ground cover and tolerate typical uses of grass lawns. Steve Castagnoli | Feb 2013 | Article Photo: A. Detweiler (Cropped from original) The Brambles This monthly Curry County Master Gardeners newsletter offers information about upcoming events, project updates, association business news, and other timely gardening topics. Newsletter Photo by Tom Gentle. (Cropped from original) A guide to understanding fertilizers Fertilizers come in many different forms, from naturally occurring in the soil to commercial or organic products, liquid and dry, and in many different formulations. Here's how to choose what your plants need. Sally Reill | Jan 2019 | Article Photo: OSU Linn County Extension (Cropped from original) GROWING GROWING is a joint publication by Linn and Benton County OSU Extension services, and is published by the Albany Democrat Herald. GROWING is published every other month (January, March, May, July, September, and November). Newsletter Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility