Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Water and Watersheds Riparian Areas Photo: Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Riparian Areas Home Browse Resources Get Involved Our Experts Share Featured Resources Photo: Patrick Breen (Cropped from original) Riparian trees and shrubs for southwest Oregon Trees and shrubs growing alongside streams in southwest Oregon are different from those in other areas. Learn what species of trees grow best in this unique environment, what size they will become, and what conditions each needs to thrive. Jul 2018 | Article Life on the Edge: Improving Riparian Function Whether it's along a coastal or a desert stream, the riparian area plays a pivotal role in the health of our watersheds. In "Life on the Edge", viewers discover what that means. John Wilson | Jan 2011 | Video Streamside Gardening Your streamside is part of a larger system of plants and animals that live near and within the stream itself. Jul 2018 | Collection Streams and Riparian Areas: Clean Water, Diverse Habitat Streams and streambanks are vital but vulnerable wildlife habitat. Learn the steps you can take to improve vegetation and water quality on your riparian property. These recommendations can help protect birds, fish and other species, while helping you follow the law. This publication is part of the Land Steward Rural Resource Guidelines series. Learn more Photo: EESC slide collection (Cropped from original) Latest Resources Healthy streams: a family’s journey toward fish habitat restoration This class will cover how a small woodland family northeast of Estacada embarked on a ten-year effort (ongoing) to restore their creek to improve fish habitat and allow for fish passage. Topics covered include planning, ... David Bugni, Glenn Ahrens, Dan Stark | Apr 2022 | Video Getting to know forest amphibians of Oregon Come learn from amphibian experts about the role forests play in providing habitat for amphibians. These authors just released a new publication for landowners, Wildlife in Managed Forests: Forest Amphibians. They will discuss ... Deanna Olson, Tiffany Garcia, Fran Cafferata Coe | Jan 2022 | Video Credit: Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Riparian management and resources for landowners Riparian areas are rich ecological environments that support a diversity of life and contribute to the overall health of our communities. But they are delicate and complex, and face threats to their existence. Private landowners ... Julia Wentzel, Chloe Hull | Aug 2021 | Article Peer reviewed (Gray level) Browse All Resources Explore more resources Fish and Aquatic Life Sustainability Water Management and Conservation Meet Our Experts Glenn Ahrens Forestry Abigail Tomasek Assistant Professor and Statewide Soil Water Quality Extension Specialist, Crop and Soil Science Contact me with questions related to statewide soil and water quality. See All Riparian Areas Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility