Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Gardening, Lawn, and Landscape Flowers, Shrubs, and Trees Photo: Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Flowers, Shrubs, and Trees Home Browse Resources Get Involved Events Our Experts In Your Community Share Featured Resources Photo: Quinn Sinanan Neal (Cropped from original) 167 - Linda Hardison - Oregon Flora… reloaded Linda Hardison is the director of the Oregon Flora and a research assistant professor in the Botany & Plant Pathology Dept. at Oregon State University. She grew up in Texas, and received undergraduate degrees in botany and ... Andony Melathopoulos | Jan 2021 | Podcast episode A Guide to Hedgerows: Plantings That Enhance Biodiversity, Sustainability and Functionality Hedgerows are living fences with the ability to grow food, shelter wildlife, save water, manage weeds and look beautiful all year round. Study the many benefits of hedgerows, and learn what you need to know to plant your own living fence. Pami Monnette | Jun 2020 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Water-wise Gardening in Central Oregon You can have a colorful and beautiful landscape while conserving water and saving time, energy and money. Learn innovative conservation techniques for water-wise gardening, or xeriscaping, in central Oregon. Full plant lists give you... Amy Jo Detweiler | Jun 2020 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Latest Resources Photo: Michaela Kash (CC BY 2.0) (Cropped from original) Is bark mulch a fire hazard? Q: I want to use mulch in my backyard around my flowers and trees, lots of trees. Fire experts want me to clear around my plants and down to the dirt!! I want to conserve water and I know I need mulch to do that since I cannot afford gravel. Besides, I do not like gravel. HELP!!! A: View answer | View all featured questions Photo: Ask Extension (Cropped from original) Is this the end for my venerable daphne? Q: My 20 year old daphne’s flowers were smallish and lacked fragrance. Now the leaves have turned yellow and are falling. Can I save it? A: View answer | View all featured questions Photo: Ask Extension (Cropped from original) Is there hope for my snow-damaged tree? Q: The recent, heavy snow combined with rain pulled over an ornamental plum I’ve had for 20 years. Unfortunately, it drew the base partly out of the ground, though no roots are exposed. Can I right it and fix it with cables? Do I need an arborist? Or is it just toast? A: View answer | View all featured questions Browse All Resources Latest News Credit Betsy Hartley. (Cropped from original) OSU Extension Master Gardeners see big success with free Level Up Series The webinars are free and geared toward experienced gardeners but with plenty of information for beginners, too. Kym Pokorny | Jan 26, 2022 | News story 10 trees for fiery fall color When choosing a tree, first do some research. Walk around neighborhoods, parks and public gardens to get ideas. Kym Pokorny | Aug 27, 2021 | News story Better breeding brings begonias back into the limelight The variety of begonias is stunning. The leaves, which come in many colors, can be flat, pebbled, shiny, hairy, fuzzy or spiraled. They come in many colors with single blossoms up to huge clusters. Kym Pokorny | Aug 6, 2021 | News story All News Explore more resources Gardening Techniques Urban Forestry Integrated Pest Management Upcoming Events Jun 4 Fruit Thinning & Sucker Removal (Hands-on) 1:00 pm - 3:00 pm Eugene, OR Jun 7 Conifers in the Pacific Northwest * 7:00 pm - 8:00 pm PDT Online Jun 14 How to build a truly interesting garden 7:00 pm - 8:00 pm PDT Online Jul 8 - Aug 26 Certificate of Home Horticulture: Summer Intensive Online See All Events Meet Our Experts Signe Danler Master Gardener Online Program Instructor Contact for questions about Online Master Gardener and Home Horticulture program Amy Jo Detweiler Horticulture Brooke Edmunds Community Horticulture, Master Gardeners Contact me with gardening questions from Marion or Polk counties Dan Leavell See All Flowers, Shrubs, and Trees Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Photo: Michaela Kash (CC BY 2.0) (Cropped from original) Is bark mulch a fire hazard? Q: I want to use mulch in my backyard around my flowers and trees, lots of trees. Fire experts want me to clear around my plants and down to the dirt!! I want to conserve water and I know I need mulch to do that since I cannot afford gravel. Besides, I do not like gravel. HELP!!! A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility