Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Community Vitality Community Science Photo: Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Community Science Home Browse Resources Get Involved Our Work Our Experts Share Featured Resources Photo: Oregon Bee Project (Cropped from original) Oregon Bee Project Homepage for the Oregon Bee Project and Oregon Bee Atlas Nov 2019 | Online resource Oregon Season Tracker Oregon Season Tracker (OST) is a project of Oregon State University that aims to link natural resource managers, educators, researchers and others in the community to the science they use through collaborative citizen science. We ... Program Photo by Jason O'Brien (Cropped from original) Oregon Master Naturalist The Oregon Master Naturalist Program is for people interested in Oregon’s natural history and natural resources management who want to dedicate their time as volunteers. Take courses online and on-location in Oregon’s beautiful outdoors. Program Oregon Forest Pest Detector Oregon Forest Pest Detectors (OFPDs) are volunteers that help prevent the damaging impacts of invasive forest pests by monitoring for and reporting potential infestations. They usually already have some baseline knowledge of ... Program Latest Resources Building Equity at the High School Leadership Institute OSU Extension Service Outdoor School offered grants that encouraged outdoor school providers and sites to focus on equity work in their programming. The Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Grant allowed outdoor school providers to look ... Jan 2022 | Video Increasing the Reach of Integrated Pest Management Through Community Partnerships This publication summarizes the learner-centered education methods and community outcomes of three Extension partnerships. These projects increased the use of integrated pest management and pesticide risk reduction practices in Oregon. The... Cassie Bouska, Gordon Jones, Darrin Walenta | Jul 2021 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Photo: Samuel Chan (Cropped from original) Pest alert: Invasive zebra mussels arrive in Oregon in "moss" balls sold for aquariums Pest alert! The highly invasive Zebra mussel has made it into Oregon through moss balls, popular among aquarium hobbyists and commonly sold in pet stores. Invasive species experts say the moss balls should be destroyed. Adriene Koett-Cronn, Samuel Chan | Mar 2021 | Article Browse All Resources Latest News Credit Susan Lazareck (Cropped from original) Extension Master Gardeners put their hands in the soil for science OSU Extension Master Gardeners are taking part in a community science project to understand the the transfer dynamics of soil microbes ot humans in gardening. Kym Pokorny | Oct 1, 2020 | News story Photo: Bill Proebsting (Cropped from original) Birds show success of attracting wildlife at OSU urban horticulture center Oak Creek Center for Urban Horticulture strives to be wildlife friendly. Kym Pokorny | Jan 7, 2020 | News story All News Explore more resources Climate Change Environmental Education (PreK-12) Invasive Species Meet Our Experts Jason O'Brien Master Naturalist Program Coordinator Contact me with questions about the Master Naturalist Program. Brooke Edmunds Community Horticulture, Master Gardeners Contact me with gardening questions from Marion or Polk counties Jamie Doyle Marine Resources Topics Jamie works on include: marine debris, seafood education, local food systems, seafood processing, working waterfronts, coastal master naturalist, State of the Coast, and social science research. Kara Baylog Forestry Outreach Coordinator See All Community Science Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility