Skip to content Coronavirus Updates: See latest COVID-19 news from Harvard Extension School. COVID-19 Updates Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Academics Take a Course Graduate Degrees Graduate Certificates Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Academic Gap Year Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students Apply to Premedical Program Academic Calendar Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Blog Events Press and Announcements Contact Us MyDCE Login Request Information Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Request Information Academics Take a Course Graduate Certificates Graduate Degrees Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Browse Courses Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students International Students Academic Calendar Forms Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Harvard Extension School Blog Contact Us Events Press and Announcements Media and Photo Information For Enrolled Students Support and Services Student Policies and Conduct Harvard Extension Alumni Association Website Archives Privacy Statement Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Press and Announcements We are Harvard—extended to the world for every type of adult learner. We serve students seeking part-time, online courses and nonresidential programs to advance their career or pursue an academic passion. We are a fully accredited Harvard school. Our degrees and certificates are adorned with the Harvard University insignia. They carry the weight of that lineage. Our graduates walk at University commencement and become members of the Harvard Alumni Association. As one of 12 degree-granting institutions at Harvard University, we teach to the largest and most eclectic student body. Our students come to us from every time zone, every culture and career background, every age from 18 to 89. Our students have one thing in common: the motivation to take the next challenging step in their lives. They find that challenge here, where our academic standards are high and our resources extensive. Is Harvard Extension School the right fit for you? Whatever your learning goals, Harvard Extension School can help you achieve them. The Value of a Harvard Extension School Education Our History The origin of Harvard Extension School can be traced back to 1835—when John Lowell Jr. founded the Lowell Institute. In his will, Lowell Jr. funded an organization that provided Boston with free public lectures on a variety of subjects. The institute quickly gained an influential presence. Oliver Wendell Holmes, a lecturer at the institute, remarked, “No nobler or more helpful institution exists in America than Boston’s Lowell Institute.” In 1906–07, A. Lawrence Lowell, a trustee of the Lowell Institute and Harvard professor of government, revealed a plan to offer public courses in collaboration with Harvard University. In 1909, when Lowell became president of Harvard, he made that vision a reality. In 1910 Lowell founded the Commission on Extension Courses—hailed by the Boston Evening Transcript as “a new milestone” in education. He saw the commission as an experiment in “popular education.” The goal was to serve those in the community who had the ability and desire to attend college, but had other obligations that kept them from traditional schools. We have held steadfast to Lowell’s vision for over a century. Today, more than 14,000 students join us in our classrooms and more than 800 degrees and 1,000 certificates are awarded each year. Timeline of Harvard Extension School View More 1835 John Lowell Jr. revises his will, leaving half of his estate to endow public lectures. This became the endowment for the Lowell Institute of Boston. 1839 Lowell Institute inaugurated. 1900 A. Lawrence Lowell becomes trustee of Lowell Institute. 1910 Harvard Overseers approve a Department of University Extension on February 23. 1913 In June, two graduates receive the first Harvard University Extension degrees. 1949 Reginald H. Phelps directs and expands Harvard University Extension, stepping down in 1975. University Extension courses are offered on radio. 1956 First Harvard University Extension course is offered on television. 1960 Harvard University Extension starts Polaris University for US Navy submarine crews. Harvard Extension Alumni Association (HEAA) founded. 1975 Michael Shinagel becomes dean of Harvard University Extension School. 1976 Tuition Assistance Program begins for Harvard staff. 1977 Certificate of Advanced Study offered. 1979 Harvard University Extension introduces an ALM (master of liberal arts) degree. Health Careers Program (premedical) starts. 1980 First annual Lowell Lecture is given by McGeorge Bundy. 1983 Harvard University Extension establishes a coat of arms. Grossman Library for University Extension moves to Sever Hall. 1985 University Extension becomes Harvard Extension School. The Harvard Division of Continuing Education (including Harvard Extension School, Harvard Summer School, and Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement) is formally established. Harvard Extension offers its first computer-based distance learning course (“teleteaching”). 1989 The first Harvard Extension “teleteaching” course is offered in China. 1996 Career and Academic Resources Center opens. 1997 Harvard has 100 “distance learners” in Alaska, Hawaii, and other states. Distance education moves to streaming video and audio. 1999 Distance education strategic plan implemented. 2003 Harvard Extension offers Alpha Sigma Lambda honors to ALB graduates. 2005 First distance education courses offered as podcasts. 2007 First collaborative-learning courses open, mixing in-class and online learners. 2013 Huntington D. Lambert becomes the dean of the Division of Continuing Education and University Extension. 2015 HBX, Harvard Business School’s online digital education initiative, and Harvard Extension School, partner to offer college-level credit for students taking the HBX Credential of Readiness (CORe). 2016 Smithsonian Institute and Harvard Extension partner to offer Museum Studies students the opportunity to take courses with Smithsonian staff and study on-site in Washington D.C. Our Commitment to the Future of Education As our world transitions fully to the knowledge economy, Harvard Extension School stands at the forefront of the greatest wave in education—that of open access and active learning. No one knows precisely what universities of the future will look like, but we can predict with some confidence that they will emphasize what we already value: increased quality and clear satisfaction of student expectations, with some combination of online and on-campus interaction—recognizing that different students learn in different ways. Our end goal is the creation of new knowledge and the preservation of academic freedoms. We uphold the great liberal arts tradition, which challenges students to think deeply and critically—an asset in any pursuit. We’re also expanding access to higher education through online courses, summer courses and hybrid courses (which blend online and on campus) to meet the diverse needs of you, our students. In this regard, Harvard Extension School can serve as a working model for our field. What matters to us is your commitment—not only to your own growth, but to our global society. Together, we can make future generations stronger, more informed, and ready for the challenges ahead. Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! Harvard Extension is delighted to celebrate our students’ tremendous commitment and hard work. Read more about our students' journey to this big day! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Archives Follow Harvard Extension School Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Harvard Division of Continuing Education A division of Harvard University dedicated to bringing rigorous programs and innovative online teaching capabilities to distance learners, working professionals, high school students, college students, and those seeking higher learning in retirement. Harvard Extension School Harvard degrees, certificates and courses—online, in the evenings, and at your own pace. Harvard Summer School Academic summer opportunities for adult, college and high school students—at Harvard and abroad. Harvard Professional Development Short, intensive programs to develop skills and strengthen your professional profile. Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement Peer learning in the liberal arts—a community program for retired and semi-retired professionals. Harvard Division of Continuing Education Privacy Statement Accessibility Rights & Regulations Digital Accessibility Policy Harvard.edu Cookie Settings Copyright ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College