Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Pests, Weeds, and Diseases Insects Photo by Stephen Ward (Cropped from original) Insects Home Browse Resources Get Involved Events Our Experts In Your Community Share Description: OSU Extension Service provides information on insect and arthropod management in Oregon and throughout the country. This includes pest management in urban and agricultural settings, as well as conservation of beneficial insects and pollinator health. What are you looking for today ? I want to know about bees and pollinators I need to manage insect pests in a specific crop I want to ask a question I am concerned about invasive insects I want to study insects as a hobby or for research Integrated Pest Management (IPM) in Crops and Landscapes Photo: Nik Wiman (Cropped from original) Hazelnut IPM Resources about integrated pest management for hazelnuts. Nik Wiman, Vaughn Walton, Jay Pscheidt, Marcelo Moretti, David Lowenstein, Heather Andrews, Rachele Nieri | May 2019 | Collection Peer reviewed (Gray level) Field Crop IPM The Agricultural Research and Extension Centers in Eastern and Central Oregon have dedicated faculty focused on IPM (Integrated Pest Management) for potato and seed potato production. Additional resources are available for Western ... Oct 2019 | Collection Photo by Tiffany Hopkins (Cropped from original) Insect Pests in Forests OSU Extension has a dedicated resource area for Forest, Woodland, and Rangeland Health and Management Resources. We provide a few of them here in this section as a convenience for people who may be seeking Insect Management tips for varied ecosystems and landscapes. Mar 2019 | Collection Nursery IPM Extension Program The Nursery IPM Extension program based at the North Willamette Research and Extension Center assists nursery and greenhouse growers to make informed decisions in all aspects of integrated pest management (IPM) including pest identification, monitoring, pest biology, thresholds, and pest management tactics. Lloyd Nackley | Apr 2022 | Online resource Vegetable and Specialty Seed IPM About Oregon Vegetables and the Vegetable Cropping Systems Program. Apr 2018 | Online resource Photo by Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Biodiversity and Pest Management Resources for Small Farms “An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure” (B Franklin, 1706-1790). Pest prevention is a central component of integrated pest management and organic pest management strategies. Crop rotation and crop planning (i.e. ... Apr 2018 | Collection 2022 PNW Insect Management Handbook Covers pesticide safety and toxicity, protecting bees, adjuvants, mixing tables, calibration and biological control. Other sections cover a wide variety of agricultural and nonagricultural products such as commercial vegetables, small ... May 2022 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Browse All Resources Latest News OSU study will provide insight into optimal nutrition for bees With the $500,000 grant from the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Agriculture and Food Research Initiative, the team hopes to improve bee nutrition by building a database of macro and micronutrients found in the flowering plants used in the study. Kym Pokorny | Jul 26, 2021 | News story Credit USDA-ARS, Stephen Ausmus (Cropped from original) Sightings of spotted lanternflies worry farmers, nursery industry So far, there’s no known infestation in Oregon. If one establishes, many of Oregon’s high-value industries may be affected, including wine grapes, nursery and tree crops, small fruits and timber. Kym Pokorny | Jul 15, 2021 | News story Credit: Oregon Department of Agriculture (Cropped from original) Asian giant hornet still far from Oregon The invasive hornet is a concern and residents are encouraged to keep an eye out for the hornet and report possible sightings. Kym Pokorny | Mar 9, 2021 | News story Read All News Invasive insects threaten our environment, economy, and ecosystems. Oregon State University entomologists conduct research and collaborate on monitoring surveys to limit the impact of spotted wing drosophila (SWD) and brown marmorated stink bug (BMSB). We also have resources available about new threats like Asian giant hornet (AGH) and spotted lanternfly (SLF), seen here. Credit USDA-ARS, Stephen Ausmus (Cropped from original) Studying insects is a great way to learn about the natural world. Browse the resources below if you are a collector, student, teacher, or if you are interested in current research being conducted at OSU. Oregon State Entomology (main page) Collecting and Preserving Insects (videos, fact sheets, and presentations) Youth and community education (OSU BugZoo) Photo: Shawn Hanrahan, Texas A & M University (Cropped from original) Need Help? You can submit any insect-related question to the Ask-an-Expert system. This will get you connected to someone that can answer your question. You can submit photos, follow-up with staff, and browse questions that others have submitted. Questions are usually answered within 3-5 days, and you will be notified by email. Give it a try! If you have a specific question about insect ID, use the orange button below. Help me identify a bug Explore more resources Bees and Pollinators Gardening Techniques Integrated Pest Management Invasive Species Nuisance Wildlife Upcoming Events Jun 25 Bees in your garden * 10:00 am - 12:00 pm Portland, OR Jul 12 Best Ecological Ways to Control Pests in Green Spaces 12:00 pm - 1:00 pm PDT Online Aug 9 Should You Leave Your Leaves? How autumn yard maintenance affects overwintering insects 12:00 pm - 1:00 pm PDT Online See All Events Meet Our Experts Silvia I. Rondon Entomologist Contact for IPM questions Vaughn Walton Entomologist Gail Langellotto Master Gardener Statewide Coordinator Contact me for insect and gardening questions. Nik Wiman Orchard Crops Specialist See All Insects Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Photo: Stuart Reitz (Cropped from original) Was this spider silk or something else? Q: While driving across the upper Klamath Basin mid October, my husband and I saw what looked like spider silk or web drifting in the air, and caught in trees and fence-lines - lots of it! Can you tell me what that is? A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility