Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Forests, Woodlands, and Rangelands Non-Timber Forest Products Photo: Lance Cheung, USDA (Cropped from original) Non-Timber Forest Products Home Browse Resources Get Involved Our Experts In Your Community Share Featured Resources Nontimber Forest Products for Small Woodland Owners: Bigleaf Maple Syrup This publication describes how to tap bigleaf maple trees for sap that can be boiled down to make maple syrup. Carrie Berger, Tiffany Hopkins | Mar 2017 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Nontimber Forest Products for Small Woodland Owners: Shiitake Mushrooms This publication explains how to successfully cultivate shiitake mushrooms in your own garden or woodland property. Tiffany Hopkins, Carrie Berger | Mar 2017 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Photo: Alicia Christiansen (Cropped from original) Harvesting evergreen boughs from your woodland Harvest evergreen boughs from your woodland property to make holiday wreaths. Be sure to harvest sometime after the first hard frost, and use proper pruning techniques. Alicia Christiansen | Oct 2019 | Article Latest Resources Photo: Christina Friehauf (Cropped from original) Episode 8: NTFP In this episode, Lauren Grand discusses the importance of non-timber forest products with Neil Schroeder. Lauren Grand, Neil Schroeder | Mar 2022 | Podcast episode Photo: Christina Friehauf (Cropped from original) In the Woods Each month we will bring you research and science-based information on a new topic related to forests that aims to offer some insight into what we know and are still learning about forest science and management. Podcast Photo: Al Shay (Cropped from original) Are wood chips the best surface for our trails? Q: I just purchased a home next to three separate trails. We just cleaned the overgrowth. We'd like to place wood chips on the trails. Is there a specific type recommended? Are there more sustainable options? Are there any ... A: View answer | View all featured questions Browse All Resources Meet Our Experts Alicia Christiansen Forestry & Natural Resources Ariel Cowan Regional Fire Specialist, Central Region Tiffany Hopkins Coordinator, Master Woodland Managers, Coordinator, WOWNet See All Non-Timber Forest Products Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Photo: Al Shay (Cropped from original) Are wood chips the best surface for our trails? Q: I just purchased a home next to three separate trails. We just cleaned the overgrowth. We'd like to place wood chips on the trails. Is there a specific type recommended? Are there more sustainable options? Are there any ... A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility