Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Gardening, Lawn, and Landscape Urban Forestry Urban Forestry Home Browse Resources Get Involved Our Experts In Your Community Share Featured Resources Selecting, Planting, and Caring for a New Tree This book is published as both an interactive app designed for tablet devices and as a downloadable pdf. Both versions cover basic information on choosing a planting site, selecting the right species for the site, proper ... Stephen Fitzgerald | Mar 2016 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Tree Pruning Basics A properly pruned tree looks as natural as possible; the tree’s appearance reflects its fundamental form and character. The pruner must be sensitive to maintaining this structural integrity, in addition to knowing a bit about tree biology and proper pruning principles. Nov 2012 | Article Photo: Oregon State University (Cropped from original) Trees to Know in Oregon and Washington This classic volume is all new! Budding botanists and seasoned explorers alike will enjoy this tour through the trees and forests of the Northwest. Subpage Latest Resources Photo by Stephen Ward (Cropped from original) Pruning with the pros This video series covers a variety of pruning challenges associated with older trees and mature landscapes. Pruning of mature trees that have not seen ideal care in the past can present unique challenges. In these clips, tree ... Nicole Sanchez | Feb 2022 | Collection Pruning Timber & Landscape Trees for Quality Health Learn how corrective pruning of young timber stands and landscape trees can help nip problems in the bud. Learn proper pruning techniques that help promote desired structure and growth and how this will positively impact your ... Jul 2020 | Video Credit Lynn ketchum (Cropped from original) Garden Ecology Lab shares research-based information for home and community gardens Launched in 2017, it’s the first lab in the United States wholly focused on socio-ecological research in home and community gardens. Gail Langellotto | Oct 2020 | Impact story Browse All Resources Latest News Photo from Flickr by Selbe Lynn, (CC BY-NC-ND 2.0). (Cropped from original) Conifers naturally shed needles in summer and fall You're not looking at the same needles over time Kym Pokorny | Oct 7, 2016 | News story All News Explore more resources Tree Care Insects Residential Water/Wells Meet Our Experts Signe Danler Master Gardener Online Program Instructor Contact for questions about Online Master Gardener and Home Horticulture program Brooke Edmunds Community Horticulture, Master Gardeners Contact me with gardening questions from Marion or Polk counties Dan Leavell Erika Szonntag Assistant Professor of Practice, Horticulture Department, College of Agricultural Sciences See All Urban Forestry Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Photo: Ask an Expert (Cropped from original) Can you identify this black and white bug? Q: I have lived in Oregon all my life and never seen this kind of bug before, what is it? It's not very fast moving, this one wasn't anyway. A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility