Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Forests, Woodlands, and Rangelands Tree Care Photo: Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Tree Care Home Browse Resources Get Involved Events Our Experts In Your Community Share Featured Resources Tree thinning for health and vigor Simple guidelines for thinning your woodlands call for removing undesirable trees and making room for the best ones. Max Bennett, Stephen Fitzgerald | Jul 2017 | Article Photo: Oregon Forest Resources Institute (Cropped from original) The age-old secret to tree planting is ... Getting tree seedlings into the ground is simple: green side up, brown side down. The most important work comes beforehand with proper care and choosing a site that has lots of sunshine, good drainage and room to grow. Lauren Grand | Nov 2018 | Article Photo by Sonia Reagan (Cropped from original) Many forest insects are mistaken for tree killers Found an insect in your tree? Chances are it's not a pest. Here's what to look for. Amy Grotta | Jul 2019 | Article Peer reviewed (Gray level) Latest Resources Photo: Christina Friehauf (Cropped from original) Episode 19: OSU Extension Fire Program Team In this episode, Lauren Grand gets to know the members of the OSU Extension Fire Program. Lauren Grand, Aaron Groth, Carrie Berger, Ariel Cowan, Katherine Wollstein, Christopher Adlam, John Rizza, Emily Jane Davis | May 2022 | Podcast episode Photo: Christina Friehauf (Cropped from original) Episode 18: Small Landowner Management In this episode, Lauren Grand and Lindsay Reaves discuss forest management at the Bauman Family Tree Farm. Reaves lives and works on the farm with her husband Tom Bauman. Lauren Grand, Lindsay Reaves | Apr 2022 | Podcast episode Photo: Christina Friehauf (Cropped from original) Episode 15: Reforestation In this episode, Stephen Fitzgerald discusses reforestation with Carli Morgan at the McDonald-Dunn Forest planting site. Morgan manages the reforestation, forest inventory, and GIS programs for the OSU research forests. Stephen Fitzgerald, Carli Morgan | Mar 2022 | Podcast episode Browse All Resources Latest News Photo by Norma Kline (Cropped from original) Extension foresters note trend in redwood plantings, plan needs assessment As landowners in western Oregon start to plant redwood trees more frequently, OSU Extension foresters plan a survey to determine why the tall trees have become popular. Kym Pokorny | Jan 26, 2021 | News story Wisteria care: Take out clippers twice a year and go to town Before planting one, people should realize the effort involved in keeping them in bounds. Kym Pokorny | Jan 8, 2021 | News story Photo: Kimberly Jacobsen (Cropped from original) After COVID-19 cuts down in-person Tree School, event re-grows online The first Tree School Online session debuted with 300 registered participants. Since then, the live classes have rolled out with anywhere from 50 to 100 participants. Jim Sloan | Jun 30, 2020 | News story All News Explore more resources Urban Forestry Upcoming Events Jun 7 Removing Dead Trees from Steep Terrain - In person & Via Zoom! 6:00 pm - 7:30 pm Central Point, OR Jun 7 Conifers in the Pacific Northwest * 7:00 pm - 8:00 pm PDT Online Jun 11 Community Forestry Day - June 11, 2022 8:30 am - 2:30 pm Oregon City, OR Jul 15 Native Trees of Oregon's South Coast: ID, Habitat and Tree Health, Port Orford 1:00 pm - 3:00 pm Port Orford, OR See All Events Meet Our Experts Max Bennett Forestry & Natural Resources Alicia Christiansen Forestry & Natural Resources Dan Leavell See All Tree Care Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Photo: AAE (Cropped from original) Are squirrels killing my old growth juniper? Q: We have an old growth juniper on our property, and it has been taken over by squirrels. They have made their homes underneath the tree. I am afraid they will weaken the root structure, and the tree could fall over in ... A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility