Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Animals and Livestock Poultry and Rabbits Photo by Bob Rost (Cropped from original) Poultry and Rabbits Home Browse Resources Events Our Experts In Your Community Share Featured Resources Poultry Resources for Small Farms This collection was designed to provide information for the poultry producer/owner. Apr 2018 | Collection Raising Chickens in Urban Environments Guidelines for urban dwellers interested in raising chickens in their residential yards. James Hermes | Oct 2013 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Photo: Lukas Boekhout - Unsplash.com (Cropped from original) Rabbit Coat Color Genetics Learn how genes work together to display different combinations of rabbit coat color and patterning. Rabbits are bred for 4-H projects, hobby farms, as personal pets, and for other uses such as meat and fiber production. Jenifer Cruickshank, Molly Stern | Apr 2022 | Collection Peer reviewed (Gray level) Operate in a safe, sanitary and environmentally sound manner Oregon poultry producers who meet certain conditions can slaughter chicken, turkey and other birds in an open-air setting. But they still must meet requirements for sanitation, monitoring, recordkeeping and more. Spanish version: La guía de buenas prácticas para el sacrificio al aire libre de aves de corral Read the Best-Practices Guide to Open-Air Poultry Slaughter Photo by Lynn Ketchum. (Cropped from original) Latest Resources Genotypes - SUMMARY TABLE Use this handy table to work through the information. Lists genotypes and their function, and wild-type alleles. Apr 2022 | Fact Sheet Photo by Waranya Mooldee via Unsplash (Cropped from original) Understanding the genetics behind rabbit coat colors: Part 4 - review and practice Use this interactive, web-based resource to learn even more about coat color genetics! Two lessons provide the learner an opportunity to practice determining genotypes and 'investigate' what a rabbit might look like if it had a certain, given genotype. Full-color photographs enhance the experience, and mini quizzes help to reinforce the topics. This resource was developed to be mobile device friendly and accessible. Molly Stern, Jessica Green, Jenifer Cruickshank | Apr 2022 | Online resource Credit: 4h.org (Cropped from original) Understanding the genetics behind rabbit coat colors: Part 3 — your rabbit By looking at a rabbit's coat, you can determine its genotype. Here's a guide to coloring and patterning and what they say about a rabbit's genes. Molly Stern, Jenifer Cruickshank | Apr 2022 | Article Peer reviewed (Gray level) Browse All Resources Explore more resources Business Management Local, Regional, and Community Food Systems Commercial Food Processing Upcoming Events Jun 1 Zoom in on Pressure Canning 5:30 pm - 7:00 pm PDT Online See All Events Meet Our Experts Rebecca Thistlethwaite NMPAN Program Manager Contact for meat sales, science, & processing questions. See All Poultry and Rabbits Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Photo: Stephen Ward (Cropped from original) What is munching my chickens? Q: I had a bunch of my chickens get their heads bit off while in their gated area and inside their coop when the door was left open. Any idea what animal eats the heads off chickens and how do I eliminate this creature? A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility