Utah State University sites use cookies. By continuing to use this site you accept our privacy and cookie policy. I agree Skip to content Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries QUICK LINKS MyUSU SEARCH Extension Close search Search Utah State University: I want to search All USU sites People Search terms Submit search ExtensionOpen main menu Close Open search County Locations Programs Close Extension Programs Agriculture & Natural Resources Business & Community Food, Health & Wellness Gardening Home, Finance & Relationships Utah 4-H & Youth Calendar Research News & Impacts Close News & Impacts Extension News Extension in the News Impact Reports Online Courses Online Store Directory Email Sign Up Quick Links Close Quick Links Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries MyUSU Utah State University Extension It’s Gardening Season! Sign up for TipsGardening Resources News & Highlights Read Story May 27, 2022 New “Hidden Gems” Guides Released Utah State University Extension recently launched new “Hidden Gems” Family Fun Adventure Guides. The guides were created to help strengthen family connections, support positive youth development, and help families have fun together. Read Story May 20, 2022 Ask an Expert – Don’t Try to Outfox the Fox Red foxes, although not native to Utah, are becoming more common in cities and suburban settings. In an effort to impress social media followers, some wildlife enthusiasts are attempting human/fox selfies and are getting too close, even offering them food... More Extension News Read Story Understanding Evapotranspiration in Your Efforts to Keep Plants Alive During Drought Katie Wagner with USU extension tells us more about this process of evapotranspiration and how we can help our plants by managing watering cycles and changing our mowing habits for our lawns. More Extension Videos More Extension News More Extension Videos Select An Interest Agriculture & Natural Resources Business & Community Food, Health & Wellness Gardening Home, Finance & Relationships Utah 4-H & Youth Get info that matters to you: Tell us your interests and sign up for emails. TIPS SIGN UP What is Extension? Utah State University Extension provides research-based programs and resources with the goal of improving the lives of individuals, families and communities throughout Utah. USU Extension operates through a cooperative agreement between the United States Department of Agriculture, Utah State University, and county governments. Founded in 1914 as part of the Smith-Lever Act, USU Extension plays a primary role in helping Utah State University fulfill its land-grant mission. Though more than 100 years old, USU Extension is as vital as ever, and perhaps even more so, due to the increased diversity and complexity of the issues people encounter today. The integration of teaching, research, and public service enables USU Extension to respond to critical and emerging issues with research-based, unbiased information. See if buying a freeze dryer is right for you Donate Take an Online Class To better serve the people of Utah, USU Extension is pleased to offer affordable online courses. We offer courses in many different topic areas, including: Climate Essentials Food Safety Health Homebuyer Education How-to Essentials Master Remote Work Professional Utah Master Naturalist Utah Pesticide CEUs Yard and Garden Browse Courses County Office Locations With locations throughout all of Utah, USU Extension is partnering with people in every county — providing information and expertise to help meet local challenges and help every Utahn thrive. Extension County Offices Beaver Box Elder Cache Carbon Davis Duchesne Emery Garfield Grand Iron Juab Kane Millard Morgan Piute Rich Salt Lake San Juan Sanpete Sevier Summit Tooele Uintah Utah Wasatch Washington Wayne Weber Upcoming Events Full Calendar Our Impact We partner with communities across Utah to tackle complex problems that require Utah State University's world-leading expertise. With an established and trusted presence in every county, we provide access to research, expertise and relationships essential for Utah's social, economic and environmental needs. Read Story May 10, 2022 Outcomes & Impacts Quarterly – Spring Issue 2022 Using A Community Garden Program to Promote Positive Youth Development; Pack It Out Utah: USU Water Quality Extension leads Utah’s Statewide Trails and Waterways Cleanup; Welcoming and Inclusive Farmers Markets: Encouraging Diversity, Equity, and Inclusio... Read Story January 1, 2022 Outcomes & Impacts Quarterly – Winter Issue 2021 HEART Initiative Completes Three Years of Impactful Programming; Communicating Program Outcomes and Impact Using Data Visualization Dashboards; Building a Recovery-ready Community in Tooele County; Buy Produce for Your Neighbor; Supporting Local Agricultu... Read Story October 1, 2021 Outcomes & Impacts Quarterly – Fall Issue 2021 Revised 4-H Portfolios: A Model for Assessing Youth Impact in Utah Communities, The Empowering Financial Wellness Program, E-Cigarette and Vape Prevention Program and Housing Affordability Issues Addressed for Utah and Across the West Read Story June 1, 2021 Outcomes & Impacts Quarterly – Summer Issue 2021 See the tremendous impacts USU Extension is having in Utah, including impacts on mental health and a statewide survey identifying critical issues for Utah's communities. View More Impacts USU EXTENSION CONNECT WITH US USU Extension Facebook USU Extension Instagram USU Extension LinkedIn USU Extension Twitter USU Extension YouTube ABOUT About Us Impacts Locations Online Courses Online Store Extensión en Español Employee Resources Diversity Employee Website Marketing Employment Opportunities Organizational Chart MEDIA & PUBLICATIONS Press Room In The News Publications Podcasts Apps News DONATE CONTACT Us Tips SIGN UP Attend An Event Maps & Directions Search USU Campus Safety Jobs Contact Terms of Use Copyright Privacy Accessibility Non-Discrimination Admin Back to top of the page