Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Crop Production Field Crops Photo: Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Field Crops Home Browse Resources Events Our Work Our Experts In Your Community Share Description: Field Crops at Oregon State University encompasses many different crops across a variety of production systems. Wheat, potatoes, corn, grass seed, alfalfa, barley and the list goes to as many as 200 plus crops in Oregon. We provide education, training and technical assistance to people with crop-related issues and interests. Featured Resources Integrated Management of Downy Brome in Winter Wheat Downy brome (Bromus tectorum L.), also known as cheatgrass, is especially troublesome in low precipitation production areas where crop rotations are mostly limited to winter wheat followed by a year of summer fallow. The invasive ... Andy Hulting | Aug 2020 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) What do the long-term experiments in the dryland Pacific Northwest tell us? A review and explanation of the long-term experiments at the Columbia Basin Agricultural Research Center (CBARC) over many years. The goals are how to work and protect the dryland soil over time so that healthy crops can ... Valtcho Jeliazkov | Aug 2020 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Integrated Management of Feral Rye in Winter Wheat Feral rye (Secale cereale L.), also known as volunteer rye, is a troublesome weed in winter wheat production in the low- and intermediate-rainfall zones of eastern Washington and Oregon and southern Idaho. This publication ... Andy Hulting, Judit Barroso | Jun 2020 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Omnivorous Leaftier A ubiquitous and often minor pest of small grains and other seed crops of Western Oregon The omnivorous leaftier has a wide host range and is known to cause damage to species from more than 20 plant families. Native parasitoid wasps manage this pest in natural and cropland settings. The first appearance of this ... Jessica Green, Nicole Anderson | Aug 2020 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Latest Resources Managers of over 200,000 acres of farmland gain knowledge in OSU Extension’s virtual Coffee Hours The Coffee Hour conversations attracted 37-61 people each week, including farmers who manage over 34,500 acres and agronomists who make crop management recommendations on over 209,000 acres. May 2022 | Impact story Credit: Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) AgriSafe: Talking Total Farmer Health (Podcast) AgriSafe has long been a trusted voice in the health and safety of the people who feed the world, and we’re excited to bring that to you in a new format. Tune in every month to hear the latest from health and safety experts in agriculture. Together we’ll tackle the safety issues important to the producers and ag workers. Apr 2022 | Online resource The Economic Impact of Onion Pests in the Treasure Valley A look at pest data for onions grown in the Treasure Valley demonstrates the yield and economic impacts of specific pests and management practices. This data can help researchers, crop consultants and those interested in ... Mar 2022 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Browse All Resources Latest News Credit Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) As Russian thistle becomes resistant to glyphosate, OSU Extension weed scientist finds alternatives for wheat farmers Russian thistle thrives in the dry climate of eastern Oregon and Washington and if left unchecked develops an extensive root system that competes with wheat for water and nutrients. Kym Pokorny | Nov 2, 2021 | News story Credit Oregon State University (Cropped from original) Calderón to direct the Columbia Basin Agricultural Research Center Calderón, who is fluent in English and Spanish, has more than 20 years of experience and extensive knowledge of soil science and its role in dryland farming. Dec 10, 2020 | News story Oregon State University to host first national symposium on hemp Oregon State University’s Global Hemp Innovation Center and the Board on Agriculture and Natural Resources, a major program unit of the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine, will host the first-ever National Hemp Symposium on Feb. 9 and 10. Dec 1, 2020 | News story All News Explore more resources Business Management Climate Change Pesticide Safety and Education Plant Diseases Weeds Irrigation Upcoming Events Jun 7 Oregon Hemp Growers Forum: June 5:30 pm - 7:30 pm PDT Online Jun 13 Wheat Field Day 1:00 pm - 4:00 pm Hermiston, OR Jun 15 QPR Suicide Prevention Training for Farmers & Ranchers 6:00 pm - 7:30 pm PDT Online Jun 16 Entrenamiento sobre la prevención del suicidio de QPR para agricultores y ganaderos (en español) 2:00 pm - 4:00 pm PDT Online See All Events Meet Our Experts Darrin Walenta Agronomist Christy Tanner Assistant Professor of Practice Contact for questions related to field crop production in Linn, Benton an Lane counties. Navneet Kaur Assistant Professor Contact for insect pest management related question in field crops Jacob Powell Crops & Livestock, Assistant Professor of Practice See All Field Crops Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Photo: AAE (Cropped from original) What is the beautiful crop between Corvallis and Salem? Q: We noticed many beautiful yellow fields between Corvallis and Salem. What are they grown for? Areas in Oregon? A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility