Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Pests, Weeds, and Diseases Integrated Pest Management Photo: Stephen Ward (Cropped from original) Integrated Pest Management Home Browse Resources Events Our Work Our Experts In Your Community Share Featured Resources Oregon IPM Center Oregon's Statewide Integrated Pest Management (IPM) Program aims to achieve economically sustainable pest management for Oregon's agricultural industries with reduced risks to human health and the environment. Our tools and projects help farmers adapt to an increasingly uncertain world through high impact science and education partnerships. Aug 2018 | Online resource Field Guide for Integrated Pest Management in Pacific Northwest Vineyards In this Second Edition, we update pest management practices for established pests and provide new information on emerging pests and diseases. To produce high-quality wine and juice grapes, effective pest management is essential. The... Apr 2022 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Latest Resources Managers of over 200,000 acres of farmland gain knowledge in OSU Extension’s virtual Coffee Hours The Coffee Hour conversations attracted 37-61 people each week, including farmers who manage over 34,500 acres and agronomists who make crop management recommendations on over 209,000 acres. May 2022 | Impact story Credit Oregon Department of Agriculture (Cropped from original) Troublesome grasshopper infestations in Klamath County addressed by OSU Extension outreach Ian McGregor, Oregon State University Extension Service livestock faculty and assistant professor in the College of Agricultural Sciences, organized a grasshopper outreach event for landowners, public land managers and agency employees. Apr 2022 | Impact story Credit Navneet Kaur (Cropped from original) OSU Extension-led team searches for chlorpyrifos alternatives for controlling insect pests in Oregon grass seed crops The Environmental Protection Agency recently banned the insecticide chlorpyrifos due to concern over the chemical’s neurological impacts on humans, so Oregon's grass seed industry needs immediate solutions for insect control. Mar 2022 | Impact story Browse All Resources Latest News Dig into hundreds of publications from OSU Extension online catalog Have a gardening question? Find an answer in one of OSU Extension's publications. Kym Pokorny | Nov 22, 2019 | News story Tips for keeping rats out of home and garden When neighbors work together to discourage rats, the results are better than going it alone. Kym Pokorny | Aug 16, 2019 | News story Photo by Chris Hedstrom, Oregon Department of Agriculture. (Cropped from original) Samurai wasp takes on brown marmorated stink bug Invasive pest may have met its match Kym Pokorny | Jun 2, 2017 | News story All News Explore more resources Organic Agriculture Invasive Species Nuisance Wildlife Upcoming Events Jun 7 Oregon Hemp Growers Forum: June 5:30 pm - 7:30 pm PDT Online Jun 29 Vineyard Scouting Workshop 2022 8:30 am - 3:00 pm Umpqua, OR Jul 12 Best Ecological Ways to Control Pests in Green Spaces 12:00 pm - 1:00 pm PDT Online Aug 9 Should You Leave Your Leaves? How autumn yard maintenance affects overwintering insects 12:00 pm - 1:00 pm PDT Online See All Events Meet Our Experts Silvia I. Rondon Entomologist Contact for IPM questions Tim Stock School Integrated Pest Management "IPM" Program Director Navneet Kaur Assistant Professor Contact for insect pest management related question in field crops Jessica Green Senior Research Assistant See All Integrated Pest Management Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Photo: az3 / CC BY-NC-SA (Cropped from original) How can I use my garden snails? Q: How can I make the snails in my yard useful? I know it's a long shot, but I figured the MG team would think of something, if anyone could. I'm sick of killing them. Can I move them to my compost pile? We do a ... A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility