Skip to content Coronavirus Updates: See latest COVID-19 news from Harvard Extension School. COVID-19 Updates Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Academics Take a Course Graduate Degrees Graduate Certificates Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Academic Gap Year Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students Apply to Premedical Program Academic Calendar Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Blog Events Press and Announcements Contact Us MyDCE Login Request Information Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Request Information Academics Take a Course Graduate Certificates Graduate Degrees Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Browse Courses Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students International Students Academic Calendar Forms Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Harvard Extension School Blog Contact Us Events Press and Announcements Media and Photo Information For Enrolled Students Support and Services Student Policies and Conduct Harvard Extension Alumni Association Website Archives Privacy Statement Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Harvard Extension School Blog Tips, tools, and strategies related to skill building and career development, online learning, and more. Explore our career and academic articles. Blog MBA vs. IO Psychology: A Program Comparison Learning more about how these two popular business degrees can move your career in different directions may help you choose the right one for you. Mary Sharp Emerson Digital Content Producer Blog Bearing Witness to Ukraine War Through Eyes of Refugees Documentary photographer, alum travels world to raise awareness of plight of those fleeing violence, persecution Harry Pierre Associate Director of Communications, Division of Continuing Education, Harvard University Blog Faculty Aide Program Leads to Book and Publishing Collaborative What is a successful example of faculty-student mentorship? Learn how a student and faculty member helped each other in their careers. Blog Six Benefits of Connecting with an Enrollment Coach Thinking about pursuing a degree or certificate at Harvard Extension School? Learn more about how working with an enrollment coach will get you off to a great start. Mary Sharp Emerson Digital Content Producer Blog Professor Reflects on Enduring Memories of Toni Morrison On the eve of what would have been Morrison’s 91st birthday, Davíd Carrasco shared stories from his 32-year friendship with the Nobel laureate. Blog Graduate Returns as Sustainability Program Director "This new role allows me to give back to a program that helped shape my professional career." Welcome Harvard Extension School’s new director for the Sustainability and Global Development Practice programs, Lindi von Mutius, ALM ’05! Read more on Lindi’s journey back to HES and what she envisions are top priorities for the program as we face global world challenges. Blog Learning Strategies That Work In this faculty insight, Dr. Mark A. McDaniel shares effective, evidence-based strategies about learning to replace less effective but widely accepted practices that are rooted in theory, lore, and intuition. Blog Building a Career in Industrial-Organizational Psychology Today's workplace is evolving quickly. Baby boomers are retiring while Gen Z is just entering the workforce. And technology is rapidly changing where people work and how they communicate and collaborate. Mary Sharp Emerson Digital Content Producer Blog 10 Skills You Need to Become an Industrial-Organizational Psychologist Workplaces around the world are evolving quickly to meet rising employee expectations and cultural shifts that value wellbeing and retention as much as productivity. The field of industrial-organizational psychology gives companies the means to keep up in an ever-changing environment. Rebecca Bakken Digital Content Producer Blog Teaching on Global Health and Coronavirus Interventions In this podcast, Jason Silverstein talks about the real-life coronavirus interventions he teaches to his Harvard Extension and Harvard Summer School students, and how Faculty Aide students have contributed to his research over the years. 1 / 7 Previous Next Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! Harvard Extension is delighted to celebrate our students’ tremendous commitment and hard work. Read more about our students' journey to this big day! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Archives Follow Harvard Extension School Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Harvard Division of Continuing Education A division of Harvard University dedicated to bringing rigorous programs and innovative online teaching capabilities to distance learners, working professionals, high school students, college students, and those seeking higher learning in retirement. Harvard Extension School Harvard degrees, certificates and courses—online, in the evenings, and at your own pace. Harvard Summer School Academic summer opportunities for adult, college and high school students—at Harvard and abroad. Harvard Professional Development Short, intensive programs to develop skills and strengthen your professional profile. Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement Peer learning in the liberal arts—a community program for retired and semi-retired professionals. Harvard Division of Continuing Education Privacy Statement Accessibility Rights & Regulations Digital Accessibility Policy Harvard.edu Cookie Settings Copyright ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College