Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Forests, Woodlands, and Rangelands Fire Fire Home Browse Resources Get Involved Events Our Experts In Your Community Share Photo by Jason Pettigrew Learn what is happening in your community Forests across the western United States are stressed from high tree densities, drought, and insect and disease outbreaks. Past management practices along with more human-caused wildfire and changes in weather are causing wildfires to burn hotter, longer, more frequent, and over greater areas. We need to be more proactive, not reactive. The Extension Fire Program fosters healthy communities and landscapes by empowering people to live well with fire. Learn more about the Fire Program Prescribed fire Gain a better understanding of what prescribed fire is, the role it plays across our state, and a very basic outline of the steps that go into planning and implementing a prescribed burn. Fire Behavior Fire behavior is a function of available fuel, site topography and weather. People who practice prescribed burning take all these elements into account to achieve the objectives of the burn. Feb 2022 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Prescribed Fire: Why We Burn Prescribed burning is the practice of intentional burning to obtain specific results. People practice prescribed fire to improve habitat, improve the health of forests and rangelands, and to reduce wildfire risk. Learn how people ... Feb 2022 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Smoke Management Prescribed burns are an important tool in preventing wildfires, but the smoke they produce can be more than just a nuisance. Besides reducing visibility, smoke can affect the health and safety of firefighters and the public. ... Feb 2022 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) See all prescribed fire resources Latest Resources Photo: Carrie Berger (Cropped from original) Forestry & Natural Resources Extension Fire Program: 2021 Impact Report The Extension Fire Program uses education, outreach, and boundary spanning partnerships to foster the resiliency of communities and landscapes to wildfire at scale. Learn more! Carrie Berger, Emily Jane Davis | May 2022 | Educational document Photo: Christina Friehauf (Cropped from original) Episode 20: Fire Adapted Communities In this episode, Lauren Grand is joined by Carrie Berger & Emily Jane Davis to discuss how communities can be better prepared for wildfires. Lauren Grand, Carrie Berger, Emily Jane Davis | May 2022 | Podcast episode Photo: ODEQ (Cropped from original) Smoke Ready Oregon: Preparing for Wildfire Smoke (Slides) When smoke fills the air during a wildfire event, do you know how to protect yourself and your family? Learn about smoke impacts to health, the air quality index, and simple steps you can do right now to reduce your risk from smoke exposure. May 2022 | Presentation Browse All Resources How can I make my forest and home safe? Home Ignition Zone: Preventing and Preparing for Fire Wildfire is inevitable — learn what you need to know to prepare your home and property. Handy worksheets help you assess each zone of your property to reduce the threat wildfires pose. This publication is one of a series of Land Steward Rural Resource Guidelines. Rachel Werling | Jul 2019 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Credit: Glenda Hyde (Cropped from original) Protecting indoor air quality from wildfire smoke Wildfire smoke can damage your lungs, heart, eyes, nose, throat and immune system. You can protect yourself by staying indoors, but only if the inside air is clean. Learn simple, low or no-cost steps that can keep smoke out of your home and protect the air you breathe. Glenda Hyde | Sep 2020 | Article Peer reviewed (Gray level) Reducing Fire Risk on Your Forest Property The degree of wildfire risk depends on both the probability of an ignition and the potential for damage or harm (such as loss of trees, homes, or even lives). Recognizing that you may have a high wildfire risk is the ... Max Bennett, Stephen Fitzgerald, Robert (Bob) Parker | Oct 2010 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Learn more Watch webinars on fire awareness and preparedness Learn topics such as current weather and fuel conditions, challenges due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and people’s roles in where fires occur and how we can prevent them. Presenters also discuss the home ignition zone and why structures ignite. Gain an understanding of what it means to be prepared to evacuate, including a demonstration on how to build your personal go-packs. Watch on YouTube Fire Science Core Curriculum Use these modules to learn the basics of fire. The goal is to reduce risk and fire hazard through education and understanding. View or download free Explore more resources Community Disaster Preparedness Forest Health and Management Family Emergency Preparedness Upcoming Events Sep 13 - Nov 29 2022 Land Steward Training Program 12:00 pm - 5:00 pm Central Point, OR See All Events Meet Our Experts Katherine Wollstein Animal & Rangeland, Rangeland Fire Specialist Rangeland Fire Regional Specialist for Harney and Malheur Counties Christopher Adlam Regional Fire Specialist, Southwest Region Aaron Groth Regional Fire Specialist, Coast Contact me with questions about fire preparedness and response in Coastal Oregon. Kara Baylog Forestry Outreach Coordinator See All Fire Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Should I plant wildflowers in burn areas? Q: I am wondering if it is a good idea to spread wildflower seeds in the burned out old growth forest in the Detroit area. A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility