Skip to content Coronavirus Updates: See latest COVID-19 news from Harvard Extension School. COVID-19 Updates Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Academics Take a Course Graduate Degrees Graduate Certificates Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Academic Gap Year Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students Apply to Premedical Program Academic Calendar Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Blog Events Press and Announcements Contact Us MyDCE Login Request Information Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Request Information Academics Take a Course Graduate Certificates Graduate Degrees Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Browse Courses Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students International Students Academic Calendar Forms Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Harvard Extension School Blog Contact Us Events Press and Announcements Media and Photo Information For Enrolled Students Support and Services Student Policies and Conduct Harvard Extension Alumni Association Website Archives Privacy Statement Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn About Press and Announcements Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Press and Announcements Browse the latest media coverage and announcements about the Harvard Extension School, our staff, students, and alumni. News What happens next in Ukraine? As Russia launches a full-scale invasion of Ukraine, experts at Harvard discuss Russia's motivations and potential next moves, as well as steps the United States should take to deter Russia from taking aim at other European nations. News 83-year-old great-grandmother on Harvard course: ‘I almost feel guilty that I’m having such a good time’ Eighty-three-year-old great-grandmother Barbara Ingram, 83, is enrolled in her fourth semester of continuing education at Harvard Extension School. News The Benefits of Requiring Office Hours for Students In this piece published by Inside Higher Ed, faculty member Zachary Nowak explains that requiring office hours for students has significant benefits for both the instructor and the students. Students appreciate being incentivized to do something that actually helps them. News DCE Uses Portable Technology to Support Students Learning Remotely Harvard Extension School instructors can now accommodate teaching students learning both in person and remotely in nearly every classroom thanks to HELIX (Harvard Extension Live Interactive Experience). News Extending Our Gratitude to the Extension School The Harvard Crimson Editorial Board recently expressed support and appreciation for Harvard Extension School and its mission of extending lifelong learning opportunities to a global population. “…The very founding mission of the Extension School — which prioritizes being accessible and… News New Ad Campaign Highlights Breadth, Inclusivity of Harvard Division of Continuing Education Cambridge, Mass.—Harvard University’s Division of Continuing Education (DCE) is launching a new campaign this week aimed at elevating DCE’s profile and building greater awareness of DCE and its signature brands: Harvard Extension School, Harvard Summer School, Professional Development Programs,… News Preparing for Future Cyberattacks Bruce Huang, director of the new HES Cybersecurity Graduate Program in Information Technology, discusses why this new degree program is critical, and how it will offer a strong foundation and technical skills needed to pursue a career in security, privacy,… News Online Takes Off The pandemic’s effects on classroom teaching were immediate and binary: given the dangers of viral transmission, courses last March were hurriedly adapted to Zoom, and, last fall, more refined versions of online pedagogy appeared. Health precautions and the collapse of travel… News Engaging Students on Their Own Terms: Intuitive Interaction As one of the twelve degree granting schools at Harvard University, our goal at Harvard Extension School is to provide adult part-time learners with educational experiences that offer flexibility and a strong community that engage them deeply in their learning. News Tracee Whitley Appointed Harvard Law School Dean for Administration Tracee Whitley, a Harvard University graduate, succeeds Matt Gruber as the incoming dean for administration of Harvard Law School. Read the Harvard Law Today story… 1 / 6 Previous Next Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! Harvard Extension is delighted to celebrate our students’ tremendous commitment and hard work. Read more about our students' journey to this big day! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Archives Follow Harvard Extension School Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Harvard Division of Continuing Education A division of Harvard University dedicated to bringing rigorous programs and innovative online teaching capabilities to distance learners, working professionals, high school students, college students, and those seeking higher learning in retirement. Harvard Extension School Harvard degrees, certificates and courses—online, in the evenings, and at your own pace. Harvard Summer School Academic summer opportunities for adult, college and high school students—at Harvard and abroad. Harvard Professional Development Short, intensive programs to develop skills and strengthen your professional profile. Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement Peer learning in the liberal arts—a community program for retired and semi-retired professionals. Harvard Division of Continuing Education Privacy Statement Accessibility Rights & Regulations Digital Accessibility Policy Harvard.edu Cookie Settings Copyright ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College