Skip to content Coronavirus Updates: See latest COVID-19 news from Harvard Extension School. COVID-19 Updates Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Academics Take a Course Graduate Degrees Graduate Certificates Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Academic Gap Year Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students Apply to Premedical Program Academic Calendar Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Blog Events Press and Announcements Contact Us MyDCE Login Request Information Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Request Information Academics Take a Course Graduate Certificates Graduate Degrees Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Browse Courses Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students International Students Academic Calendar Forms Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Harvard Extension School Blog Contact Us Events Press and Announcements Media and Photo Information For Enrolled Students Support and Services Student Policies and Conduct Harvard Extension Alumni Association Website Archives Privacy Statement Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Rose Nyte The most rewarding moment was when one of my professors got excited about something I shared in class—that look they get when they know you’re really getting it. Place of Residence New York City and St. Louis, Missouri Program Master of Liberal Arts (ALM) in the field of Industrial-Organizational Psychology, '22 Professional Field Software Development Share Why did you decide to earn a degree at Harvard Extension? There were several reasons: I’d been prohibited from attending college as an adolescent due to my parents’ religious beliefs, so attending an Ivy League college was a long-held dream that I kept alive as a secret for many years. When I finally broke away from that background, I focused heavily on learning how to help people think critically so that others would be more equipped to avoid the fate of my family, many of whom are still battling the cult-like indoctrination I managed to escape from. Harvard Extension was the only Master’s program in industrial-organizational psychology that incorporated Harvard’s cutting edge leadership perspectives which are so focused on the human, psychological aspect of leadership. I’d spent years reading leadership books from experts who either studied at or worked with Harvard; Harvard’s Center for Human Flourishing was what made me definitively decide this was the right place for me. How has/will your HES experience help you in your career or personal development? The reinforcement of my people-centric approach to leadership, particularly amidst constant change in the world, has been invaluable. Many of my professors structured their learning experiences based on small group breakout and class-long cohorts, which resulted in real human connection and deep learning from each other. I have taken not only the books and journals we’ve read, but the learning approaches we used, and utilized them with my leadership teams. This introduced my people to new ways of thinking about how to help people work together, adapt to change, and grow, which is ultimately the most important thing we can do well as leaders. What was the most challenging aspect of your time at Extension? What was the most rewarding? The most challenging aspect was honestly just overcoming the fear of being a Harvard student—and figuring out what is really needed to get the most out of the experience. My first few classes I read every single word of every single scholarly journal and I took notes in every single moment of class. I nearly burned out, and I had to find my balance. The most rewarding moment was when one of my professors got excited about something I shared in class—that look they get when they know you’re really getting it. It made me happy to show them that yes, I really am getting it, and they’re doing a great job! Explore our Industrial-Organizational Psychology Degree Program. How did you manage to balance your studies with work and family responsibilities? I decided that, aside from attending class itself, I would do all of my studying and homework on the weekends. Doing it at night was just too tiring for me after working all day. It also meant that five days a week, my family was basically operating like “normal.” My family knew that weekends were for me to do school work. It came down to proactive expectations management, and of course, rigorous time management. I also am not into watching TV shows or engaging in social media, so not having any of that competing for my time or headspace helped, too. Do you have a favorite class or faculty member? Why? This is such a difficult question since there were so many great faculty members that I had the privilege to engage with! The ones that stand out in my memory are Ayşe Yemişçigil, who teaches the Leading with Authenticity and Purpose class. She is amazing at teaching this subject matter, and I can honestly say she changed my life by helping me deeply explore my purpose. Chris Berlin who taught the Mindfulness, Meaning, and Resilience class is truly a gift to the Harvard community for the way he can connect seemingly esoteric concepts to real world experiences and challenges, and help us to truly find peace. I loved listening to Jack Demick’s jokes and strong opinions, and experienced his selfless support when the pandemic began. Jeff Steiner who teaches Work and Well-Being is fantastically helpful and passionate. The wonderful ladies who taught the People-Focused Organizations class, Jennifer Stine and Julie Jungalwala, introduced me to the book Helping People Change, which I now have all of my directors and managers study! Do you have any advice for new students? Pace yourself; it’s Harvard, but you’ve got this. Get to know your TAs, be kind to them, and do not hesitate to reach out to them for help! If there are Sessions, attend them if you’re struggling, especially if you miss the feeling of being in person. Sessions are smaller and laid-back, so you’ll get a dose of community, too. Describe your Extension School experience in one word. Wondrous. *This interview has been edited for length and clarity. Discover your graduate program at Harvard Extension School today. May 11, 2022 Share Read Next David Enciso Completing a degree at HES has raised the bar for my ability to take on new challenges. The education and experience received at HES has allowed me to see the big picture. Share Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Close Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! Harvard Extension is delighted to celebrate our students’ tremendous commitment and hard work. Read more about our students' journey to this big day! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Archives Follow Harvard Extension School Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Harvard Division of Continuing Education A division of Harvard University dedicated to bringing rigorous programs and innovative online teaching capabilities to distance learners, working professionals, high school students, college students, and those seeking higher learning in retirement. Harvard Extension School Harvard degrees, certificates and courses—online, in the evenings, and at your own pace. Harvard Summer School Academic summer opportunities for adult, college and high school students—at Harvard and abroad. Harvard Professional Development Short, intensive programs to develop skills and strengthen your professional profile. Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement Peer learning in the liberal arts—a community program for retired and semi-retired professionals. Harvard Division of Continuing Education Privacy Statement Accessibility Rights & Regulations Digital Accessibility Policy Harvard.edu Cookie Settings Copyright ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College