Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Gardening, Lawn, and Landscape Gardening Techniques Photo: Hannah O'Leary (Cropped from original) Gardening Techniques Home Browse Resources Get Involved Events Our Work Our Experts In Your Community Share Featured Resources Monthly Garden Calendars Produced by OSU Extension, each month provides reminders of key garden chores, such as fertilizing, pest control, planting, and maintenance. May 2018 | Collection Photo from video (Cropped from original) Get Slugs out of your Garden! Learn about different methods to keep slugs out of your garden. Make your own traps from items around your house. Brooke Edmunds | Jun 2020 | Video Photo: Pexels Image (Cropped from original) Should I wait to clean up the garden in order to help conserve insects? Addressing a current popular meme in social media encouraging waiting to clean up your garden until temperatures reach 50º F or higher, in order to help conserve insects. We address the claim that if you clean your garden ... Gail Langellotto | Mar 2021 | Article Peer reviewed (Gray level) Latest Resources Credit Chris LaBelle (Cropped from original) OSU Extension Master Gardener Program increases diversity, equity and inclusivity Since issues of diversity are perceived differently in different areas of the state, the approach must be multi-pronged to meet the needs of all Oregonians. Apr 2022 | Impact story Photo: Jennifer Balaco (Flickr CC BY 2.0) (Cropped from original) Where do I find the right plants for my pond? Q: We recently hired a pond builder to excavate and line our 1.5-acre farm pond near Sisters, Ore. We replaced the bottom substrate and included space for plants. Can you direct me to a person or article that will help us with choosing and placing plants? A: View answer | View all featured questions Photo by Stephen Ward (Cropped from original) Pruning with the pros This video series covers a variety of pruning challenges associated with older trees and mature landscapes. Pruning of mature trees that have not seen ideal care in the past can present unique challenges. In these clips, tree ... Nicole Sanchez | Feb 2022 | Collection Browse All Resources Latest News Credit Betsy Hartley. (Cropped from original) OSU Extension Master Gardeners see big success with free Level Up Series The webinars are free and geared toward experienced gardeners but with plenty of information for beginners, too. Kym Pokorny | Jan 26, 2022 | News story Give plants a head start by planting in fall As more people push to plant in autumn, garden stores are stocking more at the end of summer. Sep 17, 2021 | News story 10 trees for fiery fall color When choosing a tree, first do some research. Walk around neighborhoods, parks and public gardens to get ideas. Kym Pokorny | Aug 27, 2021 | News story All News Explore more resources Local, Regional, and Community Food Systems Urban Forestry Wildlife Upcoming Events Jun 4 Fruit Thinning & Sucker Removal (Hands-on) 1:00 pm - 3:00 pm Eugene, OR Jun 11 Free Compost Workshop 10:00 am - 12:00 pm Eugene, OR Jun 14  Irrigation Choices and Design for the Home Garden and Landscape  12:00 pm - 1:00 pm PDT Online Jun 14 How to build a truly interesting garden 7:00 pm - 8:00 pm PDT Online See All Events Meet Our Experts Cindy Brown 4-H Youth Development Contact me for questions on 4-H youth development programming in Sherman County as well as healthy living topics such as MyPlate, gardening, food preservation and food storage! Signe Danler Master Gardener Online Program Instructor Contact for questions about Online Master Gardener and Home Horticulture program Amy Jo Detweiler Horticulture Brooke Edmunds Community Horticulture, Master Gardeners Contact me with gardening questions from Marion or Polk counties See All Gardening Techniques Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Photo: Jennifer Balaco (Flickr CC BY 2.0) (Cropped from original) Where do I find the right plants for my pond? Q: We recently hired a pond builder to excavate and line our 1.5-acre farm pond near Sisters, Ore. We replaced the bottom substrate and included space for plants. Can you direct me to a person or article that will help us with choosing and placing plants? A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility