Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Food Recipes Photo: Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Recipes Home Browse Resources Get Involved Events Our Experts In Your Community Share Find Healthy Recipes Photo: foodhero.org (Cropped from original) Food Hero Food Hero is your go-to site for quick, tasty, healthy recipes and helpful tips. Whether you're a beginner or a pro, you'll find something new for your family to enjoy. Program Choosing and Using Recipes An important part of food preparation is recipe selection. A recipe tells which ingredients to use and how to put them together. Knowing how to interpret the symbols and terms and how to use the recipe will help create a successful product. May 2004 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Latest Resources Calabaza Butternut Rostizada con Harissa recipe Tiempo de preparación: 25 minutos Hora de cocinar: 20 minutos Rendimientos: 6 tazas May 2022 | Food Hero recipe Peer reviewed (Gray level) Harissa Roasted Butternut Squash recipe Prep time: 25 minutes Cook time: 20 minutes Makes: 6 cups May 2022 | Food Hero recipe Peer reviewed (Gray level) Salsa de Yogur con Sabor a Hierbas recipe Tiempo de preparación: 10 minutos Rendimientos: 2 1/2 tazas May 2022 | Food Hero recipe Peer reviewed (Gray level) Browse All Resources Make Fresh Cheese Safely Queso fresco, a fresh, crumbly, white cheese, can be made at home! Step-by-step process for making this cheese safely included. Also available in Spanish: Elaboración Segura del Queso Fresco: Instrucciones—preparación segura a hacer el queso fresco. Learn more (English) Photo by Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Latest News Credit USDA Food and Nutrition Service (FNS), Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (Cropped from original) Healthy choices are on the menu in new virtual central Oregon nutrition class The weekly Eat for Life classes, which began in March, have been taught in English by Katie Ahern, an Extension nutrition educator in Deschutes County, and in Spanish by Diana Cardenas, a nutrition educator in Linn County. Chris Branam | Apr 2, 2021 | News story Credit Growing Healthy Kids Workgroup (Cropped from original) Growing Healthy Kids, featuring video lessons, returns for spring The video lessons, about eight to 10-minutes long, give students opportunities to learn basic plant parts and encourage students to try a variety of fruits and vegetables using their senses. Chris Branam | Apr 1, 2021 | News story Photo courtesy Molly Bullock (Cropped from original) High school students serve up meals at home through adapted cooking class OSU Extension provides weekly video resources, recipes and a detailed syllabus to guide the students as they cook recipes at home. Chris Branam | Dec 14, 2020 | News story All News Upcoming Events Jun 1 Zoom in on Pressure Canning 5:30 pm - 7:00 pm PDT Online Jun 6 June Cook-Along 5:15 pm - 6:15 pm PDT Online See All Events Meet Our Experts Stephanie Polizzi Family & Community Health Contact for information about foods that prevent or arrest chronic disease. See All Recipes Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Photo: Alissa Walker (Cropped from original) Do you have a safe home cure corned beef recipe? Q: I am looking for the recipe for making home made corned beef. A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility