Skip to content Coronavirus Updates: See latest COVID-19 news from Harvard Extension School. COVID-19 Updates Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Academics Take a Course Graduate Degrees Graduate Certificates Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Academic Gap Year Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students Apply to Premedical Program Academic Calendar Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Blog Events Press and Announcements Contact Us MyDCE Login Request Information Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Request Information Academics Take a Course Graduate Certificates Graduate Degrees Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Browse Courses Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students International Students Academic Calendar Forms Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Harvard Extension School Blog Contact Us Events Press and Announcements Media and Photo Information For Enrolled Students Support and Services Student Policies and Conduct Harvard Extension Alumni Association Website Archives Privacy Statement Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn David Joseph Desrosiers Once you start HES, you enter a large family that spans the globe. Get to know your teammates as early into your HES journey as possible. It will enhance your experience exponentially. Place of Residence Clemson, South Carolina Program Master of Liberal Arts (ALM) in the field of Finance, '22; Graduate Certificate in Corporate Finance; Graduate Certificate in Real Estate Investment Professional Field Entrepreneur Share Why did you decide to earn a degree at Harvard Extension? Harvard Extension allowed me to pursue additional education while navigating the challenges of my personal and professional life. Coupling that with a professionally active teaching staff tied into the rapidly changing landscape has set me up for success. How has/will your HES experience helped you in your career or personal development? People ask me all the time why I added going HES to my already overflowing plate. Most assume it was to help advance my career or to take a different professional path. The truth is I did it for me, did it for my family. I had an interest in economic and financial systems and knew that bolstering my knowledge of finances would make me a more well-rounded individual. There is no doubt that what I have learned at HES has helped my businesses, but the real impact is how I have been able to take this knowledge and help my community. Taking the skills to help fund a community project or teach kids fiscal responsibility is the greatest gift I received from HES. What was the most challenging aspect of your time at Extension? What was the most rewarding? I began building my first major multi-use project at the same time I started HES. That was fall of 2019 before we had ever heard of Covid. The pandemic ushered in a broken supply chain, worker shortage, massive delays, and severe negative effects on the restaurant that my wife owns. It was definitely a less-than-ideal situation, which made a demanding program even more challenging. I am so grateful for my advisor who worked with me to develop a plan that allowed me to be successful despite the odds against me. Halfway through my program, we also developed a study group of approximately 40 students. This study group has supported each other through the completion program both with scholarly goals and with life; these bonds will last well past graduation. Explore our Finance Degree Program. How did you manage to balance your studies with work and family responsibilities? One word: Teamwork. Getting across the finish line was truly a team effort across the board. The decision to start my HES path was made by my entire family. Without their support and sacrifice this journey would have been very difficult. Luckily, we made sacrifices as a team that allowed me to truly enjoy and get the most out of my time at HES. Teamwork is also adopted by the HES faculty and staff. Everyone from the admissions staff, advisors, TAs, and faculty are dedicated to each student’s success and wellbeing. Every time a challenge or question occurred, they were available to help with advice or solutions. Do you have a favorite class or faculty member? Why? Choosing a favorite class or faculty member is very difficult since every class was professional and well executed. However, Bruce Watson comes to my mind. Bruce is a brilliant mind with a gift for teaching. The way he was able to translate difficult concepts and teach them at a level his students could understand was a work of art. Not only did I leave his classes with the knowledge the class was offering, but Bruce also gave the skills on how to deliver this knowledge to others. These skills from Bruce allowed me to teach underprivileged youth how financial markets work. What types of student resources and special options did you take advantage of as a student at Harvard? How did they help? The professor and their teacher assistants are a true advantage of HES and the Harvard community. They are always willing to help with class work or general professional advice. Do you have any advice for new students? HES is a family. Every student, HES staff member, and faculty member is now a part of your family. Get involved in groups, learn who your classmates are, and talk with your professors. Once you start HES, you enter a large family that spans the globe. Get to know your teammates as early into your HES journey as possible. It will enhance your experience exponentially. Make relationships with your teammates, both faculty and peers. Take advantage of your time during on campus classes. Describe your Extension School experience in one word. Teamwork Discover your graduate program at Harvard Extension School today. May 11, 2022 Share Read Next Romina Ruiz The great news is that unlike other programs out there, Harvard is really developed for people like me who have very full adult lives and need these safeguards in place to complete a degree program. Share Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Close Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! Harvard Extension is delighted to celebrate our students’ tremendous commitment and hard work. Read more about our students' journey to this big day! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Archives Follow Harvard Extension School Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Harvard Division of Continuing Education A division of Harvard University dedicated to bringing rigorous programs and innovative online teaching capabilities to distance learners, working professionals, high school students, college students, and those seeking higher learning in retirement. Harvard Extension School Harvard degrees, certificates and courses—online, in the evenings, and at your own pace. Harvard Summer School Academic summer opportunities for adult, college and high school students—at Harvard and abroad. Harvard Professional Development Short, intensive programs to develop skills and strengthen your professional profile. Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement Peer learning in the liberal arts—a community program for retired and semi-retired professionals. Harvard Division of Continuing Education Privacy Statement Accessibility Rights & Regulations Digital Accessibility Policy Harvard.edu Cookie Settings Copyright ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College