Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Crop Production Hemp Photo by Gordon Jones (Cropped from original) Hemp Home Browse Resources Events Our Experts In Your Community Share Description: Hemp may only be grown in compliance with applicable state and federal law, including the 2014 and 2018 farm bills and the anticipated U.S. Department of Agriculture regulations. The following information is being provided for educational purposes only to inform licensed growers operating in compliance with applicable state and federal laws. Consult your local authorities, Department of Agriculture representatives, or personal attorney for questions regarding the legality of growing hemp in your jurisdiction. OSU’s Global Hemp Innovation Center is home to the world’s leading experts in hemp research. The largest of its kind in the nation, it promises to advance the research of hemp and its market potential across multiple diverse industries and research fields to serve the growing international demand for innovative approaches to food, health, and fiber. Visit the Global Hemp Innovation Center Photo by Gordon Jones (Cropped from original) Recent publications What is Industrial Hemp? Industrial hemp was grown as a commodity crop for decades until it was banned in the mid-1930s. Congress decriminalized the crop in 2018, sparking interest in it among growers in Oregon, where hemp can be grown successfully. ... Valtcho Jeliazkov, Jay Noller, Sam Angima, Silvia I. Rondon, Richard Roseberg, Gordon Jones | Aug 2019 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Soil, Seedbed Preparation and Seeding for Hemp Growers planting a successful commercial crop of hemp for seed, fiber, or resin will follow these guidelines for soil preparation, seeding, and irrigation. Richard Roseberg, Valtcho Jeliazkov, Sam Angima | Aug 2019 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Basics of Fall Cover Cropping for Hemp in Oregon With careful management, cover crops can provide multiple benefits for hemp production systems. Gordon Jones, Valtcho Jeliazkov, Richard Roseberg, Sam Angima | Sep 2019 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Hemp Sex-Ed Hemp cultivation in Oregon is expanding, but growers need to be aware of the problems associated with unwanted pollination. Find out why it's vital that farmers coordinate with their neighbors to ensure a healthy hemp crop. Lloyd Nackley, Kristine Buckland, Richard Roseberg | Feb 2020 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Latest content OSU Extension’s hemp harvest-timing research helps growers stay legal and protect profits In response to industry concern, Gordon Jones, OSU Extension agriculture faculty in Jackson and Josephine counties, conducted a harvest-time study at the Southern Oregon Research and Extension Center. Mar 2022 | Impact story Credit Stephen Ward (Cropped from original) OSU researcher provides insight for hemp resilience to extreme heat By paying attention to the news and the water conditions of reservoirs in winter, growers can decide the best course of action for hemp season. Feb 2022 | Impact story Credit Oregon State University (Cropped from original) OSU hemp center leads environmental sustainability and equity efforts Nation’s largest research center devoted to the study of hemp. Feb 2022 | Impact story Browse all resources Additional Resources A Guide to Collecting Soil Samples for Farms and Gardens Laboratory soil tests help you develop your soil and increase crop production by providing information on available nutrient content. Soil testing helps you select the correct kind and amount of fertilizer and liming material. ... Melissa Fery, Jeff Choate | Oct 2018 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Soil Test Interpretation Guide This publication provides an overview of soil testing and general guidelines for interpreting soil test results for nitrogen, phosphorus, sulfur, potassium, calcium, magnesium, boron, zinc, copper, manganese, iron, molybdenum, chloride, ... Dan M. Sullivan | Jul 2011 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Integrated Pest Management: How to Identify a Plant or Weed This video demonstrates the best ways to identify a plant or weed. It covers the process of photographing and collecting the plant and then how to narrow down and establish the plant's category. It explains how to use a field guide and a dichotomous key to identify a plant. Silvia I. Rondon, Mary Corp, Stuart Reitz | Jul 2015 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Photo by Gordon Jones (Cropped from original) Recordings of the Southern Oregon Hemp Growers Forum During the growing season, the Southern Oregon Research & Extension Center has been facilitating a series of meetings called the Southern Oregon Hemp Growers Forum with the intent to provide timely and accurate information to ... Gordon Jones, Govinda Shrestha | Apr 2022 | Article Identify Hemp Pest Problems The Oregon State University Plant Clinic is a diagnostic facility that offers fee-based plant disease problem solving and specialized identification services. Visit the OSU Plant Clinic Website Photo by Gordon Jones (Cropped from original) Explore more resources Field Crops Organic Agriculture Soil Integrated Pest Management Weeds Irrigation Upcoming Events Jun 7 Oregon Hemp Growers Forum: June 5:30 pm - 7:30 pm PDT Online See All Events Meet Our Experts Dari Biswanath Assistant Professor Contact me with any question about soil, agronomy, water in Klamath Falls/Basin Area Brian Hill Faculty Research Assistant Contact for shade tree production, irrigation, soil and soil sensor questions Gordon Jones Agriculture Govinda Shrestha Hemp See All Hemp Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility