Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Gardening, Lawn, and Landscape Garden Vegetables and Herbs Photo: Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Garden Vegetables and Herbs Home Browse Resources Get Involved Events Our Work Our Experts In Your Community Share Featured Resources Photo by Allie Dearie on Unsplash (Cropped from original) Five ways to preserve fresh homegrown herbs Herbs are among the easiest plants for a home gardener to grow and preserving them is simple. Here's a look at five preservation methods: refrigeration, air drying, freezing, dehydrating and making herb vinegars. Nicole Sanchez | Jun 2020 | Article Peer reviewed (Gray level) Credit: Oregon State University (Cropped from original) Growing vegetables in the Pacific Northwest coastal region Asparagus, beets, carrots and summer squash are some of the vegetables you can grow along the coast. Learn what to watch out for in a region known for cooler temperatures. Sally Reill | Jul 2017 | Article Central Oregon Vegetable Garden Calendar When to plant vegetables in Central Oregon Jun 2018 | Article Latest Resources Photo: OSU Extension Service (Cropped from original) Can I regrow carrots by planting the tops? Q: There is conflicting information all over the internet about regrowing carrots from tops. I know you can grow the greens, however, can you grow the actual root vegetable again? And if not, what is the scientific reason why not? - Yamhill County A: View answer | View all featured questions Credit Katie Ahern (Cropped from original) Project PLANT home-gardening kits welcomed by limited-income families Extension distributed an estimated 1,000 kits in Lincoln County and 150 in Deschutes and Crook counties. Mar 2022 | Impact story Photo: Renée Johnson (Flickr CC BY-SA 2.0) (Cropped from original) Are forgotten potatoes still safe to eat? Q: I recently bought a house in Ashland with a large, much-neglected garden. There are two raised beds with potatoes under several inches of straw. I don’t know how long they’ve been there. They look mature. Would it be ... A: View answer | View all featured questions Browse All Resources Kabocha and Buttercup Squash for Western Oregon Gardens Kabocha and buttercup squash are gaining popularity for their outstanding culinary characteristics and small size. The squashes' intriguing history, production practices, flavor and uses may inspire more gardeners to grow and eat this exceptional vegetable. Learn more Photo by allie-v_sCalobEtY on Unsplash (Cropped from original) Latest News Credit Betsy Hartley. (Cropped from original) OSU Extension Master Gardeners see big success with free Level Up Series The webinars are free and geared toward experienced gardeners but with plenty of information for beginners, too. Kym Pokorny | Jan 26, 2022 | News story Slugs and snails, destructors of crops and gardens, could be controlled by bread dough Bread dough is a nontoxic, generic and effective tool that could be used in the detection and management of gastropods worldwide. Kym Pokorny | Aug 18, 2021 | News story Tips for gardening in extreme heat Keep hydrated. Carry a water bottle – and use it! You need water as much as your plants do. Kym Pokorny | Jun 25, 2021 | News story All News Explore more resources Nutrition and Healthy Eating Gardening Techniques Plant Diseases Upcoming Events Jul 16 - Sep 20 Strategies for Farming with Drought: Farm Tour Series 5:30 pm - 7:30 pm Jul 26 Open House: Oak Creek Center for Urban Horticulture 11:00 am - 2:00 pm Corvallis, OR Oct 18 Make Your Garden into a Pollinator Haven! 6:30 pm - 7:30 pm PDT Online Nov 8 Growing the Good Stuff: from Sweet Potatoes to Bitter Melons 12:00 pm - 1:00 pm PST Online See All Events Meet Our Experts Cindy Brown 4-H Youth Development Contact me for questions on 4-H youth development programming in Sherman County as well as healthy living topics such as MyPlate, gardening, food preservation and food storage! Brooke Edmunds Community Horticulture, Master Gardeners Contact me with gardening questions from Marion or Polk counties Elizabeth Records Outreach Program Coordinator (interim), Community Horticulture & Master Gardener Educator Contact me about becoming a Master Gardener Volunteer in Linn or Benton County. For plant/garden questions, please follow the link to "Have a Gardening Question?" Alexandra Stone Vegetables See All Garden Vegetables and Herbs Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Photo: OSU Extension Service (Cropped from original) Can I regrow carrots by planting the tops? Q: There is conflicting information all over the internet about regrowing carrots from tops. I know you can grow the greens, however, can you grow the actual root vegetable again? And if not, what is the scientific reason why not? - Yamhill County A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility