Skip to main content utexas.edu Request information utexas.edu Request information Header Menu Program Finder Custom Training Getting Started Events About Us Contact Us Extended Campus The University of Texas at Austin UTA Building, Suite 2.408 1616 Guadalupe Street Austin, TX 78701 Your Starts Here Continuing & Professional Education Extended Campus at The University of Texas at Austin connects you with leading faculty at one of the nation's top public universities. Our programs are built on outstanding academic research and are designed to equip you with immediately relevant, career-advancing skills. I Am Interested In... Program Type Graduate Degree Graduate Certificate Professional Certificate Boot Camp Course and/or Conference Customized Training In Any Area of Interest Business & Organizations Communication Data & Technology Education Energy Engineering Law Medical & Health Social Impact In Any Format Classroom Live Online Self-paced Online Search Explore All Programs Explore All Programs Explore Areas of Interest Drawing on expertise from across the university, we offer programs for professionals seeking to advance in or enter a wide array of industries and fields. Business & Organizations Communication Data & Technology Education Energy Engineering Law Medical & Health Social Impact Business & Organizations Communication Data & Technology Education Energy Engineering Law Medical & Health Social Impact Browse all programs Something For Everyone Whether you are an accomplished engineer looking to dive into cutting-edge research, an entrepreneur seeking to grow your digital marketing aptitude, or a high school administrator aiming to boost your people leadership skills, we’ve got a program for you. CORPORATE CAREERS Future-Focused Programs "The MSISP program does a great job of tying the dimensions of information security and privacy together. The inclusion of public policy studies has been very useful to me. I’ve been able to leverage these skills to be a much better advocate on the issues of information security and privacy." -Ken M. CREATIVE CAREERS In-Demand Skill Building "The Graphic Design Certificate Program is the course I wish I had taken when I first started out in my career 20 years ago." -Tammy W. ENERGY CAREERS Specialized Training "The Rig School course was excellent! I now have a better understanding of the oil and gas industry, and my role in it." -Olivia M. MILITARY CAREERS Mission Amplification "Military leaders are very interested in supporting credentials for numerous reasons — they enhance Soldiers’ skills and abilities while serving and they help them with transition. In short, credentials make them better citizens and better Soldiers." -Kenneth H. NONPROFIT CAREERS Experiential Learning "I was able to apply my experience and career skills in a new way - which is energizing. I feel better prepared for my career." -Christina W. SMALL BUSINESS Community Connection "They offered all the tools that I needed, as a self-employed business owner, to connect with the community, to learn about other people’s businesses and to help them grow as well." -Ben J. Why Extended Campus? Flexibility, Access, Expertise From one-day courses to master’s and doctoral degrees, Extended Campus at UT Austin provides you with access to innovative education programs at one of the world’s top universities. 1. BECOME A PART OF LONGHORN HISTORY About Us 2. Learn from the best Meet Faculty 3. Customize your offering Learn More The Habit of Learning If you feel like you're not as curious as you ought to be, there are a few things you can do to build more habits to build this skill. STAY CURIOUS - IT'S GOOD FOR YOUR CAREER There is great value in remaining curious throughout your career. This article, written by Dr. Art Markman who heads the Extended Campus at UT Austin, offers practical tips for nurturing curiosity, a skill that will help you succeed in any educational program. Learn more Faculty Spotlight Human Dimensions of Organizations (HDO) faculty bring expertise from across a wide variety of academic disciplines to the world of professional education. MEET ELIZABETH RICHMOND GARZA, PHD Elizabeth Richmond-Garza is UT Regents’ and Distinguished Teaching Associate Professor of English and Director of the Program in Comparative Literature at UT Austin. She holds degrees from U.C. Berkeley, Oxford University and Columbia University and has held both Mellon and Fulbright Fellowships. Program Spotlight A 100% online master’s program for those working in health-related fields and others who want to include nutritional science in their professional portfolio. MASTER'S IN NUTRITIONAL SCIENCE Now more than ever, nutritional health is recognized as an inextricable component of physical wellness, with a huge impact on human development and disease prevention. Program graduates emerge equipped to immediately impact the field and influence awareness of nutritional health, whether in a clinical, community, or private setting. Events & Important Dates Sign up for free webinars, information sessions, and other opportunities to engage with our programs. Project Management Certificate Program Information Session 6/1/2022 Learn More Events & Important Dates Sign up for free webinars, information sessions, and other opportunities to engage with our programs. MARK YOUR CALENDAR 6/7/2022 Financial Planning Certificate Program Information Session Learn More 6/8/2022 The 2022 Stigma of Addiction Summit Learn More 6/14/2022 Data Analytics Certificate Program Information Session Learn More 6/15/2022 Texas Engineering Executive Education Virtual Information Session Learn More VIEW EVENTS CALENDAR Still Can’t Find What You’re Looking For? FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS View common questions related to continuing and professional education at UT Austin. See FAQs STAY CONNECTED Join our mailing list to receive updates, event invitations, and new program announcements. Learn More University Resources & Lifelong Learning Take advantage of UT Austin’s many opportunities for personal and professional growth. Learn More FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS View common questions related to continuing and professional education at UT Austin. See FAQs STAY CONNECTED Join our mailing list to receive updates, event invitations, and new program announcements. Learn More University Resources & Lifelong Learning Take advantage of UT Austin’s many opportunities for personal and professional growth. Learn More WE’RE HERE TO HELP! TAKE THE FIRST STEP TODAY. REQUEST INFORMATION Extended Campus The University of Texas at Austin UTA Building, Suite 2.408 1616 Guadalupe Street Austin, TX 78701 Program Finder Custom Training Getting Started Events About Us Contact Us Subscribe» Powered by Extended Education Ventures | © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Emergency Information | Web Privacy Policy | Site Policies | Web Accessibility Policy