Skip to content Coronavirus Updates: See latest COVID-19 news from Harvard Extension School. COVID-19 Updates Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Academics Take a Course Graduate Degrees Graduate Certificates Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Academic Gap Year Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students Apply to Premedical Program Academic Calendar Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Blog Events Press and Announcements Contact Us MyDCE Login Request Information Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Request Information Academics Take a Course Graduate Certificates Graduate Degrees Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Browse Courses Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students International Students Academic Calendar Forms Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Harvard Extension School Blog Contact Us Events Press and Announcements Media and Photo Information For Enrolled Students Support and Services Student Policies and Conduct Harvard Extension Alumni Association Website Archives Privacy Statement Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn For Enrolled Students Student Policies and Conduct Support and Services Degree Candidate Academic Opportunities Student Policies and Conduct Enrollment Policies for Graduate Students Enrollment Policies for Undergraduate Students Academic Standing Requirements for Degree Programs Exam Types and Policies Grades Transfer Credits and Accreditation Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy Expectations Academic Integrity Using the Harvard Name Research Requests Administrative Board Weather and Emergency Cancellations Academic Schedule and Policy Changes Rights and Regulations Harvard Extension School is a place to explore your interests, enhance your skills, and excel. Here you’ll find the policies and expectations to help you navigate your academic experience. Academic Policies Find what you need to enroll in and complete a graduate program: Enrollment Policies for Graduate Students Find what you need to enroll in and complete an undergraduate program: Enrollment Policies for Undergraduate Students Earning a degree at Harvard Extension requires maintaining good standing: Academic Standing Requirements for Degree Programs Certificate students will find enrollment and minimum grade policies at Pursuing the Certificates, while Premedical Program learners should visit Premedical Program for their specific enrollment and academic standing policies. See what types of exams you may have to take, as well as policies on missed exams and how to request transcripts: Exam Types and Policies Learn how to view your grades, what your grades mean, and our policies on noncompletion grades: Grades If you’re transferring to another school, be sure to read our policies on transferring your credits: Transfer Credits and Accreditation Student Conduct Our mission is to make the benefits of a rigorous academic experience accessible to all students. Honesty, civility, respect, and academic integrity play a vital role in maintaining our high standards of excellence. When you join our community you accept these values and agree to meet our expectations and adhere to our student conduct policies. The Harvard Extension School has a set of clear Expectations for all registered students that center around responsible behavior regarding the creation and maintenance of their student records and contact information; in-person and virtual classroom participation; interactions with instructors about grades; and program application submissions. In addition, students are expected to show good judgment at all times. They are to conduct themselves honestly, and with due respect and consideration for others while enrolled in Harvard Extension School, on Harvard University property, and in all their interactions and communications with their fellow members of the Harvard community. Students who violate the conduct policy (listed here and on Expectations) are adjudicated by the Administrative Board and may be subject to disciplinary action. Conduct Concerns Concerns regarding student conduct that are brought before the Administration Board include, but are not limited to, inappropriately behaving toward or communicating with University faculty, staff, or fellow students; misrepresentations of any kind, including University affiliation as well as prior academic or professional experience; disturbing orderly academic functions and processes; violating the rules and regulations of any University department; or the unauthorized use of University facilities or equipment. The Board also reviews the actions of students charged with altering or falsifying academic records; the unauthorized recording, sale, or purchase of lectures or other instructional materials; destroying or defacing University property; harassment; fraud; infringing on the rights of others; or the unlawful possession, use, or distribution of drugs and alcohol. Harvard Extension School expects students to understand and maintain high standards of academic integrity. Students are not permitted to use the Harvard name except under certain circumstances. Please note that because students are expected to show good judgment at all times, not every kind of misconduct or behavioral expectation is listed in this section. Additional Policies Learn more about: Changes to programs, courses, or academic schedules Weather and emergency cancellations The rights and regulations of our students Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! Harvard Extension is delighted to celebrate our students’ tremendous commitment and hard work. Read more about our students' journey to this big day! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Archives Follow Harvard Extension School Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Harvard Division of Continuing Education A division of Harvard University dedicated to bringing rigorous programs and innovative online teaching capabilities to distance learners, working professionals, high school students, college students, and those seeking higher learning in retirement. Harvard Extension School Harvard degrees, certificates and courses—online, in the evenings, and at your own pace. Harvard Summer School Academic summer opportunities for adult, college and high school students—at Harvard and abroad. Harvard Professional Development Short, intensive programs to develop skills and strengthen your professional profile. Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement Peer learning in the liberal arts—a community program for retired and semi-retired professionals. Harvard Division of Continuing Education Privacy Statement Accessibility Rights & Regulations Digital Accessibility Policy Harvard.edu Cookie Settings Copyright ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College