Skip to content Coronavirus Updates: See latest COVID-19 news from Harvard Extension School. COVID-19 Updates Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Academics Take a Course Graduate Degrees Graduate Certificates Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Academic Gap Year Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students Apply to Premedical Program Academic Calendar Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Blog Events Press and Announcements Contact Us MyDCE Login Request Information Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Request Information Academics Take a Course Graduate Certificates Graduate Degrees Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Browse Courses Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students International Students Academic Calendar Forms Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Harvard Extension School Blog Contact Us Events Press and Announcements Media and Photo Information For Enrolled Students Support and Services Student Policies and Conduct Harvard Extension Alumni Association Website Archives Privacy Statement Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Academics Graduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Graduate Certificates Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Types of Courses Earn a Master of Liberal Arts in Extension Studies degree in one of over 20 fields to gain critical insights and practical skills for success in your career or scholarly pursuits. Explore Degree Programs How Our Graduate Programs Work Admissions: Earn Your Way In Think you’re more than a test score or a ten-year-old undergraduate GPA? We do too. We don’t evaluate your past, but your current academic ability, curiosity, and drive to succeed in Harvard rigor courses. After you confirm your initial eligibility, you complete two or three required courses from the program curriculum, earning at least a grade of B in each to showcase your academic talent, then you apply. For details, visit the specific program page (choose below). Attend Class Online and on Campus You balance online study with a Harvard campus experience. You’ll be immersed in a rich academic community and have access to extensive resources. Connect with the Harvard Community While earning a degree, you can pursue special academic opportunities around the University and work closely with academic advisors to meet your goals. Graduate Degree Programs Anthropology and Archaeology Graduate Program Explore human cultures and societies. Program Details Bioengineering and Nanotechnology Graduate Program Explore the innovations driving the world of nanotechnology. Program Details Biology Graduate Program Learn how to apply critical thinking to real-world scenarios in the life sciences while exploring cutting-edge research and theory. Program Details Biotechnology Graduate Program Gain insight into the latest biotechnology discoveries and trends. Program Details Creative Writing and Literature Graduate Program Develop your skills in creative writing and literary analysis. Program Details Cybersecurity Graduate Program The cybersecurity master’s program offers a strong foundation and detailed technical knowledge in security, privacy, and cryptography. Program Details Data Science Graduate Program The data landscape is rapidly changing and transforming nearly every discipline. Program Details Digital Media Design Graduate Program Develop the skills needed to design engaging and effective digital media. Program Details Dramatic Arts Graduate Program Explore the rich tapestry of literature and performance in the dramatic arts. Program Details English Graduate Program Deepen your understanding of fiction, poetry, and drama while learning to analyze and interpret literary texts. Program Details Finance Graduate Program Gain a solid foundation in the principles of finance. Program Details Global Development Practice Graduate Program Gain knowledge, practical skills, and an interdisciplinary perspective on global development issues. Program Details Government Graduate Program Explore the institutions of government, politics, policy, and the systems used to govern communities and nation-states. Program Details History Graduate Program Examine the past through a variety of critical approaches. Program Details Industrial-Organizational Psychology Graduate Program By using social science research methods, you’ll investigate how to make people and organizations more effective. Program Details Information Management Systems Graduate Program Learn to build, enhance, and support complex information management systems. Program Details International Relations Graduate Program Gain critical insight into today’s pressing global issues. Program Details Journalism Graduate Program Gain the writing and reporting skills necessary for success as a journalist in the digital age. Program Details Management Graduate Program Gain a solid grounding in management theory and practice. Program Details Mathematics for Teaching Graduate Program From Harvard trained faculty, you’ll learn new strategies that will dramatically improve your ability to teach. Program Details Museum Studies Graduate Program Learn techniques and strategies for keeping museum collections relevant, audiences inspired, and operations smooth. Program Details Psychology Graduate Program Examine the science of psychology and gain an understanding of human behavior. Program Details Religion Graduate Program Explore the history, texts, and functions of religion within different societies and cultures. Program Details Software Engineering Graduate Program Adapt to new and emerging technologies. Program Details Sustainability Graduate Program Join a community of leaders dedicated to building a sustainable future. Program Details Browse our Program Finder to see graduate certificates, undergraduate degrees, and other programs. Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! Harvard Extension is delighted to celebrate our students’ tremendous commitment and hard work. Read more about our students' journey to this big day! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Archives Follow Harvard Extension School Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Harvard Division of Continuing Education A division of Harvard University dedicated to bringing rigorous programs and innovative online teaching capabilities to distance learners, working professionals, high school students, college students, and those seeking higher learning in retirement. Harvard Extension School Harvard degrees, certificates and courses—online, in the evenings, and at your own pace. Harvard Summer School Academic summer opportunities for adult, college and high school students—at Harvard and abroad. Harvard Professional Development Short, intensive programs to develop skills and strengthen your professional profile. Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement Peer learning in the liberal arts—a community program for retired and semi-retired professionals. Harvard Division of Continuing Education Privacy Statement Accessibility Rights & Regulations Digital Accessibility Policy Harvard.edu Cookie Settings Copyright ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College