Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Animals and Livestock Beef Cattle Photo: Peg Herring (Cropped from original) Beef Cattle Home Browse Resources Events Our Experts In Your Community Share Description: OSU Extension Service provides up-to-date information on beef cattle in Oregon and throughout the country, and facilitates the communication among producers, industry personnel, and OSU – Extension faculty. Resources include areas such as: Reproduction Calves Nutrition Breeding and Genetics Meat Small-Scale Meat Farming The cost and supply of food is concerning to many these days. Disruptions in the cattle, sheep, and swine markets, particularly in the slaughter-packer sector, have indeed threatened the availability of meat and put pressure on prices at the supermarket and at the livestock producer level. This has caused us to rethink the way we produce and process food. Some are considering backyard slaughter of livestock. Many important steps need to be taken prior to and after the actual slaughter of any meat animal. These are necessary for safety and meat quality. Check out our collection of helpful information Photo: Shelby FIlley (Cropped from original) Reproduction Get ready for calving season Cattle managers can decrease the amount of calving difficulty through bull selection, nutrition and exercise. Don’t wait until calving begins, follow this checklist and set up the supplies and support you will need. Shelby Filley | Dec 2010 | Article Photo: Shelby Filley (Cropped from original) Development of Replacement Heifers This article will focus on some strategies that beef producer have in order to improve heifer development programs, and hence the entire profitability of cow-calf production systems. Bruno I. Cappellozza | Sep 2019 | Educational document Peer reviewed (Gray level) More reproductive resources Calves Credit: Shelby Filley (Cropped from original) Advantages to cows and their calves: creep-feeding vs. early weaning Creep-feeding and early weaning are two options for managing cows and calves. Each practice has a specific purpose, but these strategies can be misapplied. Shelby Filley | Jun 2018 | Article Photo: Shelby Filley (Cropped from original) Extra pounds on weaned calves may pay dividends Although calves are typically sold for high dollars per pound and at a lighter weight, having the calves sold with higher weight may be worth more than the resources put into making the calf larger. Shelby Filley | Jan 2011 | Article New Calf Information and Care People buying a new calf often have questions about the animal's care. Here are some answers to common questions about food, housing and health care. Jenifer Cruickshank | Feb 2020 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) More calving resources Photo by Lynn Ketchum Management We encourage cow-calf producers to evaluate their individual operation(s) and use these suggested management guidelines to determine a system that works best for their ranch, environment, and facilities. This article covers general cattle management issues related to the production year including suggested herd health programs. Download the management guide for beef cattle Meat Photo: Shelby FIlley (Cropped from original) Aging Beef This American Meat Science Association website article is a short, but informative piece on aging beef. Jun 2020 | Online resource Photo: Shelby FIlley (Cropped from original) USDA Carcass Beef Grades and Standards The amount of beef from a carcass is termed "yield" and is the pounds of closely trimmed retail cuts you get. Of course you want to get a large percentage of meat from your animal. This website contains the legal definitions that can help you understand what goes into this measurement. Shelby Filley, USDA | Jun 2020 | Online resource Browse more meat resources Nutrition A guide to protein nutrition for cattle Cattle require protein for vital body and productive functions. Without it, their growth, milk production and overall health are impaired. Here's a look at the basic concepts of protein nutrition for cattle. Bruno I. Cappellozza | Sep 2019 | Article Photo: Univ. of CA Cooperative Extension (Cropped from original) Water nutrition and quality for beef cattle Inadequate water intake by beef cattle can limit growth and production, which can translate to narrower profit margins for producers. That's why it's important to understand water nutrition and quality for beef cattle. Sergio Arispe | Sep 2019 | Article More nutrition resources Breeding and Genetics Understanding EPDs for Selecting Bulls - Sergio Arispe and Morgan Johnsrud In this video, Dr. Arispe and Morgan (Select Sires) discussed several aspects of EDP values for bull selection and different traits that producers should consider when selecting bulls. Other resources from presentation: Slides Breed EPD averages for and $Values Sergio Arispe, Morgan Johnsrud | Jan 2021 | Video How temperament affects the performance and quality of beef cattle For beef cattle, temperament defines their fear-related responses to human handling. Recent studies demonstrate that cattle temperament has a wide of effects, from their ability to reproduce to the quality of meat. Reinaldo Cooke | Oct 2018 | Article More breeding and genetics resources OSU Soap Creek Ranch Photo by Shelby Filley Learn directly from Extension faculty Find out about upcoming OSU Beef Cattle Sciences Extension activities happening across Oregon. We have OSU Calving Schools, Artificial Insemination School, Cattlemen’s Workshops, OSU – Range Field Day, OSU – Beef Industry Tour, and more. Extension activities Latest Resources Credit: Shelby Filley (Cropped from original) AI School Interest Form This is a link to a form you can fill out if you want to be contacted for upcoming Cattle AI Schools in and around Oregon May 2022 | Online resource Managing irrigated pastures and haylands in drought Drought (a period of limited or no water during the growing season) reduces forage production for grazing and haymaking. Prolonged drought forces livestock and hay producers to need special strategies. This document provides information about maintaining healthy perennial pastures and hayfields, reducing livestock loss due to diet, and how to improve recovery of pastures after the drought ends. Steve Fransen, Justen Smith, and Sarah Smith | Apr 2022 | Online resource Credit: Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) AgriSafe: Talking Total Farmer Health (Podcast) AgriSafe has long been a trusted voice in the health and safety of the people who feed the world, and we’re excited to bring that to you in a new format. Tune in every month to hear the latest from health and safety experts in agriculture. Together we’ll tackle the safety issues important to the producers and ag workers. Apr 2022 | Online resource Browse All Resources News Credit Juliana Ranches (Cropped from original) OSU Extension creates conference for beef ranchers featuring women Funded by a grant from the OSU Women's Giving Circle, RancHER drew 120 attendees. Kym Pokorny | Feb 17, 2022 | News story OSU Extension’s Western Meat School goes hybrid and attracts hundreds Western Meat School, which runs for six weeks in November and December, will cover key topics in production, processing and marketing to produce high-quality meat and sell to diverse market channels. Kym Pokorny | Oct 28, 2020 | News story Photo: Melody Larson (Cropped from original) Extension coordinates hay donations to relieve those affected by wildfires More than 500 tons have been donated and moved around the state through partnerships. Kym Pokorny | Oct 19, 2020 | News story All News Similar information and scholarly work can be found from the OSU College of Agricultural Sciences - Animal and Rangeland Sciences. Visit the Beef Sciences website Photo by Reinaldo Cooke. (Cropped from original) Explore more resources Business Management Pasture and Forages Rangeland Conservation and Management Upcoming Events Jun 15 QPR Suicide Prevention Training for Farmers & Ranchers 6:00 pm - 7:30 pm PDT Online Jun 16 Entrenamiento sobre la prevención del suicidio de QPR para agricultores y ganaderos (en español) 2:00 pm - 4:00 pm PDT Online See All Events Meet Our Experts Juliana Ranches Assistant Professor, Extension Beef Specialist David Bohnert Director Contact for questions associated with beef cattle management, grazing behavior, supplementation, and ration evaluation Sergio Arispe Associate Professor, Livestock and Rangeland Shelby Filley Regional Livestock & Forage See All Beef Cattle Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Photo: Aimee Brown (Cropped from original) Is beef with liver flukes safe to eat? Q: I'm in the process of buying some grassfed beef through an Oregon coast farmer on Craigslist. The beef was recently processed and is ready to pick up, however we won't be getting any liver as the cows had liver flukes. ... A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility