Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Gardening, Lawn, and Landscape Berries and Fruit Photo: Steve Dodrill (Cropped from original) Berries and Fruit Home Browse Resources Get Involved Events Our Experts In Your Community Share Featured Berry Resources Growing Blackberries in Your Home Garden Home gardeners can enjoy a choice of blackberry varieties with fruit far superior to that of wild blackberries. What’s more, home gardeners can pick fruit from early summer all the way to the first frost. Learn how to ... Bernadine Strik, Amy Jo Detweiler, Nicole Sanchez | Sep 2020 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Growing Raspberries in Your Home Garden Learn to grow tart, delicious raspberries in your own garden. Choose which type of raspberry to grow, and learn how to plant, prune, fertilize and water your berry patch to keep it healthy and productive.Take our online ... Bernadine Strik, Amy Jo Detweiler, Nicole Sanchez | Aug 2020 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Growing Strawberries in Your Home Garden The strawberry patch in your home garden can produce ripe fruit for your family all through the growing season. Grow strawberries in containers, in hills or in raised beds. Grow strawberries that produce a big crop in June ... Bernadine Strik, Amy Jo Detweiler, Erica Chernoh, Nicole Sanchez | Jul 2020 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Growing Blueberries in Your Home Garden Learn to grow your own sweet, juicy blueberries in your Oregon home garden! Find out which types and cultivars of blueberries grow best where you live, and which part of your yard is best suited for production. Read or download Photo: Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Featured Fruit and Nut Tree Resources Sweet Cherry Cultivars for the Fresh Market Describes dark red and blush sweet cherry cultivars, including harvest timing, color when ripe, suggested pollinizers and rootstocks, size, firmness, yield potential, and other traits. Includes color photo of each cultivar. Ashley Thompson, Lynn Long | Jan 2021 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Managing Diseases and Insects in Home Orchards This pest management guide is for the home gardener. It recommends management practices for controlling diseases and insects in home orchards. It doesn't meet the exacting requirements of the commercial fruit grower. Jay Pscheidt, Heather Stoven, Ashley Thompson, Brooke Edmunds, Nik Wiman | Mar 2020 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Pruning Hazelnut Trees — A Basic Guide Training is a term applied to trees from planting up to 4-5 years of age, and is used to encourage a strong tree structure capable of supporting heavy crops, and withstanding ice and snow loads. Jun 2015 | Article Growing Kiwifruit in Your Home Garden You may know kiwifruit by what you see in the grocery store: a fuzzy brown egg-shaped fruit with green or golden flesh. Other species of kiwifruit bear bite-sized fruit with smooth, edible skin. Which type you can grow in your home garden depends on your climate. This guide will walk you through all the details on planting, fertilizing, irrigating, pruning and training so you, too, can grow this delicious fruit. Learn more Photo: Amanda Davis (Cropped from original) Latest Resources Photo: Ask Extension (Cropped from original) What is this strange growth on my apple tree? Q: Hi. Just noticed this as I started pruning my Liberty apple tree. What is it and how should I deal with it? The entire branch is nonproductive — perhaps I should cut it back to the trunk? Another question: I recall ... A: View answer | View all featured questions Photo: AAE (Cropped from original) Is winter a good time to transplant my fruit tree? Q: I have a two year old dwarf Asian Pear tree that I initially planted into a large (22" x 26") pot. I've decided I would prefer it in the ground (I noticed that a long root was growing from its one drainage hole). ... A: View answer | View all featured questions Photo: EESC slide collection (Cropped from original) Why don't my pears get ripe? Q: I have lived in Roseburg for 30 years, where this used to be all pear orchard years prior. I have one large pear tree from that period that bears over 2000 pears annually. Besides many being worm infested, as a whole, ... A: View answer | View all featured questions Browse All Resources Latest News Credit Oregon State University (Cropped from original) Strik, decorated industry innovator, retires after 34 years as Extension berry specialist Bernadine Strik’s innovative research and Extension outreach had an impact in the Oregon berry industry, valued at $123 million a year, throughout the United States and in other berry regions worldwide. Kym Pokorny | Sep 17, 2021 | News story Credit USDA-ARS, Stephen Ausmus (Cropped from original) Sightings of spotted lanternflies worry farmers, nursery industry So far, there’s no known infestation in Oregon. If one establishes, many of Oregon’s high-value industries may be affected, including wine grapes, nursery and tree crops, small fruits and timber. Kym Pokorny | Jul 15, 2021 | News story With a few tips and patience, gardeners can grow melons If you’re choosing varieties for western Oregon, look for melons that require a shorter season. Kym Pokorny | May 24, 2021 | News story All News Explore more resources Home Food Preservation Bees and Pollinators Gardening Techniques Upcoming Events Jun 4 Fruit Thinning & Sucker Removal (Hands-on) 1:00 pm - 3:00 pm Eugene, OR Jul 26 Open House: Oak Creek Center for Urban Horticulture 11:00 am - 2:00 pm Corvallis, OR Nov 8 Growing the Good Stuff: from Sweet Potatoes to Bitter Melons 12:00 pm - 1:00 pm PST Online See All Events Meet Our Experts Logan Bennett Small Farms Program Coordinator Contact for Farming and Gardening Questions in Douglas County Cassie Bouska Agriculture Contact with me with questions about agriculture in Coos and Curry counties Erica Chernoh Horticulture Assistant Professor of Practice, Commercial and Community Horticulture Brooke Edmunds Community Horticulture, Master Gardeners Contact me with gardening questions from Marion or Polk counties See All Berries and Fruit Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Photo: Ask Extension (Cropped from original) What is this strange growth on my apple tree? Q: Hi. Just noticed this as I started pruning my Liberty apple tree. What is it and how should I deal with it? The entire branch is nonproductive — perhaps I should cut it back to the trunk? Another question: I recall ... A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility