Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Programs About Us About Us Our Leadership Program Areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our History Get Involved Donate News Career opportunities OSU Extension Service Internship Program Extension Community Advisory Network ECAN Members Leadership search update Share Print Director of Professional and Continuing Education The Director of PACE leads and provides strategic direction and oversight for the development and expansion of non-credit continuing education courses and professional programs, assesses opportunities, and manages human, financial, and physical resources for PACE. View the full position description. Open forum presentations Candidate A: May 31, 11:15 a.m.-noon, Zoom Candidate B: May 31, 4:15-5:00 p.m., Zoom Candidate C: June 3, 11:15 a.m.-noon, Zoom All presentations will be held remotely via Zoom. Candidate names, bios and evaluation forms will be posted the morning of each presentation. Presentation recordings will be posted following the last finalist's interview. Search committee Chair: Richard Riggs, Western Regional Director Search advocate: Ann Marie Murphy, Extension & Engagement Marketing Manager Nikki Cook, Center for Outdoor Recreation Economy (CORE) Program Coordinator Anne Hoisington, Extension Family & Community Health Associate Professor of Practice Katie Klump-Hensley. Office of Professional & Continuing Education (PACE) Program Manager Executive Leadership Positions Oregon State University's Division of Extension and Engagement is hiring two senior leadership positions: Executive Director for Engagement and Executive Director for Extension Operations. Together with Dr. Ivory W. Lyles, Vice Provost for Extension and Engagement and Director of the OSU Extension Service, these individuals serve as the Division's executive leadership team. Executive Director for Engagement The public portions of the search process for this position have concluded. Please direct questions to search chair Jennifer Alexander or search advocate Alisha Hutchison. This position (view full description) has primary leadership and administrative responsibility for engagement activities of the Division including strategic plan implementation; stakeholder engagements; staffing; and creation, improvement, and/or revision of Division rules and procedures. The Executive Director seeks opportunities to create greater collaboration and pursue opportunities and integration across colleges. This position makes certain that the diversity, equity and inclusion efforts of the Division are achieved, ensures that the organization will not discriminate, and will expand access to its programs and activities. Executive Director for Extension Operations The public portions of the search process for this position have concluded. Please direct questions to search chair Eric Cardella or search advocate Lauren Kraemer. This position (view full description) has administrative responsibility for the operations of the OSU Extension Service including strategic plan implementation, OES budget working in collaboration with Extension fiscal officer, central administrative staffing and creation, and improvement and/or revision of OES rules and procedures. The Executive Director will remain informed of issues regarding county operations, budgets and staffing, and seeks opportunities to create greater collaboration and integration across program areas and regions in the state. The Executive Director should build collaboration and support for diversity, equity and inclusion for OES. Was this page helpful? YesNo Send feedback Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility