Skip to main content utexas.edu Request information utexas.edu Request information Header Menu Program Finder Custom Training Getting Started Events About Us Contact Us Extended Campus The University of Texas at Austin UTA Building, Suite 2.408 1616 Guadalupe Street Austin, TX 78701 FAQs What is Extended Campus at The University of Texas at Austin? Extended Campus is a central hub of continuing and professional education offerings from programs across UT Austin. We connect you to industry leaders and top faculty to enhance your professional development and growth. We offer short courses, certificate programs, and degree programs. Who are Extended Campus programs for? The majority of our programs are designed for working professionals who are seeking to strengthen their ability to excel in their present role, advance in their current organization, or develop additional skills for a transition to a new position. Who teaches Extended Campus programs? Our programs are developed and led by top faculty from across UT Austin and leaders from relevant industries. Add to Current Answer: To learn more about our course leaders, click here. Do Extended Campus programs grant professional/continuing education credit? Many of the open enrollment programs included on this site (courses, professional certificate programs, conferences, boot camps, etc.) grant general and/or industry-specific continuing education credits. Do Extended Campus programs grant academic credit that can be applied towards a degree? The graduate degrees and graduate certificate programs included on this site grant degrees and/or academic credit. Most of our open enrollment programs (courses, professional certificates, boot camps, etc.) do not confer academic credit. I have registered for an open enrollment program and can no longer attend. What are my options? Registration refund and transfer policies vary across programs. Please see program pages for specific details. Are there opportunities for groups to participate in Extended Campus programs? Yes! Many of our open enrollment programs allow for group registration and participation, though there may be a limit on the number of individuals from the same organization who can participate in a particular course. Please see specific program pages for more information. In addition, if you are interested in developing programs for a large team or an entire organization, please visit our custom programs page. What are the requirements for admission or enrollment? There are two primary methods of entry into our programs: open enrollment and admissions-based enrollment. Open enrollment programs do not involve an application process. Specific program pages provide information to help you determine if the program is a good fit for you. Application requirements vary across admissions-based programs. Most require a combination of résumés, transcripts, letters of recommendation, and personal statements. Some programs may also require scores from standardized tests such as the GRE or GMAT. See program pages for specific requirements. Are there other opportunities to engage with UT Austin? Yes, UT is home to many award-winning museums, centers, and cultural institutions that can enhance your visit to campus. To learn more, click here. Who do I contact with questions? If you have general questions about Extended Campus and/or would like to discuss our offerings, please contact us. If you have detailed program-specific questions, please visit the website for that particular program. In addition to staff contact information, program websites provide resources to help you learn more about their offerings. WE’RE HERE TO HELP! TAKE THE FIRST STEP TODAY. REQUEST INFORMATION Extended Campus The University of Texas at Austin UTA Building, Suite 2.408 1616 Guadalupe Street Austin, TX 78701 Program Finder Custom Training Getting Started Events About Us Contact Us Subscribe» Powered by Extended Education Ventures | © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Emergency Information | Web Privacy Policy | Site Policies | Web Accessibility Policy