CSUF is closed for Winter Recess, December 24 - January 2. We will re-open to serve you on January 3. 2022. Website and online services unavailable on May 29. See IT Disaster Recovery website ► For International Students FAQs, click here ›COVID-19 Vaccine Requirement for Students and Instructors ► Professional Development Professional Development Certificate programs provide working professionals with evening and weekend courses, as well as networking opportunities to advance their careers or enter new fields. Certificate Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Educator Courses and Programs Community & Corporate Engagement Leadership for Public AgenciesShort-Term Courses & Events Degrees Degrees EIP partners with CSUF colleges and departments to offer bachelor’s and master’s degrees, as well as preparation programs for those looking to apply to professional health-care, law and business schools. Online Degree Completion Programs Master’s Programs Pre-Health Program Test Preparation Courses University Courses University Courses EIP expands access to University classes through Open University, Summer Session and Winter Session. Open University registration is open to the general public; Summer and Winter Sessions help Cal State Fullerton students graduate on-time or early. Open University Summer Session Winter Session Lifelong Learning Lifelong Learning Our lifelong learning opportunities range from programs for children to retirees, and include an on-campus arboretum with classes and events for those of all ages. Fullerton Arboretum Osher Lifelong Learning Institute Career Exploration Online Online Programs Online programs are structured with lectures and assignments, and allow you to interact and communicate with students and instructors/professors online. Online Certificate Programs Online Degree Completion Programs Online Programs for Educators International International Programs International students may study for one semester or complete an entire bachelor's or master's degree at CSUF. Visit International Programs International Admissions University Semester Abroad International Students & ScholarsStudy Abroad & Global Engagement Search this site or CSUF general sites SiteCSUF Site Menu searchSearch this site CSUF Winter Session Registration Dates Fees & Payments Study Abroad Non-CSUF Students Contact Extension and International Programs +Professional Development Certificate Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Educator Courses and Programs Community & Corporate Engagement Leadership for Public Agencies Short-Term Courses & Events +Degrees Online Degree Completion Programs Master’s Programs Pre-Health Program Test Preparation Courses +University Courses Open University Summer Session Winter Session +Lifelong Learning Fullerton Arboretum Osher Lifelong Learning Institute Career Exploration +Online Online Certificate Programs Online Degree Completion Programs Online Programs for Educators +International International Admissions University Semester Abroad International Students & Scholars Study Abroad & Global Engagement There was a problem with the left navigation. Extension and International Programs Winter Session Registration Dates Fees & Payments Study Abroad Non-CSUF Students Contact Winter Session California State University, Fullerton Dates The accelerated format of Winter Session provides an opportunity to complete an entire semesters worth of course work in a matter of weeks; 3 or 5 weeks to be exact. This type of instruction allows you to focus entirely on the single course you are enrolled in. Be sure to register and enroll early to secure your seat in the class as deadlines approach quickly. Winter Session Dates Session Dates Length Session A: In-Person classes will not meet Friday, December 23 through Monday, January 2. In-Person or online classes may include instruction and online activities during the winter break. December 17, 2022 – January 20, 2023 5 weeks Session B January 3, 2023 – January 20, 2023 3 weeks Campus Closed: Friday, December 23, 2022 through Monday, January 2, 2023, and Monday, January 16, 2023. Winter Registration Dates Monday, September 19, 2022 Class Schedule and Registration Guide available on Titan Online Friday, September 23, 2022 Registration appointments available in Student Center on Titan Online Monday, October 10, 2022 Registration begins for CSUF students on Titan Online by appointment 8 a.m.: Spring 2023 graduation candidates Noon: Seniors Wednesday, October 12, 2022 Registration opens for all other CSUF students at 8 a.m. Winter Registration Deadlines Session A Session B Enrollment from Waitlist Ends Last day students can add themselves to a waitlist. Last night auto-enrollment from waitlists. Thursday, December 15, 2022 Titan Online Available to Students for Dropping and Adding Last day of Early Registration. Last day to register/add without an electronic permit or late fee. Last day to drop and receive full refund less $5 processing fee of Winter Session & mandatory fees. Friday, December 16, 2022 Monday, January 2, 2023 Titan Online Available to Students for Dropping and Adding Late Registration (with $25 late fee) begins. Electronic permit from academic department required to add all classes. Saturday, December 17, 2022 Tuesday, January 3, 2023 Titan Online Available to Students for Adding Last day to register/add with a $25 late fee (per transaction) and an electronic permit. Wednesday, December 21, 2022 Wednesday, January 4, 2023 Titan Online Available to Students for Dropping Last day to drop a class without a grade of "W" and receive a 65% refund. Last day to change Grade Option. Wednesday, December 21, 2022 Wednesday, January 4, 2023 Titan Online Not Available Last day to withdraw with a grade of "W" and receive a 65% refund of Winter Session class fees. Electronic Request for Withdrawal Petition required No refunds after this date. $5 refund processing fee per transaction. Tuesday, January 3, 2023 Friday, January 6, 2023 Titan Online Not Available Last day to withdraw with a grade of "W" for serious and compelling reasons only. Electronic Request for Withdrawal Petition required. Must be a date on which CSUF is open. Friday, January 13, 2023 Questions? If you have any questions about Winter Session, send us a note and we will get back to you soon. Contact Us This site is maintained by Extension and International Programs. Mailing Address: 800 N. State College Blvd., #THall 1403, Fullerton, CA 92831 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact eipcommunications@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. ©