Your browser does not support inline frames or is currently configured not to display inline frames Skip to Navigation Skip to Main Content Website and online services unavailable on May 29. See IT Disaster Recovery website ► Quick Register | Cart Professional Development Extension and International Programs California State University, Fullerton All Programs Areas of Study: Business Crime & Forensics Fiduciary Management Technology & Engineering Program Types: Certificate Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Educator Courses and Programs Community & Corporate Engagement Leadership Development for Public Agencies Short-Term Courses & Events Test Preparation Online Degree Completion Programs Career Tech Foundation Online Programs Online Certificate Programs Online Degree Completion Programs Educator Courses and Programs Getting Started What is a Certificate? Selecting a Program Alumni Success Stories Current Student Resources Program & Course Policies Financial Aid Parking Forms Online Learning Request a Certificate About Fullerton Campus Community & Corporate Engagement Student Resources Teach for EIP FAQ Contact Us Donate × Email a friend To: Invalid E-Mail address From: Message: Page Link: Crime & Intelligence Analysis Professional Certificate | CSUF Extension and International Programs Crime Submit × Email a friend Mail Sent Succesfully Page Link: Crime & Intelligence Analysis Professional Certificate | CSUF Extension and International Programs Crime Close Crime and Intelligence Analysis Certificate Projected outlook for some certified Crime and Intelligence Analysis experts: 795,000Number of Jobs, 2020 $66,020Median Pay per year, 2021 7%Job Growth, 2020-2030 *U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics, Occupational Outlook Handbook – Police and Detectives Earn Your Crime & Intelligence Analysis Certificate in 12-18 Months Earn your crime and intelligence analysis certificate in 12-18 months. This is an emerging career that uses analysis, research and statistical methods to predict and prevent crime and terrorist activity. Interview with Lead Instructor, Brian Gray, Central Crime & Intelligence Analysis Unit Manager In this Q&A, Brian Gray talks about his favorite course in the program, the value of an internship, and common career paths for graduates of this certificate program. Read Interview Interview with program graduate, Mindy Duong Hear from Mindy Duong, CIA certificate program graduate, about how this program fueled her career success, and how it helped her decide her next steps professionally. Watch Mindy's Interview Crime & Intelligence Analysis Program Benefits: Receive the Following Upon Graduation: Certificate from the Law Enforcement Intelligence Units demonstrating completion of the program. Crime and Intelligence Analysis Certificate from Cal State Fullerton. On-the-job training through a 400-hour practicum/internship with a law enforcement agency. Ideal for: New employees in the field of crime and intelligence analysis. Those who work in crime and intelligence analysis units. Law-enforcement employees (both sworn and non-sworn) who want to leverage data. Anyone who wants to become a crime and intelligence analyst. Program Stats: Eight required courses (188 hours of lecture and discussion) 12-18 months long 18.8 continuing education units (CEUs) For courses that are delivered virtually, participants will need access to a computer and a reliable internet connection. A webcam and/or headset may also be recommended to participate in the class. Attendance to the live lecture is expected as if you were meeting face-to-face. Please refer to our Technical Recommendations for more information. Technical Recommendations Please note: Students must register no later than 2 business days prior to the course start date. If you missed the registration window or have any questions, please contact EIP Student Services at eipconnect@fullerton.edu. For optimal viewing of the course schedule below, please view on a tablet or desktop Schedule Eligibility Program Benefits Who Should Attend Note: Click on the course title to view all available course sections. Hover over the colored labels to view where the course will be offered. Course Title Collapse All Winter / Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Basic Elements of Criminal Intelligence V No sections available. Sign up and stay connected. View the course description. Criminal Intelligence Analysis V No sections available. Sign up and stay connected. View the course description. Crime Analysis Data Analysis V V No sections available. Sign up and stay connected. View the course description. Crime Analysis Applications V V No sections available. Sign up and stay connected. View the course description. Law Enforcement Research and Statistical Methods V Learn More Days Date Time Location F 06/10/22-06/10/22 1:00pm-5:00pm Virtual Instruction SuSat 06/11/22-06/19/22 8:00am-5:00pm Virtual Instruction Fee $655.00 Register Register Now Criminal Investigative Analysis I V V No sections available. Sign up and stay connected. View the course description. Criminal Investigative Analysis II V V No sections available. Sign up and stay connected. View the course description. Computer Applications for Crime and Intelligence Analysis V Learn More Days Date Time Location F 07/08/22-07/08/22 8:00am-5:00pm Virtual Instruction SuSat 07/09/22-07/17/22 8:00am-5:00pm Virtual Instruction Fee $700.00 Register Register Now Practicum in Crime and Intelligence Analysis O O O Learn More Days Date Time Location 05/31/22-08/19/22 Online Online-Variable Fee $60.00 Close Please select one of the two options. Please select your state of residence: --Select One-- Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas American Samoa California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Puerto Rico Northern Mariana Islands U.S. Virgin Islands American Samoa Guam Marshall Islands I currently live outside of the United States Your enrollment in a CSU Fullerton, University Extended Education professional development certificate class/program does not constitute admission to the University, nor does it provide eligibility for any type of student Visa. English Proficiency Requirement It is recommended that participants who reside outside of United States and whose first language is not English must possess English language proficiency equivalent to a minimum TOEFL score of 550 (paper), 80 (iBT) or IELTS score of 6.5. It the participant’s responsibility to demonstrate English language proficiency necessary to fully participate in the class lectures and discussions. Continue Cancel Register Register Now Certificate graduates will be able to: - Collect data, subject it to statistical tests, develop and test hypotheses - Write conclusions of findings in a manner which adheres to commonly accepted criminal justice research standards - Conceptualize and convert raw data into valid criminal intelligence information - Create association matrices and prepare telephone toll analysis, hierarchical analysis, visual investigation analysis, link analysis, and financial analysis - Detect and understand the distinction between crime patterns, series and trends; demonstrate a familiarity with motives for crime and types of criminals - Analyze data and determine when and where a criminal may strike again; develop crime/suspect and suspect/crime correlations; develop target profile analysis - Articulate crime problems to individuals and groups through written reports, charts and graphs - New employees in the crime and intelligence analysis field - Those who work in crime and intelligence analysis units - Law enforcement employees (both sworn and nonsworn) who need to know how to better use data and information - Those desiring future employment as crime and intelligence analysts Application for the Certificate All certificate candidates need to complete the online application form and submit it along with transcripts and/or appropriate supporting documents to CSUF Extension Programs at eipcrimeintel@fullerton.edu prior to the start of the program. Certificate candidates are expected to complete all of the required courses in the program. However, students may choose to complete courses on an individual basis as well. Certificate Requirements To be eligible for the certificate, students must meet and document the following requirements on the application for the program: - Completion of an Introduction to Criminal Justice and a Criminal Law class from an accredited program of study or a letter of verification of such working knowledge from an employer/instructor (students may complete these prerequisite classes while enrolled in initial certificate classes) - Knowledge of basic computer applications and skills, such as word processing, spreadsheet documents, and data entry. Students need to complete all the required certificate classes, including the 400-hour Practicum in Crime and Intelligence Analysis, to be eligible for the certificate. After completing all certificate requirements and classes, students need to complete a request for certificate form online at http://extension.fullerton.edu/ProfessionalDevelopment/Certificate-Request to initiate the processing for the certificate. Certificates are not processed without submission of this form. CSUF Credit Classes That Meet Certificate Prerequisite Requirements Students may enroll in the degree credit classes listed below, if needed, through Open University enrollment in Extended Education. Please consult the university's class schedule for information about the schedule and availability of these classes for the current semester. Open University registration forms are available through the Extended Education Registration Office. Foundations of Criminal Justice CRJU 300 (3 Units) AND Criminal Law: Substantive CRJU 310A (3 Units) Holly Carver Crime Analyst, Costa Mesa Police Department Christine L Gardiner Assistant Professor of Criminal Justice, Division of Politics, Administration and Justice, California State University, Fullerton Wendy Harn Assistant Director, Crime Analysis Program, Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department Paul Hower Crime Analyst, La Habra Police Department Kari A Knutson Miller AVP, International Programs; Dean, University Extended Education California State University, Fullerton Danielle M Martell Crime Analyst Supervisor, Anaheim Police Department Tamara Otley Crime Analyst, Fullerton Police Department Denelle C Pankratz Program Manager, University Extended Education, Cal State University, Fullerton Shelly Wang Manager, Program Development, University Extended Education, California State University, Fullerton Richard Weintraub Training Administrator/Director, Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department Jason G Weiss Laboratory Direction, Orange County Regional Computer Forensics Laboratory Elizabeth J Yee Crime Analyst, Westminster Police Department Program Details Location: Online-Live, 2-3 times weekly Length: 12-18 months Cost: $4,045* Next Start: September 2022 *Cost is approximate and subject to change View Schedule Program Application Request a Certificate View Related Programs Non-California Residents Professional Licensure and Certification *Have a question? Please contact us. Online Form - Prof Dev Master Email Sign-up (untitled_form_1_copy) Email Us: eipconnect@fullerton.edu Phone: (657) 278-2611 Address: 800 N. State College Blvd., #THall 1403, Fullerton, CA 92831 California State University, Fullerton / Extension and International Programs Download Adobe Reader