Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Pests, Weeds, and Diseases Pesticide Safety and Education Photo: Stephen Ward (Cropped from original) Pesticide Safety and Education Home Browse Resources Our Experts In Your Community Share Featured Resources The Myth of Compost Tea as a Pesticide Is compost tea an effective alternative to traditional pesticides? Let’s just say that news of its effectiveness has been greatly exaggerated. Anecdotal evidence abounds, but controlled, replicable experiments do not. Linda Chalker-Scott, Ph.D. | Mar 2015 | Online resource Pesticide Drift Management Illustrated tips for reducing the risk of wind, thermal, and inversion drift of pesticide materials. Paul Jepson | Sep 2007 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Get to Know the Pesticide Label Explains how to understand a pesticide label. Discusses the difference between brand name and active ingredient and how to know whether a specific use is legal for a specific pesticide. Nov 2003 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Latest Resources Bee Protection Protocol for Western Specialty Seed Crops Growers of specialty seeds in western Oregon rely on beekeepers to provide bees to pollinate their crops. Growers and beekeepers follow a Bee Protection Protocol to strengthen their mutually beneficial relationship. The protocol addresses pollination, pest management and communication. Apr 2022 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Credit Navneet Kaur (Cropped from original) OSU Extension-led team searches for chlorpyrifos alternatives for controlling insect pests in Oregon grass seed crops The Environmental Protection Agency recently banned the insecticide chlorpyrifos due to concern over the chemical’s neurological impacts on humans, so Oregon's grass seed industry needs immediate solutions for insect control. Mar 2022 | Impact story Credit Kristine Buckland (Cropped from original) OSU Extension researches alternative pesticides to fight cabbage maggot Extension collaborated to develop a new protocol for cabbage maggot control after the the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency banned the use of chlorpyrifos to treat food crops. Mar 2022 | Impact story Browse All Resources Latest News Dig into hundreds of publications from OSU Extension online catalog Have a gardening question? Find an answer in one of OSU Extension's publications. Kym Pokorny | Nov 22, 2019 | News story OSU Extension training results in reduced pesticide use in schools Survey results show that the vast majority of Oregon’s school districts have implemented key integrated pest management practices, including reduced pesticide use, through training provided by Oregon State University. Chris Branam | Mar 7, 2019 | News story Packaging insecticides in tiny capsules may make them more toxic Encasing insecticides in microscopic plastic capsules – a common formulation for many pest sprays on the market – could lead to unintended consequences. Chris Branam | Feb 26, 2019 | News story All News Meet Our Experts Cassie Bouska Agriculture Contact with me with questions about agriculture in Coos and Curry counties Brooke Edmunds Community Horticulture, Master Gardeners Contact me with gardening questions from Marion or Polk counties Gail Langellotto Master Gardener Statewide Coordinator Contact me for insect and gardening questions. Dani Lightle IR4 Specialty Crops Pesticide Registration Research Leader See All Pesticide Safety and Education Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Photo: Alan Dennis (Cropped from original) Will slug pesticides hurt my earthworms? Q: I recently had heard that Sluggo will kill earthworms. Is this something that you have heard about or have any information on? A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility