Skip to main content utexas.edu Request information utexas.edu Request information Header Menu Program Finder Custom Training Getting Started Events About Us Contact Us Extended Campus The University of Texas at Austin UTA Building, Suite 2.408 1616 Guadalupe Street Austin, TX 78701 Who We Are Extended Campus brings together continuing and professional education offerings from programs across The University of Texas at Austin. We connect you to industry leaders and top faculty to enhance your professional development and growth. Our Mission The mission of the Extended Campus at The University of Texas at Austin is to enhance the university’s impact by expanding access to a first-class education to a broad range of students in order to promote lifelong learning while addressing economic and workforce development needs in Texas and beyond. A Message from Leadership Welcome to Extended Campus at The University of Texas at Austin! I am pleased to welcome you to the Extended Campus—our gateway to the many continuing and professional education programs that UT has to offer. I am proud of the work that has gone to making The University of Texas a top-tier source of lifelong career-focused learning opportunities. I know you have a lot of options when considering continuing and professional education offerings. What sets Extended Campus apart is our commitment to bringing the expertise of our university community to enhance your life and career goals. The University of Texas is one of the premier public universities with world-class researchers and an innovative approach to teaching. I hope you find a program at Extended Campus that aligns with your professional goals and expands your horizons, and we hope to see you in class soon! Art Markman, Vice Provost for Continuing and Professional Education and New Education Ventures Leadership Meet the Leadership Council To fulfill this mission, we have brought together a team of dedicated and visionary leaders to coordinate and improve our continuing and professional education programs across campus. Molly Bray Professor and Chair College of Natural Sciences Marla Gilliland Director of Course Development Liberal Arts ITS Art Markman Vice Provost Extended Education Ventures Lewis Miller Assistant Director Human Dimensions of Organizations Liz Nowicki, ACSW, LCSW Director, Office of Professional Development School of Social Work Gaylen Paulson Associate Dean McCombs School of Business Soo Young Reih Professor and Associate Dean for Education in School of Information School of Information Gregory J. Smith, JD Assistant Dean for Continuing Legal Education School of Law Anita Vangelisti Senior Associate Dean for Faculty Affairs and Graduate Education Moody College of Communication Toni Wegner Chief Operating Officer Extended Education Ventures Gayle Acton Assistant Dean for Graduate Programs School of Nursing Glen Baumgart Director College of Pharmacy Michelle Broadway Assistant Dean The Graduate School Juan Gonzalez Professor Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Emily Vinas Assistant Professor, Department of Medical Education & Director of Continuing Medical Education Dell Medical School Molly Bray Professor and Chair College of Natural Sciences Marla Gilliland Director of Course Development Liberal Arts ITS Art Markman Vice Provost Extended Education Ventures Lewis Miller Assistant Director Human Dimensions of Organizations Liz Nowicki, ACSW, LCSW Director, Office of Professional Development School of Social Work Gaylen Paulson Associate Dean McCombs School of Business Soo Young Reih Professor and Associate Dean for Education in School of Information School of Information Gregory J. Smith, JD Assistant Dean for Continuing Legal Education School of Law Anita Vangelisti Senior Associate Dean for Faculty Affairs and Graduate Education Moody College of Communication Toni Wegner Chief Operating Officer Extended Education Ventures Gayle Acton Assistant Dean for Graduate Programs School of Nursing Glen Baumgart Director College of Pharmacy Michelle Broadway Assistant Dean The Graduate School Juan Gonzalez Professor Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Emily Vinas Assistant Professor, Department of Medical Education & Director of Continuing Medical Education Dell Medical School A Longhorn History of Excellence For more than a century, Extended Campus programs have helped the university serve the people of Texas, developing innovative solutions to the challenges of the day, preparing for the future and expanding access to the university’s resources and experts. Our History We were born in 1909 to "increase the usefulness of the University to the people of Texas." Throughout our history, campus-wide collaboration has resulted in innovations and cutting-edge delivery to serve students and their communities. Visionaries tackled barriers to education with offerings that evolved from by-mail correspondence into 24/7 online courses. Extended Campus Today Our exceptional faculty and UT resources are the stars of our programs. Our instructors have real-world experience and literally “practice what they teach.” We facilitate for-credit and non-credit professional and continuing education for more than 75,000 students, a number that is accelerating as workforce needs expand. Our Vision, Your Future As the world changes in unforeseen ways, our forward-looking education teams anticipate workforce and economic demands to provide sought-after skills just being imagined. By focusing on the future, we serve our thriving Texas community and its employers as well as our diverse community of learners. Lifelong learning is ready for you. Why wait? Explore Extended Campus Offerings Online. In Class. World Class. Use our program finder to identify the most applicable offerings for your needs and schedule. BROWSE ALL PROGRAMS WE’RE HERE TO HELP! TAKE THE FIRST STEP TODAY. REQUEST INFORMATION Extended Campus The University of Texas at Austin UTA Building, Suite 2.408 1616 Guadalupe Street Austin, TX 78701 Program Finder Custom Training Getting Started Events About Us Contact Us Subscribe» Powered by Extended Education Ventures | © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Emergency Information | Web Privacy Policy | Site Policies | Web Accessibility Policy