Skip to content Coronavirus Updates: See latest COVID-19 news from Harvard Extension School. COVID-19 Updates Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Academics Take a Course Graduate Degrees Graduate Certificates Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Academic Gap Year Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students Apply to Premedical Program Academic Calendar Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Blog Events Press and Announcements Contact Us MyDCE Login Request Information Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Request Information Academics Take a Course Graduate Certificates Graduate Degrees Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Browse Courses Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students International Students Academic Calendar Forms Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Harvard Extension School Blog Contact Us Events Press and Announcements Media and Photo Information For Enrolled Students Support and Services Student Policies and Conduct Harvard Extension Alumni Association Website Archives Privacy Statement Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn About Suzanne Spreadbury, Dean of Academic Programs Suzanne Spreadbury, Dean of Academic Programs and Chief Academic Officer, Harvard Extension School Dear Harvard Extension School Students, On behalf of the entire Harvard Extension School team of faculty and staff, I am delighted to invite you to join us in a long-standing academic tradition of excellence and innovation in continuing education. Harvard Extension was the first Ivy League institution in the US to offer a degree program specifically designed for working adult students in the form of a high-quality undergraduate education that did not interfere with full-time employment. Harvard Extension was also the first school at Harvard to commit to offering part-time study, adopt open enrollment, and champion distance education. The Harvard Extension team is personally dedicated to continuing both the School’s rich history of trailblazing and its time-honored mission of offering accessible, affordable, and inclusive education. Wherever you want to study or wherever you live, we are here for you. Most of our courses are taught online. But our “online” is different. We call it “human learning done online.” Our most popular remote offerings offer real-time faculty and peer interaction. We prioritize learning in community, not isolation. We are ardent proponents of the 60-year curriculum concept because we sincerely believe learning is lifelong. We are here for you whether you seek professional development, graduate school preparation, or personal enrichment. We are here for you, too, if you want to earn a Harvard credential, such as our 128-credit undergraduate degree, our 12-course graduate degree, or a four-course professional graduate certificate. Harvard Extension offers almost 1000 courses that span the fields of human knowledge, from Abstraction and Design in Computation to Zero Energy and Passive Buildings. Many of our courses are taught by Harvard faculty from Harvard College and the Harvard graduate schools. I challenge you to find a more diverse set of credit-bearing, open-enrollment courses taught by leaders in academia and industry anywhere in the US. But perhaps the most outstanding feature of Harvard Extension is that our instructors are here because they want to teach and our students are here because they want to learn. Our students—your peers—are established, talented, rising stars in their careers who are here for the academic challenge that only a Harvard education provides. They are here because they want the best that continuing education has to offer and because they believe they deserve the best. And because we believe that too, the best is what we provide. Suzanne Spreadbury, PhD Dean of Academic Programs and Chief Academic Officer Harvard Extension School Division of Continuing Education, Harvard University Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! Harvard Extension is delighted to celebrate our students’ tremendous commitment and hard work. Read more about our students' journey to this big day! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Archives Follow Harvard Extension School Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Harvard Division of Continuing Education A division of Harvard University dedicated to bringing rigorous programs and innovative online teaching capabilities to distance learners, working professionals, high school students, college students, and those seeking higher learning in retirement. Harvard Extension School Harvard degrees, certificates and courses—online, in the evenings, and at your own pace. Harvard Summer School Academic summer opportunities for adult, college and high school students—at Harvard and abroad. Harvard Professional Development Short, intensive programs to develop skills and strengthen your professional profile. Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement Peer learning in the liberal arts—a community program for retired and semi-retired professionals. Harvard Division of Continuing Education Privacy Statement Accessibility Rights & Regulations Digital Accessibility Policy Harvard.edu Cookie Settings Copyright ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College