Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Business and Economics Rural Economic Development Photo: Stephen Ward (Cropped from original) Rural Economic Development Home Browse Resources Get Involved Our Work Our Experts Share Featured Resources Photos from OSU EESC Photo Archive (Cropped from original) WealthWorks in Practice - Rural Wealth Creation Four videos explain WealthWorks, the rural wealth creation approach to local economic community development. Mallory Rahe, Amy Hause | Apr 2018 | Collection Selling Logs from Your Property: A Curriculum Package for Educators in the Western U.S. Selling logs is one of the most important decisions a landowner can face. This curriculum package for forestry educators brings together consulting foresters, log buyers and loggers to teach participants how to get a fair deal ... Lauren Grand, Alicia Christiansen, Francisca Belart, Tamara Cushing | Apr 2020 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Growing Malting Barley in and Around the Willamette Valley Barley is a useful rotation crop that grows well in the Willamette Valley. But the region's craft beers and spirits generally use malting barley shipped from elsewhere. Can growers and brewers capitalize on high-quality, locally ... Betsy Verhoeven, Ryan Graebner | May 2019 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Photo: Lynn Ketchum, OSU EESC (Cropped from original) New Community Food System Indicators on OSU’s Rural Community Explorer! Updated data on Oregon’s food processors, food stores, farm employment and compensation, and SNAP access are available on OSU Extension’s Rural Community Explorer’s Communities Reporter for the state and all counties. The CFS ... Lauren Gwin, Mallory Rahe | Mar 2019 | Article Photo: Ryan Creason (Cropped from original) Oregonians learn homesteading at Rural Living Day Annual event included classes ranging from composting to water rights and well-water management, and small engine maintenance to wildlife management. Chris Branam | May 7, 2020 | News story Latest Resources Photo: fasterinternetoregon.org (Cropped from original) Broadband Connectivity Outreach Extension collaborates to help communities learn how low-income households can pay for internet service and connected devices, test their internet speeds and partner to deploy broadband on tribal lands. Lucas Turpin | Project Credit Lauren Gwin (Cropped from original) OSU Extension supports small-scale and historically marginalized farmers The Oregon Community Food Systems Network (OCFSN) has been an integral part of building and maintaining the institutional infrastructure essential for the network’s activities and topical working groups. Mar 2022 | Impact story Credit SoilScience.info / CC BY (Cropped from original) OSU Extension helps rebuild wells and septic systems in Otis community As a result of this work, 110 applications to the program came in from August through December 2021. Sixty projects were completed with payments totaling $300,000 for replacements, repairs and reimbursements for septic and well systems. Mar 2022 | Impact story Browse All Resources Explore more resources Estate and Succession Planning Agritourism Community Planning Meet Our Experts Didgette McCracken Open Campus and Agriculture Faculty Contact me with educational and community development questions as well as agriculture questions. Rebecca Thistlethwaite NMPAN Program Manager Contact for meat sales, science, & processing questions. See All Rural Economic Development Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Photo: Tiffany Woods (Cropped from original) Animal, mineral, or vegetable, what is the coolest thing for my farm? Q: I need some help evaluating crops and or animals that I can make money with. How to find good products that are in high demand. We are organic. A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility