Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Water and Watersheds Irrigation Photo: Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Irrigation Home Browse Resources Events Our Experts In Your Community Share Latest Resources Forage production with limited irrigation By selecting the right forages and using efficient management practices with limited irrigation or drought conditions, producers can achieve reasonable forage production with reduced input costs. This publication from the University of Nebraska highlights irrigation and crop options, water-use efficiency of different forages, and more. Jerry D. Volesky and Aaron L. Berger | Apr 2010 | Online resource Alfalfa irrigation during drought Alfalfa grown for forage in the arid Northwest requires 1.8-acre feet to 3.2-acre feet of water per year, depending on length of the growing season. This drought advisory publication recommends steps producers can take when water availability is reduced. Thomas Ley | Apr 2022 | Online resource Applied Water Use by Spring Cereals for Forage Drought is a major concern for producers of food and forage crops. According to the U.S. Drought monitor, Central and Eastern Oregon in particular, are in severe drought. In the early 1990's, a trial was conducted to determine the yield per inch of water applied to 5 cereal species: barley, triticale, rye, wheat, and oat. All varieties received the same amount of irrigation and were harvested at late boot or soft dough growth stage. These data may help producers choose a variety and species of cereal to plant as emergency forage if irrigation water is limited. (8 pages,.docx file) . . Mylen Bohle | Apr 2022 | Publication Peer reviewed (Gray level) Browse All Resources Crop irrigation guides Oregon Crop Water Use and Irrigation Requirements: Provides consumptive use and net irrigation requirements for economically important crops in 27 climatic regions in Oregon. Computations are based on the modified Blaney-Criddle calculation method and climatic database information. ... Western Oregon Irrigation Guides: Set of irrigation guides for farmers in the Willamette Valley, covering the primary field, row, and orchard crops. Gives an overview of the decisions and factors that go into irrigation system design, operation, and maintenance. ... Access crop specific guides Irrigation Management Basics Small fruit, vegetable and nursery crops generally require irrigation to produce the quality the market demands and the yield the producer needs. Irrigation technology has changed dramatically over the last thirty years. Independent of which system or mix of systems a grower uses, irrigation management can be challenging. An irrigation program must match the changing demands of the crop with the water supplied. Read more Irrigation systems and tools Drip Irrigation: An Introduction: Discusses the advantages of drip irrigation and how it can help growers use water efficiently. Covers basic concepts related to components and design as well as management considerations such as placement of the tape, timing and rates, maintenance, and adjustments to fertilizer rates. El riego por goteo: Una introducción: Spanish translation of Drip Irrigation: An Introduction EM 8782. Explore more systems and tools Protecting water quality Managing Irrigation Water Quality for Crop Production in the Pacific Northwest Dan M. Sullivan | Aug 2007 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) More water quality resources Irrigation management Strategies for Efficient Irrigation Water Use Clinton Shock | Mar 2013 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Learn about irrigation management Explore more resources Residential Water/Wells Upcoming Events Jun 7 Oregon Hemp Growers Forum: June 5:30 pm - 7:30 pm PDT Online Jun 14  Irrigation Choices and Design for the Home Garden and Landscape  12:00 pm - 1:00 pm PDT Online See All Events Meet Our Experts Dari Biswanath Assistant Professor Contact me with any question about soil, agronomy, water in Klamath Falls/Basin Area William Jaeger Policy Specialist Gordon Jones Agriculture Alexander Levin Viticulture See All Irrigation Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Photo: Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) How deep do my irrigation pipes need to be? Q: I hired a lawn irrigation contractor to install a lawn irrigation system in our yard. He buried the lawn irrigation pipes about 7 - 8 inches below the surface. He maintains that the pipes are "plenty deep" to avoid winter... A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility