Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Youth, Families and Health Healthy Aging Photo: Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Healthy Aging Home Browse Resources Get Involved Events Our Experts In Your Community Share Featured Programs Photo by iStock (Cropped from original) Walk With Ease Walk With Ease (WWE) is an exercise program that can reduce pain and improve overall health. If you can be on your feet for 10 minutes without increased pain, you can have success with Walk With Ease! Program Photo by Karl Maasdam (Cropped from original) Better Bones and Balance® Better Bones and Balance® is an exercise program designed to gradually improve balance and strength to avoid falls and maintain independence. Program StrongPeople™ StrongPeople™ is a nationally recognized, evidence-based community exercise program designed to increase the number of mid-life and older women participating in safe and effective strength training. Program Latest Resources Nutrition for Older Adults: Preventing Malnutrition as the Body Ages Poor nutrition can cause a cascade of health problems for older adults. This guide lists the nutrients of concern for people over 60 — from antioxidants to calcium to water. Learn how eating well can stave off chronic disease. Dec 2021 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Disaster Preparedness for Older Adults and Their Caregivers Older adults face unique challenges preparing for and in the aftermath of natural disasters. This population can be among the hardest hit by hurricanes, floods, winter storms, heat events, and extended power outages. Learn the ... Lauren Kraemer | Sep 2021 | Video Credit Stephen Ward (Cropped from original) Virtual Walk With Ease class increases accessibility to disabled adults Because of this class, all virtual Walk With Ease classes are now more accessible, and the images represent a broader spectrum of physical abilities, as well as ages and race and ethnicities. Allison Harris | Apr 2021 | Impact story Browse All Resources Latest News OSU to host virtual gerontology conference Geriatric experts from around the country will present more than 30 educational sessions for health and human service professionals and the public. Chris Branam | Mar 12, 2021 | News story Credit Sam Doak (Cropped from original) StrongWomen participants and volunteers gain a resource in new website The website provides participants with everything they need to know about the program, including exercise videos that allow them to follow along at home. Chris Branam | Feb 24, 2021 | News story Courtesy of Claire Culbertson (Cropped from original) OSU Extension adult exercise programs keep Oregonians active Walk With Ease and Strong Women & StrongPeople are focusing on self-directed programs and virtual meetings to stay connected to their participants. Chris Branam | Apr 24, 2020 | News story All News Explore more resources Food Security Nutrition and Healthy Eating Healthy Homes Upcoming Events Jun 3 45th Annual OSU Gerontology Conference - 2022 7:15 am - 4:30 pm Corvallis , OR Jun 18 The Longest Day Coastal Memory Walk 9:00 am - 11:00 am Bandon, OR Jun 22 Rescheduled: Arresting Alzheimer's 6:00 pm - 7:00 pm Coos Bay, OR Jun 23 Rescheduled: Longevity & Health 6:00 pm - 7:00 pm Coos Bay, OR See All Events Meet Our Experts Lauren Kraemer Associate Professor, Family and Community Health Contact me with all your health and wellness questions in the Columbia River Gorge. Dusti Linnell Family & Community Health Robin Maille Family & Community Health/SNAP-Ed Stephanie Polizzi Family & Community Health Contact for information about foods that prevent or arrest chronic disease. See All Healthy Aging Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Photo: Stephen Ward (Cropped from original) Got Calcium? What form is best? Q: Do studies substantiate calcium gluconate is better absorbed by bone than calcium carbonate? A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility