Skip to main content Ferguson College of AgAg ResearchSearch Close Search Search this site Search Search Extension All of Oklahoma State University Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Extension Main Menu In this section ABOUT EVENTS News PROGRAMS & SERVICES PUBLICATIONS TOPICS COUNTY OFFICES Ferguson College of AgAg Research Home Events Women in Ag Women in Agriculture Conference Events Contact Sonya McDaniel County Extension Director | Family and Consumer Sciences/4-H EducatorPottawatomie County(405) 273-7683sonya.mcdaniel@okstate.edu Register for the Women in Agriculture Conference Register Now! Mark your calendars for August 4-5th, 2022 Champion Convention Center, Oklahoma City Register here. $75 registration payable online Full 2022 Conference agenda! Education | Networking | Resources The Oklahoma Women in Ag and Small Business conference provides risk management education in the areas of production, marketing, financial, legal and human risks inherent to women owned operations. Four general sessions and 24 concurrent workshops focusing on educational information and resources to mitigate and manage risks through implementation of new methods and tools. Conference Site and Hotel Come for the Education – Stay for the friendships The 2022 conference also provides participants opportunities for informal networking with other women in agriculture at the Champion Convention Center. We encourage everyone to reserve a room for a special rate through Women in Ag Conference at the Hilton Garden Inn. Enjoy hotel amenities with breakfast daily. Take advantage of the OKC Outlet Mall shopping very close by along with dinner out at various local restaurants. Use this time to gain knowledge, but also enjoy a little social recreation and time with other likeminded women. We all need a little break from home now and then! Special Guest Keynote Presenters Brooke Clay Taylor with Rural Gone Urban will give an uplifting and motivating presentation about living the life you want, professionally and personally, despite obstacles and challenges. *Sponsored by Oklahoma Farm Bureau Brandi Buzzard, rural life blogger Buzzard’s Beat will talk about “Making Your Own Luck.” Brandi Buzzard is a cowgirl, rancher, working mom and wife. For more than a decade, she has also been a passionate agriculture advocate, while helping others share their agriculture story. Both keynote presenters will provide a break out session during the conference focusing on marketing, telling your story and selling your brand! Joni Nash, day two opening session. "Being a Leader for Rural Development in Your Community." Sponsorships The Statewide Women in Ag and Small Business Conference is provided by Oklahoma Extension Reinvesting in DASNR funds, along with private sponsorships making it possible to hold this amazing educational event. Sponsorships in support of women in agriculture enterprises from local agriculture organizations, agencies and businesses are critical to the success of the conference. Display booths for products, programs or resources require a $250 sponsorship and include one registration. Higher level sponsorships are available for more printed and live promotion before and during the conference, as well as more registrations. Contact Sonya McDaniel or visit our sponsorship site. To request a sponsorship through PO or invoicing, please contact Ag Conference Services at (405) 744-6489. Thank you to the following 2022 Sponsorships! Posse Sponsors Cowboy Sponsor Orange Sponsor White Sponsor Corporate Sponsors Farm Credit Associations Oklahoma Mesonet See you in 2022! Back To Top Back To Top OSU Extension Administered by theDivision of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources Find Your County Office 139 Agricultural Hall Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 (map) (405) 744-5398 | Contact Us Follow US NewsEventsNewsletter SignupFact Sheets Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Oklahoma State University Campus & Parking MapsAll OSU InstitutionsCareers @ OSUHire OSU Grads© Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks MENUCLOSE ©