Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Home Outdoors and Environments Wildlife Scorpions in Oregon? Q: Hello! I would like to know more about this scorpion I found in my garden. I live near Jacksonville, up in the Griffin Creek area. We found three of these little guys. Never seen one before! Very cool. Thanks in advance! A: That is a western forest scorpion (sometimes called a California forest scorpion), Uroctonus mordax. These are medium-sized, shy scorpions that live in cooler, moister conditions compared with other scorpions. When disturbed, they tend to play dead, rather than sting, but they do sting small prey organisms when they are hunting for food. These scorpions are found in the mountainous and western parts of California, western Oregon and southwestern Washington. Enjoy! Want to learn more about this topic? Explore more resources from OSU Extension: Wildlife Western forest scorpions can be found in moist wooded areas in Oregon. Photo: Ask Extension May 2022 William Gerth Senior Faculty Research Assistant OSU Fisheries, Wildlife and Conservation Sciences Share Print Was this page helpful? YesNo Send feedback Related Content from OSU Extension The Wildlife Garden: Rufous Hummingbird (Selasphorus rufus) This publication describes hummingbirds and their habits. It explains what type of habitat they need and how you can provide habitat in your yard. Includes sources of additional information and fun facts. Nov 2004 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Field Guide to Common Fish of the Willamette Valley Floodplain This book contains descriptions of 15 native and 16 nonnative fish (including origin, distribution, key characteristics, size, distinguishing features, color, diet, and other remarks) found in the Willamette River Basin's seasonal ... Guillermo Giannico, Brad Withrow-Robinson | Jun 2014 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) The Wildlife Garden: Build Nest Boxes for Wild Birds Many birds nest in holes in dead trees, but this kind of habitat is often unavailable in urban areas. You can help replace the loss of natural cavities by adding nest boxes to your yard. Learn how to build your own nest boxes for birds with this step-by-step guide. Jun 2002 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Nurturing Mason Bees in Your Backyard in Western Oregon An overview of mason bee basic biology and life cycle, and detailed descriptions of what is needed to start keeping mason bees, including desirable plants, nesting sites and types of nests, and caring for the cocoons over fall and winter. There are many helpful color photos throughout. Brooke Edmunds, Ramesh Sagili | Feb 2016 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) A Guide to Hedgerows: Plantings That Enhance Biodiversity, Sustainability and Functionality Hedgerows are living fences with the ability to grow food, shelter wildlife, save water, manage weeds and look beautiful all year round. Study the many benefits of hedgerows, and learn what you need to know to plant your own living fence. Pami Monnette | Jun 2020 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Wildlife Habitat: Nurturing a Diverse Mix of Flora and Fauna Property owners can play key roles in wildlife habitat. Learn how to manage your land to promote a diverse native habitat and support ecological systems. One of a series of Land Steward Rural Resource Guidelines. Rachel Werling | Jul 2020 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Photo: Odium / CC BY-SA (Cropped from original) Wildlife cameras: a snapshot of what you need to know Wildlife cameras can provide a window into the natural world that would otherwise go unseen. Here's a guide to getting started, from what to buy to how to place them for the best chances of capturing wildlife photos. Lauren Grand | Jan 2019 | Article Healthy streams: a family’s journey toward fish habitat restoration This class will cover how a small woodland family northeast of Estacada embarked on a ten-year effort (ongoing) to restore their creek to improve fish habitat and allow for fish passage. Topics covered include planning, ... David Bugni, Glenn Ahrens, Dan Stark | Apr 2022 | Video Photo: Christina Friehauf (Cropped from original) Episode 18: Small Landowner Management In this episode, Lauren Grand and Lindsay Reaves discuss forest management at the Bauman Family Tree Farm. Reaves lives and works on the farm with her husband Tom Bauman. Lauren Grand, Lindsay Reaves | Apr 2022 | Podcast episode Photo: Christina Friehauf (Cropped from original) Episode 4: Forest Health In this episode, Jacob Putney is joined by Oregon State University Extension Forest Health Specialist, Dave Shaw. They discuss a wide variety of forest health topics such as drought, insects, and disease, and the influences these agents have on individual tree and forest growth. Jacob Putney, David C. Shaw | Mar 2022 | Podcast episode Photo: Christina Friehauf (Cropped from original) Episode 15: Reforestation In this episode, Stephen Fitzgerald discusses reforestation with Carli Morgan at the McDonald-Dunn Forest planting site. Morgan manages the reforestation, forest inventory, and GIS programs for the OSU research forests. Stephen Fitzgerald, Carli Morgan | Mar 2022 | Podcast episode Photo: Christina Friehauf (Cropped from original) Episode 13: Woodland Management In this episode, Jacob Putney discusses the importance of managing forests with Glenn Ahrens. Ahrens is an assistant professor for Oregon State University's College of Forestry and extension agent for Clackamas, Marion, and Hood River Counties. Jacob Putney, Glenn Ahrens | Mar 2022 | Podcast episode Photo: Christina Friehauf (Cropped from original) Episode 11: Difficult Situations In this episode, Lauren Grand and Emily Jane Davis discuss strategies to help land owners deal with difficult situations. Lauren Grand, Emily Jane Davis | Mar 2022 | Podcast episode Photo: Christina Friehauf (Cropped from original) Episode 9: Wildlife In this episode, Lauren Grand discusses the relationship between forests and wildlife with Thomas Stokely. Lauren Grand, Thomas Stokely | Mar 2022 | Podcast episode Photo: Ask Extension (Cropped from original) How do we help our backyard hummingbird? I am wondering if I can get more information on the hummingbird that has decided to nest outside my Portland window. Can you tell me what kind of hummingbird it is and are there any interesting facts about their nesting ... Dana Sanchez | Mar 2022 | Featured question Photo: Christina Friehauf (Cropped from original) Episode 3: How Forests Grow In this episode of In The Woods, Jacob Putney is joined by John Bailey to learn about the foundations of forest growth. Jacob Putney | Mar 2022 | Podcast episode Photo: Christina Friehauf (Cropped from original) Episode 2: What's in a woodland? Lauren Grand talks to Daniel Stark about what makes up the parts of a woodland and a bit about land stewardship. Lauren Grand, Dan Stark | Jan 2022 | Podcast episode Photo: Observation © mvalig / CC BY (Cropped from original) OSU Extension gives Master Gardeners tools to broaden understanding of biodiversity Gail Langellotto, OSU Extension statewide Master Gardener coordinator and professor of horticulture in the College of Agricultural Sciences, created an online course to teach volunteers how to identify plants and insects using the respected iNaturalist mobile app. Mar 2022 | Impact story Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility