Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Crop Production Wine Grapes Photo: Patty Skinkis (Cropped from original) Wine Grapes Home Browse Resources Events Our Experts In Your Community Share Featured Resources Check out these seasonally relevant resources for grape producers! 2022 Pest Management Guide for Wine Grapes in Oregon Learn the most effective techniques for controlling insects, weeds and disease on wine grapes in Oregon. This comprehensive publication for growers covers strategies for controlling powdery mildew, botrytis bunch rot and spider mites,... Patricia A. Skinkis, Jay Pscheidt, Marcelo Moretti, Vaughn Walton, Achala KC, Clive Kaiser | Feb 2022 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Photo by Patty Skinkis (Cropped from original) Starting a vineyard This article provides the important steps that need consideration in developing a vineyard business in Oregon. Patricia A. Skinkis | Sep 2018 | Article Peer reviewed (Gray level) Photo: Miranda Ulmer (Cropped from original) How to spur prune grapevines This video provides instructions on how to prune cordon-trained vines with spur pruning during winter. Patricia A. Skinkis | Dec 2019 | Video Photo: Patty Skinkis (Cropped from original) How to cane prune grapevines This video provides instructions on how to cane prune a grapevine. Patricia A. Skinkis | Dec 2019 | Video Photo: Patty Skinkis (Cropped from original) How to renew a grapevine cordon This video describes how to renew a cordon in a mature, cordon-trained, spur-pruned vineyard that has not had regular cordon renewal. Patricia A. Skinkis | Aug 2019 | Video Latest Content Photo: Marcelo Moretti (Cropped from original) Mechanical Weed Control for Under the Vine Dr. Marcelo Moretti, Assistant Professor of Weed Science in the Department of Horticulture at Oregon State University, provides a summary of research evaluating different implements for under-vine weed control in vineyards. Jul 2021 | Online resource Southern Oregon wine grapes may need less water, OSU Extension study shows Levin estimated annual wine grape needs at 11.4 inches annually, depending on time of year – a vast difference for water-starved southern Oregon, which is already bracing for another drought. Kym Pokorny | Jun 3, 2021 | News story Credit Stephen Ward (Cropped from original) Oregon Wine Research Institute helps state's vineyards and wineries stay competitive OSU's Oregon Wine Research Institute addresses industry's needs Jun 2021 | Impact story Photo: Patty Skinkis Join the Online Vineyard Management Course in Spring 2022 Looking for opportunities to increase your viticulture or wine grape production knowledge? This online, non-credit course will be taught by Dr. Patty Skinkis, OSU Professor and Viticulture Extension Specialist. The course covers key concepts in vineyard management and focuses on the importance of making informed management decisions in the vineyard by understanding impacts on grapevine physiology and economics. This is a great course for current industry professionals or those interested in entering the industry. Registration is required. Learn more about the class here. Learn more about the class here! Credit: Patty Skinkis National research team working on vineyard nutrition management Oregon State University is one of several institutions involved in developing better mineral nutrient guidelines and monitoring methods for commercial vineyards and wineries. The High Resolution Vineyard Nutrient Management Project Team consists of 14 scientists from seven institutions from across the US, and includes national and international collaborators. The project facilitates work in four main areas of vineyard nutrition, including 1) plant nutrition/product quality, 2) precision viticulture, 3) sensors and engineering, and 4) outreach and social science. Learn more about this project and get connected with the project team for future reports of the research progress. Learn more about the HiRes Vineyard Nutrition Project Explore more resources Agritourism Organic Agriculture Soil Wine, Beer, Cider, and Spirits Integrated Pest Management Plant Diseases Weeds Upcoming Events Jun 16 Entrenamiento sobre la prevención del suicidio de QPR para agricultores y ganaderos (en español) 2:00 pm - 4:00 pm PDT Online Jun 29 Vineyard Scouting Workshop 2022 8:30 am - 3:00 pm Umpqua, OR See All Events Meet Our Experts Patricia A. Skinkis Viticulture Extension Specialist Contact for commercial wine grape production questions in Oregon (statewide). Alexander Levin Viticulture Cody Copp Assistant Professor of Practice Vaughn Walton Entomologist See All Wine Grapes Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility