Skip to main content utexas.edu Request information utexas.edu Request information Header Menu Program Finder Custom Training Getting Started Events About Us Contact Us Extended Campus The University of Texas at Austin UTA Building, Suite 2.408 1616 Guadalupe Street Austin, TX 78701 Learn from the Best As a participant in our programs, you will engage with a network of talented professionals and learn from award-winning faculty. In addition, with the university’s reputation for excellence, adding a credential from UT Austin to your resume is sure to stand out. Meet some of our outstanding faculty: Christine Julien Associate Dean for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Christine Julien has received several awards recognizing her teaching and research efforts, including a National Science Foundation CAREER Award, a Young Investigator Award from the U.S. Air Force Office of Scientific Research and a University of Texas Board of Regents Outstanding Teaching Award. Jeremi Suri Professor, Author, Podcast Host Jeremi Suri holds the Mack Brown Distinguished Chair for Leadership in Global Affairs at UT Austin. He is a professor in both the Department of History and the LBJ School of Public Affairs. Dr. Suri writes for major newspapers and magazines, is a popular public lecturer and hosts the podcast This Is Democracy. Bryn Poland Licensed Lawyer in Texas and Kansas Bryn Poland, Esq. is licensed to practice law in Texas and Kansas. She focuses her practice on estate planning, special needs trust planning and administration, Medicaid planning, and qualified settlement funds, and she is a frequent speaker on these topics at continuing education conferences for attorneys and trust officers. Chris Aarons Professor and Marketing and Communications Industry Expert Chris Aarons has 25+ years of experience in marketing and communications. He teaches for Texas Executive Education and the Center for Professional Education, and his passion for learning and helping others succeed has made him one of the highest rated instructors at UT Austin, teaching digital marketing, leadership and strategic communications. Elizabeth Richmond-Garza Teaching Associate Professor and Director of Comparative Literature Elizabeth Richmond-Garza is UT Regents’ and Distinguished Teaching Associate Professor of English and Director of the Program in Comparative Literature at UT Austin. She holds degrees from U.C. Berkeley, Oxford University and Columbia University and has held both Mellon and Fulbright Fellowships. ROB OSHANA Vice President of Research and Development at NXP Semiconductors Rob Oshana is an internationally recognized expert in technology management and has authored numerous publications on software engineering and embedded systems. He has 40+ years of industry experience and serves as an adjunct professor of Engineering Management at the Cockrell School, Senior Member of IEEE, and Vice President of Software Engineering Research and Development at NXP Semiconductors. Top University In Texas US News & World Report Top 10 (#6) Public University in the US QS World University Rankings Top University for Veterans in Texas US News & World Report Best Value and Return on Investment in Texas The Princeton Review Discover What’s Next for You In today’s workplaces the pace of change is accelerating, and investing in your future with continuing and professional education is vital. FIND YOUR PROGRAM WE’RE HERE TO HELP! TAKE THE FIRST STEP TODAY. REQUEST INFORMATION Extended Campus The University of Texas at Austin UTA Building, Suite 2.408 1616 Guadalupe Street Austin, TX 78701 Program Finder Custom Training Getting Started Events About Us Contact Us Subscribe» Powered by Extended Education Ventures | © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Emergency Information | Web Privacy Policy | Site Policies | Web Accessibility Policy