Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Gardening, Lawn, and Landscape Lawn and Turfgrass Photo: EESC slide collection (Cropped from original) Lawn and Turfgrass Home Browse Resources Get Involved Events Our Experts In Your Community Share Featured Resources Practical Lawn Care for Western Oregon Describes options for different levels of lawn care – from keeping a lawn lush and green year-round to allowing it to go partially dormant in the summer. Discusses mowing, watering, fertilizing, and dethatching, and gives recommended schedules for each. Includes a list of additional resources. Alec Kowalewski | Aug 2014 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Practical Lawn Establishment and Renovation This publication will take you through the steps needed to successfully plant a new lawn or renovate an old one. If you follow these steps, you will get it right the first time! Mar 2002 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Irrigation Rates and Frequencies for Western and Eastern Oregon Turfgrass When trying to minimize irrigation inputs, the best turfgrass species for the Oregon climate include perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne) in Western Oregon, Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis) in Central/Eastern Oregon and tall fescue (Schedonorus arundinaceus) in Western, Central or Eastern Oregon. Alec Kowalewski, Brian McDonald | Jan 2021 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) El mantenimiento práctico del césped en el oeste de Oregon Esta publicación describe opciones para varios niveles de mantenimiento del césped—desde las prácticas necesarias para mantener un césped densa y verde durante todo el año hasta los cuidados limitados de un césped que se ... Alec Kowalewski | Jun 2017 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Retail Lawn Seed Mixtures for Western Oregon and Western Washington This publication describes the benefits of choosing the right cultivar, species, blend, or mixture. It will also explore the advantages of seed coating and other preplant packaging options, such as fertilizer and mulch. Finally, ... Alec Kowalewski, Brian McDonald | Nov 2014 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Photo: Pixabay Central Oregon Lawn Care advice Tips for a beautiful and functional lawn even with cold weather, short seasons, and dry summers! Learn More Lawn & Turfgrass Video Library Mulch grass clippings and fallen leaves back into the lawn Credit: Brooke Edmunds Expert tips on common turfgrass management techniques and pests. Useful for lawns and other managed turfgrass (like athletic fields and parks). Mowing Fertilization Irrigation Cultivation Integrated Pest Management (IPM) Managing Moss in Lawns PNW Turf Insect Pests: Past, Present and Future Pest Management Resources Managing Microdochium Patch in Pacific Northwest Turfgrass Those round, brown rings that appear on your lawn in spring may just be a passing problem. But if you manage a golf course, you may want to take steps to control Michrodochium nivale, the fungus that causes Microdochium ... Brian McDonald, Alec Kowalewski | Jun 2021 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Managing Crane Fly in Lawns Crane flies are large, gangly insects that do little damage as adults. But crane fly larvae are known for chewing through patches of lawn, damaging roots as grass starts growing in spring. Learn how to prevent damage to your grass with simple maintenance and irrigation practices. Alec Kowalewski, Brooke Edmunds, Brian McDonald | Sep 2020 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Managing Moss in Lawns in Western Oregon The mild, wet winters in western Oregon encourage the growth of lawn mosses. This publication describes the factors that contribute to this growth and provides tips for reducing problems. It is a companion to OSU Extension video EM 9176. Brooke Edmunds, Alec Kowalewski | Dec 2017 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Athletic Field Management Best Management Practices for Maintaining Sand-based, Natural Grass Athletic Fields This publication recommends specific ways to manage of sand-based fields, which will require more frequent fertilization, irrigation, and cultivation for proper maintenance than native soil fields. This publication emphasizes the critical... Alec Kowalewski | Sep 2015 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Best Management Practices for Construction of Sand-based Athletic Fields for Football and Soccer Sand-based, natural turfgrass and synthetic surfaces are the best options for athletic fields in the rainy Pacific Northwest. Sand-based, natural turfgrass fields, when compared to synthetic surfaces, are initially less expensive, more ... Alec Kowalewski | Sep 2015 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Latest Resources Photo: nodigio / CC BY-NC-ND (Cropped from original) Is no mow May a good idea? We've been asked to consider a "No Mow May" proclamation to encourage support for insects by not mowing lawns for one month. Do you have an opinion specifically about the natural resource value of this messaging and action? Weston Miller | Apr 2022 | Featured question Photo: OSU Turfgrass Program (Cropped from original) How to grow and maintain a healthy lawn Maintaining a healthy lawn requires a little knowledge and a big commitment to regular maintenance. Learn what it takes, from seeding or sodding to fertilizing, watering, mowing and aerating. Weston Miller | Mar 2022 | Article Peer reviewed (Gray level) Photo: Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) How deep do my irrigation pipes need to be? I hired a lawn irrigation contractor to install a lawn irrigation system in our yard. He buried the lawn irrigation pipes about 7 - 8 inches below the surface. He maintains that the pipes are "plenty deep" to avoid winter... Scott Lukas | Dec 2021 | Featured question Browse All Resources Explore more resources Gardening Techniques Weeds Residential Water/Wells Upcoming Events Jun 14  Irrigation Choices and Design for the Home Garden and Landscape  12:00 pm - 1:00 pm PDT Online See All Events Meet Our Experts Alec Kowalewski Assistant Professor Brooke Edmunds Community Horticulture, Master Gardeners Contact me with gardening questions from Marion or Polk counties Steve Renquist See All Lawn and Turfgrass Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Photo: nodigio / CC BY-NC-ND (Cropped from original) Is no mow May a good idea? Q: We've been asked to consider a "No Mow May" proclamation to encourage support for insects by not mowing lawns for one month. Do you have an opinion specifically about the natural resource value of this messaging and action? A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility