Skip to main content Ferguson College of AgAg ResearchSearch Close Search Search this site Search Search Extension All of Oklahoma State University Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Extension Main Menu In this section ABOUT EVENTS News PROGRAMS & SERVICES PUBLICATIONS TOPICS COUNTY OFFICES Ferguson College of AgAg Research Home About Us About Extension OSU Extension helps Oklahomans solve local issues and concerns, promote leadership and manage resources wisely. We bring OSU to YOU. Research At our Stillwater campus and experiment stations throughout the state, faculty members conduct research on agriculture, natural resources, rural economies, and social issues to address the needs of Oklahomans. Instruction Oklahoma State uses this research to continually improve the quality and content of its undergraduate and graduate academic programs. Extension Through our county educators, specialists and publications we bring this research to you to promote wellness, leadership, and economic development for all Oklahomans. Extension is current and reliable. With educators stationed across the state, we can tailor programs and offerings to solve problems Oklahomans are facing right now, with information backed by the latest scientific research. Extension is useful. Our work is geared toward solving practical, everyday problems for residents. Topics touch the home, family, personal finances, self-run businesses, and more, offering something for everyone. PROGRAMS WE OFFER Extension is local and personal. Whether it's an expert set of eyes to identify what's eating your vegetables or a speaker program customized for your community group, we're here to help with what's important to you. FIND YOUR COUNTY OFFICE Get to know us! Meet our OSU Extension administrative team and district directors who lead all 77 counties. OSU Extension is dedicated to improving lives and communities by offering educational programs, services and resources to all Oklahomans. Meet Our Leadership Team About Extension Employment Opportunities Find job opportunities on the OSU Career Site and become part of the Cowboy family. New Frontiers New Frontiers is a capital campaign to raise funds for a new, state-of-the-art teaching, research and Extension facility for OSU Agriculture. OSU Listens To Our Communities In spring and summer 2019, OSU Extension hosted community forums at sites across the state of Oklahoma. The forums sought to ensure that a wide range of community members were engaged so that their opinions and perspectives on important issues would be represented in OSU Extension’s strategic planning. Impact on OklahomaOur 2020 Extension programs helped residents solve problems, serve as community leaders, and manage resources wisely. 600,000+ VOLUNTEER HOURS Our volunteers provide education and service to their communities through a wide variety of Extension programs. 128,600 YOUTH PARTICIPANTS Oklahoma 4-H helps youth in our state achieve their full potential. We help our youth learn the life skills they need to be the leaders of tomorrow. 1,358,000 FACE-TO-FACE CONTACTS Working locally and statewide to build and maintain vibrant communities, families, leaders, and businesses. Home Back To Top Back To Top OSU Extension Administered by theDivision of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources Find Your County Office 139 Agricultural Hall Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 (map) (405) 744-5398 | Contact Us Follow US NewsEventsNewsletter SignupFact Sheets Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Oklahoma State University Campus & Parking MapsAll OSU InstitutionsCareers @ OSUHire OSU Grads© Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks MENUCLOSE ©