Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Water and Watersheds Residential Water/Wells Photo: Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Residential Water/Wells Home Browse Resources Our Work Our Experts In Your Community Share Featured Resources Keeping Your Well Water Well / Agua limpia en su pozo Tips for making sure a well is properly constructed and maintained, and that the water is safe to drink. Consejos prácticos para asegurarse de que un pozo ha sido construido y mantenido correctamente, y que el agua del pozo se puede beber. Chrissy Lucas, Maggie Livesay | Apr 2017 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Water-wise Gardening in Central Oregon You can have a colorful and beautiful landscape while conserving water and saving time, energy and money. Learn innovative conservation techniques for water-wise gardening, or xeriscaping, in central Oregon. Full plant lists give you... Amy Jo Detweiler | Jun 2020 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Survival Basics: Water Explore a variety of methods for purifying and storing water for an extended emergency. Learn how to find or make safe water from additional sources. This publication is a companion piece for Oregon State University Extension ... Lynette Black, Glenda Hyde, Lauren Kraemer | Apr 2020 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Latest Resources Photo: Ask Extension (Cropped from original) What is bubbling up in my pasture? Q: I have a very small (2-3 inches wide and 1 inch deep) puddle in my pasture that is blowing bubbles. I can stick my finger in it and feel the air coming up from beneath. I first noticed this puddle on January 24 ... A: View answer | View all featured questions Credit OSU Extension (Cropped from original) New book reviews Oregon forest management, water quality issues Trees to Tap: How Forest Practices Affect Oregon’s Municipal Water, is a comprehensive new book exploring how forest management impacts Oregon’s water. Kym Pokorny | Nov 4, 2021 | News story Supervivencia Básica: Agua, Consejos para Garantizar un Suministro Seguro de Agua Potable En esta publicación, exploramos una variedad de métodos para purificar y almacenar agua en caso de una emergencia prolongada. También discutiremos cómo encontrar o potabilizar el agua de otras fuentes. Sep 2021 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Browse All Resources Latest News Credit OSU Extension (Cropped from original) New book reviews Oregon forest management, water quality issues Trees to Tap: How Forest Practices Affect Oregon’s Municipal Water, is a comprehensive new book exploring how forest management impacts Oregon’s water. Kym Pokorny | Nov 4, 2021 | News story Credit Melissa Fery (Cropped from original) Groundwater specialist leads effort to repair fire-damaged septic systems and wells in Lincoln County Chrissy Lucas-Woodruff is distributing flyers in English and Spanish and visiting fire survivors where they’ve landed after the fire stole their homes. Kym Pokorny | Sep 8, 2021 | News story New analysis reveals challenges for drought management in Oregon’s Willamette River Basin In Oregon’s Willamette River Basin, managing water scarcity would be more effective if conservation measures were introduced in advance and upstream from the locations where droughts are likely to cause shortages, according to a new study. Chris Branam | Jul 15, 2019 | News story All News Explore more resources Gardening Techniques Lawn and Turfgrass Water Management and Conservation Meet Our Experts Chrissy Lucas Small Farms, Ground Water Quality Outreach Program Coordinator See All Residential Water/Wells Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Photo: Ask Extension (Cropped from original) What is bubbling up in my pasture? Q: I have a very small (2-3 inches wide and 1 inch deep) puddle in my pasture that is blowing bubbles. I can stick my finger in it and feel the air coming up from beneath. I first noticed this puddle on January 24 ... A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility