Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Water and Watersheds Ponds Photo: Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Ponds Home Browse Resources Our Experts Share Featured Resources Toxic Blooms in Oregon Waters Cyanobacteria are a type of photosynthetic bacteria commonly referred to as blue green algae. Like many bacteria, some cyanobacteria can produce toxins harmful to humans, pets, livestock and wildlife. When cyanobacteria begin to grow... Dave Stone | Jul 2009 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Woodland Ponds: A Field Guide This field guide describes in detail the steps woodland landowners would take to build a large pond on their properties. The guide describes the planning, permitting and construction of the pond, and includes sections on ... Apr 2015 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Photo provided by Toni Pennington, Center for Lakes and Reservoirs, Portland State University (Cropped from original) Out of Control Algae In the summer time, water temperatures rise and the sun shines bright, helping create ideal conditions for excess algae growth in farm ponds. Aquatic plants, including algae are important to a pond’s ecosystem, but it is easy... Melissa Fery | Dec 2009 | Article How to build a simple pond for native frogs With minimal effort, you can attract Pacific chorus frogs to your property. Learn how Photo by Lynn Ketchum. (Cropped from original) Latest Resources Photo: Jennifer Balaco (Flickr CC BY 2.0) (Cropped from original) Where do I find the right plants for my pond? Q: We recently hired a pond builder to excavate and line our 1.5-acre farm pond near Sisters, Ore. We replaced the bottom substrate and included space for plants. Can you direct me to a person or article that will help us with choosing and placing plants? A: View answer | View all featured questions Getting to know forest amphibians of Oregon Come learn from amphibian experts about the role forests play in providing habitat for amphibians. These authors just released a new publication for landowners, Wildlife in Managed Forests: Forest Amphibians. They will discuss ... Deanna Olson, Tiffany Garcia, Fran Cafferata Coe | Jan 2022 | Video Photo: Steve Bowers (Cropped from original) Eight things to consider when building a pond on your woodland property. Few amenities better enhance the value of a woodland property than a pond. When built correctly, ponds can provide water for livestock and wildlife, fishing, boating, swimming, fire protection, aesthetics, and higher land value. ... Lauren Grand | Jul 2020 | Article Browse All Resources Explore more resources Wildlife Invasive Species Water Management and Conservation Meet Our Experts Abigail Tomasek Assistant Professor and Statewide Soil Water Quality Extension Specialist, Crop and Soil Science Contact me with questions related to statewide soil and water quality. See All Ponds Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Photo: Jennifer Balaco (Flickr CC BY 2.0) (Cropped from original) Where do I find the right plants for my pond? Q: We recently hired a pond builder to excavate and line our 1.5-acre farm pond near Sisters, Ore. We replaced the bottom substrate and included space for plants. Can you direct me to a person or article that will help us with choosing and placing plants? A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility