Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Gardening, Lawn, and Landscape Garden Soil and Compost Photo by Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Garden Soil and Compost Home Browse Resources Get Involved Events Our Experts Share Latest Resources Credit: Ekaterina Ershova, Pixabay (Cropped from original) A Home Gardener's Guide to Soils and Fertilizers This publication from Washington State University Extension covers the basics of understanding garden soils and fertilizer choices. Craig Cogger | Jan 2020 | Online resource Credit Betsy Hartley. (Cropped from original) OSU Extension Master Gardeners see big success with free Level Up Series The webinars are free and geared toward experienced gardeners but with plenty of information for beginners, too. Kym Pokorny | Jan 26, 2022 | News story Photo: Bob Rost (Cropped from original) Can I plant a cover crop in late December? Q: I have a 5 acre farm just outside of Veneta. I would like to plant a cover crop to combat weed/grass growth for next season. My rows are still bare soil, with short grass growing between. Is it possible to plant a ... A: View answer | View all featured questions Browse All Resources Latest News Credit Betsy Hartley. (Cropped from original) OSU Extension Master Gardeners see big success with free Level Up Series The webinars are free and geared toward experienced gardeners but with plenty of information for beginners, too. Kym Pokorny | Jan 26, 2022 | News story Give plants a head start by planting in fall As more people push to plant in autumn, garden stores are stocking more at the end of summer. Sep 17, 2021 | News story Sand, silt or clay? Texture says a lot about soil Texture determines all kinds of things like drainage, aeration, the amount of water the soil can hold, erosion potential and even the amount of nutrients that can be stored. Kym Pokorny | Sep 3, 2021 | News story All News Featured Resources Herbicide-Contaminated Compost and Soil Mix: What You Should Know — and What You Can Do About It Compost and soil mix products sometimes contain herbicide residue. This residue can damage certain vegetable, fruit and flower crops. The residue likely comes from contaminated hay, grass clippings or manure. Watch for stunted growth... Weston Miller | Feb 2021 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) How to Use Compost in Gardens and Landscapes Compost is a soil amendment consisting of partially broken-down organic material. Use compost to improve soil for vegetable gardens, landscape areas and lawns. Learn how to apply the correct amount of compost and how to avoid common compost mistakes. Weston Miller | Feb 2021 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Composting with Worms This publication provides step-by-step methods for successful worm composting at home. It includes a concise explanation of specific worm physiology, kinds of bins to use and how to set them up, what to feed the worms, how to... Sam Angima | Oct 2011 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Explore more resources Gardening Techniques Plant Diseases Residential Water/Wells Upcoming Events Jun 11 Free Compost Workshop 10:00 am - 12:00 pm Eugene, OR Jul 8 - Aug 26 Certificate of Home Horticulture: Summer Intensive Online Jul 26 Open House: Oak Creek Center for Urban Horticulture 11:00 am - 2:00 pm Corvallis, OR Sep 13 Compost Can-do: develop a system that meets your needs 12:00 pm - 1:00 pm PDT Online See All Events Meet Our Experts Erica Chernoh Horticulture Assistant Professor of Practice, Commercial and Community Horticulture Brooke Edmunds Community Horticulture, Master Gardeners Contact me with gardening questions from Marion or Polk counties Weston Miller Community Horticulture Contact me for gardening questions in Clackamas, Multnomah, and Washington Counties in Oregon. Toni Stephan Horticulture See All Garden Soil and Compost Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Photo: Bob Rost (Cropped from original) Can I plant a cover crop in late December? Q: I have a 5 acre farm just outside of Veneta. I would like to plant a cover crop to combat weed/grass growth for next season. My rows are still bare soil, with short grass growing between. Is it possible to plant a ... A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility