Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Outdoors and Environments Climate Change Photo: Jennifer Alexander (Cropped from original) Climate Change Home Browse Resources Get Involved Events Our Experts In Your Community Share Featured Resources Water, Economics, and Climate Change in the Willamette Basin, Oregon Climate change, population growth, and income growth have the potential to significantly affect the availability and use of water in the Willamette River Basin (WRB). The Willamette Water 2100 project (WW2100) was motivated in ... William Jaeger | Feb 2017 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Tribes & Climate Change Native Americans rely on tribally important ecosystem services such as traditional foods, hunting, timber production, non-timber forest resources (recreation, water), and cultural resources. Unfortunately, many of these resources may be ... Apr 2020 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Trees on the Move: Migration of Tree Species in Response to Climate Change Choosing the right species for the right climate is fundamental to the success of foresters and horticulturists. But what if the climate changes? Will natural and planted forests still be well adapted to the places they’re ... Apr 2021 | Video Latest Resources Photo: Christina Friehauf (Cropped from original) Episode 20: Fire Adapted Communities In this episode, Lauren Grand is joined by Carrie Berger & Emily Jane Davis to discuss how communities can be better prepared for wildfires. Lauren Grand, Carrie Berger, Emily Jane Davis | May 2022 | Podcast episode Photo: Christina Friehauf (Cropped from original) Episode 18: Small Landowner Management In this episode, Lauren Grand and Lindsay Reaves discuss forest management at the Bauman Family Tree Farm. Reaves lives and works on the farm with her husband Tom Bauman. Lauren Grand, Lindsay Reaves | Apr 2022 | Podcast episode Photo: Christina Friehauf (Cropped from original) Episode 17: Mass Timber In this episode, Scott Leavengood is joined by Iain Macdonald and Evan Schmidt to discuss how mass timber could play a role in solving climate change. Iain Macdonald is the director of the TallWood Design Institute and Evan Schmidt is the outreach and education manager. Scott Leavengood, Iain Macdonald, Evan Schmidt | Apr 2022 | Podcast episode Browse All Resources Latest News Credit Betsy Hartley. (Cropped from original) OSU Extension Master Gardeners see big success with free Level Up Series The webinars are free and geared toward experienced gardeners but with plenty of information for beginners, too. Kym Pokorny | Jan 26, 2022 | News story Credit Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Dry farming gains traction in Northwest with Extension collaboration With disappearing water comes more interest in farming without irrigation. Kym Pokorny | Oct 12, 2021 | News story Coastal risks and land use policy create economic tradeoffs for armoring the Oregon Coast An Oregon land use policy creates a large economic value for some private homeowners who are allowed to protect their shoreline against erosion, according to a new Oregon State University study. Chris Branam | Feb 6, 2020 | News story All News Explore more resources Local, Regional, and Community Food Systems Sustainability Water Management and Conservation Upcoming Events Jun 15 Recyling Today! Via Zoom! 6:00 pm - 7:30 pm PDT Online Jun 21 Western Oregon Gardening in Climate Confusion 6:30 pm - 7:30 pm PDT Online See All Events Meet Our Experts Christopher Adlam Regional Fire Specialist, Southwest Region Dari Biswanath Assistant Professor Contact me with any question about soil, agronomy, water in Klamath Falls/Basin Area Angee Doerr Marine Fisheries Educator Yasmeen Hossain ONREP Coordinator Contact for environmental education opportunities, questions, and ideas throughout Oregon. See All Climate Change Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility