Skip to content Coronavirus Updates: See latest COVID-19 news from Harvard Extension School. COVID-19 Updates Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Academics Take a Course Graduate Degrees Graduate Certificates Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Academic Gap Year Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students Apply to Premedical Program Academic Calendar Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Blog Events Press and Announcements Contact Us MyDCE Login Request Information Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Request Information Academics Take a Course Graduate Certificates Graduate Degrees Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Browse Courses Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students International Students Academic Calendar Forms Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Harvard Extension School Blog Contact Us Events Press and Announcements Media and Photo Information For Enrolled Students Support and Services Student Policies and Conduct Harvard Extension Alumni Association Website Archives Privacy Statement Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn For Enrolled Students / Support and Services Accessibility Services Support and Services Academic Advising Math Question Center The Writing Center Career Services Academic Skills Building Computer and E-mail Services Libraries Study and Collaboration Spaces Accessibility Services Sexual Assault and Harassment Resources Requesting Your Certificate Request a Transcript or Enrollment Certification Using Sources Effectively and Responsibly Campus Safety Campus Transportation and Parking Visiting Campus and Finding Housing Degree Candidate Academic Opportunities Student Policies and Conduct The Harvard Extension School is committed to providing an accessible academic community. To that end, the Accessibility Services Office (ASO) offers a variety of accommodations and services to students with documented disabilities, permanent and temporary injuries, as well as, chronic conditions. We engage you, your instructor(s), and staff on an individualized, case-by-case basis to provide you with an equitable opportunity to participate in, contribute to, and benefit from our academic and residential programs. It is an interactive assessment with all parties bringing their expertise to the accommodation process. When and How to Request an Accommodation When to Request an Accommodation View More Accommodations must be requested each semester for every class as accommodation decisions are tied to specific course content and learning assessments. We strongly encourage you to make requests as early as possible to avoid delays. Ordinarily, a request can take up to 2 weeks to process. For requests that involve 3rd party providers, such ASL and CART services, or, require alternative formats of course materials including Braille, a minimum of 4 weeks is needed prior to the start of the semester to ensure timely delivery of services for the first day of classes. To help ensure timely delivery of accommodations you need to make requests by: August 15th for the Fall semester, December 1st for January session, December 15th for Spring semester and May 16th for Summer semester. Requests submitted after these dates will be reviewed in the order they are received. How to Request an Accommodation (New Students) View More Four steps are necessary to register with the Accessibility Services Office (ASO) and request an accommodation. You need to: Register for courses as accommodations are tied to specific course requirements. Then, register with the ASO by creating an account on the Accessibility Services Access Portal (ASAP). The portal is your one-stop shop to engage with the ASO team. You are required to create an ASAP account in order to make accommodation requests, upload documentation, view accommodation decision letters, and schedule appointments. Complete the self-disclosure form via ASAP. Submit documentation that meets ASO guidelines via ASAP. Participate in a Welcome meeting with an ASO team member. To create an ASAP account, complete the following steps after you register for courses: Log into MyDCE and click on “Visit Online Services” from your dashboard Select the menu item “Request Accommodation”. Select the “Register” button on the portal Select “Accessibility Services Access Portal Account creation”, complete the self-disclosure form, and upload required documentation. If the documentation is not available at the time of filling out the self-disclosure form, you can return to the portal at a future date. Please note that documentation must be received before accommodation requests can be evaluated. When your ASAP account is set up and ASO receives the clinical documentation, we will email you to schedule a student Welcome Meeting within the next two weeks. How to Request an Accommodation (Returning Students) View More To make it easier to request accommodations semester to semester, the ASO has streamlined the process through Accessibility Services Access Portal (ASAP). After you register for courses, log into MyDCE and click on “Visit Online Services” from your dashboard: Select menu item “Request Accommodation.” Select “Accessibility Services Access Portal” button. Select “Accommodation” option from the menu to reveal more options. Select “Semester Request” option. Select “Add New” button; then choose the semester from the drop-down menu. This action will bring you to a screen where accommodations can be requested. If your condition has changed and you are requesting different accommodations from what you’ve received in the past, you will to need to schedule an appointment with an ASO team member (via the portal). Necessary Documentation All requests for accommodations must be supported by clinical documentation that is pertinent to the disabling condition. There are only two distinctions regarding clinical documentation requirements, (1) Health Conditions and (2) Learning and Attentional Conditions. Please see the guidelines in the links below. The ASO has also created a Clinician Verification Form that can be used in lieu of the documentation identified in the guidelines. If there are any questions, please do not hesitate to contact us at 617-998-9640. Guidelines Physical and Mental Health Conditions Guidelines Learning and Attentional Conditions Guidelines Forms: Provider Verification Form What is a Disability? Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and 2008 define a disability as a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits or restricts a person from performing one or more major life activities, such as walking, seeing, hearing, speaking, breathing, learning, working, or caring for one’s self. An impairment or diagnosis does not necessarily constitute a disability; it must substantially limit these activities. Temporary Disabilities and Services You are not considered disabled if you have a temporary illness or injury; however, you may be in need of services or accommodations similar to those provided to students with permanent disabilities. If you are a student with a documented temporary illness or injury, contact the ASO as soon as possible to discuss your case. Accomodations Academic accommodations are adjustments and modifications that provide an equitable academic opportunity for students with disabilities. Academic accommodations are designed to provide equal access to courses and programs, but they do not guarantee an outcome or a level of achievement. The purpose of accommodations and modifications is to reduce or eliminate any disadvantages that may exist because of your disability. Accommodations are not student preferences; they are determined through an established review process based on documentation received regarding the student’s disability. The law does not require institutions to waive specific courses or academic requirements considered essential to a particular course or program. Rather, they are mandated to modify existing requirements on a case-by-case basis in order to ensure that individuals are not discriminated against on the basis of their disability. Accommodations Provided by the Harvard Extension School View More Accommodations are determined on a case-by-case basis. The list below is not exhaustive and does not apply to all conditions. Assistive Technology for in-class use or exams. ASL Interpreters Captioning Computerized Access in Real-time Translation (CART) services Course materials converted to accessible formats Exams administered in a distraction reduced setting Extended time for in-class timed assessments of 6 hours or less Note-taking assistance Parking. If you have a mobility impairment, you can submit medical documentation to the ASO for accessible parking and complete the parking application at the transportation office located in the Smith Campus Center. For more information about parking, please visit parking services. Parking fees apply. Van service Available Adaptive Technology Resources View More An adaptive technology laboratory at 53 Church Street is equipped with a variety of software and hardware to assist students with disabilities. In addition, many personal computer systems come with assistive technology already installed. Below are types of assistive technology available to students. When consultation is needed on how to use an assistive technology, appointments can be made with the ASO Assistive Technology Administrator. Text-to-Speech programs read digital text out loud using a computerized voice. The text can be in a web browser, a PDF, or other text-based formats. Speech-to-Text programs allow users to dictate the information they need typed. Speech-to-Text generally has a steep learning curve as users need to dictate punctuation and text. Users train their system to recognize their voice in order to improve the program’s ability to understand what is being said. Screen Reader programs allow users to navigate their computer with only the use of a keyboard and an audio output rather than depending on a screen to navigate a computer. Magnification software programs allow users to increase the size of the electronic information presented on their screen or a selected portion of the screen. Some magnification software has features that allows the user to customize color contrast and fonts. Please be aware that we do not provide equipment and your personal computer must meet technical requirements established by DCE. Your Rights and Responsibilities You have the right to equitable access to courses, programs, services, activities, and facilities available through the Harvard Extension School; reasonable and appropriate accommodations, determined on a case-by-case basis; appropriate privacy of all information pertaining to your disability as required by law; and information reasonably available in accessible formats. Medical documentation and requests for accommodation remain private within the ASO and are protected by the Family Education Rights Portability Act (FERPA). Most often accommodations can be effectuated with little or no information about one’s condition known to the faculty, teaching assistant, advisor, and other members of the Harvard community. In circumstances where the condition is life-threatening (e.g., anaphylaxis in the presence of some substance) the ASO shares only the amount of information necessary to ensure safety and effectuate the accommodation. You have the responsibility to meet the Harvard Extension School’s qualifications and essential technical, academic, and institutional standards; identify yourself in a timely manner as an individual with a disability when seeking an accommodation; provide documentation from an appropriate professional source that verifies the nature of the disability, functional limitations, and the need for specific accommodations; and follow specific procedures for obtaining reasonable and appropriate accommodations. All accommodation requests need to go through the ASO. If you do not use ASO’s established process, it is not considered an accommodation by the school and carries no protections or guarantees under the ADA. Grievance Process The Schools of Harvard University do not discriminate on the basis of sex, race, color, age, national origin, religion, sexual orientation, disability, veteran status, gender identity and expression, or other legally or policy protected status in the university’s services, educational programs, and activities. The ASO works with students who have concerns related to disability. We respect each individual’s rights to file a grievance under the law. When complaints occur, the complainant should trust that the registering of a concern will have no impact on our collaborative working relationship. Grievance procedures across the various schools at Harvard University differ. In the Division of Continuing Education, the first step in the majority of instances where an individual is dissatisfied with a DCE decision or treatment is to seek informal resolution through a reconsideration request. You may request reconsideration of accommodation decisions (including eligibility decisions) made by the ASO on the basis of (1) a failure of judgment, (2) failure of process, or (3) failure of information. To request reconsideration, schedule an appeal appointment with the Director to discuss your concerns through the online portal. If the informal, reconsideration request does not produce appropriate results, you have the option of filing a formal grievance with the ASO. Formal Grievance View More To file a formal grievance with the ASO based on the belief that your rights as an individual with a disability have been violated, submit via email to the ASO office a written statement regarding the alleged acts of discrimination within 30 days of the underlying adverse action. Grievances will be handled in a prompt and equitable fashion, affording the grievant appropriate process. In cases where the Director has already completed a thorough review based on a reconsideration appeal, an internal DCE committee will be convened to review the formal grievance. University-Level Grievances View More If the grievant is dissatisfied with the outcome of an inquiry, he/she may file an appeal with University Disability Resources. For more information regarding that process please consult the University Disability Services webpage. For a complete version of this grievance policy and procedures, log into ASAP, then choose the “Resources” tab. Alternatively, we are happy to provide a copy of the complete policy upon email request. Appointments? Questions? If you want to schedule an appointment, log in the Accessibility Services Access Portal (ASAP) via MyDCE. You can also view the Announcements section of ASAP for planned office hours for the semester. If you have a quick question, just email us at accessibility@extension.harvard.edu. Office hours are Monday through Friday, 9 am to 5 pm Eastern time. Contact Information Accessibility Services Office (ASO) 1100 Massachusetts Avenue, 2nd Floor 617-998-9640 Fax: 617 410 4069 Email: accessibility@extension.harvard.edu Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! Harvard Extension is delighted to celebrate our students’ tremendous commitment and hard work. Read more about our students' journey to this big day! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Archives Follow Harvard Extension School Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Harvard Division of Continuing Education A division of Harvard University dedicated to bringing rigorous programs and innovative online teaching capabilities to distance learners, working professionals, high school students, college students, and those seeking higher learning in retirement. Harvard Extension School Harvard degrees, certificates and courses—online, in the evenings, and at your own pace. Harvard Summer School Academic summer opportunities for adult, college and high school students—at Harvard and abroad. Harvard Professional Development Short, intensive programs to develop skills and strengthen your professional profile. Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement Peer learning in the liberal arts—a community program for retired and semi-retired professionals. Harvard Division of Continuing Education Privacy Statement Accessibility Rights & Regulations Digital Accessibility Policy Harvard.edu Cookie Settings Copyright ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College