Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Business and Economics Finance, Budgeting, and Taxes Photo: Ken Teegardin (Cropped from original) Finance, Budgeting, and Taxes Home Browse Resources Our Experts Share Featured Resources Taxes and Assessments on Oregon Forestland and Timber Describes Oregon forestland tax and assessment programs and how to determine which options are best for a given forestland owner's situation. Details Oregon's Forestland Program, the Small Tract Forestland Option, the Small Tract ... Chal Landgren | Oct 2006 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Photo by OSU's EESC. (Cropped from original) Oregon Agricultural Enterprise Budgets Search by region, county, and/or commodity for enterprise budgets to evaluate profitability of crops on your farm. Apr 2018 | Online resource Choosing the Right Service Provider for your Family Forest: Accountant or Tax Preparer How do you choose the right accountant or tax return preparer for your forest? Part of this important decision is based on personality, but there are some key questions you should ask potential (and maybe even your current) ... Tamara Cushing | Oct 2017 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Latest Resources Photo: Christina Friehauf (Cropped from original) Episode 16: Taxes For Woodland Owners In this episode, Jacob Putney and Tamara Cushing discuss woodland taxation and finance. Cushing is the extension forest business and economics specialist at the University of Florida. Jacob Putney, Tamara Cushing | Mar 2022 | Podcast episode Credit: Oregon State University (Cropped from original) AgBiz Logic AgBiz Logic is a suite of economic, financial, and environmental decision tools for businesses that grow, harvest, package, add value, and sell agricultural products. These tools are open-access (free)! Clark Seavert | Oct 2021 | Online resource Extension promotes awareness of federal Emergency Broadband Benefit So far, more than 46,000 Oregon households have signed up for the program. Chris Branam | Sep 24, 2021 | News story Browse All Resources Latest News Extension promotes awareness of federal Emergency Broadband Benefit So far, more than 46,000 Oregon households have signed up for the program. Chris Branam | Sep 24, 2021 | News story Photo: Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) OSU Extension offers mental health webinar for ag producers Workers in many industries experience stress, but those in agriculture face especially challenging circumstances that can spiral into depression. Jim Sloan | Apr 22, 2020 | News story All News Meet Our Experts Tamara Cushing Forest Economics See All Finance, Budgeting, and Taxes Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility