Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Crop Production Soil photo by Stephen Ward (Cropped from original) Soil Home Browse Resources Our Experts In Your Community Share Nutrient management OSU Organic Fertilizer & Cover Crop Calculator: Predicting Plant-available Nitrogen Describes the OSU Organic Fertilizer & Cover Crop Calculator and using it to predict plant-available nitrogen. Dan M. Sullivan, Nick Andrews, Clare Sullivan, Linda Brewer | May 2019 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Camelina Nutrient Management Guide for the Pacific Northwest Camelina is a drought-tolerant, low-input, oilseed crop grown throughout the U.S. Pacific Northwest. This publication provides soil fertility recommendations—including nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, sulfur, and soil pH adjustments—for ... Amber Moore, Don Wysocki, Tracy Wilson | Feb 2019 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Nutrient Management for Pastures: Western Oregon and Western Washington Describes nutrient management practices for pastures to produce forage as a main feed source for western Oregon and Washington livestock. Amber Moore, Gene Pirelli, Shelby Filley, Dan M. Sullivan, Melissa Fery | Jan 2019 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Explore nutrient mangement guides Soil organic matter as a soil health indicator Testing for soil organic matter helps you monitor soil health over time. Good soil management practices can improve soil organic matter in three to five years. Learn about sampling, testing and how to interpret results for your soil. Download now Soil erosion and conservation Photo: Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Selecting successful cover crops for your hop yard This fact sheet is designed to help guide commercial hop growers in selecting cover crops. The guide discusses pros and cons for four different cover crop strategies: annual fall-planted, annual spring-planted, annual re-seeding and... Betsy Verhoeven | Sep 2019 | Article Soil, Seedbed Preparation and Seeding for Hemp Growers planting a successful commercial crop of hemp for seed, fiber, or resin will follow these guidelines for soil preparation, seeding, and irrigation. Richard Roseberg, Valtcho Jeliazkov, Sam Angima | Aug 2019 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) More soil erosion and conservation resources Soil sampling and testing Soil Nitrate Testing for Willamette Valley Vegetable Production A soil nitrate test measures the concentration of nitrate in the soil at a specific moment in time, including nitrate originating from organic inputs, fertilizer, and soil organic matter. This publication describes how to use ... Dan M. Sullivan, Nick Andrews, Aaron Heinrich, Ed Peachey, Linda Brewer | Jan 2019 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Learn more on soil testing Soil health Nutrient and Soil Health Management for Sweet Corn (Western Oregon) This guide integrates recommendations for nutrient management with cover cropping practices that promote soil health. Recommendations for nutrient rate, source, timing and placement for nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, sulfur, calcium, ... Dan M. Sullivan, Ed Peachey, Aaron Heinrich, Linda Brewer | Jan 2020 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Find more soil health resources Latest Content Photo: Christina Friehauf (Cropped from original) Episode 14: Forest Fungi In this episode, Lauren Grand and Ariel Cowan discuss the role fungi play in maintaining a healthy forest. Lauren Grand, Ariel Cowan | Mar 2022 | Podcast episode Photo: Christina Friehauf (Cropped from original) Episode 6: Soils In this episode, learn about soil – what it is, different kinds of soil, how soil influences forests and trees, and what forest and woodland managers should know about soil, with Jason O'Brien and Dr. Tom DeLuca. Jason O'Brien, Tom DeLuca | Mar 2022 | Podcast episode Soil Health Presenter: Heather Y. Medina Sauceda, Natural Resources Conservation Service, Basin Team Leader, USDA Description: Soil is a vital living ecosystem. Watch the below video to discover how different management practices can impact soil. Read about this workshop on our blog! Kristen Moore, Heather Y. Medina Sauceda | Nov 2021 | Video Browse All Resources Explore more resources Gardening Techniques Water Management and Conservation Meet Our Experts Amber Moore Soil Fertility Ruijun (Ray) Qin Crop & Soil Betsy Verhoeven Clare Sullivan Clare Sullivan is out of the office until April 2021 on maternity leave. She will not be responding to email. See All Soil Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility