Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Peer review guidelines Share Print Educational content on the OSU Extension website shows an insignia when the content is peer-reviewed. This means the publication or article has been reviewed by qualified, independent subject-matter experts. Peer review applies to OSU Extension Catalog publications, articles and some multimedia. One-time or limited-use resources such as newsletters, meeting handouts and public relations materials are not peer reviewed. The majority of authors on peer-reviewed Extension content are Extension faculty from Oregon State University, with exception of the Pacific Northwest publications, which are produced cooperatively by the three land-grant universities (Oregon State University, Washington State University, University of Idaho). OSU Extension materials fall under two different levels of peer review, indicated by color. Orange level Gray level Orange level The purpose of peer review at this level is to bring the same intellectual rigor to Extension content as is expected of peer-reviewed journal articles. Peer-reviewed Extension content typically focuses on practical applications of research or other science- and evidence-based recommendations and practices. The commitment by authors, reviewers and administrators to the rigorous and qualified review of educational resources is no less than that brought to academic journal articles. OSU Extension Catalog publications Our Extension Catalog publications are reviewed by at least two qualified, independent subject-matter experts. Reviewers are fluent in the subject of the content and familiar with the characteristics of the intended audience. Peer reviewers are asked to review the material and include specific, objective suggestions to help authors improve the content. Authors have the responsibility to incorporate or reject suggestions and to revise the content to the satisfaction of the reviewers and their Extension program leader. Peer reviews are managed by the Extension program leaders or people they designate, who confirm completion in writing to Extension Communications before publishing. If content receives a substantial (over 30%) change in a future revision, another peer review occurs unless a written confirmation from the Extension program leader states it is not needed. Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources Extension and Family and Community Health Extension materials must undergo a blind review (called “referee-review”) for never-before-published materials. They include at least three peer reviewers from any state in the country. The OSU College of Agricultural Sciences will add other reviewers as necessary, and reviewers for Family and Community Health Extension must be external to OSU. Pacific Northwest Extension publications Pacific Northwest Extension publications are peer reviewed by qualified, independent subject-matter experts in each state (Oregon, Washington and Idaho). Extension Communications works with the other states to manage the peer review process. For pieces that are revised annually, the peer review process is managed by the author with known reviewers (no blind review). Oregon Sea Grant Catalog publications Oregon Sea Grant Catalog publications are typically first published as articles through peer-reviewed journals, and then access to a document is provided either by checking out the article via the National Sea Grant Library, or through an Open Access direct link or downloadable PDF. Oregon Sea Grant only posts Open Access articles. For other content, Oregon Sea Grant publishes Extension technical documents for which they manage the peer review and confirm the incorporation of revisions. Gray level OSU Extension Service educational articles that bear this insignia have been reviewed by at least one other person with recognized subject-matter expertise. The authors document the reviewers’ names for internal purposes, and mark that it has been peer reviewed, which shows the insignia when the articles is published on the website. Peer review of this type is strongly recommended to catch any potential inaccuracies, clarify writing and to receive another perspective. It is not required for website articles, so articles not peer reviewed do not bear the insignia. Food Hero recipes Food Hero tested recipes follow their multi-category recipe criteria, and include a number of recipes which have been rated “kid approved” (>10,000 surveys). Quantity Recipes have been analyzed to meet USDA meal pattern requirements for schools and child centers. Learn more about Food Hero's research and evaluation. Was this page helpful? YesNo Send feedback Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility