Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Crop Production Fruit Trees Photo: Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Fruit Trees Home Browse Resources Events Our Experts In Your Community Share Featured Resources 2022 Willamette Valley Pest Management Guide for Cherries Get updated recommendations for insect, mite and disease control in cherry orchards of the Willamette Valley. Nik Wiman, Jay Pscheidt, Marcelo Moretti | Apr 2022 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) 2022 Pest Management Guide for Peaches Get the latest recommendations for insect, mite and disease control in peach orchards of the Willamette Valley. Nik Wiman, Jay Pscheidt, Marcelo Moretti | Apr 2022 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) 2022 Pest Management Guide for Apples: Willamette Valley Learn the latest recommendations for insect, mite and disease control in Willamette Valley apple orchards. Nik Wiman, Jay Pscheidt, Marcelo Moretti | Apr 2022 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) 2022 Pest Management Guide for Tree Fruits: Hood River, The Dalles, White Salmon, Rogue Valley This guide provides tree fruit growers with the latest information on pesticides and herbicides for fruit trees. People who grow apples, pears and cherries can learn application rates and recommendations for each stage of tree growth. Ashley Thompson, Rick Hilton, Achala KC, Marcelo Moretti, Jay Pscheidt, Nik Wiman, Andony Melathopoulos | Mar 2022 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Latest Resources 2021Cemetery Block Cherry Variety Evaluation 2021 fruit characteristics of sweet cherry cultivars and selections under evaluation in The Dalles at the Cemetery Block. All data was evaluated from 25 samples of each cultivar. Lynn Long, Ashley Thompson, David Crawford, Pamela Manning | May 2022 | Educational document Credit: Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) AgriSafe: Talking Total Farmer Health (Podcast) AgriSafe has long been a trusted voice in the health and safety of the people who feed the world, and we’re excited to bring that to you in a new format. Tune in every month to hear the latest from health and safety experts in agriculture. Together we’ll tackle the safety issues important to the producers and ag workers. Apr 2022 | Online resource Credit Neil Bell (Cropped from original) Fledgling olive industry gets support from OSU research OSU Extension the and Oregon Agricultural Experiment Station started Olea: Olive Research for Oregon. Feb 2022 | Impact story Browse All Resources Latest News Credit USDA-ARS, Stephen Ausmus (Cropped from original) Sightings of spotted lanternflies worry farmers, nursery industry So far, there’s no known infestation in Oregon. If one establishes, many of Oregon’s high-value industries may be affected, including wine grapes, nursery and tree crops, small fruits and timber. Kym Pokorny | Jul 15, 2021 | News story Photo by Nik Wiman (Cropped from original) Extension’s experimental cider orchard to boost budding Oregon industry The orchard, established at Oregon State University’s North Willamette Research and Extension Center – 23 miles south of downtown Portland – is the brainchild of Nik Wiman, OSU Extension orchard crops specialist. Kym Pokorny | Jan 12, 2021 | News story Get a leg up on fruit tree problems with dormant oils Applying dormant sprays – Superior oil, copper and sulfur – helps control nasty pests and diseases like codling moths and apple scab. Kym Pokorny | Dec 24, 2020 | News story All News Explore more resources Farm Food Safety Integrated Pest Management Plant Diseases Upcoming Events Jun 15 QPR Suicide Prevention Training for Farmers & Ranchers 6:00 pm - 7:30 pm PDT Online Jun 16 Entrenamiento sobre la prevención del suicidio de QPR para agricultores y ganaderos (en español) 2:00 pm - 4:00 pm PDT Online See All Events Meet Our Experts Heather Andrews Orchard Crops Faculty Research Assistant Erica Chernoh Horticulture Assistant Professor of Practice, Commercial and Community Horticulture Cody Copp Assistant Professor of Practice Marcelo Moretti Assistant Professor Contact me with questions about weed management in commercial agriculture. See All Fruit Trees Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Photo: Innocent Coppieters / CC BY-NC-ND (Cropped from original) Why is our coastal fruit dropping? Q: I take care of several local orchards and have been finding huge amounts of fruit drop and poor setting near Astoria. Apples, cherry, plum, very weak production in the orchards. Do you know if this is common, or what causes it? A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility