Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Food Home Food Preservation Home Food Preservation Home Browse Resources Get Involved Events Our Experts In Your Community Share Featured Resources Photo by Stephen Ward (Cropped from original) Master Food Preserver Program Master Food Preservers are trained and certified volunteers who assist OSU Extension Service in their efforts to provide up-to-date food safety and preservation information to Oregonians. After a comprehensive, hands-on training, ... Home Food Safety and Preservation Program Canning Timer & Checklist App Select from over 50 popular foods used in home canning—including vegetables, fruits, meats, jams, jellies, pickles, and seafood—to generate a checklist and timer for processing. This app lets set you set your jar size, pack ... Jeanne Brandt | Mar 2020 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Browse All Resources Preservation types and equipment Photo: EESC slide collection (Cropped from original) Low sugar jams & jellies/fruit spreads (SP 50-765) Low and no sugar jams and jellies are becoming very popular as people are changing their diets and reducing their intake of sugar. This publication gives tips on how to make low sugar jams, jellies, and fruit spreads. Feb 2019 | Article Freezing Fruits and Vegetables This publication describes how to freeze fruits, vegetables, and juices, and how to refreeze frozen foods. Includes freezing fruit without sugar, with ascorbic acid, in syrup, and packed in sugar; and blanching vegetables. A chart lists freezing instructions for dozens of fruits and vegetables. Jeanne Brandt | Sep 2018 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) La congelación de frutas y verduras La congelación es un método sencillo y rápido para conservar los alimentos. Con las condiciones óptimas, se conservan bien los nutrientes, el sabor y la textura de los alimentos. Jeanne Brandt | May 2020 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) See more resources on food preservation Master Food Preservers operate hotline in summer and early fall Home food preservation is popular in Oregon. But misinformation related to food preservation is widely available, particularly from online sources. There are deadly risks if foods are preserved in unsafe ways. With the goal of providing safe, research-based information to the community, the Oregon State University Extension Service remains the most trusted and reliable source of food preservation instructions and recipes in the state. That is why well-trained, certified Master Food Preserver volunteers are essential. The toll-free hotline, 800-354-7319, runs from Monday through Friday 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. from July 12 until October 8. Reach out with your questions Credit: Candi Bothum (Cropped from original) Answers to your food storage and safety questions Photo by Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Jams and jellies: problems and solutions (SP 50-746) Publications provides information on common problems and solutions when making jam, jelly, and fruit preserves. Mar 2013 | Article Are one piece lids approved? Q: Are one piece lids approved for water bath canning? I was wanting to switch to one piece plastisol lined canning lids for jam- the continuous thread type not lug. are they acceptable for products sold at farmer's markets or at our farm store? A: View answer | View all featured questions Photo by Rachel Beck. (Cropped from original) Preserving Garlic - SP50-645 How to preserve garlic - including harvesting, storage, freezing, drying, and pickling. Recipe for Pickled Garlic include. Feb 2013 | Publication Browse more food safety and storage resources Want to savor the sweet taste of summer fruit later in the year? Try canning strawberry jam and also learn about safely preparing other berries, apricots, cherries, peaches, pears, and plums! Learn how Photo by Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Latest News Courtesy Jared Hibbard-Swanson (Cropped from original) Extension taps Hibbard-Swanson for new food safety and security position Jared Hibbard-Swanson is OSUExtension's inaugural program manager for food security and safety. Chris Branam | Apr 4, 2022 | News story OSU Extension food safety and preservation hotline opens for the season The toll-free hotline, 800-354-7319, runs from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, until Oct. 8. Chris Branam | Jul 8, 2021 | News story Pandemic leads to unprecedented burst of questions to Ask an Expert tool Questions have ballooned to 6,625 in the first half of 2020, more than all of the questions answered in 2019. Kym Pokorny | Jul 29, 2020 | News story All News Explore more resources Community Disaster Preparedness Garden Vegetables and Herbs Family Emergency Preparedness Upcoming Events Jun 1 Zoom in on Pressure Canning 5:30 pm - 7:00 pm PDT Online Jun 11 Food Preservation 101: You Can Save It 10:00 am - 2:00 pm Eugene, OR Jun 11 Pickling and Fermentation 10:00 am - 2:00 pm Myrtle Point, OR Jul 9 Dehydration & Freeze Drying 10:00 am - 2:00 pm Myrtle Point, OR See All Events Meet Our Experts Cindy Brown 4-H Youth Development Contact me for questions on 4-H youth development programming in Sherman County as well as healthy living topics such as MyPlate, gardening, food preservation and food storage! Patty Case Family & Community Health Contact me with questions about Community Nutrition Education and Food Systems efforts in Klamath County Glenda Hyde Associate Professor of Practice, Family and Community Health; OSU Extension Service Extension Disaster Education Network Delegate Contact me with questions about food safety and preservation, managing stress and emergency/disaster preparedness Lauren Kraemer Associate Professor, Family and Community Health Contact me with all your health and wellness questions in the Columbia River Gorge. See All Home Food Preservation Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Photo: Tim Green / CC BY (Cropped from original) Can I use Himalayan pink salt for canning? Q: Do you recommend using the Himalayan pink salt in canning? Or should I stay with the pickling and canning salt? A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility