Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Food Home Food Safety and Storage Photo by Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Home Food Safety and Storage Home Browse Resources Events Our Experts In Your Community Share Featured Resources Photo: Vintage Cat (Cropped from original) Should we eat expired tofu? Q: My daughter has recently decided not to eat meat. I have started purchasing tofu -- but don't always use it by the expiration date on the package. Tofu is sealed in liquid. Is it safe for a little while after the date stamped on the package? A: View answer | View all featured questions Photo: EESC (Cropped from original) Are Rhubarb Leaves Toxic? Q: I had always been told that rhubarb leaves are extremely toxic, but my research has confused that notion! Some sources say that it is hardly toxic, while others say it is lethal. Do you know how toxic rhubarb leaves actually are? A: View answer | View all featured questions Photo: Oleg Magni (Cropped from original) Food Storage for Emergencies (SP 50-833) Information on things to consider when preparing and storing food for emergencies. Jun 2018 | Article Latest Resources Courtesy Jared Hibbard-Swanson (Cropped from original) Extension taps Hibbard-Swanson for new food safety and security position Jared Hibbard-Swanson is OSUExtension's inaugural program manager for food security and safety. Chris Branam | Apr 4, 2022 | News story There are Dangers Lurking in Your Flour Many don’t realize that raw flour can transmit foodborne illnesses. This publication outlines the risks of flour-based crafts and steps you can take to keep people safe. Jan 2022 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Credit Joy Waite-Cusic (Cropped from original) OSU study finds that using cold water to make 'sprouted' foods lowers the risk of salmonella growth An Oregon State University study published in 2021 found that soaking raw ingredients – usually grains, nuts or seeds – to make "sprouted" foods lowers the risk of salmonella growth on these increasingly popular healthy snack foods. Nov 2021 | Impact story Browse All Resources Jacqui Richardson, an OSU Master Food Preserver, answers a question on the Oregon statewide hotline from July to October each year. Photo by Barbara Anderson. USDA and FDA Food Safety Hotlines For answers to your food safety questions year round USDA Meat and Poultry Hotline at 1-888-674-6854 7:00 am – 1:00 pm PST, Monday through Friday FDA Food Safety Hotline at 1-888-723-3366 7:00 am – 1:00 pm PST, Monday, Wednesday and Friday Learn more Latest News Courtesy Jared Hibbard-Swanson (Cropped from original) Extension taps Hibbard-Swanson for new food safety and security position Jared Hibbard-Swanson is OSUExtension's inaugural program manager for food security and safety. Chris Branam | Apr 4, 2022 | News story OSU Extension food safety and preservation hotline opens for the season The toll-free hotline, 800-354-7319, runs from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, until Oct. 8. Chris Branam | Jul 8, 2021 | News story Gather nuts frequently as they fall from the tree Harvesting, drying and storing nuts correctly will give you months of enjoyment. Kym Pokorny | Oct 11, 2019 | News story All News Explore more resources Food Security Home Food Preservation Family Emergency Preparedness Upcoming Events Jun 1 Zoom in on Pressure Canning 5:30 pm - 7:00 pm PDT Online Jun 11 Pickling and Fermentation 10:00 am - 2:00 pm Myrtle Point, OR Jun 11 Food Preservation 101: You Can Save It 10:00 am - 2:00 pm Eugene, OR Jul 9 You CAN Do It: Canning Foods in Jars 10:00 am - 2:30 pm Eugene, OR See All Events Meet Our Experts Cindy Brown 4-H Youth Development Contact me for questions on 4-H youth development programming in Sherman County as well as healthy living topics such as MyPlate, gardening, food preservation and food storage! Glenda Hyde Associate Professor of Practice, Family and Community Health; OSU Extension Service Extension Disaster Education Network Delegate Contact me with questions about food safety and preservation, managing stress and emergency/disaster preparedness Jenny Rudolph Family & Community Health See All Home Food Safety and Storage Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Photo: Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Do I need to rinse my triple washed vegetables? Q: Should one rinse bought spinach and lettuce that is labeled triple washed? A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility