Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Crop Production Nursery and Greenhouse Photo: EESC slide collection (Cropped from original) Nursery and Greenhouse Home Browse Resources Events Our Experts In Your Community Share Featured Resources Azalea Lace Bug: Biology and Management in Commercial Nurseries and Landscapes Azalea lace bug is an emerging pest in Oregon that can be quite damaging to azaleas and rhododendrons, very popular plants in Oregon nurseries and landscapes. This publication offers information on identification, timing, and management options for this new pest. Robin Rosetta | Jul 2013 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Azalea Lace Bug Poster (Chinche de encaje de la azalea) This poster measures 24 x 36 inches and is on soft vinyl with grommets, so it stands up to wet weather and is easy to handle. It contains photos and concise descriptions of the insect in its several stages of ... Robin Rosetta, Luisa Santamaria, Gilbert Uribe | Apr 2014 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Boxwood Blight in commercial nursery production -- El tizón de boxwood en viveros de producción comercial The poster is in both English and Spanish (bilingual). Content includes photos and descriptions of symptoms of boxwood blight and damage to plants. The poster file is designed to print up to 24 x 36 inches. For more ... Luisa Santamaria | Apr 2016 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) El tizón de boxwood en viveros de producción comercial Esta publicación contiene información sobre plantas huéspedes conocidas, cómo se dispersan las esporas del hongo, y cómo manejar el tizón de boxwood, con fotos y descripciones de síntomas y daño. Hay también un póster ... Luisa Santamaria | Apr 2016 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Latest Resources Nursery IPM Extension Program The Nursery IPM Extension program based at the North Willamette Research and Extension Center assists nursery and greenhouse growers to make informed decisions in all aspects of integrated pest management (IPM) including pest identification, monitoring, pest biology, thresholds, and pest management tactics. Lloyd Nackley | Apr 2022 | Online resource Credit Neil Bell (Cropped from original) Fledgling olive industry gets support from OSU research OSU Extension the and Oregon Agricultural Experiment Station started Olea: Olive Research for Oregon. Feb 2022 | Impact story Photo: Ask an Expert (Cropped from original) Saffron crop came out bland Q: We just finished harvesting our first good crop of saffron crocus from our yard. We often get many plants but only a few flowers. This year, we got about 50 blooms over a few weeks. After drying for a few days, we ... A: View answer | View all featured questions Browse All Resources Latest News Credit USDA-ARS, Stephen Ausmus (Cropped from original) Sightings of spotted lanternflies worry farmers, nursery industry So far, there’s no known infestation in Oregon. If one establishes, many of Oregon’s high-value industries may be affected, including wine grapes, nursery and tree crops, small fruits and timber. Kym Pokorny | Jul 15, 2021 | News story Photo by Melodie Putnam, OSU. (Cropped from original) OSU plant pathologists discover unusual evolutionary transition in common bacteria It’s the “Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde” in a nursery setting Chris Branam | Dec 12, 2017 | News story Photo by Lynn Ketchum, OSU (Cropped from original) OSU research leads to detection method for crown gall disease A dipstick reveals the presence of the disease within minutes Chris Branam | Jul 10, 2017 | News story All News Explore more resources Christmas Trees Upcoming Events Jun 11 A Family Forestry Celebration 9:00 am - 2:00 pm Springfield, OR See All Events Meet Our Experts Brian Hill Faculty Research Assistant Contact for shade tree production, irrigation, soil and soil sensor questions Maria Marlin Faculty Research Assistant Contact for questions regarding nursery or greenhouse diseases. Marcelo Moretti Assistant Professor Contact me with questions about weed management in commercial agriculture. Lloyd Nackley Nursery Researcher See All Nursery and Greenhouse Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Photo: Ask an Expert (Cropped from original) Saffron crop came out bland Q: We just finished harvesting our first good crop of saffron crocus from our yard. We often get many plants but only a few flowers. This year, we got about 50 blooms over a few weeks. After drying for a few days, we ... A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility