Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Community Vitality Health Outreach Photo: Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Health Outreach Home Browse Resources Get Involved Events Our Work Our Experts In Your Community Share Featured Resources WAVE Sport Nutrition Curriculum The WAVE Sport Nutrition Curriculum uses youth's interest in sports to teach them about healthy eating and hydration to fuel a healthy, active body for life. This knowledge helps athletes manage body weight and avoid unwanted ... Siew Sun Wong | Sep 2018 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Photo by iStock (Cropped from original) Walk With Ease Walk With Ease (WWE) is an exercise program that can reduce pain and improve overall health. If you can be on your feet for 10 minutes without increased pain, you can have success with Walk With Ease! Program Extension Health in All Policies - Professional & Continuing Education Extension Health in All Policies (HiAP) is a collaborative approach to improving the health of all people by incorporating health, equity, and sustainability considerations into decision-making across program and Extension policy areas. The HiAP Education action team developed this tool to strengthen Extension’s capacity to impact the culture and context for population health improvement and promote health equity for all people living in America. Apr 2018 | Online resource 4-H Food and Fun Fitness Activity Curriculum This set of activities gets middle school students engaged in fitness games designed to invigorate and educate. Physical education teachers, 4-H leaders and health teachers will find a wealth of good ideas that get kids moving. Carolyn Ashton | Nov 2019 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Latest Resources Credit Jenny Rudolph (Cropped from original) Caregivers have a new resource for trauma-informed nutrition and feeding OSU Extension has partnered with the nonprofit organization SPOON to launch “Nourished and Thriving Children” a free, self-paced course that contains eight learning modules that focus on the six principles of trauma-informed ... Chris Branam | May 18, 2022 | News story FoodCorps fosters culture of health in Klamath County schools Ultimately, stronger partnerships have been formed between OSU Extension and the Klamath County School District and Klamath Falls City Schools. Apr 2022 | Impact story Credit Oregon State University (Cropped from original) OSU Extension supports Warm Springs COVID-19 vaccinations clinics In each of the vaccine clinics, Extension faculty and staff assisted in directing traffic and parking, the sign-in process, cleaning furniture and supplies, flow management and scheduling. Apr 2022 | Impact story Browse All Resources Explore more resources Nutrition and Healthy Eating Pesticide Safety and Education Physical Activity Upcoming Events Jun 15 QPR Suicide Prevention Training for Farmers & Ranchers 6:00 pm - 7:30 pm PDT Online Jun 16 Entrenamiento sobre la prevención del suicidio de QPR para agricultores y ganaderos (en español) 2:00 pm - 4:00 pm PDT Online See All Events Meet Our Experts Lauren Kraemer Associate Professor, Family and Community Health Contact me with all your health and wellness questions in the Columbia River Gorge. Robin Maille Family & Community Health/SNAP-Ed Stephanie Polizzi Family & Community Health Contact for information about foods that prevent or arrest chronic disease. Jenny Rudolph Family & Community Health See All Health Outreach Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Homeless in Metro area, what are my options? Q: I've been a resident of Clackamas county for the past 30 years and have recently been made homeless. I need help with housing placement on a fixed income of $870.00 per month being on SS Disability. I've not found anyone... A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility