Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Community Vitality Community Disaster Preparedness Photo: Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Community Disaster Preparedness Home Browse Resources Get Involved Events Our Work Our Experts In Your Community Share Cascadia Earthquake Preparedness A major earthquake off the Pacific Northwest coast could happen at any time. OSU Extension is playing a critical role in helping Oregon's people and communities prepare for this predicted natural disaster. Learn more Photo by Cal OES is licensed under CC BY-NC 2.0 (Cropped from original) Latest Resources Photo: Carrie Berger (Cropped from original) Forestry & Natural Resources Extension Fire Program: 2021 Impact Report The Extension Fire Program uses education, outreach, and boundary spanning partnerships to foster the resiliency of communities and landscapes to wildfire at scale. Learn more! Carrie Berger, Emily Jane Davis | May 2022 | Educational document Photo: Christina Friehauf (Cropped from original) Episode 20: Fire Adapted Communities In this episode, Lauren Grand is joined by Carrie Berger & Emily Jane Davis to discuss how communities can be better prepared for wildfires. Lauren Grand, Carrie Berger, Emily Jane Davis | May 2022 | Podcast episode Photo: ODEQ (Cropped from original) Smoke Ready Oregon: Preparing for Wildfire Smoke (Slides) When smoke fills the air during a wildfire event, do you know how to protect yourself and your family? Learn about smoke impacts to health, the air quality index, and simple steps you can do right now to reduce your risk from smoke exposure. May 2022 | Presentation Browse All Resources Featured Resources Cascadia Action Steps: It’s Time to Get Ready This checklist is a companion piece for Oregon State University Extension Service’s free online training, Preparing for the Cascadia Subduction Zone Event. The training program is open to everyone. It includes videos, narrated ... Glenda Hyde, Lynette Black, Lauren Kraemer | Mar 2020 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Social geometry of collaborative flood risk management Using the case study of Tillamook County, this study draws upon qualitative interview data to identify and explain social factors that have influenced the outcome of a collaborative, socially engaged flood management project. Aug 2020 | OSU Sea Grant Publication Peer reviewed (Gray level) Tsunami Quests A video that describes the quest concept and how quests are used to teach coastal visitors and locals what to do in the event of a tsunami. Jun 2017 | OSU Sea Grant Publication Peer reviewed (Gray level) Real-time map of fires in Oregon This map includes information about what is going on currently within your area including level of containment of fires and fire evacuation areas. View now Photo by Jason Pettigrew, Oregon Department of Forestry (Cropped from original) Extension is connected nationally to support you The Extension Disaster Education Network (EDEN) works to reduce the impact of disasters through research-based education and improve delivery of services to citizens affected by disasters and pandemics. This searchable resource directory provides a wealth of information from a collaborative multi-state effort by Extension Services across the country. Learn more Explore more resources Rural Economic Development Community Planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Home Food Preservation Fire Family Emergency Preparedness Upcoming Events Jun 1 Zoom in on Pressure Canning 5:30 pm - 7:00 pm PDT Online See All Events Meet Our Experts Aaron Groth Regional Fire Specialist, Coast Contact me with questions about fire preparedness and response in Coastal Oregon. Glenda Hyde Associate Professor of Practice, Family and Community Health; OSU Extension Service Extension Disaster Education Network Delegate Contact me with questions about food safety and preservation, managing stress and emergency/disaster preparedness See All Community Disaster Preparedness Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Photo: Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) How can I prepare for a tsunami? Q: Do you know where I can go to find out about various coastal towns' emergency preparedness and directions for evacuation in the event of a tsunami? A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility