Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Latest Content from OSU Extension Photo: Kaitlin Greene (Cropped from original) Digital Mural - June 2022 This is a special issue digital mural! Click on your city on the map to access the digital mural with summer resources and events just for your location. Explore the other images for links to recipes, videos, and activities. May 2022 | Newsletter issue June 2022 Brambles June 2022 Brambles May 2022 | Newsletter issue Photo: Food Hero (Cropped from original) Metro Connection May/June 2022 May/June 2022 Metro Connection May 2022 | Newsletter issue Juio 2018 - El Mensual de Héroe de Alimentos En este problema: Arándanos May 2022 | Newsletter issue Photo: Ask Extension (Cropped from original) Scorpions in Oregon? Q: Hello! I would like to know more about this scorpion I found in my garden. I live near Jacksonville, up in the Griffin Creek area. We found three of these little guys. Never seen one before! Very cool. Thanks in advance! A: View answer | View all featured questions Monthly Chat with Chip May 2022 Avian flu and implications; ticks are out and biting; wet springs = more plant disease; cedar flagging is normal; spaced out plants; annual weeds; bushy-tailed wood rat. May 2022 | Newsletter issue Credit: Stephen Ward (Cropped from original) Safe Weed Control With Herbicides When used correctly, organic or synthetic herbicides can be a useful part of an integrated weed management program. Selecting and applying the appropriate herbicide(s) for your IPM program can be challenging. The tips provided focus on key considerations for herbicide selection and their use on small farms. Evie Smith | May 2022 | Fact Sheet Peer reviewed (Gray level) Photo: Michaela Kash (CC BY 2.0) (Cropped from original) Is bark mulch a fire hazard? Q: I want to use mulch in my backyard around my flowers and trees, lots of trees. Fire experts want me to clear around my plants and down to the dirt!! I want to conserve water and I know I need mulch to do that since I cannot afford gravel. Besides, I do not like gravel. HELP!!! A: View answer | View all featured questions Credit Jenny Rudolph (Cropped from original) Caregivers have a new resource for trauma-informed nutrition and feeding OSU Extension has partnered with the nonprofit organization SPOON to launch “Nourished and Thriving Children” a free, self-paced course that contains eight learning modules that focus on the six principles of trauma-informed ... Chris Branam | May 18, 2022 | News story Lincoln County Master Gardener E-news: May 2022 ENGLISH May 2022 issue of Lincoln County Master Gardener E-news. May 2022 | Newsletter issue Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Next page Next › Last page Last » Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility