Skip to content Coronavirus Updates: See latest COVID-19 news from Harvard Extension School. COVID-19 Updates Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Academics Take a Course Graduate Degrees Graduate Certificates Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Academic Gap Year Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students Apply to Premedical Program Academic Calendar Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Blog Events Press and Announcements Contact Us MyDCE Login Request Information Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Request Information Academics Take a Course Graduate Certificates Graduate Degrees Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Browse Courses Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students International Students Academic Calendar Forms Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Harvard Extension School Blog Contact Us Events Press and Announcements Media and Photo Information For Enrolled Students Support and Services Student Policies and Conduct Harvard Extension Alumni Association Website Archives Privacy Statement Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Join Us Harvard Extension Events Current Events at Harvard Jul 06 Learn More Webinar: Understanding Enrollment Requirements for Fall Join us July 6 for a webinar where you’ll have the opportunity to learn more about some of the requirements for enrollment in fall Harvard Extension School courses. Register Now Webinar topics include: Placement tests, including the test… Location: Virtual Jun 29 Learn More Webinar: How to Prepare for Fall Registration Are you looking to enroll in courses at Harvard Extension School this fall but don’t know how to get started? Registration for fall term courses opens July 18 at 9 am ET, and we want to help you prepare for… Location: Virtual Past Events at Harvard Apr 23 Learn More Building Resilient & Sustainable Communities: Earth Day 2022 Helping communities to thrive in the face of climate change and other large challenges can seem like a daunting challenge. Learn how Alison Sant and Sonaar Luthra successfully work with communities using data, technology, community organizing, and a focus on equity. Location: Virtual Apr 13 Learn More Webinar: Pursuing Your Extension Journey During the Summer Summer is a great time to earn credits toward a degree or certificate at Harvard Extension School. Join us on Tuesday, April 13, from 1 to 2 pm eastern time to learn how you can start or continue your Extension… Location: Virtual Mar 22 Learn More Biotechnology Program Information Session Are you considering graduate studies in biotechnology? Join us noon ET on Tuesday, March 22, to learn more about the master’s degree program in this field. During this information session, you will hear from the program director and admissions and… Location: Virtual Feb 16 Learn More Information Session: International Relations, Government & History Programs Are you considering graduate studies in international relations, government, or history? Join us Wednesday, February 16, for this free event to learn more about the master’s degree programs in these fields. Location: Virtual May 26 Learn More Class of 2022 Commencement Event The Harvard community will come together on Thursday, May 26, 2022 to celebrate and honor members of the Class of 2022 from across the University in a joint ceremony in Tercentenary Theater. Location: In-Person See all past events Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! Harvard Extension is delighted to celebrate our students’ tremendous commitment and hard work. Read more about our students' journey to this big day! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Archives Follow Harvard Extension School Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Harvard Division of Continuing Education A division of Harvard University dedicated to bringing rigorous programs and innovative online teaching capabilities to distance learners, working professionals, high school students, college students, and those seeking higher learning in retirement. Harvard Extension School Harvard degrees, certificates and courses—online, in the evenings, and at your own pace. Harvard Summer School Academic summer opportunities for adult, college and high school students—at Harvard and abroad. Harvard Professional Development Short, intensive programs to develop skills and strengthen your professional profile. Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement Peer learning in the liberal arts—a community program for retired and semi-retired professionals. Harvard Division of Continuing Education Privacy Statement Accessibility Rights & Regulations Digital Accessibility Policy Harvard.edu Cookie Settings Copyright ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College