Skip to content Coronavirus Updates: See latest COVID-19 news from Harvard Extension School. COVID-19 Updates Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Academics Take a Course Graduate Degrees Graduate Certificates Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Academic Gap Year Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students Apply to Premedical Program Academic Calendar Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Blog Events Press and Announcements Contact Us MyDCE Login Request Information Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Request Information Academics Take a Course Graduate Certificates Graduate Degrees Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Browse Courses Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students International Students Academic Calendar Forms Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Harvard Extension School Blog Contact Us Events Press and Announcements Media and Photo Information For Enrolled Students Support and Services Student Policies and Conduct Harvard Extension Alumni Association Website Archives Privacy Statement Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn About / Press and Announcements COVID-19 Updates Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Press and Announcements COVID-19 Updates The following outlines Harvard Extension School’s plans to limit the spread of COVID-19 among the community. The plans are in accordance with the University’s response and we encourage you to also visit the general Harvard University COVID-19 information page. Visiting Campus? If you plan to visit the Harvard Extension School campus, please follow our COVID-19 protocols. Classes and Resources Move Online 2021-22 Harvard Extension School Courses and 2022-23 Harvard Extension School Courses View More All 2021-22 Harvard Extension School (HES) courses are offered fully online for fall, January, and spring. We are planning to be back with on-campus courses in a variety of formats for the 2022-23 academic year, including regular semester-long courses, January session courses, online with a required weekend courses, and active learning weekend courses. See below for information regarding the on-campus requirement for our degree programs. Harvard Extension School Buildings and Operations View More Harvard Extension School (HES) administrative offices and classrooms are currently closed to visitors and students. HES continues to offer email, phone, web conference, and online student service and all departments are fully functional. Visit Contact Us. We are eager to answer your questions! ID cards & Campus Access, Student Resources, Advising and Admissions View More ID Cards & Campus Access Current Degree Degree Candidates and Premedical Program Participants. To use your Harvard ID card to access on-campus resources such as libraries, athletics, and study spaces, you must participate in the University’s COVID-19 testing cadence. To support your access, we have launched a pilot program to provision individual HES degree candidates and premedical program participants for the new Color platform. Color is the health testing company that administers the University’s testing protocols. The below procedure is for any HES ALB and ALM officially admitted degree candidate or officially admitted Premedical Program participant who wishes to come to campus (if you are also a Harvard staff member, you should follow your department’s testing instructions). Fill out the Campus Access Request form to let us know the likely frequency of your campus visits. It takes 3-5 business days to complete the provisioning process prior to your first campus visit. Please plan accordingly. Wait for detailed instructions and confirmation that your profile has been added to the Color platform via an email from immunizations@extension.harvard.edu. Once you receive this email, review your Crimson Clear account information, report your vaccination status, and set up your Color account. If you don’t have your Harvard ID card yet, you will be able to pick it up at Campus Services (Smith Center) after completing these steps. Test kits and test drop off are available on campus.  You need to test any time you are on campus. If you come to campus just for one day, including just one hour, you need to test for that one day. Being on campus for any amount of time requires testing. Current Course Takers and Prospective Candidates. We are responsible for upholding the University’s COVID-19 compliance requirements, including university testing. We are working with HUIT and HUHS on a pilot program beginning with officially admitted degree candidates and premedical program participants (see above). We will learn much from this pilot and hope to broaden access to other cohorts of students. Please stay tuned. As such, new and replacement class participant library cards are not currently available to Extension School students for the fall 2021 or spring 2022 term. To keep Harvard safe, we also ask that any student who has an ID card from a previous Harvard Summer or Extension School term not use their ID card to access campus resources until further notice. Contact idcards@extension.harvard.edu with questions. Student Resources By registering for a course at the Extension School, you can take advantage of online access to Harvard Library resources. Use the Harvard Library Guide for Harvard Extension School for help with online research, HOLLIS, and more, and chat with knowledgeable staff through our Ask a Librarian service. Writing Center and Math Question Center are fully online. Dean of Students Office is ready to support students, please visit their website which hosts many COVID-19 related support services. Career and Academic Resource Center will continue and expand their free, mid-day live webinars open to all registered HES student on academic and career topics. Office of Career Services (for officially admitted degree candidates and premedical program participants) have moved to online appointments. Many of their career services can be accessed 24/7 at their website. Program Advising Advisors are standing by. We encourage you to connect with our advising team for individual support. Admissions, degree program, certificate, and premedical program advising continues via email and Zoom. Admissions We are ready and excited to accept 2021-22 applications to our undergraduate, graduate, and premedical programs as planned. Harvard Extension School Prospective and Admitted Degree Candidates On-Campus Requirement, 2021-2022 Academic Year Live web-conference courses meet the on-campus requirement for the entire 2021-22 academic year (fall, January, and spring term). After the spring term, however, this will no longer be the case as we are back on campus this summer and plan to be back next academic year, 2022-23. Summer 2022. Harvard Summer School (HSS) is offering its usual on-campus 3- and 7-week courses. Consequently, also in summer 2022, the on-campus requirement has reverted to the former pre-COVID policy. Starting summer 2022 and onward, candidates and prospective candidates will need to come to campus to fulfill the minimum on-campus credits for their respective degree programs. We are looking so forward to welcoming you back to Cambridge this summer! Commencement. Commencement 2020 and 2021 (together on Sunday, May 29th) as well as Commencement 2022 (Thursday, May 26) will take place on campus. We are ready, with an abundance of enthusiasm and excitement. For details visit: Graduation. Both Your Health and Education Are Paramount to Us The faculty and staff are working around the clock to continue to offer you the highest quality academic experience. We thank you in advance for your cooperation as we navigate, to the best of our ability, this challenging and unprecedented global public health event. Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! Harvard Extension is delighted to celebrate our students’ tremendous commitment and hard work. Read more about our students' journey to this big day! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Archives Follow Harvard Extension School Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Harvard Division of Continuing Education A division of Harvard University dedicated to bringing rigorous programs and innovative online teaching capabilities to distance learners, working professionals, high school students, college students, and those seeking higher learning in retirement. Harvard Extension School Harvard degrees, certificates and courses—online, in the evenings, and at your own pace. Harvard Summer School Academic summer opportunities for adult, college and high school students—at Harvard and abroad. Harvard Professional Development Short, intensive programs to develop skills and strengthen your professional profile. Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement Peer learning in the liberal arts—a community program for retired and semi-retired professionals. Harvard Division of Continuing Education Privacy Statement Accessibility Rights & Regulations Digital Accessibility Policy Harvard.edu Cookie Settings Copyright ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College