Skip to content Coronavirus Updates: See latest COVID-19 news from Harvard Extension School. COVID-19 Updates Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Academics Take a Course Graduate Degrees Graduate Certificates Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Academic Gap Year Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students Apply to Premedical Program Academic Calendar Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Blog Events Press and Announcements Contact Us MyDCE Login Request Information Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Request Information Academics Take a Course Graduate Certificates Graduate Degrees Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Browse Courses Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students International Students Academic Calendar Forms Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Harvard Extension School Blog Contact Us Events Press and Announcements Media and Photo Information For Enrolled Students Support and Services Student Policies and Conduct Harvard Extension Alumni Association Website Archives Privacy Statement Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn For Enrolled Students Support and Services Degree Candidate Academic Opportunities Student Policies and Conduct Enrolling as a student at Harvard Extension School is an important and exciting time in your life. Maybe you are exploring a new passion by taking a single class. Or perhaps you are embarking on a life-changing degree program. Whatever your path, being an Extension student comes with many amazing benefits. Discover how the resources available to you can help maximize your academic success. We also encourage you to learn more about your rights and responsibilities as an Extension student. Have a question? Not sure who to contact? Our experienced and talented Enrollment Services team can help. They know the answers to most questions, or they can refer you to the perfect person. Call us at 617-495-4024 or email inquiry@extension.harvard.edu. Student Resources Your educational journey has many steps. Our support and services are designed to assist you at each and every step of your academic career. Brush up on your math skills at the Math Question Center. Get help with a paper at the Writing Center. Work on your study skills. Explore Harvard’s many libraries and study spaces on and off campus. Learn more about the steps we have taken to ensure accessibility to students with disabilities, injuries, and chronic conditions. Review our policies on sexual harassment and assault. Getting ready to start a new career? The Career and Academic Resource Center offers assistance with career exploration, resumes, interview skills, career spotlights, and more through their free lunch-time webinars. Monthly call-in advising hours are also available. Are You a Degree Candidate? If you are an officially admitted degree candidate at Harvard Extension School, you have access to exclusive academic opportunities and privileges. You also need to adhere to mandatory enrollment policies for graduate students or enrollment policies for undergraduate candidates as well as critical academic standing policies. Our team of advisors is here to support you during your entire degree-earning journey. Log in to MyDCE and click on ALB/ALM Community to connect to the Degree Candidate Portal, where you can schedule an in-person, phone, or web-conference appointment with your assigned academic or research advisor. Are You Pursuing a Certificate? Visit Pursuing a Certificate and Requesting Your Certificate for information about the services and benefits for enrolled certificate students. Are You Admitted to the Premedical Program? All your support services and benefits are detailed on the Premedical Program site. Rights and Responsibilities As a Harvard Extension School student, it is your responsibility to understand and adhere to our conduct policies. Learn more about academic integrity and the consequences of plagiarism. Review our guidelines on when and how to utilize the Harvard name. Thorough knowledge of the academic policies guiding your education will help ensure academic success. Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! Harvard Extension is delighted to celebrate our students’ tremendous commitment and hard work. Read more about our students' journey to this big day! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Archives Follow Harvard Extension School Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Harvard Division of Continuing Education A division of Harvard University dedicated to bringing rigorous programs and innovative online teaching capabilities to distance learners, working professionals, high school students, college students, and those seeking higher learning in retirement. Harvard Extension School Harvard degrees, certificates and courses—online, in the evenings, and at your own pace. Harvard Summer School Academic summer opportunities for adult, college and high school students—at Harvard and abroad. Harvard Professional Development Short, intensive programs to develop skills and strengthen your professional profile. Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement Peer learning in the liberal arts—a community program for retired and semi-retired professionals. Harvard Division of Continuing Education Privacy Statement Accessibility Rights & Regulations Digital Accessibility Policy Harvard.edu Cookie Settings Copyright ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College