Skip to content Coronavirus Updates: See latest COVID-19 news from Harvard Extension School. COVID-19 Updates Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Academics Take a Course Graduate Degrees Graduate Certificates Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Academic Gap Year Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students Apply to Premedical Program Academic Calendar Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Blog Events Press and Announcements Contact Us MyDCE Login Request Information Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Request Information Academics Take a Course Graduate Certificates Graduate Degrees Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Browse Courses Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students International Students Academic Calendar Forms Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Harvard Extension School Blog Contact Us Events Press and Announcements Media and Photo Information For Enrolled Students Support and Services Student Policies and Conduct Harvard Extension Alumni Association Website Archives Privacy Statement Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn About Why Harvard Extension? Because you're ready to take the next step and won't let anything get in your way. Build knowledge for a better future—online, in the evenings, and at your own pace. A Harvard Education Designed for You You may be balancing a lot already: A demanding job. Hectic family schedules. We understand that finding time for school isn’t easy. But if you have the intellect and determination, you can pursue a Harvard education. Going back to school doesn’t have to mean putting your life on hold. We’ve designed our courses, certificates, and degrees to give you the flexibility to pace your studies to fit your schedule. Balancing life with the rigors of the Harvard classroom will be challenging. It’ll also be deeply rewarding. In the end, you will have earned a Harvard credential that you can hold with pride. Ready to get started? Explore Degrees & Certificates Browse Courses Connect With Us My experiences at Harvard Extension changed my life. Harvard encouraged me to think bigger and to be bold. It empowered me and gave me the confidence to lead change.” Sunita Mittal Agarwal ALM, Management, 2013 Study with Harvard Faculty and Industry Experts When you’re investing in your education, you want to be sure you’re learning from the best. In our classrooms, you engage with researchers and professionals at the forefront of their fields. Study with faculty at Harvard and the greater academic community—including MIT, Princeton, and University of Cambridge, England. Learn from leading industry professionals, and gain insights on current research and trends. Under the guidance of our instructors, you can build the knowledge and skills to achieve your goals. 900+ Offerings Courses, Degrees, and Certificates 15,000 Students Served Annually 70 Degrees and Certificates The real advantage of continuing education is the rigor of academia closely intertwined with experience.” Shawn Henry ALM, Government, 2018 Experience Harvard Online Whether you live minutes from campus or across the globe, you can experience the Harvard classroom. Engage with our world-class faculty, participate in peer discussions, and receive one-on-one support from teaching staff—all from your home or office. Choose to attend live streaming lectures, interact with classmates in a web conference, or study flexibly in module-based lessons. We’ve designed a variety of online course formats, so you can find a learning experience that best meets your needs and circumstances. Learn more about online learning at Harvard Extension School. See the Impact of Your Education in Real Time You don’t have to wait to have your degree in hand to see the impact of your education. Your career advancement begins the moment you first step into the classroom. Bring challenges that you face at work or in your community into the classroom. Consult with your faculty and peers to find new, innovative solutions. Test a fresh concept or framework in the workplace and see immediate results. You will find yourself more skilled, confident, and empowered when you’ve seen the real-world results of your education. “I was able to use that knowledge that I was getting right away in my workspace, where I was getting feedback from my leadership, my board members, and other colleagues. They saw me morphing into a different professional. They saw me thinking differently. That was something that I felt happening.” – Evan Bernstein, ALM, Management, 2011 Students Making a Real-World Impact Heather Emerson, ’20. ALM, Journalism; Graduate Certificate in Innovation and Entrepreneurship Making Connections to Solve Real-World Problems Chris James, Nonprofit Management Graduate Certificate Driving Change at the National Level Ebony L. Griffin, ’21, Bachelor of Liberal Arts in the Field of English, Minor in Creative Writing and Psychology Leading by Example Customize Your Pathway to Meet Your Goals We know that you’re coming to the classroom with years of experience. We want to support your continued growth with a personalized curriculum that supplements the knowledge you already have. Our certificates and degrees offer you the power of choice. You have the ability to choose from a range of courses in a field of study, designing a curriculum that meets your specific needs and interests. If you need some guidance, our advisors are here to help you plan your degree courses. With nearly 900 courses to choose from each year, you are sure to find a pathway that meets your personal and professional goals. My new position at NASA involves overseeing project activity and fostering international collaboration. My studies at Harvard Extension School have given me the management skills and confidence to help me succeed in this challenging role.Jennifer Buchli, ALM, Biotechnology Management, 2016 Join a Global Community of Learners All too often, you can find yourself trapped in your own bubble. By attending our courses, you will study among diverse voices who can expand your worldview. You might encounter a parent pursuing a graduate degree, an adult student completing their bachelor’s degree from China, or a CEO studying psychology. By blending multiple perspectives, discussions become more complex, surprising, and illuminating. You may find that you learn just as much from your peers as your professors. When you choose Harvard Extension School, you’re not simply joining a program. You’re joining a global learning community. Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! Harvard Extension is delighted to celebrate our students’ tremendous commitment and hard work. Read more about our students' journey to this big day! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Archives Follow Harvard Extension School Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Harvard Division of Continuing Education A division of Harvard University dedicated to bringing rigorous programs and innovative online teaching capabilities to distance learners, working professionals, high school students, college students, and those seeking higher learning in retirement. Harvard Extension School Harvard degrees, certificates and courses—online, in the evenings, and at your own pace. Harvard Summer School Academic summer opportunities for adult, college and high school students—at Harvard and abroad. Harvard Professional Development Short, intensive programs to develop skills and strengthen your professional profile. Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement Peer learning in the liberal arts—a community program for retired and semi-retired professionals. Harvard Division of Continuing Education Privacy Statement Accessibility Rights & Regulations Digital Accessibility Policy Harvard.edu Cookie Settings Copyright ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College