Your browser does not support inline frames or is currently configured not to display inline frames Skip to Navigation Skip to Main Content Website and online services unavailable on May 29. See IT Disaster Recovery website ► Quick Register | Cart Professional Development Extension and International Programs California State University, Fullerton All Programs Areas of Study: Business Crime & Forensics Fiduciary Management Technology & Engineering Program Types: Certificate Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Educator Courses and Programs Community & Corporate Engagement Leadership Development for Public Agencies Short-Term Courses & Events Test Preparation Online Degree Completion Programs Career Tech Foundation Online Programs Online Certificate Programs Online Degree Completion Programs Educator Courses and Programs Getting Started What is a Certificate? Selecting a Program Alumni Success Stories Current Student Resources Program & Course Policies Financial Aid Parking Forms Online Learning Request a Certificate About Fullerton Campus Community & Corporate Engagement Student Resources Teach for EIP FAQ Contact Us Donate × Email a friend To: Invalid E-Mail address From: Message: Page Link: Business Analysis Professional Certificate | CSUF Extension and International Programs Business-Analysis Submit × Email a friend Mail Sent Succesfully Page Link: Business Analysis Professional Certificate | CSUF Extension and International Programs Business-Analysis Close Business Analysis Certificate Projected outlook for some certified Business Analysis experts: 907,600Number of Jobs, 2020 $93,000Median Pay per year, 2021 14%Job Growth, 2020-2030 *U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics, Occupational Outlook Handbook – Management Analyst Earn A CSUF Business Analysis Certificate Earn your business analysis certificate in 10 months. It is in demand by business, software, product, QA, systems, computer, IT and programming professionals and others in process improvement and management roles. Interview with Lead Instructor Dr. Catherine Martin In this Q&A, Dr. Martin talks about program benefits, the value of a classroom setting for learning, and common career paths for graduates of the program. Read Interview Business Analysis Program Benefits: You Will: Learn from expert business analysts. Validate business requirements and implement/evaluate change. Take highly practical courses that apply to a number of fields. Develop a portfolio demonstrating your business-analysis skills. Exit the program ready to earn your Certificate of Capability in Business Analysis (CCBA) or become a Certified Business Analysis Professional (CBAP). Ideal for: Business-analysis professionals. Project managers. Managers/trainers of business analysis Consultants/subject-matter experts. Executive administrative staff seeking career advancement. Individuals seeking a career change. System analysts. IT professionals. Business management program graduates. Management analysts. Operations analysts. Program Stats: No prerequisites (three years of prior business experience or bachelor’s degree recommended) Six required courses (93 hours of lecture and discussion) 9.3 continuing education units (CEUs) For courses that are delivered virtually, participants will need access to a computer and a reliable internet connection. A webcam and/or headset may also be recommended to participate in the class. Attendance to the live lecture is expected as if you were meeting face-to-face. Please refer to our Technical Recommendations for more information. Technical Recommendations Please note: Students must register no later than 2 business days prior to the course start date. If you missed the registration window or have any questions, please contact EIP Student Services at eipconnect@fullerton.edu. For optimal viewing of the course schedule below, please view on a tablet or desktop Schedule Eligibility Program Benefits Who Should Attend Note: Click on the course title to view all available course sections. Hover over the colored labels to view where the course will be offered. Course Title Collapse All Fall 2022 Winter / Spring 2023 Business Analysis Overview V No sections available. Sign up and stay connected. View the course description. Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring V No sections available. Sign up and stay connected. View the course description. Performing an Enterprise Analysis V No sections available. Sign up and stay connected. View the course description. Requirements Elicitation, Analysis and Management V No sections available. Sign up and stay connected. View the course description. Solution Assessment, Validation and Implementation V No sections available. Sign up and stay connected. View the course description. Project Evaluation: Putting It All Together V No sections available. Sign up and stay connected. View the course description. - Understand the process needed for identifying business problems - Identify the set of tasks, knowledge and techniques required to become a business analyst - Acquire the basic skills for performing business analysis projects - Understand the role of business analyst as member of the team(s) - Communicate requirements necessary for problem solving - Work as a liaison among stakeholders to validate requirements and implement change - Recommend solutions that enable organizations to achieve their goals - Business analysis professionals - Project managers - Managers/Trainers of business analysis and related topics - Consultants and business subject matter experts - Employees with high potential - Executive administrative staff seeking career advancement - Individuals seeking a career change - Systems analysts - IT professionals - Graduates from business management programs Although there are no prerequisite for this program, it is recommended that students have three years of prior business experience and/or a Bachelor's degree Fred Diluzio Program Manager, Hoag Memorial Hospital Alicia Fan Program Developer, University Extended Education, California State University, Fullerton Sharon Flemings Principal, Insightful Solutions, Inc Harold M Fraser Lecturer, Department of Management, College of Business & Economics, California State University, Fullerton Jerry Hartanto Director, Strategic Development & Execution, Ingram Micro Paul Henry Senior Business Analyst, Southern California Edison Pawel Kaleczynski Professor, Department of Information Systems and Decision Sciences, Mihaylo College of Business and Economics California State University, Fullerton Melem Sharpe Manager, International Instructional Management & Development, California State University, Fullerton Mike Vincent CEO, MVA Software Shelly Wang Manager, Program Development, University Extended Education, California State University, Fullerton Program Details Location: Online-Live, Once weekly Length: 10 months Cost: $2,675* Next Start: Sept. 2022 *Cost is approximate and subject to change View Schedule Request a Certificate View Related Programs Non-California Residents Professional Licensure and Certification *Have a question? Please contact us. Online Form - Prof Dev Master Email Sign-up (untitled_form_1_copy) Email Us: eipconnect@fullerton.edu Phone: (657) 278-2611 Address: 800 N. State College Blvd., #THall 1403, Fullerton, CA 92831 California State University, Fullerton / Extension and International Programs Download Adobe Reader