Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Youth, Families and Health Parenting Photo: USDA (Cropped from original) Parenting Home Browse Resources Our Experts In Your Community Share Featured Resources Oregon Parenting Education Collaborative (OPEC) OPEC is a partnership between four of Oregon’s largest foundations and OSU Extension Family and Community Health (FCH) program. OPEC supports grantees through funding, evaluation, technical assistance, and professional development led by FCH faculty. OPEC supports: - Delivery of high-quality parenting education programs - Coordinated efforts to strengthen regional parenting education systems - Developing and strengthening collaborative regional parenting education Hubs Apr 2018 | Online resource Graphic from High Speed Hand Washing poster High Speed Hand Washing | Lavado de Manos de Alta Velocidad Reduce the odds of getting sick in 30 seconds. To help your kiddos avoid getting sick this cold season, check out this fun and easy High Speed Hand Washing method. All you need is a sink, soap and some practice! Reduzca la probabilidad de enfermarse en 30 segundos.¡Para ayudar a sus niños a evitar enfermarse este otoño e invierno, eche un vistazo aldivertido y fácil método de Lavado de Manos de Alta Velocidad! Todo lo que necesita es un fregadero, jabón y algo de práctica. Poster and Video | Póster y Video Latest Resources Credit Jenny Rudolph (Cropped from original) Caregivers have a new resource for trauma-informed nutrition and feeding OSU Extension has partnered with the nonprofit organization SPOON to launch “Nourished and Thriving Children” a free, self-paced course that contains eight learning modules that focus on the six principles of trauma-informed ... Chris Branam | May 18, 2022 | News story Nurturing Resilience: Protective Factors for Resilience/Factores protectores de la resiliencia Protective factors help children respond to life’s challenges. These factors include supportive relationships, access to quality care and safe places to play. You can nurture resilience by encouraging the protective factors in ... Feb 2022 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Online Babysitting Course Helps Families Through Pandemic Childcare Challenges Oregon lacks childcare options. Access to childcare was reduced during the pandemic. Kids were doing distance learning and many daycares closed their doors or ran on reduced capacity. Families were without childcare and schools ... Jan 2022 | Video Browse All Resources Latest News Credit Jenny Rudolph (Cropped from original) Caregivers have a new resource for trauma-informed nutrition and feeding OSU Extension has partnered with the nonprofit organization SPOON to launch “Nourished and Thriving Children” a free, self-paced course that contains eight learning modules that focus on the six principles of trauma-informed ... Chris Branam | May 18, 2022 | News story All News Explore more resources Coronavirus (COVID-19) Nutrition and Healthy Eating Environmental Education (PreK-12) Family Emergency Preparedness Physical Activity Youth Education Resources Meet Our Experts Shauna Tominey Parenting Education Specialist See All Parenting Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility