Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Community Vitality Agritourism Photo: Betsy Hartley (Cropped from original) Agritourism Home Browse Resources Our Experts In Your Community Share Agritourism engages the agriculture and tourism communities to foster connections through researched-based knowledge and education and seeks to strengthen the understanding of agritourism and farm-direct sales in order to help build financially viable farms, encourage sustainable practices and industry resilience through networks and educational resources. Explore All Agritourism Resources SERIES: Adding Agritourism Hosting tours on your farm or ranch not only provides additional income, but helps tell an important story about Oregon agriculture, rural communities and local food production. Learn more about how to incorporate agritourism on your small farm or property in this series of articles. Photo: Melissa Fery (Cropped from original) SERIES: Adding Agritourism Hosting tours on your farm or ranch not only provides additional income, but helps tell an important story about Oregon agriculture, rural communities and local food production. Learn more about how to incorporate agritourism on your small farm or property in this series of articles. Jul 2020 | Collection Peer reviewed (Gray level) Laws & Regulations Navigating legal processes and allowable use regulations can be daunting. This list of resources will help you find what you need to know about current Oregon laws relating to farm use, agritourism, liability, and more. ORS 30.671-30.677: The Oregon Revised Statutes (ORS) are the codified laws of the State of Oregon. The document is published every two years. Use this link to find specific laws pertaining to "activities arising out of agritourism activities". This section of Chapter 30 includes: A definition of agritourism - Limitations on liability of agri-tourism professional; exceptions - and wording of an official "notice" that must be posted at each agritourism site. ORS 215.213 & ORS 215.283: The Oregon Revised Statutes (ORS) are the codified laws of the State of Oregon. The document is published every two years. Use this link to find specific laws pertaining to approved uses that "may be established in any area zoned for exclusive farm use". These sections of Chapter 215 includes: Allowable use on farmland, including agritourism activities. Be sure to consult related statute ORS 215.283 (from ORS site, use left column then scroll down) Information Snapshot: SB/HB 341 – Limited Liability for Agritourism Providers: Agritourism offers farmers and ranchers additional income and marketing opportunities for their crops, and it offers non-farmers the opportunity to appreciate and invest in Oregon’s agricultural bounty. Events “related to and ... Photo courtesy Katey Jacobson Coastal Agritourism Are you interested in agritourism opportunities on the Oregon Coast? Find resources here to develop your concept, buy direct from local fishermen, and more. Explore Coastal Agritourism Latest resources Photo: Audrey Comerford, OSU Extension (Cropped from original) Online Course: Developing a successful agritourism business in Oregon If you've considered agricultural tourism as an option for your farm business, then this is the class for you. Over the course of this program, you will build an understanding of the multiple elements involved in setting up and managing a successful agritourism enterprise. These topics include types of agricultural tourism enterprises and how agritourism can become a part of your whole farm business. You will learn about managing risk, understanding legal requirements, marketing your agricultural tourism business, and customer service and hospitality. Melissa Fery, Audrey Comerford | Apr 2022 | Online resource Peer reviewed (Gray level) Photo: Bonnie Moreland (Cropped from original) Coastal Culture Coastal Culture......Where Communities Bridge Land and Sea Newsletter Increasing Farm Viability Through Agritourism and On-Farm Direct Sales: An Oregon Producer Survey Agritourism with on-farm direct sales is a way for farms to increase their business success. This survey of Oregon producers explores how small and midsized farms are expanding beyond basic production, adding value and claiming more consumer support. Mary Stewart, Audrey Comerford, Bruce Sorte, Sam Angima | Jul 2021 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Browse all content The OSU Extension Agricultural Tourism program supports farms that allow the public onto their land. We strive to engage and foster connections through research-based knowledge and education in order to support farm viability. We use our Facebook page for current updates, program announcements, event details, and more. Like Us On Facebook! Explore more resources Business Marketing Rural Economic Development Local, Regional, and Community Food Systems Meet Our Experts Audrey Comerford Agritourism Coordinator Melissa Fery Small Farms Miles Phillips Coastal Tourism & Business Development Sustainable Tourism & Outdoor Recreation Training, Applied Research and Support for Business and Communities See All Agritourism Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question How do I buy fresh seafood from the fishing boats? Q: How do I find out when and how to buy fish and crabs from the boats as they come in? A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility