Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Locations Portland Metro Area Portland Metro Area What We Do Events News and impact Resources and contacts Share Print Oregon State University Extension is the go-to resource for the expertise and knowledge every Oregonian needs to live healthy lives, nurture our great state’s ecosystems, and play a vital role in Oregon’s vibrant communities. Visitor information The Portland office is not open to the public. Due to a lack of Multnomah County funding, we do not have a live person to answer calls. Phone: 503-821-1137. Choose the option most closely related to your inquiry. Email: [email protected] You may also contact our individual faculty/staff directly or complete an online request through “Ask an Expert”. Face coverings Masks are welcome, not required, per university policy. Contact us Portland Metro Extension, with options for Multnomah, Washington, & Clackamas County contacts 503-821-1137 Address Portland Metro Area 3880 SE 8th Avenue, #170 Portland, OR 97202 United States Open address in Google Maps. Upcoming events Jun 7 Conifers in the Pacific Northwest * 7:00 pm - 8:00 pm PDT Online Jun 25 Bees in your garden * 10:00 am - 12:00 pm Portland, OR See more events What we do Discover ways to learn and get involved. Here are some highlights of our activities and specialties. Photo: Oregon State University (Cropped from original) Open Campus Open Campus provides local access to education through community-based partnerships and unique programming, meeting needs of the Oregon communities we serve. Portland Metro Area National 4-H Council (OSU author has permission from photographer/creator/rights holder) (Cropped from original) 4-H Youth Activities 4-H empowers young people with hands-on learning experiences to help them grow and thrive. By creating a safe and welcoming environment, young people develop the skills needed to make a positive impact on the world around them. Portland Metro Area Photo by Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Nutrition Education and Outreach We provide Nutrition Education to limited-resource individuals, children, and adults through our team of Educators in Washington County, and our Metro Hispanic Nutrition Office in SE Portland. Workshops and support are available in English, Spanish, Russian, and more. Portland Metro Area Credit Patty Case (Cropped from original) Farm to School and school gardens in the Portland area We connect the cafeteria, classroom and community so kids, farmers, and communities thrive. OSU’s research-backed farm to school activities improve economic opportunities, public health, academic achievement, youth development and ecoliteracy in every county in Oregon. Portland Metro Area Learn more about what we do News and impact Credit Jenny Rudolph (Cropped from original) Caregivers have a new resource for trauma-informed nutrition and feeding OSU Extension has partnered with the nonprofit organization SPOON to launch “Nourished and Thriving Children” a free, self-paced course that contains eight learning modules that focus on the six principles of trauma-informed ... Chris Branam | May 18, 2022 | News story Credit Chris LaBelle (Cropped from original) OSU Extension Master Gardener Program increases diversity, equity and inclusivity Since issues of diversity are perceived differently in different areas of the state, the approach must be multi-pronged to meet the needs of all Oregonians. Apr 2022 | Impact story Credit Oregon State University Extension Service (Cropped from original) 4-H Teen Teacher Corps provides youths an opportunity to contribute to their communities A total of 89 teens were recruited and trained for the program in 2020 and 2021. The effort featured the development of 12 online learning modules and a Teen Teacher Corps website. Mar 2022 | Impact story See more news and impact stories Was this page helpful? YesNo Send feedback Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility