Your browser does not support inline frames or is currently configured not to display inline frames Skip to Navigation Skip to Main Content Website and online services unavailable on May 29. See IT Disaster Recovery website ► Quick Register | Cart Professional Development Extension and International Programs California State University, Fullerton All Programs Areas of Study: Business Crime & Forensics Fiduciary Management Technology & Engineering Program Types: Certificate Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Educator Courses and Programs Community & Corporate Engagement Leadership Development for Public Agencies Short-Term Courses & Events Test Preparation Online Degree Completion Programs Career Tech Foundation Online Programs Online Certificate Programs Online Degree Completion Programs Educator Courses and Programs Getting Started What is a Certificate? Selecting a Program Alumni Success Stories Current Student Resources Program & Course Policies Financial Aid Parking Forms Online Learning Request a Certificate About Fullerton Campus Community & Corporate Engagement Student Resources Teach for EIP FAQ Contact Us Donate Short-Term Courses & Events | CSUF Extension and International Programs Short-term Courses & Events Leadership & Management - Coming Soon Volatile, uncertain, complex, and ambiguous (VUCA) are just some of the words used to describe the changes currently being experienced by organizations. Come and join us for this series of carefully selected courses which will guide you through identifying your core leadership practice and mission, adapting to rapidly changing environments, while inspiring and leading your team through change. Leading Change in Organizations Instructor: Julie Espy Date: July 27 & 29, 2021 Time: 6:30 – 8:30pm Influencing Skills for Greater Results Instructor: Ryan Foland Date: August 3, 4 & 5, 2021 Time: 6:30 – 8:30pm Discovering Your Leadership Strengths Instructor: Tony Vercillo Date: August 10 & 12, 2021 Time: 6:30 – 8:00pm Time and Stress Management Strategies Instructor: Azahar Lopez Date: August 17 & 19, 2021 Time: 6:30 – 8:00pm Business Fundamentals Explore our certificate programs through one (or more!) of our Business Fundamentals introductory courses. These classes are designed for beginners, building a base of knowledge to help you decide what's next. They are perfect for someone considering a career change, or exploring different fields of study. Let's get started! Business Analysis Overview Learn techniques used to identify business needs and determine solutions to business problems Business Analysis Certificate Program The Digital Marketing Landscape Learn the strategy and planning components of a digital marketing campaign, as well as web analytics and performance measurement. Digital Marketing Certificate Program Fundamentals of Human Resources Management Dive into the changing environment of the industry, including a history of the human resources or personnel field, and current issues and trends. Human Resources Management Certificate Program Foundational Data Science I Gain solid understanding of data science by presenting various concepts, methodologies, and competencies that a data scientist must possess in order to be successful *Please note: Due to state and federal regulations, non-California residents may only enroll in CSUF online courses when their state has authorized CSUF as a provider. Non-California Residents Professional Licensure and Certification CSUF EIP Partnered with ed2go Extension and International Programs at California State University, Fullerton has partnered with Ed2Go to offer highly interactive courses, led by expert instructors, that you can take entirely online. Whether you want to advance in your career, sharpen your skills, or just learn something new, you have come to the right place. These non-credit courses offer quality, practical learning experiences—all on your schedule. ed2go Training Programs Length: Varies Cost: Varies Location: Online ed2go Online Courses Length: Varies Cost: Varies Location: Online Training Programs Looking to start a new career or gain skills? Enrollment is open. Online Courses Highly interactive courses, led by expert instructors, that you can take entirely online. Enrollment is open. x Leading Change in Organizations As resources shrink and the public demands increasing transparency, leaders in organizations must be able to implement a solid plan for change. Organizational managers must learn to not only deal with this, but attempt to utilize change to the advantage of their organizations. This interactive session will cover factors influencing change, leadership qualities needed to successfully manage change, the impact of change on the organization, the methodology of the change management cycle, how to manage change in an organization, and what implications organizational change may have for the future. Taught by Julie Espy, Manager of Learning and Development at OCTA, responsible for delivering learning and organizational initiatives for more than 1400 employees. Julie is passionate about developing leadership for employees today and beyond. x Influencing Skills for Greater Results In organizations where teamwork and collaboration are emphasized, leaders at every level rely on influencing skills by using knowledge and competence rather than position and status to influence others. In this session, individuals will learn to develop political savvy, build value with others, overcome resistance, and mitigate personal risk. Session discussions will also focus on influencing strategies to gain commitment from others and foster collaboration. Individuals will have the opportunity to take part in experiential activities that will reinforce the learning. Taught by Ryan Foland, a global keynote speaker, TEDx talk speaker and an entrepreneur. x Discovering Your Leadership Strengths This session is designed to assist managers in understanding how personal leadership strengths drive leadership behavior. The differences between leadership and management will be explored through self-assessment tools, and case studies. Throughout the session, participants will see the impact their skills, knowledge and inherent attributes can have on their management success. Taught by Tony Vercillo, Lecturer, Department of Marketing, College of Business and Economics, CSUF x Time and Stress Management Strategies This session is designed to give an in-depth look at self-management and how it relates to both time and stress. This session will provide basic terms and establish a knowledge base for participants. Participants will become familiar with the various components in establishing, implementing and driving a self-directed program to maximize time while minimizing stress. Participants will learn how to work smarter, avoid burnout, set priorities, organize and schedule activities, overcome procrastination, reduce interruptions, and apply useful strategies for managing stress immediately. Taught by Azahar Lopez, PsyD, BCC is a board certified coach specializing in executive, corporate and business coaching and has spent years working with people to maximize their potential. Dr. Lopez is a facilitator of leadership development programs for corporate partners, working both in group learning and individual settings. Email Us: eipconnect@fullerton.edu Phone: (657) 278-2611 Address: 800 N. State College Blvd., #THall 1403, Fullerton, CA 92831 California State University, Fullerton / Extension and International Programs Download Adobe Reader