Your browser does not support inline frames or is currently configured not to display inline frames Skip to Navigation Skip to Main Content Website and online services unavailable on May 29. See IT Disaster Recovery website ► Quick Register | Cart Professional Development Extension and International Programs California State University, Fullerton All Programs Areas of Study: Business Crime & Forensics Fiduciary Management Technology & Engineering Program Types: Certificate Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Educator Courses and Programs Community & Corporate Engagement Leadership Development for Public Agencies Short-Term Courses & Events Test Preparation Online Degree Completion Programs Career Tech Foundation Online Programs Online Certificate Programs Online Degree Completion Programs Educator Courses and Programs Getting Started What is a Certificate? Selecting a Program Alumni Success Stories Current Student Resources Program & Course Policies Financial Aid Parking Forms Online Learning Request a Certificate About Fullerton Campus Community & Corporate Engagement Student Resources Teach for EIP FAQ Contact Us Donate × Email a friend To: Invalid E-Mail address From: Message: Page Link: Geographic Information Systems Professional Certificate | CSUF Extension and International Programs GIS Submit × Email a friend Mail Sent Succesfully Page Link: Geographic Information Systems Professional Certificate | CSUF Extension and International Programs GIS Close Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Certificate Projected outlook for some certified GIS experts: 13,200Number of Jobs, 2020 $68,900Median Pay per year, 2021 5%Job Growth, 2020-2030 *U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics, Occupational Outlook Handbook - Cartographers and Photogrammetrists Earn A CSUF Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Certificate in 8 Months Earn your GIS certificate in 8 months and integrate geography, data and systems to solve a wide range of problems for government, business, healthcare, insurance, law enforcement and other industries. Interview with Lead Instructor Dr. Karen Underhill In this Q&A, Dr. Underhill talks about program benefits, the value of participating in a professional learning community and advice for incoming GIS students. Read Interview Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Program Benefits: With a GIS certificate, you will be able to: Collect, analyze, model and present geographic data. Integrate geography, data and systems to solve problems. Serve industries such as business, healthcare, insurance and law enforcement. Program Stats: Four required, project-based courses (84 hours of lecture). 100% online. 8 months long. 8.4 continuing education units (CEUs). GIS career paths according to Dr. Karen Underhill, GIS instructor at Cal State Fullerton: GIS Technician - Immediately out of the program (entry level GIS work). GIS Specialist - Sometimes immediately out of the program or about a year experience. GIS Analyst - With more experience, they can apply and take the exam to become a certified Geographic Information System Professional (GISP). Check out the full interview with Dr. Underhill to see what else she has to say about earning your GIS certificate online. For optimal viewing of the course schedule below, please view on a tablet or desktop Schedule Eligibility Program Benefits Who Should Attend Note: Click on the course title to view all available course sections. Hover over the colored labels to view where the course will be offered. Course Title Collapse All Winter / Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Introduction to GIS O O No sections available. Sign up and stay connected. View the course description. GIS Data and Formats O O No sections available. Sign up and stay connected. View the course description. GIS Analysis and Map Design O O Learn More Days Date Time Location 06/13/22-08/07/22 Online Online-Variable Fee $910.00 Close Please select one of the two options. Please select your state of residence: --Select One-- Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas American Samoa California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Puerto Rico Northern Mariana Islands U.S. Virgin Islands American Samoa Guam Marshall Islands I currently live outside of the United States Your enrollment in a CSU Fullerton, University Extended Education professional development certificate class/program does not constitute admission to the University, nor does it provide eligibility for any type of student Visa. English Proficiency Requirement It is recommended that participants who reside outside of United States and whose first language is not English must possess English language proficiency equivalent to a minimum TOEFL score of 550 (paper), 80 (iBT) or IELTS score of 6.5. It the participant’s responsibility to demonstrate English language proficiency necessary to fully participate in the class lectures and discussions. Continue Cancel Register Register Now GIS Project O O No sections available. Sign up and stay connected. View the course description. At the conclusion of the certificate program, graduates will be able to: - Provide a general definition and understanding of the key concepts and topics of GIS including a brief history of the industry; - Understand the major components of a Geographic Information System including hardware, software and data; - Identify the role and functions of the GIS Specialist in both the public and private sectors; - Understand GIS database principles and build a GIS database, data type and data sources; - Understand the fundamentals of ArcGIS and its related applications; and - Complete a capstone project integrating the student's GIS knowledge and skills accumulated over the course of the certificate program. - Recent Baccalaureate graduates across many disciplines - Employees of organizations either utilizing or planning to utilize GIS - Career changers - IT Professionals - Retirees - second career This program is open to all interested persons. It is recommended that participants who reside outside of United States and whose first language is not English possess English language proficiency equivalent to: A minimum TOEFL score of 550 (paper) or 80 (iBT) or a minimum IELTS score of 6.5 There is no need to send the test score to the University.ÿ It the participant's responsibility to demonstrate English language proficiency necessary to fully participate in the class lectures and discussions.ÿ Jaime M Alas Programmer/Analyst GIS, Information Technology Services, Downey Regional Medical Center John C Carroll Chair, Department of Geography, College of Humanities, California State University, Fullerton Julie Cooper Crime Analyst, Irvine Police Department Lauren Henderson Program Developer University Extended Education California State University, Fullerton David Holt Strategic Planner Health Care Systems, VA Loma Linda Health Care System Paul Horvath Director, Information Technology TC3 Health Josephine M Jenneskens GIS Analyst, City of Carson Kari A Knutson Miller Dean, University Extended Education and AVP, International Programs & Global Engagement University Extended Education, California State University, Fullerton Lew Nelson Manager, Law Enforcement, Criminal Justice Industries, ESRI Yong-Tae Park Professor, Department of Information Sciences and Decision Sciences, Cal State Fullerton Kurt Smith Community Analysis and Technology, Director, Redlands Police Department Karen K Underhill GIS/Database Supervisor, Orange County Water District Seth Waife Representative, Health Care Industries, ESRI Program Details Location: Online, Weekly modules Length: 8 months Cost: $3,210* Next Start: August 2022 *Cost is approximate and subject to change View Schedule Request a Certificate View Related Programs Non-California Residents English Proficiency Requirement It is recommended that participants who reside outside of United States and whose first language is not English must possess English language proficiency equivalent to a minimum TOEFL score of 550 (paper), 80 (iBT) or IELTS score of 6.5. It is the participantís responsibility to demonstrate English language proficiency necessary to fully participate in the class lectures and discussions. Professional Licensure and Certification *Have a question? Please contact us. Online Form - Prof Dev Master Email Sign-up (untitled_form_1_copy) Email Us: eipconnect@fullerton.edu Phone: (657) 278-2611 Address: 800 N. State College Blvd., #THall 1403, Fullerton, CA 92831 California State University, Fullerton / Extension and International Programs Download Adobe Reader