Skip to content Coronavirus Updates: See latest COVID-19 news from Harvard Extension School. COVID-19 Updates Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Academics Take a Course Graduate Degrees Graduate Certificates Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Academic Gap Year Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students Apply to Premedical Program Academic Calendar Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Blog Events Press and Announcements Contact Us MyDCE Login Request Information Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Request Information Academics Take a Course Graduate Certificates Graduate Degrees Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Browse Courses Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students International Students Academic Calendar Forms Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Harvard Extension School Blog Contact Us Events Press and Announcements Media and Photo Information For Enrolled Students Support and Services Student Policies and Conduct Harvard Extension Alumni Association Website Archives Privacy Statement Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn All Events / Past Events May Sun 29 Class of 2020 & Class of 2021 Commencement Event The Harvard community will come together on Sunday, May 29, 2022, at 8 AM (ET), to celebrate and honor members of the Class of 2020 and the Class of 2021 from across the University in a joint ceremony in Tercentenary Theater. Timeline Your big day will begin with a continental breakfast for HES graduates only starting at 6:00 AM in the Museum of Natural History Courtyard at 26 Oxford St. Cambridge, MA 02138. Important: Harvard Yard gates open for all guests at 6:45 AM. Note, a ticket does not guarantee a seat. Following the continental breakfast, the class will process from the Museum of Natural History Courtyard to the Old Yard at 6:45 AM. Graduates will then process into Tercentenary Theater in Harvard Yard for the University-wide Morning Exercises, which will end around 10:30 AM. The HES Ceremony will begin at the Museum of Natural History Courtyard at approximately 11:30 PM. It will end at approximately 2 PM. Following the HES Ceremony, graduates and guests will enjoy lunch and festivities at the Museum of Natural History Courtyard from 2 PM to approximately 3:30 PM. Regalia, Registration & Tickets To participate in the in-person Commencement ceremonies, graduates are required to wear official Harvard Regalia. Orders for regalia are placed online through the Harvard Coop, and the deadline to order is Saturday, April 9, 2022. Registration will be required for both the Harvard University-wide and HES Commencement ceremonies. The Harvard Alumni Association (not Harvard Extension School) is coordinating registration and tickets. They have sent you an email to register yourself and your guests. If you did not receive the email, here is the link to the registration page. Tickets will be required for guests attending both the Harvard-wide and the HES Commencement ceremonies. You can expect a maximum of three (3) guest tickets for each ceremony. Stage Crossing. We will be using a company called Marching Orders to facilitate our announcement of graduate names during our stage crossing in the diploma ceremony. You will soon receive an email invitation from Harvard Extension School to confirm your diploma name for the stage crossing. Live Streaming: The HES Diploma Awarding Ceremony will not be live-streamed. COVID-19 Guidelines Everyone in attendance on May 29 must be in adherence with all state, local, and Harvard University Covid-19 protocols that are in place at the time of their visit. This includes Harvard’s COVID vaccination and indoor masking requirements. Harvard University’s current protocols for campus access are detailed on the Keeping Harvard Healthy site. To receive communications about the Commencement celebration, please make sure the University has up-to-date contact information. You can update your contact information by logging in, with your HarvardKey, to the Online Harvard Directory. For more information, and for answers to Frequently Asked Questions, please visit the Harvard Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 website. Share Prev Next Share Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Close Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! Harvard Extension is delighted to celebrate our students’ tremendous commitment and hard work. Read more about our students' journey to this big day! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Archives Follow Harvard Extension School Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Harvard Division of Continuing Education A division of Harvard University dedicated to bringing rigorous programs and innovative online teaching capabilities to distance learners, working professionals, high school students, college students, and those seeking higher learning in retirement. Harvard Extension School Harvard degrees, certificates and courses—online, in the evenings, and at your own pace. Harvard Summer School Academic summer opportunities for adult, college and high school students—at Harvard and abroad. Harvard Professional Development Short, intensive programs to develop skills and strengthen your professional profile. Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement Peer learning in the liberal arts—a community program for retired and semi-retired professionals. Harvard Division of Continuing Education Privacy Statement Accessibility Rights & Regulations Digital Accessibility Policy Harvard.edu Cookie Settings Copyright ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College