Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Animals and Livestock Swine Photo: Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Swine Home Browse Resources Our Experts In Your Community Share Featured Resources Care and Management of New Feeder Pigs You can keep your pigs healthy and gaining weight by following some key recommendations. In this publication you'll learn about housing, feeding, and health considerations when raising feeder pigs, both for a traditional system and... Gene Pirelli, Scott Duggan, Melissa Fery, Nathan Parker | Dec 2019 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Photo: Chris Hedstrom, Oregon Department of Agriculture (Cropped from original) PNW Insect Management Handbook - Livestock section The Livestock Section of the PNW Insect Management Handbook has information on controlling flies and other pests of Beef Cattle, Dairy Cattle, Horses, Poultry, Sheep and Goats, and Swine. Sergio Arispe | Aug 2018 | Online resource Help Oregon Take a Stand Against a New Deadly Pig Disease: Porcine Epidemic Diarrhea Virus Article about PEDv discussing the history, clinical signs, prevention, treatment, and transmission. This document also explains how the virus made its way to Oregon. Charles Estill, Gene Pirelli, Brad R. LeaMaster, Jerry Heidel | Jun 2018 | Article Latest Resources Photo: Lynn Ketchum, Oregon State University (Cropped from original) Hog Production Alternatives This publication addresses the two different directions in which hog production is currently moving: 1) contracting with large-scale vertical integrators (producers/packers/processors linked from farrowing to packing to the retail counter), and 2) sustainable production of a smaller number of hogs sold through alternative markets. The aspects of sustainable hog production discussed in this publication include alternative niche marketing, breed selection, alternative feeds, waste management, odor control, health concerns, and humane treatment. Basic production practices are not covered in this publication, but they are readily available in many books and through state Cooperative Extension Services. Lance Gregner | Oct 2021 | Online resource Photo: Jenifer Cruickshank (Cropped from original) Tips for livestock care in high temperatures When experiencing a heat wave, these five tips can make a difference in caring for your livestock. Jenifer Cruickshank | Jun 2021 | Article Courtesy Gabriella Lambert (Cropped from original) Despite pandemic, county fairs and livestock shows go on for 4-H exhibitors Oregon 4-H faculty, staff and volunteers worked throughout the spring and summer to highlight the hard work of 4-H youth exhibitors and provide a quality educational fair experience in a healthy, safe environment. Shana Withee, Jan Williams, Elli Korthuis, Traci Reed, Dani Annala, Wendy Hein, Erin Hansell-Heideman, Jon Gandy, Amy Derby, Susan Busler, Marilee Anderson | May 2021 | Impact story Browse All Resources Meet Our Experts Scott Duggan Livestock Shelby Filley Regional Livestock & Forage Rebecca Thistlethwaite NMPAN Program Manager Contact for meat sales, science, & processing questions. See All Swine Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Photo: Dave King (Cropped from original) Is my pig too macho to eat? Q: We purchased three 7-week old feeder pigs on the last day of August 2015 and one of the pigs was a non-castrated boy. We have heard that non-castrated male pigs get to an age that their hormones mature and their meat ... A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility