Skip to main content Update on Remote Instruction To attend in-person courses, you must meet UC COVID-19 vaccine and testing requirements. Learn how. Close The following fields are required: Error has occurred. Please reload this page and try the operation again. Toggle navigation Agents Student Login Instructor Login Search Site Search Extension Academic Areas Areas of Study Art and Design Behavioral Health Sciences Business Construction and Sustainability Education Humanities and Languages Sciences, Mathematics and Biotechnology Technology and Information Management Writing, Editing and Technical Communication Online Learning Online Courses and Certificates Custom Programs For Universities and Organizations Events Information Sessions Free and Low Cost Events Student Services Academic Services Enrollment Transcripts General Information Community Guidelines Locations Course and Program Information Latest COVID-19 Information Online Course Policies Certificates, Programs and CEUs Concurrent Enrollment Career Services International Student Services Student Aid Disability Support Services Financial Assistance Blog Voices Voices Home Educator Insights Student Stories Professional Pathways Industry Trends Events Information Sessions Free and Low Cost Events Berkeley Global The Future of Work Podcast Listen Now Episode 03: Learning—and Unlearning—With Intent I'm interested in learning... Find courses or certificates. Search our Course Catalog Spotlight This Blog Post Title Did Not Load Properly This blog content has not loaded properly. Please refresh the page. Events Featured Subjects Programs Courses UC Berkeley Extension's Mission We empower individual learners of every generation to realize their educational and career goals by: Providing access to UC Berkeley's network of instructors, experts and professionals Creating rich learning experiences to develop skill sets and critical minds Motivating our students to be the change they want to see See why. Learn more about UC Berkeley Extension. Programs for International Students Expand your career knowledge or prepare for university study in the U.S. while immersing yourself in the San Francisco Bay Area. Choose from short-term intensive options with daytime classes or longer-term study with nighttime classes—either way, you earn a certificate that demonstrates successful completion of a rigorous, Berkeley-quality curriculum. View International Programs "The time I spent at UC Berkeley Extension was the time of my life." —Marcos Bento, Associate at Princeton Growth Ventures Contact Us Your privacy is important to us. Email Privacy Policy Your privacy is important to us! We do not share your information with other organizations for commercial purposes. We only collect your information if you have subscribed online to receive emails from us. We do not partner with or have special relationships with any ad server companies. If you want to unsubscribe, there is a link to do so at the bottom of every email. Read the full Privacy Policy Back to your information. Extension 1995 University Ave., Suite 200 Berkeley, CA 94704-7000 extension@berkeley.edu Facebook Facebook Icon Twitter Twitter Icon LinkedIn LinkedIn Icon YouTube YouTube Icon Instagram Instagram Icon Medium Small Icon for Medium Locations Berkeley San Francisco Online Other Resources About Us Career Services Administration Accessibility Nondiscrimination Privacy Transcripts Gifts Jobs Contact Us The University of California, Berkeley, is accredited by the Western Association of Schools and Colleges (WASC). UC Berkeley Extension—like all other UC Berkeley schools, colleges and departments—is accredited by WASC through the University. Copyright © UC Regents Cookie Policy By clicking “Accept All Cookies,” I agree to permit this website to share my information, including a device identifier and my browsing history on this site, with selected partners, including Google, Meta/Facebook and others, to enhance my browsing experience and to ensure that marketing communications are targeted to my needs in accordance with our Cookie Policy and our Privacy Policy. Session Time-Out For security reasons and the protection of your personal information, your session will time out due to a period of inactivity in minute(s) and second(s). Click Extend My Session to continue. For security reasons and the protection of your personal information, your session timed out after a period of inactivity. You will be redirected to the home page. Extend My Session OK Confirm OK Cancel Alert OK Close dialog Privacy Policy Close Close dialog Cookie Policy This statement explains how we use cookies on our website. For information about what types of personal information will be gathered when you visit the website, and how this information will be used, please see our Privacy Policy. How we use cookies All of our web pages use "cookies". A cookie is a small file of letters and numbers that we place on your computer or mobile device if you agree. These cookies allow us to distinguish you from other users of our website, which helps us to provide you with a good experience when you browse our website and enables us to improve our website. We use cookies and other technologies to optimize your website experience and to deliver communications and marketing activities that are targeted to your specific needs. Some information we collect may be shared with selected partners such as Google, Meta/Facebook or others. By browsing this site you are agreeing to our Privacy Policy. You can revoke your voluntary consent to participate in monitored browsing and targeted marketing by selecting “Disable All Cookies” below. Types of cookies we use We use the following types of cookies: Strictly necessary cookies- these are essential in to enable you to move around the websites and use their features. Without these cookies the services you have asked for, such as signing in to your account, cannot be provided. Performance cookies- these cookies collect information about how visitors use a website, for instance which pages visitors go to most often. We use this information to improve our websites and to aid us in investigating problems raised by visitors. These cookies do not collect information that identifies a visitor. Functionality cookies- these cookies allow the website to remember choices you make and provide more personal features. For instance, a functional cookie can be used to remember the items that you have placed in your shopping cart. The information these cookies collect may be anonymized and they cannot track your browsing activity on other websites. Most web browsers allow some control of most cookies through the browser settings. To find out more about cookies, including how to see what cookies have been set and how to manage and delete them please visit https://www.allaboutcookies.org/. Specific cookies we use The list below identify the cookies we use and explain the purposes for which they are used. We may update the information contained in this section from time to time. JSESSIONID: This cookie is used by the application server to identify a unique user's session. registrarToken: This cookie is used to remember items that you have added to your shopping cart locale: This cookie is used to remember your locale and language settings. cookieconsent_status: This cookie is used to remember if you've already dismissed the cookie consent notice. _ga_UA-########: These cookies are used to collect information about how visitors use our site. We use the information to compile reports and to help us improve the website. The cookies collect information in an anonymous form, including the number of visitors to the website, where visitors have come to the site from and the pages they visited. This anonymized visitor and browsing information is stored in Google Analytics. Changes to our Cookie Statement Any changes we may make to our Cookie Policy in the future will be posted on this page. Close