Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Pests, Weeds, and Diseases Plant Diseases Photo: Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Plant Diseases Home Browse Resources Get Involved Events Our Experts In Your Community Share Description: Several statewide and regional programs are in place to help with your plant diseases. The OSU Plant Clinic can help you diagnose the problem while the PNW Plant Disease Management Handbook can help with solutions. Several OSU faculty are located throughout the state to also assist with plant problems. Featured Resources Photo: Jay W. Pscheidt, 2010. (Cropped from original) OSU Plant Clinic The Oregon State University Plant Clinic is a diagnostic facility associated with and housed in the Department of Botany and Plant Pathology. The Plant Clinic has been operational since 1954. As part of the OSU Cooperative Extension Service, the primary mission of the Plant Clinic is educational. Extended education is provided by helping our clients recognize the nature of their plant problem (diagnosis) and by helping them to manage the disease or disorder using proper control methods, including cultural, biological, and chemical measures. Emphasis is on prevention of problems by proper management. Melodie Putnam | Mar 2018 | Online resource 2022 PNW Plant Disease Management Handbook A comprehensive guide to plant disease management in the Pacific Northwest. Includes materials and tactics suitable for organic production and homeowner use as well as for commercial production. Covers testing services, common ... Jay Pscheidt, Cynthia Ocamb | May 2021 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Latest Resources Photo: Patty Skinkis (Cropped from original) Grapevine Virus Testing Labs A list of virus testing labs is provided. Patricia A. Skinkis | Mar 2022 | Article Photo: Govinda Shrestha (Cropped from original) OSU Hemp Newsletter Vol:1 Issue: 2 2021 The second issue of the 2021 OSU Hemp Newsletter. In this issue, we discuss corn earworm monitoring results from Southern Oregon; Pythium root and crown rot management; a pear grower field day visit to Horn Creek Hemp; and other updates. Govinda Shrestha, Gordon Jones | Aug 2021 | Newsletter Photo: Matt Brown / CC BY (Cropped from original) Should I leave my fig leaves on the ground? Q: I have a big fig tree in my backyard. I have always been removing all the fallen leaves this time of the year as I was told that any dead leaves could give rise to increase in insects and plant diseases. I wonder ... A: View answer | View all featured questions Browse All Resources Videos Viral Disease Progress of Blueberry Shock This animation depicts the 9 year spread of the Blueberry shock virus (BlShV) through a half acre of susceptible highbush blueberry plants. Jay Pscheidt | Mar 2018 | Video IPM Field Disease Diagnosis Presentation by Lindsey du Toit, WSU Extension Plant Pathologist, on Diagnosing Diseases in the Field Lindsey du Toit | Apr 2010 | Video Latest News Pandemic leads to unprecedented burst of questions to Ask an Expert tool Questions have ballooned to 6,625 in the first half of 2020, more than all of the questions answered in 2019. Kym Pokorny | Jul 29, 2020 | News story Photo: Christina Hagerty (Cropped from original) Wheat virus is bigger problem in Pacific Northwest than previously thought Wheat soil-borne mosaic disease was first detected in the Walla Walla Valley along the Oregon and Washington border in 2008. Chris Branam | Mar 2, 2020 | News story Dig into hundreds of publications from OSU Extension online catalog Have a gardening question? Find an answer in one of OSU Extension's publications. Kym Pokorny | Nov 22, 2019 | News story All News Explore more resources Soil Integrated Pest Management Pesticide Safety and Education Meet Our Experts Jay Pscheidt Plant Pathologist Melodie Putnam Plant Clinic Luisa Santamaria Nursery Pathology Specialist, Bilingual Educator Christina Hagerty Cereal Pathology See All Plant Diseases Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Photo: Matt Brown / CC BY (Cropped from original) Should I leave my fig leaves on the ground? Q: I have a big fig tree in my backyard. I have always been removing all the fallen leaves this time of the year as I was told that any dead leaves could give rise to increase in insects and plant diseases. I wonder ... A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility