Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Food Commercial Food Processing Photo: Stephen Ward (Cropped from original) Commercial Food Processing Home Browse Resources Our Experts In Your Community Share Featured Resources Oregon’s Home Baking Bill: Residential kitchen exemption for baked goods and confectionary items In 2016, the Oregon Legislature passed a law that allows people to produce certain baked goods and confectionary items in their home kitchens and sell them directly to consumers without having to obtain a food establishment ... Lauren Gwin | Apr 2018 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Oregon's Home Baking Bill: Excepción de cocina residencial para productos de panadería y confitería En 2016, la legislatura de Oregón aprobó una ley que permite a la gente producir ciertos productos de panadería y confitería en sus cocinas domésticas y venderlos directamente a los consumidores sin tener que obtener una ... Lauren Gwin | Apr 2018 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Sanitizer Basics for the Food Industry Cleaning and sanitation are critical to maintaining quality and safety in your food industry operation. Make cleaning and sanitizing programs part of your food safety culture. Here's how to make sure those doing your cleaning and... Dave Stone, Jovana Kovacevic, Stephanie Brown | Oct 2020 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Meat and Poultry Processing Regulations in Oregon: A Short Guide Farmers and ranchers around Oregon raise and sell livestock and poultry for a variety of local and regional markets. Processing is a necessary but often complex link in the chain connecting farms to end consumers. Here are ... Lauren Gwin | Dec 2016 | Article Photo: Oregon State University OSU Food Innovation Center The Food Innovation Center offers one stop access to important services for food producers, processors, marketers, and entrepreneurs. Services include a commercial kitchen, marketing support, processing and packing technology, product development, export services and sensory and consumer analysis. It operates through a partnership between Oregon State University and the Oregon Department of Agriculture. Get connected Latest Resources Credit Joy Waite-Cusic (Cropped from original) OSU study finds that using cold water to make 'sprouted' foods lowers the risk of salmonella growth An Oregon State University study published in 2021 found that soaking raw ingredients – usually grains, nuts or seeds – to make "sprouted" foods lowers the risk of salmonella growth on these increasingly popular healthy snack foods. Nov 2021 | Impact story Credit: Immense Imagery (Cropped from original) Lavado de Manos de Alta Velocidad Video de entrenamiento para adultos en el lugar de trabajo (COVID-19) ¡Mantenga su lugar de trabajo seguro! Ahorre tiempo, agua, energía y evite la propagación de enfermedades. Lauren Kraemer, Ann Marie Murphy, Glenda Hyde, Emily Whittier, Robbie Denning | Jun 2021 | Video Peer reviewed (Gray level) Credit: Immense Imagery (Cropped from original) High Speed Hand Washing Adult Workplace Training Video (COVID-19) Keep your workplace safe! Save time, water, energy and prevent the spread of disease. Lauren Kraemer, Ann Marie Murphy, Glenda Hyde, Emily Whittier, Robbie Denning | Jun 2021 | Video Peer reviewed (Gray level) Browse All Resources Latest News A cold soak lowers the risk of salmonella growth on ‘sprouted’ foods If the soaking phase happens at ambient temperature, there is a significant food safety problem, study finds. Chris Branam | May 3, 2021 | News story Pandemic leads to unprecedented burst of questions to Ask an Expert tool Questions have ballooned to 6,625 in the first half of 2020, more than all of the questions answered in 2019. Kym Pokorny | Jul 29, 2020 | News story Photo: Ben Davis (Cropped from original) Pioneering Extension dairy processing specialist appointed department head Lisbeth Goddik devoted a large part of her Extension appointment at OSU to help build an artisan cheese industry in Oregon. Chris Branam | Feb 28, 2020 | News story All News Explore more resources Dairy Business Marketing Farm Food Safety Meet Our Experts Jovana Kovacevic Assistant Professor, Food Safety Specialist Jung Kwon Assistant Professor of Food Science & Technology Yanyun Zhao Value Added Foods Lauren Gwin Community Food Systems Specialist See All Commercial Food Processing Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Photo: Jeanette E. Spaghetti (Cropped from original) Are BPA-lined cans safe? Q: About the canned food we buy in stores, especially tomatoes: does the lining of the can impart some toxic or otherwise dangerous substance to the food? A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility