Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Forests, Woodlands, and Rangelands Christmas Trees Photo: Judy Kowalski (Cropped from original) Christmas Trees Home Browse Resources Get Involved Events Our Experts In Your Community Share Description: The statewide Christmas Tree extension program at NWREC is lead by Chal Landgren longtime forestry extension agent and Christmas tree grower. His program focuses on assisting growers with information essential to their success as Christmas tree producers. Chal has written or coauthored many publications on topics including economics, establishment, culturing, nutrients, and pest management. The program also focuses on research relevant to the industry including new and emerging issues such as pesticide registrations, the latest pests and shipping regulations. These topics and more information can be found on the main program page at the link below. Christmas Tree Program Featured Resources Comprehensive guides to weed, insect and plant disease management in the Pacific Northwest. 2022 PNW Weed Management Handbook This comprehensive guide to weed management in the Pacific Northwest covers biological weed control agents; pesticide safety and disposal; agrichemicals and their properties; and control of problem weeds. Sections include subjects such ... Ed Peachey | Apr 2022 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) 2022 PNW Insect Management Handbook Covers pesticide safety and toxicity, protecting bees, adjuvants, mixing tables, calibration and biological control. Other sections cover a wide variety of agricultural and nonagricultural products such as commercial vegetables, small ... May 2022 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) 2022 PNW Plant Disease Management Handbook A comprehensive guide to plant disease management in the Pacific Northwest. Includes materials and tactics suitable for organic production and homeowner use as well as for commercial production. Covers testing services, common ... Jay Pscheidt, Cynthia Ocamb | May 2021 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Latest Resources Christmas tree experimenting: what’s new and what stays the same after 40 years This class will look at current events impacting Christmas tree growers, such as the June heat dome and summer drought. Next we will take a bit of a walk-through time and review some of the results from research trials ... Chal Landgren, Judy Kowalski | Dec 2021 | Video Photo: Judith Kowalski (Cropped from original) Excessive June heat impacts on Oregon Christmas trees The extreme heat dome event that hit the Pacific Northwest in late June of 2021 was a devastating blow to almost every sector of agriculture in the region. Over the course of three to four days, temperatures soared to ... Judy Kowalski | Oct 2021 | Article Christmas Tree Research Update Get the latest updates on current research relevant to Christmas tree farms in this session. Topics include leader control and tree trimming, new insecticide trials, and what you can do to coax noble fir seedlings to survive ... Chal Landgren | May 2020 | Video Browse All Resources In the News Photo: Judith Kowalski (Cropped from original) Excessive June heat impacts on Oregon Christmas trees The extreme heat dome event that hit the Pacific Northwest in late June of 2021 was a devastating blow to almost every sector of agriculture in the region. Over the course of three to four days, temperatures soared to ... Judy Kowalski | Oct 2021 | Article photo by Judith Ann Kowalski (Cropped from original) Promoting beneficial insects on your Christmas tree plantation-the first steps By now you’ve probably read countless articles discussing, and possibly debating, using beneficial insects as part of your IPM (integrated pest management) program. It may seem overwhelming and hard to know where to even begin, ... Judy Kowalski | Jun 2021 | Article Photo: Judith Ann Kowalski (Cropped from original) Christmas tree update: A new leader control growth regulator just approved Trying to control leader length on true fir Christmas trees (mainly noble and Nordmann fir) has been an obsession for me. Over the years I’ve experimented with different trimming time periods, cutting to different bud types, ... Chal Landgren | Mar 2021 | Article All News Explore more resources Nursery and Greenhouse Upcoming Events Jun 11 A Family Forestry Celebration 9:00 am - 2:00 pm Springfield, OR See All Events Meet Our Experts Chal Landgren Christmas Tree Specialist Judy Kowalski Bio Science Research Technician, Christmas Trees Contact me for Christmas tree resources. See All Christmas Trees Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Are my trees getting too much sun or water? Q: I have two pine trees I bought around Christmas a few years ago and l keep them in pots. This year I moved them and now they get late afternoon sun, morning shade. I noticed recently that the leaves are turning brown... A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility