Skip to content Coronavirus Updates: See latest COVID-19 news from Harvard Extension School. COVID-19 Updates Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Academics Take a Course Graduate Degrees Graduate Certificates Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Academic Gap Year Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students Apply to Premedical Program Academic Calendar Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Blog Events Press and Announcements Contact Us MyDCE Login Request Information Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Request Information Academics Take a Course Graduate Certificates Graduate Degrees Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Browse Courses Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students International Students Academic Calendar Forms Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Harvard Extension School Blog Contact Us Events Press and Announcements Media and Photo Information For Enrolled Students Support and Services Student Policies and Conduct Harvard Extension Alumni Association Website Archives Privacy Statement Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Gairik Sachdeva The vast array of courses available, the flexibility in schedules, the incredible faculty and teaching assistants, and the warm student community all drew me in. Before I knew it, I had taken a handful of courses and realized that I could apply for a degree program. Place of Residence Cambridge, MA Program Master of Liberal Arts (ALM) in the field of Creative Writing & Literature, '22 Professional Field Biotechnology business professional Share Why did you decide to earn a degree at Harvard Extension? A couple of years after graduating from the Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, I was working in business and biotechnology, but I found that I missed the sense of satisfaction and growth that comes from learning new skills. My undergraduate degree in India had been focused heavily on technical skill sets. I hadn’t benefited from a liberal arts education that would have exposed me to works of literature and poetry, and the art of writing well. I was familiar with the Harvard Extension School, so I started looking for courses that would help fill in those gaps and bring that sense of fulfillment. At HES, I found just that and so much more. The vast array of courses available, the flexibility in schedules, the incredible faculty and teaching assistants, and the warm student community all drew me in. Before I knew it, I had taken a handful of courses and realized that I could apply for a degree program. From that point onwards, the structure of the program was helpful to keep me on track and build a fuller skill set. I am now using that skill set to write a nonfiction book. How has your HES experience helped you in your career or personal development? My HES experience complements the rest of my career development by supporting my personal goals. I had always wanted to be a better writer and a more keen reader. The Creative Writing & Literature program taught me those skills through an engaging and rewarding set of courses, which boosted my confidence to take on challenging writing projects. One of the courses motivated me to start on my nonfiction book project, which has been both personally gratifying, and acts as a refreshingly constructive counterbalance to the rest of professional life, where I work on business and technical content. Besides that, good writing and communication skills are always useful tools, which serve me well in my professional settings, for instance to help me write better emails and make more effective presentations. Explore our Creative Writing and Literature Graduate Degree Program. How did you manage to balance your studies with work and family responsibilities? I met my now wife when I was taking my first course at the HES. Now, we have two children together! Her support, for instance in helping me find times for class and homework, and her interest in my studies have been invaluable. Sharing this journey with her also made it all the more meaningful for me. Do you have a favorite class or faculty member? Why? My thesis advisor, Christina Thompson, has been a fabulous mentor over the last couple of years. Her course, Writing a Nonfiction Book, made my pipe dream feel like it could be a reality. I have benefited from her instruction about my writing, and also from how generously she shared her experiences navigating the world of nonfiction publishing. Do you have any advice for new students? I benefited from being able to dip my toes with taking just a couple of courses, and then letting those experiences guide the rest of my journey here. It’s much easier to think about your HES experience initially as a set of a few courses that you could just be taking for fun or to learn something specific. Before you know it, you will learn from peers and faculty about all the other avenues available at the HES and will be able to chart your own path more confidently! Describe your Extension School experience in one word. Growth *This interview has been edited for length and clarity. Get started on your graduate degree or certificate program at Harvard Extension School. May 11, 2022 Share Read Next Larisa Svechin Be prepared to work hard for that certificate or degree, while at the same time not wanting it to ever end. Share Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Close Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! Harvard Extension is delighted to celebrate our students’ tremendous commitment and hard work. Read more about our students' journey to this big day! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Archives Follow Harvard Extension School Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Harvard Division of Continuing Education A division of Harvard University dedicated to bringing rigorous programs and innovative online teaching capabilities to distance learners, working professionals, high school students, college students, and those seeking higher learning in retirement. Harvard Extension School Harvard degrees, certificates and courses—online, in the evenings, and at your own pace. Harvard Summer School Academic summer opportunities for adult, college and high school students—at Harvard and abroad. Harvard Professional Development Short, intensive programs to develop skills and strengthen your professional profile. Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement Peer learning in the liberal arts—a community program for retired and semi-retired professionals. Harvard Division of Continuing Education Privacy Statement Accessibility Rights & Regulations Digital Accessibility Policy Harvard.edu Cookie Settings Copyright ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College