Skip to main content utexas.edu Request information utexas.edu Request information Header Menu Program Finder Custom Training Getting Started Events About Us Contact Us Extended Campus The University of Texas at Austin UTA Building, Suite 2.408 1616 Guadalupe Street Austin, TX 78701 Your People Are Your Best Investment CUSTOM TRAINING We connect your team to industry leaders and top faculty to enhance your employees’ professional development and growth. We work with Fortune 500 companies, government agencies, and nonprofit organizations to empower them to exceed their missions. Identify Problems & Create Solutions Whether you represent a large multinational corporation or a small not-for-profit organization, our program development team has the experience and expertise to build an impactful program to achieve your desired outcome. Our Proven Process The Extended Campus Custom Training team's approach to customized training begins with listening to and understanding your needs. To fulfill those needs and create lasting impact, we employ a highly collaborative process that blends cutting-edge research, industry experts, and a focus on you—your priorities, preferences, and expectations—to achieve your desired outcome. PLAN We begin by working with your team to identify your organization’s training objectives and desired outcomes. Then we plan training solutions aligned to organizational priorities, target audience and timing. DELIVER We deliver a customized training program to your team when and where you need it: on-site, online or in the classroom. ASSESS Finally, we gather feedback from all stakeholders to confirm that objectives have been met and to plan follow-up training, as desired. PLAN We begin by working with your team to identify your organization’s training objectives and desired outcomes. Then we plan training solutions aligned to organizational priorities, target audience and timing. DELIVER We deliver a customized training program to your team when and where you need it: on-site, online or in the classroom. ASSESS Finally, we gather feedback from all stakeholders to confirm that objectives have been met and to plan follow-up training, as desired. Expertise Across Industries We partner with organizations from a wide variety of industries and of all sizes. Supporting your mission is our mission. By engaging with Extended Campus, you can draw on expertise from across UT Austin, including business, engineering, and liberal arts. CORPORATE We have worked with family-owned small businesses and international conglomerates alike to build empowering, employee-centered programs that address real-world problems. GOVERNMENT From local government to federal agencies, we can design and deliver programs to meet the specific learning objectives of your agency or department. MILITARY To meet the unique needs of military branches, we have developed programs of all sizes and types, focused on active duty service members, reservists and veterans. NON-PROFIT Our team works with nonprofit organizations to create programs that enable you to pursue your important work in a more effective and efficient manner. WE WORK WITH THE BEST What Our Clients Are Saying See how some of our previous clients describe the value and impact of our customized training experiences. INSIGHTFUL INNOVATION Training by: Human Dimensions of Organizations (HDO) “HDO created a custom program on innovation and culture change for our senior management team. The faculty and staff listened to our needs and delivered a series of engaging courses that provided useful and insightful information on how to instill and reinforce innovative thinking in the workplace.” - Richard J. Gergasko, President & CEO, Texas Mutual Insurance Company NURTURING NONPROFITS Training by: Center for Professional Education (CPE) “It has been a wonderful experience to share alongside our grantees the opportunities and the challenges of the nonprofit world. We all share a common goal … These classes have created a wonderful network of people that will stand together … We are all able to work as a team and become stronger together.” - Destiny Rojo, Special Projects Assistant, Peyton Yates Foundation PRODUCTIVE PARTNERSHIP Training by: McCombs Texas Executive Education (TEE) "The relationship we've formed with TEE over the last ten years of this program is truly special. You know us. You know our culture. Your professors understand our issues, and connect on a powerful level with our management team. Anyone can hire outside experts, but our partnership with TEE goes much further than that - you anticipate our needs and bring ideas that really generate forward thinking." - Jeff Olin, Directory of Leadership & Employee Development, BBVA Compass Connect with Extended Campus If you are ready to transform your team, we are ready to work with you. Whether you already know the specific issues you want to focus on or just want to have an exploratory conversation, we are happy to speak with you. Work With Us Schedule a Consultation Liliya Spinazzola Senior Director of Professional Education Business Development & Strategic Initiatives (512) 232-2230 ecct@austin.utexas.edu WE’RE HERE TO HELP! TAKE THE FIRST STEP TODAY. REQUEST INFORMATION Extended Campus The University of Texas at Austin UTA Building, Suite 2.408 1616 Guadalupe Street Austin, TX 78701 Program Finder Custom Training Getting Started Events About Us Contact Us Subscribe» Powered by Extended Education Ventures | © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Emergency Information | Web Privacy Policy | Site Policies | Web Accessibility Policy