Skip to content Coronavirus Updates: See latest COVID-19 news from Harvard Extension School. COVID-19 Updates Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Academics Take a Course Graduate Degrees Graduate Certificates Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Academic Gap Year Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students Apply to Premedical Program Academic Calendar Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Blog Events Press and Announcements Contact Us MyDCE Login Request Information Harvard Extension School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Request Information Academics Take a Course Graduate Certificates Graduate Degrees Undergraduate Degree and Certificates Premedical Program Browse Courses Registration & Admissions Course Registration Degree Program Admissions Pursuing a Certificate For Enrolled Students International Students Academic Calendar Forms Paying for School Payment Options and Policies Financial Aid Financial Wellness About Student & Alumni Stories Meet the Dean Online Learning Why Harvard Extension School Harvard Extension School Blog Contact Us Events Press and Announcements Media and Photo Information For Enrolled Students Support and Services Student Policies and Conduct Harvard Extension Alumni Association Website Archives Privacy Statement Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Academics Premedical Program Request Information Prepare for medical, dental or veterinary school through the on-campus, postbaccalaureate Premedical Program at Harvard Extension School. Whether you are changing fields and need to complete all prerequisite coursework, or you are looking to strengthen your academic record, you'll find a rigorous experience with the opportunity to earn sponsorship in this selective admission program. Why Choose the Premedical Program? Benefits of Our Premed Program Program Information Admissions Request Information Why Choose the Premedical Program? You have an undergraduate degree but need to complete some or all postbaccalaureate premedical coursework before applying to medical, dental or veterinary school. You are looking to study part-time, in evening courses on the Harvard campus. You need flexible, affordable, yet rigorous coursework that prepares you for medical, dental, or veterinary school and demonstrates your competency to admissions committees. You are seeking a program that has a strong placement record. See a list of schools our program candidates have been admitted to recently. Benefits of Our Premed Program A personalized postbaccalaureate premedical program geared to your specific needs. Upon admission, you’ll be assigned an individualized credit requirement between 20-32 credits. This credit assignment reflects what we believe will be required to make you the most competitive applicant. Affordability, which is core to our mission. A 2021-2022 four-credit undergraduate course costs $1,920 ($480 per credit). Individualized advising throughout the program, such as, recommendations on course selection, evaluation of your application essay, and guidance through the application process (e.g., MCAT/DAT timing and acquiring letters of recommendation). An orientation at the outset of the program with clinicians from Harvard Medical School (HMS), core Harvard Extension faculty, a representative from HMS Admissions, and interactive sessions with fellow students. Live monthly clinician interactions to learn from experts in the field of health care. Sponsorship, which includes a composite letter of recommendation and a personal assessment. Harvard University ID card, which grants you access to the Harvard library system and many on-campus resources, such as athletic services. The option to participate in research with a faculty member through our Faculty Aide Program The ability to utilize Harvard’s Office of Career Services for general career advice and job/internship searches. Access to federal financial aid. Membership in the Harvard Alumni Association upon completion of the program. Discounted access to Harvard Medical School’s HMX online courses upon program completion to help ensure a successful first year in medical school. Courses To find core and elective medical science courses, use select “Premedical Program” under the Harvard Extension Degree, Certificate, & Premedical Course Search filters. Course Search & Registration Program Information Learn more about the program on the following pages: Medical School Acceptances Applying to Medical, Dental or Veterinary School Sponsorship Enrollment Academic Standing HMX Online Courses Program Questions? Call us at (617) 495-2926 or email us at hcp@extension.harvard.edu. Admissions If you are a US citizen or permanent resident who has earned a bachelor’s degree, you are invited to apply. Learn More About the Application Process Premedical Program Request Information Explore Courses Celebrate our 2022 Graduates! Harvard Extension is delighted to celebrate our students’ tremendous commitment and hard work. Read more about our students' journey to this big day! 2022 Spotlights MyDCE Login Archives Follow Harvard Extension School Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Harvard Division of Continuing Education A division of Harvard University dedicated to bringing rigorous programs and innovative online teaching capabilities to distance learners, working professionals, high school students, college students, and those seeking higher learning in retirement. Harvard Extension School Harvard degrees, certificates and courses—online, in the evenings, and at your own pace. Harvard Summer School Academic summer opportunities for adult, college and high school students—at Harvard and abroad. Harvard Professional Development Short, intensive programs to develop skills and strengthen your professional profile. Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement Peer learning in the liberal arts—a community program for retired and semi-retired professionals. Harvard Division of Continuing Education Privacy Statement Accessibility Rights & Regulations Digital Accessibility Policy Harvard.edu Cookie Settings Copyright ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College