Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Crop Production Berries, Table Grapes, and Kiwifruit Photo: Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Berries, Table Grapes, and Kiwifruit Home Browse Resources Events Our Experts In Your Community Share Featured Resources Photo: Jay W. Pscheidt (Cropped from original) Blueberry bacterial and fungal diseases Pacific Northwest blueberry growers must identify and control a number of bacterial and fungal diseases in order to ensure the highest yields. Fortunately, only a few of the diseases that occur on highbush blueberry in this region cause significant losses when left unchecked. Jay Pscheidt, Jerry Weiland | Mar 2015 | Article Photo: OSU Small Farms Program (Cropped from original) Fresh Market Organic Strawberry Research It’s strawberry season and even we have caught strawberry fever! The Mid-Valley Small Farms team is excited to announce that they are conducting new research on strawberry production. This Research and Extension program, supported... Victoria Binning | May 2018 | Article Latest Resources Delicate Machine Harvesters Enter Fresh Blueberry Market Normally fresh blueberries purchased in the supermarket are harvested by hand. However, with labor shortages and costs increasing there are benefits to machine harvested berries. Extension researchers in collaboration with industry ... Jan 2022 | Video Credit: Oregon State University (Cropped from original) AgBiz Logic AgBiz Logic is a suite of economic, financial, and environmental decision tools for businesses that grow, harvest, package, add value, and sell agricultural products. These tools are open-access (free)! Clark Seavert | Oct 2021 | Online resource Credit Oregon State University (Cropped from original) Strik, decorated industry innovator, retires after 34 years as Extension berry specialist Bernadine Strik’s innovative research and Extension outreach had an impact in the Oregon berry industry, valued at $123 million a year, throughout the United States and in other berry regions worldwide. Kym Pokorny | Sep 17, 2021 | News story Browse All Resources Related News Credit Oregon State University (Cropped from original) Strik, decorated industry innovator, retires after 34 years as Extension berry specialist Bernadine Strik’s innovative research and Extension outreach had an impact in the Oregon berry industry, valued at $123 million a year, throughout the United States and in other berry regions worldwide. Kym Pokorny | Sep 17, 2021 | News story Credit Chris Branam (Cropped from original) OSU Berry Initiative, funded by Oregon Legislature, gets a new leader The purpose of the Berry Initiative’s strawberry work has been to develop methods for growers interested in year-round fresh strawberry production in Oregon. Aug 26, 2021 | News story Growing vigorous kiwi takes care and a strong trellis Kiwifruit need some attention to yield the large amount of fruit they’re capable of producing. Kym Pokorny | Jun 11, 2021 | News story All News Explore more resources Organic Agriculture Farm Food Safety Plant Diseases Upcoming Events Jun 8 Strawberry Field Day 1:00 pm - 3:00 pm Aurora, OR Jun 15 QPR Suicide Prevention Training for Farmers & Ranchers 6:00 pm - 7:30 pm PDT Online Jun 16 Entrenamiento sobre la prevención del suicidio de QPR para agricultores y ganaderos (en español) 2:00 pm - 4:00 pm PDT Online Jun 29 Caneberry Field Day 1:00 pm - 3:30 pm Aurora, OR See All Events Meet Our Experts Amanda Davis Faculty Research Assistant, Berry Crops Sarah Doane Faculty Research Assistant Marcelo Moretti Assistant Professor Contact me with questions about weed management in commercial agriculture. Jay Pscheidt Plant Pathologist See All Berries, Table Grapes, and Kiwifruit Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Photo: Dave King (Cropped from original) Can I grow strawberries from seed? Q: Is it possible to grow Seascape strawberries from their seeds? A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility