Your browser does not support inline frames or is currently configured not to display inline frames Skip to Navigation Skip to Main Content Website and online services unavailable on May 29. See IT Disaster Recovery website ► Quick Register | Cart Professional Development Extension and International Programs California State University, Fullerton All Programs Areas of Study: Business Crime & Forensics Fiduciary Management Technology & Engineering Program Types: Certificate Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Educator Courses and Programs Community & Corporate Engagement Leadership Development for Public Agencies Short-Term Courses & Events Test Preparation Online Degree Completion Programs Career Tech Foundation Online Programs Online Certificate Programs Online Degree Completion Programs Educator Courses and Programs Getting Started What is a Certificate? Selecting a Program Alumni Success Stories Current Student Resources Program & Course Policies Financial Aid Parking Forms Online Learning Request a Certificate About Fullerton Campus Community & Corporate Engagement Student Resources Teach for EIP FAQ Contact Us Donate Most certificate programs registration opens July 7 Professional Development Register Now! Courses Through March are Instructor-Led Online ► Next Start Dates ► Professional development programs are short-term programs designed to help you learn a new skill and advance or change your career more quickly than a traditional degree program. Certificate Programs Programs for Educators Locations/Online Corporate Training Certificate Programs Certificate programs are generally completed in 3-24 months and include a certificate at the completion of the program. This certificate helps you demonstrate your knowledge and experience in the subject. You can learn more about what a certificate is on our What is a Certificate? page. Certificate programs are offered in multiple fields. Click on the link below to view the available programs in each field. Business Crime & Forensics Legal & Fiduciary Management Technology & Engineering View all Certificate Programs Programs for Educators Through immersive and personalized instruction, our educator programs are designed to help educators fulfill their professional needs, from completing their credentials to meeting prerequisites. Each program offers multiple opportunities for hands-on learning and application of the skills you learn. View all Educator Programs Locations/Online Our professional development programs are currently offered online. Click on the link below to view the available programs. Fullerton Online Corporate Training We offer programs that can be customized and tailored to the needs of your organization and employees. Click on the link below to learn more about corporate training. Learn more about corporate training What's Your Next Step? Learn how to successfully take courses online or join our email list. By joining our email list, we will send you important program updates. Get Started Learn what steps to take next to start your certificate program. Getting Started → &amp;amp;lt;a href="https://uee.formstack.com/forms/csufeip_stayconnected" title="Online Form"&amp;amp;gt;Online Form - Prof Dev Master Email Sign-up - Clean up COPY&amp;amp;lt;/a&amp;amp;gt; Non-California Residents Due to state and federal regulations, non-California residents may only enroll in CSUF online courses when their state has authorized CSUF as a provider. You can learn more about online program eligibility on the State Regulations page. Email Us: eipconnect@fullerton.edu Phone: (657) 278-2611 Address: 800 N. State College Blvd., #THall 1403, Fullerton, CA 92831 California State University, Fullerton / Extension and International Programs Download Adobe Reader EIP Live Chat EIP Live Chat Start Over Close × The safety of our students, faculty and staff is our highest priority. Given the guidance from the CDC and Governor Newsom, all Fall 2020 courses will be held virtually. You may follow our updates by selecting the banner at the top of our website. Thank you for your patience.