Your browser does not support inline frames or is currently configured not to display inline frames Skip to Navigation Skip to Main Content Website and online services unavailable on May 29. See IT Disaster Recovery website ► Quick Register | Cart Professional Development Extension and International Programs California State University, Fullerton All Programs Areas of Study: Business Crime & Forensics Fiduciary Management Technology & Engineering Program Types: Certificate Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Educator Courses and Programs Community & Corporate Engagement Leadership Development for Public Agencies Short-Term Courses & Events Test Preparation Online Degree Completion Programs Career Tech Foundation Online Programs Online Certificate Programs Online Degree Completion Programs Educator Courses and Programs Getting Started What is a Certificate? Selecting a Program Alumni Success Stories Current Student Resources Program & Course Policies Financial Aid Parking Forms Online Learning Request a Certificate About Fullerton Campus Community & Corporate Engagement Student Resources Teach for EIP FAQ Contact Us Donate × Email a friend To: Invalid E-Mail address From: Message: Page Link: Digital Marketing Professional Certificate | CSUF Extension and International Programs digital-marketing Submit × Email a friend Mail Sent Succesfully Page Link: Digital Marketing Professional Certificate | CSUF Extension and International Programs digital-marketing Close Digital Marketing Certificate Projected outlook for some certified Digital Marketing experts: 316,800Number of Jobs, 2020 $133,380Median Pay per year, 2021 10%Job Growth, 2020-2030 *U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics, Occupational Outlook Handbook - Advertising, Promotions, and Marketing Managers Earn A CSUF Digital Marketing Certificate Online in 10 Months Earn your digital marketing certificate in 10 months. Marketing professionals need to understand the always-evolving capabilites of new and emerging media platforms. Interview with Lead Instructor Christy Jeziorski In this Q&A, Christy talks about what it takes to be successful in the online classroom, common career paths for graduates of the program, and her favorite course in the program. Read Interview CSUF Digital Marketing Program Benefits: You Will: Develop a digital marketing plan. Master strategies and tactics for various digital media platforms and tools. Research and assess communications opportunities and customer touch points. Guide your marketing campaigns with online analytics and knowledge. Learn the latest laws and regulations governing communications and privacy. Ideal for: Marketing professionals. Digital, media, PR and content agency professionals. Tech pros who want an understanding of the digital marketing infrastructure. Anyone with cross-functional marketing responsibilities. New graduates who want to break into the digital-marketing field. Program Stats: Six required courses. Fully online. 10 months long. 12.0 continuing education units (CEUs). Non-California Residents Due to state and federal regulations, non-California residents may only enroll in CSUF online courses when their state has authorized CSUF as a provider. Click here for more information. English Proficiency Requirement It is recommended that participants who reside outside of United States and whose first language is not English must possess English language proficiency equivalent to a minimum TOEFL score of 550 (paper), 80 (iBT) or IELTS score of 6.5. It is the participantís responsibility to demonstrate English language proficiency necessary to fully participate in the class lectures and discussions. For optimal viewing of the course schedule below, please view on a tablet or desktop Schedule Eligibility Program Benefits Who Should Attend Note: Click on the course title to view all available course sections. Hover over the colored labels to view where the course will be offered. Course Title Collapse All Winter / Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 The Digital Marketing Landscape O No sections available. Sign up and stay connected. View the course description. Site Optimization and Strategic Search Engine Marketing O No sections available. Sign up and stay connected. View the course description. Getting Results with Email Marketing and Online Advertising O Learn More Days Date Time Location 05/16/22-07/03/22 Online Online-Variable Fee $640.00 Close Please select one of the two options. Please select your state of residence: --Select One-- Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas American Samoa California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Puerto Rico Northern Mariana Islands U.S. Virgin Islands American Samoa Guam Marshall Islands I currently live outside of the United States Your enrollment in a CSU Fullerton, University Extended Education professional development certificate class/program does not constitute admission to the University, nor does it provide eligibility for any type of student Visa. English Proficiency Requirement It is recommended that participants who reside outside of United States and whose first language is not English must possess English language proficiency equivalent to a minimum TOEFL score of 550 (paper), 80 (iBT) or IELTS score of 6.5. It the participant’s responsibility to demonstrate English language proficiency necessary to fully participate in the class lectures and discussions. Continue Cancel Register Register Now Social Media Marketing Strategy and Execution O Learn More Days Date Time Location 07/11/22-08/14/22 Online Online-Variable Fee $490.00 Close Please select one of the two options. Please select your state of residence: --Select One-- Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas American Samoa California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Puerto Rico Northern Mariana Islands U.S. Virgin Islands American Samoa Guam Marshall Islands I currently live outside of the United States Your enrollment in a CSU Fullerton, University Extended Education professional development certificate class/program does not constitute admission to the University, nor does it provide eligibility for any type of student Visa. English Proficiency Requirement It is recommended that participants who reside outside of United States and whose first language is not English must possess English language proficiency equivalent to a minimum TOEFL score of 550 (paper), 80 (iBT) or IELTS score of 6.5. It the participant’s responsibility to demonstrate English language proficiency necessary to fully participate in the class lectures and discussions. Continue Cancel Register Register Now Mobile Marketing: Getting Mobile-lized O No sections available. Sign up and stay connected. View the course description. Capstone Project and Presentations O No sections available. Sign up and stay connected. View the course description. Upon completion of the certificate program, graduates will be able to: - Understand the Digital Marketing landscape and develop a digital marketing campaign. - Understand the use and application of digital media platforms, communication tools, and marketing strategies and tactics. - Identify key elements that influence online consumer behavior. - Research and assess the range of communications opportunities. - Assess online analytics and measurement. - Understand team roles and responsibilities in the campaign process. - Understand the latest laws and regulations governing communications and privacy. - Articulate best practices and future trends. - Marketing professionals - Product, brand and marketing project managers - General business managers - Account and advertising executives, managers, and coordinators - General marketing analysts and content managers - Public relations and communications specialists and coordinators - Programmers and other technology professionals who want an understanding of the infrastructure behind digital marketing - Individuals in other professions with cross functional marketing responsibilities There are no prerequisites for admission to this program. It is recommended that participants who reside outside of United States and whose first language is not English possess English language proficiency equivalent to: A minimum TOEFL score of 550 (paper) or 80 (iBT) Or A minimum IELTS score of 6.5 There is no need to send the test score to the University. It the participant's responsibility to demonstrate English language proficiency necessary to fully participate in the class lectures and discussions. Catherine T Atwong Associate Professor of Marketing, Mihaylo College of Business and Economics, Cal State Fullerton Carolyn Coal Assistant Professor of Communications, College of Communications, Cal State Fullerton Luis Gomez Digital Producer-KPCC/SCPR Events Kari A Knutson Miller AVP, International Programs; Dean, University Extended Education California State University, Fullerton Lyra Madding Director of Marketing at Office Solutions Lauren Pawell Founder, Bixa Media Mike Plata Marketing Director, ByteLaunch Mike Rossi Director of Marketing, Crexendo Teresa Ruiz-Decker Social Media and Communications Manager- Children's Health Council Kim Tang Program Developer, University Extended Education, Cal State Fullerton Shelly Wang Manager, Program Development, University Extended Education, Cal State Fullerton Gabrielle Windsor Director or Strategic Planning: The Armory Program Details Location: Online, Weekly modules Length: 10 months Cost: $3,240* Next Start: February 2023 Join the Digital Marketing email list for updates. View Schedule Request a Certificate View Related Programs Non-California Residents English Proficiency Requirement It is recommended that participants who reside outside of United States and whose first language is not English must possess English language proficiency equivalent to a minimum TOEFL score of 550 (paper), 80 (iBT) or IELTS score of 6.5. It is the participantís responsibility to demonstrate English language proficiency necessary to fully participate in the class lectures and discussions. Professional Licensure and Certification *Have a question? Please contact us. Online Form - Prof Dev Master Email Sign-up (untitled_form_1_copy) Email Us: eipconnect@fullerton.edu Phone: (657) 278-2611 Address: 800 N. State College Blvd., #THall 1403, Fullerton, CA 92831 California State University, Fullerton / Extension and International Programs Download Adobe Reader