Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Crop Production Organic Agriculture Photo by Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Organic Agriculture Home Browse Resources Get Involved Events Our Work Our Experts In Your Community Share Featured Resources Breaking new ground: farmer perspectives on organic transition This publication explains the positive affects of organic farming, while also presenting farmer perspectives about the transition as well. Lauren Gwin, Garry Stephenson, Chris Schreiner, Sarah Brown | Mar 2017 | Online resource Photo: Tiffany Woods (Cropped from original) New web-based tool helps farmers plant veggies at just the right time Croptime helps farmers target harvest dates, boosting profit and sustainability Gail Wells | Dec 9, 2016 | News story Photo: Nick Andrews (Cropped from original) Calculator that measures nitrogen in cover crops can cut fertilizer costs Calculating the amount of nitrogen a cover crop can add to a field can reduce the amount of fertilizer needed for a subsequent crop, which reduces costs. Here's how to make that calculation. Nick Andrews | Feb 2021 | Article Peer reviewed (Gray level) Dry Farming in the Maritime Pacific Northwest: Intro to Dry Farming Organic Vegetables This publication provides an overview of dry farming, describes some of the management practices that support growing organic vegetable crops without supplemental irrigation in this region, and offers some additional resources. Download the publication Credit: Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Latest Content Credit Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Could weeds be controlled by zapping them? Extension is investigating As organic production increases in the United States and Europe, non-chemical control becomes more essential. Kym Pokorny | Sep 21, 2021 | News story Credit Amy Garrett (Cropped from original) Dry Farming Project adapts with virtual programming during pandemic The first Dry Farming Project virtual field tour series was held as harvest came in August and September and drew 137 participants from throughout Oregon, across the country and some internationally. Amy Garrett | Mar 2021 | Impact story Credit Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) OSU fertilization research shows savings for berry growers With targeted research, Oregon State University Extension Service and the Oregon Agricultural Experiment Station responded by providing growers with information on better nutrient management of those crops. Bernadine Strik | Mar 2021 | Impact story Browse All Resources Veterans visit a farm as part of the Growing Agripreneur course through the OSU Small Farms program. Photo by Maud Powell How to Start an Organic Sustainable Farm Growing Farms Online: Successful Whole Farm Management online course provides farmers with the tools and knowledge needed to develop and manage a successful farm business. This course is for you if: You are considering starting a farm business. You are within your first five years of farming and want to grow. You are considering major changes to your farm business. The core of the Growing Farms course is a series of six online modules that lead you through the basics of managing a successful low impact farm business. This course is on-demand, so you can access at any time. Resources are included. Learn more Latest News Credit Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Could weeds be controlled by zapping them? Extension is investigating As organic production increases in the United States and Europe, non-chemical control becomes more essential. Kym Pokorny | Sep 21, 2021 | News story Given more information about how wine is made, consumers less likely to pay for organic Consumers are more willing to pay for wine that comes with an organic or organic grape label but providing information about certification standards and organic production practices reduces consumer willingness to pay for all wines, , according to an Oregon State University-led study. Chris Branam | Jun 25, 2019 | News story Photo by Lynn Ketchum. (Cropped from original) Organic blueberry growers can compete successfully with commercial operations 10-year study shows trio of production methods for best results Kym Pokorny | Dec 18, 2017 | News story Read More News Explore more resources Dairy Farm Food Safety Insects Upcoming Events Jul 16 - Sep 20 Strategies for Farming with Drought: Farm Tour Series 5:30 pm - 7:30 pm See All Events Meet Our Experts Nick Andrews Small Farms Contact me about organic vegetable farming questions. Erica Chernoh Horticulture Assistant Professor of Practice, Commercial and Community Horticulture Jenifer Cruickshank Dairy Management Shayan Motazedi Ghajar Assistant Professor (Practice), Extension Organic Pasture and Forages I focus on organic, transitioning, and low-input sustainable pasture and forage management for producers in Oregon. See All Organic Agriculture Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility