Your browser does not support inline frames or is currently configured not to display inline frames Skip to Navigation Skip to Main Content Website and online services unavailable on May 29. See IT Disaster Recovery website ► Quick Register | Cart Professional Development Extension and International Programs California State University, Fullerton All Programs Areas of Study: Business Crime & Forensics Fiduciary Management Technology & Engineering Program Types: Certificate Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Educator Courses and Programs Community & Corporate Engagement Leadership Development for Public Agencies Short-Term Courses & Events Test Preparation Online Degree Completion Programs Career Tech Foundation Online Programs Online Certificate Programs Online Degree Completion Programs Educator Courses and Programs Getting Started What is a Certificate? Selecting a Program Alumni Success Stories Current Student Resources Program & Course Policies Financial Aid Parking Forms Online Learning Request a Certificate About Fullerton Campus Community & Corporate Engagement Student Resources Teach for EIP FAQ Contact Us Donate × Email a friend To: Invalid E-Mail address From: Message: Page Link: Project Management Professional Certificate | CSUF Extension and International Programs Project-Management Submit × Email a friend Mail Sent Succesfully Page Link: Project Management Professional Certificate | CSUF Extension and International Programs Project-Management Close Project Management Projected outlook for some certified Project Management (PM) experts: 322,000Number of Jobs, 2020 $99,290Median Pay per year, 2021 9%Job Growth, 2020-2030 *U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics, Occupational Outlook Handbook – Administrative Services and Facilities Managers Earn A CSUF Project Management Certificate in 4-6 Months Earn your project management certificate in 4-6 months and develop interpersonal skills and learn the project management cycle. This program is offered in collaboration with the Project Management Institute (PMI), Orange County Chapter, Inc. Shelly Wright Senior Director of the Enterprise Portfolio Management Office and Corporate Strategy at Ivanti. Read Bio Andrae Frierson Masters in Economics. Currently on the Fullbright Program Specialist Roster, US State Department. Previously an Information Technology Manager, Orange County Community Services. Read Bio Watch Interview Chi Kwon Fong MBA, MSc, PMP, CCM, CDT, SEA, CCCA, PMI-PBA, FCABE(UK), WELL AP, LEED AP BD+C, Senior Project Manager at CMG. Read Bio Project Management Program Benefits: You Will Learn How To: Develop and define a project plan and assure its quality. Communicate effectively with stakeholders. Manage costs and resources. Measure progress, deliverables and performance. Present outcomes to leadership. Ideal for: Anyone interested in project management. Newly appointed project managers, leaders or schedulers. Managers and supervisors responsible for projects. Project team members, coordinators, analysts and sponsors. Program and product managers. Program Stats: Six required courses (81 hours of lecture and discussion) Take all courses in a single semester 4–6 months long 8.1 continuing education units (CEUs) For courses that are delivered virtually, participants will need access to a computer and a reliable internet connection. A webcam and/or headset may also be recommended to participate in the class. Attendance to the live lecture is expected as if you were meeting face-to-face. Please refer to our Technical Recommendations for more information. Technical Recommendations Please note: Students must register no later than 2 business days prior to the course start date. If you missed the registration window or have any questions, please contact EIP Student Services at eipconnect@fullerton.edu. x Meet Instructor Shelly Wright Shelly Wright, PMP, CISA, CSM, CITRMS, delivers gold standard operational excellence; making "structure out of chaos" by establishing and leading enterprise program management (PMOs), business analysis, testing, operational governance, and organizational adoption (enablement and training) teams. Currently, Ms. Wright is the Senior Director of the Enterprise Portfolio Management Office and Corporate Strategy at Ivanti. An educator at heart, Shelly Wright, teaches university-level courses on behalf of the University of California - Irvine, California State University - Fullerton, and the University of Redlands. She is also the founder of Wright1 Consulting, Inc., a project management training and consulting company. Wright has partnered with corporate leaders to develop enterprise-level solutions, optimize business operations, and achieved viable objectives at companies such as Capital Group "The American Funds," EarthLink Network, Inc., Public Communication Services, Kaiser Permanente, and Scorpion Computer Services (the subject of CBS TV's hit show "Scorpion.”) Wright was awarded the 2016 University of California - Irvine Division of Continuing Education's Distinguished Instructor Award. In 2015, she received the SoTec Inspirational Award, conferred upon technology professionals for service to the community. x Meet Instructor Andrae Frierson My name is Andrae Frierson (AHN-dray FRY-er-son). I received my PMP certification over 12 years ago. I worked for the County of Orange in various IT positions for 26 years. I then retired and joined the faculty at Cal State Fullerton. After teaching Project Management for 10 years I'm still excited to be in class, and I'm still learning every day. My professional life started as a Business Analyst. I then went on to Systems Design, Application Implementation, Project Management and finally IT Management. I try to interject my real world experience, as well as a little humor, into the class. I'm looking forward to working alongside you this semester. x Meet Instructor Chi Kwon Fong Mr. Chi Kwan Fong brings over 32 years of practical project leadership and management experience in facilities planning, design, architecture, and construction within the private and public sectors where he has delivered capital projects of total construction values over $320M. With over 20 years of experience in building owner representation, Mr. Fong holds multiple professional credentials and certifications in project management, business analysis, environmental sciences, sustainability, contract administration, green building, engineering, and construction management. Over the past decade, Chi Kwan has contributed significantly to the intellectual communities and his research work has been peer-reviewed and cited in academia. Mr. Fong volunteers and mentors extensively in many professional associations, and regularly speaks at national conferences and lectures at local universities. Recently he served as a volunteer in the authorship of the Construction Contract Administration Practice Guide 2nd edition. He is also an authorized trainer for professional construction management courses and has been a program evaluator with the Accrediting Board of Engineering and Technology (ABET) for university degree programs. Mr. Fong holds a professional Bachelor of Architecture degree, an MBA, and a Master's degree in Environmental Sciences. He is a recipient of the Advanced Project Management Certificate from Stanford University and Certificate in Sustainable Solutions and Practices from UC Irvine. Mr. Fong has completed doctoral coursework in public administration and was awarded a fellowship designation from the Chartered Association of Building Engineers in the United Kingdom. For optimal viewing of the course schedule below, please view on a tablet or desktop Schedule Program Benefits Who Should Attend Note: Click on the course title to view all available course sections. Hover over the colored labels to view where the course will be offered. Course Title Collapse All Winter / Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Project Management Overview V TBA No sections available. Sign up and stay connected. View the course description. Managing Procurement, Planning and Risk in Projects V TBA No sections available. Sign up and stay connected. View the course description. Project Management Skills in Time and Cost Management V TBA No sections available. Sign up and stay connected. View the course description. Managing Quality and Communications in Projects V TBA No sections available. Sign up and stay connected. View the course description. Project Execution and Control: Putting it all Together V TBA No sections available. Sign up and stay connected. View the course description. Project Evaluation and Closure V TBA Learn More Days Date Time Location TTh 05/24/22-05/31/22 6:30pm-9:30pm Virtual Instruction Fee $350.00 Register Register Now Graduates of the certificate program will have a project portfolio to validate their knowledge and be able to: - Understand what a project is - Develop a project plan - Understand how to assure the quality of the project - Communicate effectively to stakeholders - Develop a reasonable/achievable schedule - Manage cost and resources - Measure project progress/deliverables/performance - Achieve project goals - Present project outcomes to managers/executives - Individuals who are considering project management as a career choice - Newly appointed project managers, leaders or schedulers wanting to gain skills - Managers and supervisors responsible for organizational projects - Project team members, coordinators, analysts and sponsors - Program and product managers Dan Benson Principal Systems Engineer, Raytheon Company Sara Broadbent Director/Program Manager, Seagate Technologies Tom Calhoon Project Manager, ACS Solutions Dari Dadashi Program Manager, Invensys/Triconex Dianna Daly Special Projects Manager, CalOPTIMA Ellen Dumond Chair, Department of Management, Cal State Fullerton Alicia Fan Program Developer University Extended Education California State University, Fullerton Lynn M Hess Internet Technologies Project Manager, The Capital Group Companies Edward Kent Manager, South American Regional Manager, Program Management, Rockwell Collins, Passenger Systems Kari A Knutson Miller Dean, University Extended Education and AVP, International Programs & Global Engagement University Extended Education, California State University, Fullerton Daniel V Malloy Account Executive, Urban Science Applications, Inc. Malcolm Parker Human Resources Project Manager, Northrup Grumman Corporation, LEAN Process Integration Victor Wright, Sr. Western Region Representative, Engineering Institute Program Details Location: Online-Live, 2 times weekly Length: 4–6 months Cost: $3,155* Next Start: August 2022 *Cost is approximate and subject to change. View Schedule Request a Certificate View Related Programs Non-California Residents Professional Licensure and Certification *Have a question? Please contact us. Online Form - Prof Dev Master Email Sign-up (untitled_form_1_copy) Email Us: eipconnect@fullerton.edu Phone: (657) 278-2611 Address: 800 N. State College Blvd., #THall 1403, Fullerton, CA 92831 California State University, Fullerton / Extension and International Programs Download Adobe Reader