Your browser does not support inline frames or is currently configured not to display inline frames Skip to Navigation Skip to Main Content Website and online services unavailable on May 29. See IT Disaster Recovery website ► Quick Register | Cart Professional Development Extension and International Programs California State University, Fullerton All Programs Areas of Study: Business Crime & Forensics Fiduciary Management Technology & Engineering Program Types: Certificate Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Educator Courses and Programs Community & Corporate Engagement Leadership Development for Public Agencies Short-Term Courses & Events Test Preparation Online Degree Completion Programs Career Tech Foundation Online Programs Online Certificate Programs Online Degree Completion Programs Educator Courses and Programs Getting Started What is a Certificate? Selecting a Program Alumni Success Stories Current Student Resources Program & Course Policies Financial Aid Parking Forms Online Learning Request a Certificate About Fullerton Campus Community & Corporate Engagement Student Resources Teach for EIP FAQ Contact Us Donate × Email a friend To: Invalid E-Mail address From: Message: Page Link: Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Professional Certificate | CSUF Extension and International Programs Green-Belt Submit × Email a friend Mail Sent Succesfully Page Link: Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Professional Certificate | CSUF Extension and International Programs Green-Belt Close Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certificate Projected outlook for some certified Lean Six Sigma Green Belt experts: 189,300Number of Jobs, 2020 $103,150Median Pay per year, 2021 5%Job Growth, 2020-2030 *U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics, Occupational Outlook Handbook – Industrial Production Managers Earn A CSUF Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certificate in 3 Months The program is designed for professionals with full schedules and little or no prior experience with Lean Six Sigma. It provides students with an introduction to the tools, techniques and methodologies that will empower them to lead LSS projects in their organization. Students learn the problem-solving framework for improving processes – Define, Measure, Analyze, Improve and Control (DMAIC) – and receive instruction in the tools for streamlining production and services from end to end. Interview with Instructor Irfan Khan, MS, PMP, CHPS In this Q&A, Irfan Khan talks about his favorite course in the program, the value of an online classroom setting for learning, and common career paths for graduates of this certificate program. Read Interview Interview with program graduate, Anthony Martinez Hear from Anthony Martinez, Lean Six Sigma Green Belt certificate program graduate, talk about why he chose CSUF for this program, how he has applied the lessons in his job at the City of Paramount, and his advice for students entering the program. Watch Anthony's Interview Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Program Benefits: You Will: Be well-versed in the knowledge and skills needed for successfully leading a Green Belt-level project to reduce or eliminate waste, lower defects in their organization’s products and processes, and improve customer satisfaction Ideal for: Project managers and process owners who want to learn how use Lean Six Sigma to make improvement projects more successful. Financial managers, plant managers, floor supervisors and administrators who are seeking a proven method for dramatically improving their organization’s financial performance. Professionals in health care, education and the military, among many other industries, who are interested in pursuing Lean Six Sigma Black Belt certification. Program Stats: One required course (60 hours of lecture and discussion) Highly qualified Six Sigma Black Belt instructors with extensive experience Hands-on experience in class One module with exam prep Three months long Six continuing education units (CEUs) For courses that are delivered virtually, participants will need access to a computer and a reliable internet connection. A webcam and/or headset may also be recommended to participate in the class. Attendance to the live lecture is expected as if you were meeting face-to-face. Please refer to our Technical Recommendations for more information. Technical Recommendations For optimal viewing of the course schedule below, please view on a tablet or desktop Schedule Eligibility Program Benefits Who Should Attend Note: Click on the course title to view all available course sections. Hover over the colored labels to view where the course will be offered. Course Title Collapse All Fall 2022 Winter / Spring 2023 Fall 2023 Lean Six Sigma Green Belt V V V No sections available. Sign up and stay connected. View the course description. Upon completion of this program, students should be able to: A. Relate LSS concepts to business objectives B. Identify waste within the value stream C. Demonstrate ability to effectively analyze and present data D. Define and apply team leadership tools E. Collect and process customer input/requirement F. Identify key metrics for measuring success G. Define the DMAIC process H. Effectively use tools and concepts associated with each phase of the DMAIC process I. Employ Lean Six Sigma skills in process improvement projects - Department directors and managers - Operations supervisors, leads and others who may be asked to contribute to a project - Chief Operating Officers - Chief Executive Officers - Quality administrators - Consultants who want to incorporate Lean Six Sigma Green Belt in their service offerings - Individuals seeking practical skills in Lean Six Sigma - Anyone who needs an initial introduction to Lean Six Sigma thinking and techniques The program is open to all interested persons who possess at least a high school diploma. It is recommended that students have one year of high school or college algebra. Manny Fernandez, Jr. Consultant, MFI Winnie Kang-Abreu Mohd Khan Tom Smagala Christina Wagner Program Details Location: Online-Live, 2 times weekly Length: 3 months Cost: $2,400* Next Start: September 2022 *Cost is approximate and subject to change View Schedule Request a Certificate View Related Programs Non-California Residents Professional Licensure and Certification *Have a question? Please contact us. Online Form - Prof Dev Master Email Sign-up (untitled_form_1_copy) Email Us: eipconnect@fullerton.edu Phone: (657) 278-2611 Address: 800 N. State College Blvd., #THall 1403, Fullerton, CA 92831 California State University, Fullerton / Extension and International Programs Download Adobe Reader