Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Pests, Weeds, and Diseases Healthy Homes Photo: Stev (Cropped from original) Healthy Homes Home Browse Resources In Your Community Share Featured Resources Stamp Out Mold in Your Home One page flyer with helpful hints for stamping out mold in your home. Jeanne Brandt | Mar 2007 | Fact Sheet Household Arthropods Guidelines & Principles; Groups of pests: Public health pests, Nuisance, Household, Structural pests Jean R. Natter | Feb 2015 | Presentation Keeping Your Home and Property Safe from Wildfire: A Defensible Space and Fuel Reduction Guide for Homeowners and Landowners This publication provides help for homeowners who want to reduce the wildfire risk around their homes or on their forest property by creating defensible space. Max Bennett, Stephen Fitzgerald, Kara Baylog | Dec 2017 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Latest Resources Crédito: Glenda Hyde (Cropped from original) Cómo mejorar la calidad del aire interior causado por el humo de los incendios forestales Las partículas de humo más pequeñas pueden llegar a la parte más profunda de los pulmones y ser absorbidas por el cuerpo. Para maximizar la efectividad del filtro de aire, manténgalo encendido continuamente o en la mayor ... Glenda Hyde, Catalina Sanchez-Frank | Sep 2020 | Article Peer reviewed (Gray level) Photo: Pete Gray / CC BY-NC-ND (Cropped from original) How do I handle clothes with poison oak on them? Q: I need to wash clothes with poison oak oil on them, should I wipe my washer with Tecnu after washing them? Some say to use cold water to rinse or hottest water, some say only detergent. What do you say? A: View answer | View all featured questions Preventing and Controlling Powderpost Beetles In and Around the Home This PNW Extension publication provides an overview of various types of powderpost beetles, the symptoms associated with their damage, as well as tips for prevention and control. Jack De Angelis | Jul 1995 | Fact Sheet Peer reviewed (Gray level) Browse All Resources Latest News Pandemic leads to unprecedented burst of questions to Ask an Expert tool Questions have ballooned to 6,625 in the first half of 2020, more than all of the questions answered in 2019. Kym Pokorny | Jul 29, 2020 | News story High concentrations of polluted air found inside homes during 2018 wildfire smoke event Preliminary results of an OSU-led study indicate that the household indoor environment may be worse for PAH exposure than outdoors. Chris Branam | Jun 2, 2020 | News story Maintaining a moss-free roof takes some effort After cleaning the shingles, low-toxicity products can be used to kill the moss. But shedding more sun on the roof works more permanently. Kym Pokorny | Feb 14, 2020 | News story All News Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Photo: Pete Gray / CC BY-NC-ND (Cropped from original) How do I handle clothes with poison oak on them? Q: I need to wash clothes with poison oak oil on them, should I wipe my washer with Tecnu after washing them? Some say to use cold water to rinse or hottest water, some say only detergent. What do you say? A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility