Skip to main content University of Illinois Urbana‐Champaign University of Illinois Extension Illinois Extension Make a Gift search Mobile navigation search Group menus Who We Are Where We Serve Our Programs News & Events Volunteer Contact Life provides challenges. Trust Extension to help. Families, businesses, communities, and organizations trust Illinois Extension to provide unbiased, research-based solutions to the challenges you face. Read our latest blog Connect. Learn. Grow. Help the Environment Small changes have positive impacts on the environment. This winter, explore climate, healthy waterways, and the return of big predators When to Plant in Illinois Believe it or not, it’s never too early to start making plans for this year’s garden. Knowing when to plant for your area and getting your plants started right will help you maximize the growing season. Improve Money Management Discover tools, tips, and techniques for common money management topics that help you prepare for first-time financial decisions such as buying or renting, evaluating job benefits, and making financial plans. You Can Help Pollinators Heard the buzz? Help Illinois scientists help pollinators with your garden this summer! I-Pollinate uses observations from Illinois growers to track and help conserve pollinators. Master Gardener Training Gain practical experience and horticulture knowledge straight from Extension educators so you can positively impact your community. Budget-Friendly Nutrition Tips Make healthier choices for your family on any budget. Find your healthy lifestyle with Eat. Move. Save. Advocate for the Environment Love nature? The Master Naturalist program works with adult volunteers to support natural spaces and wildlife around Illinois as environmental stewards. Are you ready to grow? Spring gardening season is here. Choose plants that work for your garden, support native wildlife and ecosystems, prevent stormwater flooding, and grow stronger with seasonal advice from the experts at Gardener's Corner. Red Oak Rain Garden welcomes April showers The Red Oak Rain Garden is a 10,000-square-foot demonstration site on the University of Illinois Champaign-Urbana campus that is designed to soak up rainwater, provide wildlife habitat, and educate visitors about sustainable landscape design. Farmers, researchers break ground with new guidelines for budding hemp crop By collecting data from more than 180 hemp growers over the past two years, Illinois Extension researchers now have a better understanding of how to produce hemp and are sharing that information directly with growers through the Midwestern Hemp Database. Is there lead in your soil? New Chicago-area map tells you Leftover from paint, gasoline, and other sources, lead lingers in urban environments where it can be a health risk for anyone in contact with the soil - from children playing in mud puddles to backyard gardeners. University researchers worked with communities to identify lead hotspots. Fields of dreams: From 4-H to cut flower grower Illinois cut flower grower uses 4-H background to builds community with his 'more than one person' approach. The spice is right? Researchers explore growing ginger in Illinois Ginger is a tropical plant that may seem out of place in a state known for growing row crops, but its flavorful, golden root could be the solution to a plant disease problem for farmers who grow tomatoes in hoop houses. Central Illinois communities come together to feed families By sharing a little, we can help a lot. Across Central Illinois, families are struggling with food insecurity, unsure where their next meal will come from. Starting in 2019, Illinois Extension staff partnered with local growers to donate more than 64,000 pounds through food pantries. COMMUNITY RESOURCES Find Local Food Resources Find all food assistance sites closest to your Illinois zip code, including food pantries, school meal sites, and grocery stores and farmers markets that accept WIC/SNAP. Economic and Functional Value A new report finds that Extension provides more than $600 million annual benefit to Illinois, ten times its budget. Read the report. En Espanol La Extensión de la Universidad de Illinois es el principal alcance emblemático de la Universidad de Illinois en Urbana-Champaign, que ofrece programas educativos a los residentes de los 102 condados de Illinois, y mucho más. Upcoming Events May 31, 2022 Office Closed - Henderson, Knox, McDonough, and Warren Counties Entomology Workshop - Woodford Woodford County Extension Office, 109 E Eureka Ave., Eureka, IL 61530 (Woodford County) All About Berries | Pest, Pathogens, and Problems Jersey County Extension (Jersey County) May 31, 2022 - June 02, 2022 4-H Teen Teacher Training June 01, 2022 Wits Fitness Thomson Library | June Thomson Library More Events Recent News May 31, 2022 Summer is upon us: Is your swimming pool safe? May 30, 2022 Researchers: Farmers know tick risks; slow to take preventative actions May 27, 2022 Bugs can be a solution for high-tunnel farmers May 27, 2022 Renewable energy project demonstrates efficiencies, benefits of clean energy geothermal systems May 26, 2022 Common farm conservation myths busted by Illinois Sustainable Ag Partnership More News Releases Go Find an Office Illinois Extension 111 Mumford Hall (MC-710) 1301 W. Gregory Dr. Urbana, IL 61801 Phone: 217-333-5900 Find your local county Extension office Explore Careers Events Make a Gift Press Releases Volunteer Programs 4-H Youth Development Agriculture and Natural Resources Commercial Agriculture Community & Economic Development En Espanol Energy and Environment Forestry Horticulture Illinois Indiana Sea Grant Illinois Nutrition Education Programs Integrated Health Disparities Local Food Systems | Small Farms Master Gardeners Master Naturalists Pesticide Safety Education Program Safe Electricity Specialty Crops ©2022 University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign | College of ACES | Web Privacy Notice | EEO | Accessibility | Staff Login | myExtension