CSUF is closed for Winter Recess, December 24 - January 2. We will re-open to serve you on January 3. 2022. Website and online services unavailable on May 29. See IT Disaster Recovery website ► For International Students FAQs, click here ›COVID-19 Vaccine Requirement for Students and Instructors ► Professional Development Professional Development Certificate programs provide working professionals with evening and weekend courses, as well as networking opportunities to advance their careers or enter new fields. Certificate Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Educator Courses and Programs Community & Corporate Engagement Leadership for Public AgenciesShort-Term Courses & Events Degrees Degrees EIP partners with CSUF colleges and departments to offer bachelor’s and master’s degrees, as well as preparation programs for those looking to apply to professional health-care, law and business schools. Online Degree Completion Programs Master’s Programs Pre-Health Program Test Preparation Courses University Courses University Courses EIP expands access to University classes through Open University, Summer Session and Winter Session. Open University registration is open to the general public; Summer and Winter Sessions help Cal State Fullerton students graduate on-time or early. Open University Summer Session Winter Session Lifelong Learning Lifelong Learning Our lifelong learning opportunities range from programs for children to retirees, and include an on-campus arboretum with classes and events for those of all ages. Fullerton Arboretum Osher Lifelong Learning Institute Career Exploration Online Online Programs Online programs are structured with lectures and assignments, and allow you to interact and communicate with students and instructors/professors online. Online Certificate Programs Online Degree Completion Programs Online Programs for Educators International International Programs International students may study for one semester or complete an entire bachelor's or master's degree at CSUF. Visit International Programs International Admissions University Semester Abroad International Students & ScholarsStudy Abroad & Global Engagement Search this site or CSUF general sites SiteCSUF Site Menu searchSearch this site CSUF Extension and International Programs +About About Us Annual Report Community & Corporate Engagement Fullerton Campus International Programs Student Resources Teach for EIP FAQ Contact +Connect Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Donate Extension and International Programs +Professional Development Certificate Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Educator Courses and Programs Community & Corporate Engagement Leadership for Public Agencies Short-Term Courses & Events +Degrees Online Degree Completion Programs Master’s Programs Pre-Health Program Test Preparation Courses +University Courses Open University Summer Session Winter Session +Lifelong Learning Fullerton Arboretum Osher Lifelong Learning Institute Career Exploration +Online Online Certificate Programs Online Degree Completion Programs Online Programs for Educators +International International Admissions University Semester Abroad International Students & Scholars Study Abroad & Global Engagement There was a problem with the left navigation. Extension and International Programs Extension and International Programs About About Us Annual Report Community & Corporate Engagement Fullerton Campus International Programs Student Resources Teach for EIP FAQ Contact Connect Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Donate Student Resources Welcome to the Student Resource page where you can find course log-in information and ways to succeed in this virtual learning environment! We look forward to seeing you online! Are you a new student? Start here! Step 1. Getting Started First, go to www.fullerton.edu Second, click on the ‘Students’ tab Step 2. Create your CSUF Portal Account Please create your CSUF Portal account immediately using your CWID and PIN or no later than two days prior to the class start date. This will ensure timely access to your course. Your CWID is your Username and your PIN is your Password. You will be prompted to create a unique Username and Password the very first time you log in. You will also be required to verify your identity and create security questions in the event you need to reset your password. This is mandatory and cannot be bypassed. If you need to retrieve your CWID, you may do so online by going to https://my.fullerton.edu/csufcwid If you need to retrieve your PIN, you may do so online by going to https://my.fullerton.edu/Accounts/StudentPin If you are unable to retrieve your CWID or PIN, contact eipconnect@fullerton.edu If you are a continuing student since March of 2008, you may have already created a unique Username and Password to log into the CSUF Portal. If you do not remember your Username and/or Password, you may use the Need help logging in? link to retrieve your username or reset your password. To ensure security, all students need to set up Duo Authentication in order to access the portal. Please use the step-by-step wizard to set up your Duo Authentication: http://www.fullerton.edu/it/students/2fa/ For more information, please visit https://csuf.screenstepslive.com/s/12867/m/52424/c/336800 Step 3. Access your CSUF Student Email Account You are now logged into the CSUF Portal. All official communication will only be sent to your CSUF student email address. Please note that it is mandatory to use this email account for all class communication, including all individual communication and questions. You are responsible for checking your campus email account on a regular basis. Your CSUF student email account is accessed from the landing page of the portal as indicated via the envelope icon. Step 4: Access your Course Face-to-face virtual courses are facilitated in Canvas. Use the resources below to become familiarized with the learning platform you are using. Your class may not be listed in the learning management system until the start date. Canvas From the CSUF Portal, click Canvas on the left-hand column of the screen. *Note: If the above menu is not visible, click the dropdown button on the top-left of the screen to reveal the menu. Zoom Virtual Lectures Zoom is CSUF's online video conferencing tool that will be used to facilitate live lecturing. Attendance to the live lecture is expected as if you were meeting face-to-face. You will be able to participate in live lectures from home using your smartphone, tablet, laptop, or computer. If you have questions or concerns about using Zoom for virtual lectures, please contact eipconnect@fullerton.edu. Below are some resources available to familiarize you with Zoom in preparation for virtual lectures. System Requirements Testing Computer or Device Audio Joining a meeting by phone Student Controls in Zoom For more resources on how to use Zoom, please refer to Zoom's official Help Center . The University is providing enhanced support to students for Zoom. For support, please call 657-278-8888. Technical Recommendations Before registering for an online course, we recommend that you check to see if you have the necessary equipment and software to be successful while learning online. Technical Recommendations Support For Canvas technical assistance, please contact EIP-Online@fullerton.edu. This site is maintained by Extension and International Programs. Mailing Address: 800 N. State College Blvd., #THall 1403, Fullerton, CA 92831 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact eipcommunications@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. ©