Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Crop Production Vegetables and Specialty Seeds Photo: EESC slide collection (Cropped from original) Vegetables and Specialty Seeds Home Browse Resources Events Our Work Our Experts In Your Community Share Featured Resources Vegetable Degree-day Models: An Introduction for Farmers and Gardeners Degree-days measure the amount of heat accumulated over time. Researchers have used years of this data to develop models that help farmers and gardeners predict harvest dates and other important events in select crops and weeds.... Nick Andrews, Leonard Coop, Heather Stoven, Heidi Noordijk, Aaron Heinrich | Jan 2021 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Photo: Christy Tanner (Cropped from original) Malheur County Virtual Field Tours This collection of virtual field tours includes information about ongoing applied research at the Malheur Experiment Station, as well as visits to local farms that are experimenting with new practices. Christy Tanner, Joel Felix, Erik Feibert | Aug 2020 | Collection Carrot seed production in Oregon Central Oregon Agricultural Research and Extension Center help Jefferson county to be at the center of Oregon seed production. Jefferson county produces over 50% of the carrot seed grown in the United States. Seed growers, ... Jeremiah Dung | May 2019 | Video Browse all resources Latest Resources Managers of over 200,000 acres of farmland gain knowledge in OSU Extension’s virtual Coffee Hours The Coffee Hour conversations attracted 37-61 people each week, including farmers who manage over 34,500 acres and agronomists who make crop management recommendations on over 209,000 acres. May 2022 | Impact story Bee Protection Protocol for Western Specialty Seed Crops Growers of specialty seeds in western Oregon rely on beekeepers to provide bees to pollinate their crops. Growers and beekeepers follow a Bee Protection Protocol to strengthen their mutually beneficial relationship. The protocol addresses pollination, pest management and communication. Apr 2022 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Medicinal Herb Production in the Pacific Northwest Medicinal herb crops are a diverse group consisting of both annual and perennial species. Some herbs are harvested for their flower or leaf tissue; others are harvested for root tissue or fruit. Within the herb production ... Apr 2022 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Browse All Resources Explore more resources Organic Agriculture Farm Food Safety Insects Upcoming Events Jul 16 - Sep 20 Strategies for Farming with Drought: Farm Tour Series 5:30 pm - 7:30 pm Jul 26 Open House: Oak Creek Center for Urban Horticulture 11:00 am - 2:00 pm Corvallis, OR See All Events Meet Our Experts Moises Aguilar Research Assistant - Potato Breeding Nick Andrews Small Farms Contact me about organic vegetable farming questions. Joe Battilega Bio Science Research Tech , Vegetable, Specialty Seed Crops, & Farm Crew Kristine Buckland Vegetable and Speciality Seed Crop Specialist See All Vegetables and Specialty Seeds Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Why is my artichoke sprouting in September? Q: My globe artichoke plants have produced well this Spring and early Summer. In mid summer, two shoots emerged from a plant. I separated the shoots when they were 12" tall and planted them. Both shoots are growing slowly, ... A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility