Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Locations Deschutes County Credit: Glenda Hyde (Cropped from original) Deschutes County What We Do Events News and impact Faculty and staff Newsletters Food Safety and Preservation in Central Oregon Home Garden and Landscape Master Gardener Program Face coverings: Masks are welcome, not required, per university policy. Zoom in on Pressure Canning Share Print Jun 1, 2022 5:30 pm - 7:00 pm PDT Free. Registration is due 5:00 pm May 31, 2022. Register Contact for questions and requests for accessibility-related accommodations Glenda Hyde [email protected] 541-548-6088 option 4 Participants will explore equipment, resources, tips, updates and some of the science of pressure canning meat, poultry, vegetables and smoked fish in an evening session. See also Canning Vegetables Canning can be a great way to get full benefit from your garden vegetables. When prepared properly, foods will retain their nutrients and flavor. Done improperly, they can kill, cause serious illness, or just plain taste bad. ... Sep 2011 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Canning Meat, Poultry, and Game Canning meats is made more simple using this easy-to-follow guide! Wonderful and tasty recipes within. Mar 2018 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Canning Seafood This publication provides research-tested processing recommendations for various types of seafood. It gives step-by-step instructions for canning tuna, all other fish, whole and minced clams, crab, oysters, and shrimp. It includes ... Jeanne Brandt | Nov 2016 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Canning Tomatoes and Tomato Products Covers how to select equipment, prepare equipment and tomatoes, pack jars, add acid and salt, close jars, cool, test for a seal, store, and check jars for spoilage. Outlines steps for processing in pressure and boiling-water ... Jeanne Brandt | Apr 2015 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Canning Smoked Fish at Home This bulletin gives instructions for lightly smoking fish in preparation for canning and for the canning process itself. Fully smoked fish, in contrast, is too dry and strongly flavored after canning. Feb 2014 | OSU Extension Catalog Peer reviewed (Orange level) Credit: Glenda Hyde Was this page helpful? YesNo Send feedback Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility