Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español OSU Extension Programs Filter programs Filter by Location Baker County (5) Benton County (8) Clackamas County (9) Clatsop County (4) Columbia County (5) Confederated Tribes of Warm Springs (9) Coos County (6) Crook County (10) Curry County (5) Deschutes County (10) Douglas County (8) Gilliam County (2) Grant County (4) Harney County (2) Hermiston Agricultural Research and Extension Center (3) Hood River County (9) Jefferson County (10) Josephine County (8) Klamath County (6) Lake County (5) Lane County (9) Lincoln County (7) Linn County (7) Malheur County (3) Marion County (7) Morrow County (2) North Willamette Research and Extension Center (1) OSU Portland Center (2) Polk County (5) Portland Metro Area (8) Sherman County (3) Southern Oregon Research and Extension Center (9) Tillamook County (7) Umatilla County (6) Umatilla County Extension, Milton-Freewater (5) Union County (4) Wallowa County (3) Wasco County (8) Washington County (11) Wheeler County (2) Yamhill County (9) Filter by Topic Bees and Pollinators (4) Berries and Fruit (1) Christmas Trees (2) Climate Change (2) Community Disaster Preparedness (1) Community Planning (1) Community Science (1) Community Vitality (1) Cutting and Selling Trees (4) Environmental Education (PreK-12) (2) Estate and Succession Planning (1) Fire (5) Flowers, Shrubs, and Trees (1) Food Security (2) Forest Health and Management (7) Forests, Woodlands, and Rangelands (2) Gardening Techniques (1) Garden Soil and Compost (1) Garden Vegetables and Herbs (2) Health Outreach (4) Healthy Aging (3) Home Food Preservation (1) Insects (2) Invasive Species (1) Lawn and Turfgrass (1) Local, Regional, and Community Food Systems (3) Non-Timber Forest Products (3) Nutrition and Healthy Eating (3) Organic Agriculture (1) Outdoors and Environments (2) Physical Activity (6) Plant Diseases (1) Recipes (2) Riparian Areas (1) Rural Economic Development (1) Sustainability (1) Tree Care (3) Urban Forestry (1) Wildlife (3) Wood Processing and Products (1) Youth Education Resources (3) Photo: 4-H Website (Cropped from original) 4-H Youth Development 4-H empowers young people with hands-on learning experiences to help them grow and thrive. By creating a safe and welcoming environment, young people develop the skills needed to make a positive impact on the world around them. Program BEPA 2.0 BEPA 2.0 is a classroom-based physical activity program aligned to health and physical education standards. BEPA 2.0 can be used before, during, or after school, both inside and outside of the classroom, to increase children’s physical activity time at school. Program Photo by Karl Maasdam (Cropped from original) Better Bones and Balance® Better Bones and Balance® is an exercise program designed to gradually improve balance and strength to avoid falls and maintain independence. Program Photo by Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Family and Community Educators Each year OSU Extension Family and Community Health faculty develop lessons for Oregon Association for Family and Community Education groups and others who deliver community education through a "train-the-trainer" model. Program Credit Patty Case (Cropped from original) Farm to School Farm to School is supports Oregon's farmers, and kids access to fresh and healthy foods, creates jobs and strengthens local economies, teaching students about fresh foods, increasing access to local healthy foods in schools and preschools, and stewarding the land for future generations. Program Photo: Amanda Rau (Cropped from original) Fire Program Forests across the western United States are stressed from high tree densities, drought, and insect and disease outbreaks. Past management practices along with more human-caused wildfire and changes in weather are causing wildfires ... Program Photo: foodhero.org (Cropped from original) Food Hero Food Hero is your go-to site for quick, tasty, healthy recipes and helpful tips. Whether you're a beginner or a pro, you'll find something new for your family to enjoy. Program Credit: Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Home Food Safety and Preservation Program Food safety and preservation resources and classes, provided through the Oregon State University Extension Family and Community Health, ensures Oregonians have access to the most reliable information available. It is critical that ... Program Photo: KidSpirit (Cropped from original) KidSpirit KidSpirit provides young people with intentional, high quality, equitable learning experiences that promote positive interactions. Activities include sports, arts, science, gymnastics, cooking and many other activities offered each summer or throughout the year. Program Photo by Rachel Werling (Cropped from original) Land Steward Program The Land Steward Program is dedicated to helping owners achieve a viable and sustainable vision for their land. Join us to learn more about your land, figure out what you want to do with it, and make a plan to get you there. Program Photo by Harry Olson. (Cropped from original) Master Gardener™ A program that educates Oregonians about the art and science of growing and caring for plants. This program also facilitates the training of a highly educated group of volunteers. These volunteers extend sustainable gardening information to their communities through education and outreach programs. Program Photo by Tiffany Hopkins (Cropped from original) Master Woodland Manager The Master Woodland Manager (MWM) training is offered by Oregon State University Forestry Extension as a master's level course for landowners who are interested in an intensive forest management training and sharing the knowledge ... Program Photo by Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Nutrition Education and Outreach Programs The OSU Extension Service Nutrition Education and Outreach Programs are a part of the Family and Community Health Program and the College of Public Health and Human Sciences. Programs include the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance ... Program Photo by Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Open Campus OSU Open Campus, a community-based education partnership convened by Oregon State University, provides local access to learning in order to address the unique educational needs of Oregon’s communities. Through a statewide network of... Program Photo: Oregon Bee Atlas (Cropped from original) Oregon Bee Atlas Although we estimate there are 500 species of bees in Oregon, there has never been a concerted survey of the state’s bees. Without even a checklist of species, it is very difficult to know whether the health of Oregon ... Program Oregon Environmental Literacy Program The goal of the Oregon Environmental Literacy Program is to support teachers in collaboration with non-formal educators to foster Environmental Literacy of Kindergarten through 12th grade students by engaging students in activities and... Program Oregon Forest Pest Detector Oregon Forest Pest Detectors (OFPDs) are volunteers that help prevent the damaging impacts of invasive forest pests by monitoring for and reporting potential infestations. They usually already have some baseline knowledge of ... Program Photo: Jen Holt (Cropped from original) Oregon Master Beekeeper Program Are you curious about bees and how to keep them? Are you interested in learning how to become a better beekeeper? Do you want to help others learn about bees? Bee informed with the Oregon Master Beekeeper Program! ... Program Photo by Jason O'Brien (Cropped from original) Oregon Master Naturalist The Oregon Master Naturalist Program is for people interested in Oregon’s natural history and natural resources management who want to dedicate their time as volunteers. Take courses online and on-location in Oregon’s beautiful outdoors. Program Photo: Carrie Berger (Cropped from original) Oregon Natural Resources Education Program (PreK-12) The Oregon Natural Resources Education Program (ONREP) has been a leader in providing professional development programs for K - 16 educators since its inception in the mid-1980s. ONREP programming has contributed to building ... Program Oregon Season Tracker Oregon Season Tracker (OST) is a project of Oregon State University that aims to link natural resource managers, educators, researchers and others in the community to the science they use through collaborative citizen science. We ... Program Photo by Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) OSU Small Farms The goal of the Small Farms program is to improve the economic and environmental sustainability of small farms by employing appropriate scale production and marketing techniques. The program works toward improving small farm ... Program Photo by Joe Kline (Cropped from original) Outdoor School This is an exciting time for Oregon and for Oregon’s 5th and 6th grade students as OSU Extension works in collaboration with schools, partners, and communities to support and grow the statewide Outdoor School program, building on a legacy that began in 1966. Program Pollinator Steward Program Do you want to help pollinators on your farm, managed forest, rangeland, golf-course or community garden? Are you looking for practical training on how to build, maintain and establish pollinator habitat? Program Photo from OSU Extension Communications (Cropped from original) Rural Studies Program The Rural Studies Program at Oregon State University focuses its multi-disciplinary teaching, outreach and research program on critical issues affecting rural people and places. Program StrongPeople™ StrongPeople™ is a nationally recognized, evidence-based community exercise program designed to increase the number of mid-life and older women participating in safe and effective strength training. Program Photo by Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Ties to the Land Ties to the Land focuses on succession planning, the human side of estate planning. The workshops focus on strategies to maintain family ties to the land from one generation to the next. It builds awareness of the key ... Program Tree School Regional Tree School events held each year throughout Oregon provide important opportunities for continuing education and building community, helping support the success of family forest landowners. Program Photo by iStock (Cropped from original) Walk With Ease Walk With Ease (WWE) is an exercise program that can reduce pain and improve overall health. If you can be on your feet for 10 minutes without increased pain, you can have success with Walk With Ease! Program Photo: Carrie Berger (Cropped from original) Women Owning Woodlands Network The Women Owning Woodlands Network (WOWNet) is a diverse, enthusiastic, group of women who are interested in woodland management. WOWNet allows women to come together to learn about forest management, share their forestry and ... Program Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility