Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Youth, Families and Health Youth Education Resources Photo: Maureen Hosty (Cropped from original) Youth Education Resources Home Browse Resources Get Involved Events Our Experts In Your Community Share Description: For over 100 years, OSU Extension, in cooperation with partners across Oregon and the U.S. has fulfilled its mission to deliver research-based, hands-on education throughout Oregon communities, and is still strong today. Our Extension educators are providing new ways to support the health and education of children and adults throughout Oregon. We are teachers. We are researchers. We are neighbors. We are here for you. Resources by subject Nature and the Outdoors Cooking and Food Preservation Physical Activity Gardening Science, Technology, Engineering, Math (STEM) and Art Animals College and Career Readiness Community Service En Español  COVID-19 Photo by Kimberly Farmer Photo by Element5 Digital Resources by grade level Elementary School Middle School High School Fun and educational magazine | Revista divertida y educativa Over the summer, check out our weekly magazine. We encourage you to engage your children in these activities that entertain the whole family. Durante el verano, consulte nuestra revista semanal. Lo alentamos a involucrar a sus hijos en estas actividades que entretienen a toda la familia. Explore more | Explora más Credit: Marci B Photography (Cropped from original) Ways you can be physically active BEPA 2.0 is a classroom-based fitness program that meets health and physical education standards. Families can now enjoy short, fun, game-based activities at home using these take-home sheets Try out these activities Latest resources Farm to School Field Trip at Lucky Crow Farm Students do a virtual tour to a local Marion County farm to learn how their food grows, where it comes from, and experience the farm first-hand with the Marion County Farm to School team. Apr 2022 | Video FoodCorps fosters culture of health in Klamath County schools Ultimately, stronger partnerships have been formed between OSU Extension and the Klamath County School District and Klamath Falls City Schools. Apr 2022 | Impact story Credit Cindy Brown (Cropped from original) Students enriched through OSU Extension Sherman County after-school program A total of 315 students had attended Extension Afterschool through January 2022. Apr 2022 | Impact story Browse all resources Extension programs for youth Photo: 4-H Website (Cropped from original) 4-H Youth Development 4-H empowers young people with hands-on learning experiences to help them grow and thrive. By creating a safe and welcoming environment, young people develop the skills needed to make a positive impact on the world around them. Program Photo by Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Open Campus OSU Open Campus, a community-based education partnership convened by Oregon State University, provides local access to learning in order to address the unique educational needs of Oregon’s communities. Through a statewide network of... Program Photo by Joe Kline (Cropped from original) Outdoor School This is an exciting time for Oregon and for Oregon’s 5th and 6th grade students as OSU Extension works in collaboration with schools, partners, and communities to support and grow the statewide Outdoor School program, building on a legacy that began in 1966. Program Photo: KidSpirit (Cropped from original) KidSpirit KidSpirit provides young people with intentional, high quality, equitable learning experiences that promote positive interactions. Activities include sports, arts, science, gymnastics, cooking and many other activities offered each summer or throughout the year. Program Food Hero / Héroe de Alimentos Food Hero is your go-to site for quick, delicious, healthy recipes, and helpful tips. Whether you are a beginner or a professional, you will find something new for your family to enjoy. Héroe de Alimentos es su sitio preferido para recetas rápidas, deliciosas, saludables y consejos útiles. Ya sea que usted sea un principiante o un profesional, encontrará algo nuevo para que su familia disfrute. Explore more / Explora más Explore more resources Nutrition and Healthy Eating Parenting Physical Activity Upcoming Events Jun 21 - Jun 24 2022 4-H Summer Camp "Amazing Race" Myrtle Point, OR See All Events Meet Our Experts Kristen Moore 4-H Youth Development Contact me for companion pet 4-H program questions in Multnomah, Washington, and Clackamas counties or if you are interested in getting involved in the statewide DIVE4Ag project. Kristopher Elliott Director and Program Leader, Outdoor School Outdoor Education Gina Galaviz-Yap Juntos Statewide Coordinator José R. García OSU Open Campus Juntos Coordinator See All Youth Education Resources Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Photo: Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Program for tiny 4-H tots? Q: In regards to the horse groups... What can a 2nd grader be involved with. Can they be a part of practices and lessons and just not compete? A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility