Skip to main content OSU Extension Service Search Main navigation Topics Animals and livestock Beef cattle Commercial fishing, crabbing and clamming Dairy Horses Poultry and rabbits Sheep and goats Swine Business and economics Business management Business marketing Estate and succession planning Finance, budgeting and taxes Rural economic development Community vitality Agritourism Community science Community disaster preparedness Community planning Coronavirus (COVID-19) Health outreach Local, regional and community food systems Crop production Berries, table grapes and kiwifruit Field crops Fruit trees Hazelnuts and nut crops Hemp Nursery and greenhouse Organic agriculture Pastures and forages Soil Vegetables and specialty seeds Wine grapes Food Commercial food processing Farm food safety Food security Home food preservation Home food safety and storage Nutrition and healthy eating Recipes Wine, beer, cider and spirits Forests, woodlands and rangelands Christmas trees Cutting and selling trees Fire Forest health and management Non-timber forest products Rangeland conservation and management Tree care Wood processing and products Gardening, lawn and landscape Monthly garden calendars Bees and pollinators Berries and fruit Flowers, shrubs and trees Garden soil and compost Gardening techniques Garden vegetables and herbs Lawn and turfgrass Urban forestry Wildlife Outdoors and environments Climate change Environmental education (PreK-12) Fish and aquatic life Sustainability Wildlife Pests, weeds and diseases Healthy homes Insects Integrated pest management Invasive species Nuisance wildlife Pesticide safety and education Plant diseases Weeds Water and Watersheds Fish and aquatic life Irrigation Ponds Residential water and wells Riparian areas Water management and conservation Youth, families and health Family emergency preparedness Food security Healthy aging Healthy homes Nutrition and healthy eating Parenting Physical activity Youth education resources Get involved Programs Projects Events About About us Our leadership Program areas Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our history Our impact Get involved Donate Latest content News Career opportunities Extension Community Advisory Network Contact Us Find a location near you Faculty and staff Ask an Expert COVID-19 Safety and Success En Español Topics Animals and Livestock Dairy Photo: Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) Dairy Home Browse Resources Events Our Experts In Your Community Share Description: Dairy Extension at Oregon State University encompasses forage production, herd management, milk processing, and the utilization of dairy products by humans. We provide education, training, and technical assistance to people with dairy-related needs and interests. Featured Resources Dairy Bearing An OSU blog that includes key take-aways of various dairy-related studies and issues, announcements, and other items of interest to dairy producers. Jenifer Cruickshank | Aug 2018 | Online resource OSU Dairy Processing Program The Dairy Processing Program at Oregon State University is primarily an extension program. Its mission is to promote the production of safe and high quality dairy products and to support a healthy and sustainable dairy industry in Oregon. Apr 2018 | Online resource Latest Resources Credit: Lynn Ketchum (Cropped from original) AgriSafe: Talking Total Farmer Health (Podcast) AgriSafe has long been a trusted voice in the health and safety of the people who feed the world, and we’re excited to bring that to you in a new format. Tune in every month to hear the latest from health and safety experts in agriculture. Together we’ll tackle the safety issues important to the producers and ag workers. Apr 2022 | Online resource Credit Elli Korthuis (Cropped from original) Teen learning experiences transformed by dive into VR app creation The DIVE4Ag team is working together to develop an open source, distance education toolkit focused on agriculture that will connect youth, educators, and K-12 classrooms to experiential learning. Feb 2022 | Impact story Photo: Juliana Ranches (Cropped from original) RancHER 2021 - Webinar Recordings Here you will find the webinar recordings for RancHER, a webinar series hosted in December 2021. RancHER was organized by Juliana Ranches and sponsored by the Oregon State University Women's Giving Circle. RancHER aims to bring ... Juliana Ranches | Dec 2021 | Collection Browse All Resources Learn More Forage Management resources: nutrition pasture productivity herd health Learn More Milk Processing resources: innovation and research enhancing product safety and quality advancing technological efficiency Latest News Photo: Melody Larson (Cropped from original) Extension coordinates hay donations to relieve those affected by wildfires More than 500 tons have been donated and moved around the state through partnerships. Kym Pokorny | Oct 19, 2020 | News story Photo: Ben Davis (Cropped from original) Pioneering Extension dairy processing specialist appointed department head Lisbeth Goddik devoted a large part of her Extension appointment at OSU to help build an artisan cheese industry in Oregon. Chris Branam | Feb 28, 2020 | News story New blood test reveals susceptibility to costly disease in dairy cows Oregon State University researchers have developed a blood test to identify dairy cows are susceptible to bovine clinical mastitis. Chris Branam | Jun 18, 2018 | News story All News Explore more resources Organic Agriculture Pasture and Forages Upcoming Events Jun 15 QPR Suicide Prevention Training for Farmers & Ranchers 6:00 pm - 7:30 pm PDT Online Jun 16 Entrenamiento sobre la prevención del suicidio de QPR para agricultores y ganaderos (en español) 2:00 pm - 4:00 pm PDT Online See All Events Meet Our Experts Sergio Arispe Associate Professor, Livestock and Rangeland Dari Biswanath Assistant Professor Contact me with any question about soil, agronomy, water in Klamath Falls/Basin Area Jenifer Cruickshank Dairy Management Lisbeth Goddik Dairy Processing Extension Specialist Contact me for questions about dairy foods See All Dairy Experts Have a question? Ask an Expert! Ask an Expert is a way for you to get answers from the Oregon State University Extension Service. We have experts in family and health, community development, food and agriculture, coastal issues, forestry, programs for young people, and gardening. Ask us a question Photo: Stephen Ward (Cropped from original) Is my cheese basket safe to eat? Q: We received by mail, a cheese basket. It was room temperature, and apparently had been for at least a day. We put it in the fridge. Is it safe to eat? A: View answer | View all featured questions See More Questions Contact us Ask an expert Find your county Extension office Report a website issue En Español How to use this website Search Footer Home Topics Get involved About OSU Extension Catalog Our impact News User account menu For employees Log in OSU Extension is part of the division of Extension and Engagement. OSU recognizes the impact that its land grant history has had on Indigenous communities in Oregon. See our land acknowledgement. Copyright © 1995-2022 Oregon State University | Web disclaimer/privacy | Equal opportunity/accessibility