Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Finance and Administration » Surplus Property Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search About Us Contact Us Staff Directory Surplus FAQ Fees and Rates Departments and Agencies Pickup & Drop-Off Request Department Purchases Resumption Supplies Orders Electronics Disposal Public Sales OSUsed Store Online Sales Public Surplus FAQ Sealed Bids Animal Placement Program Public Sales Terms and Conditions Submit a Sealed Bid Central Lost and Found Lost an Item? Found an Item? OSU Central Lost & Found Policy Campus Moves Office of the Controller Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift About Us Contact Us Staff Directory Surplus FAQ Fees and Rates Departments and Agencies Pickup & Drop-Off Request Department Purchases Resumption Supplies Orders Electronics Disposal Public Sales OSUsed Store Online Sales Public Surplus FAQ Sealed Bids Animal Placement Program Public Sales Terms and Conditions Submit a Sealed Bid Central Lost and Found Lost an Item? Found an Item? OSU Central Lost & Found Policy Campus Moves Office of the Controller Pickup & Drop-Off Request About Surplus Pick-up Requests All OSU-owned property must go through Surplus Property to be disposed. Learn about our sales fee and how much money will be returned to your department on our fees page. Departments are credited their portion of the sales once a month. Any equipment on inventory will remain on a department's inventory until sold or otherwise disposed of. If an active inventory item is sold to another department, the Fixed Assets department will transfer the active number to the buying department. If the active inventory item is sold to the general public, the Fixed Assets department will remove it from OSU inventory. All computers, monitors and TVs must be disposed of through Surplus Property, regardless of condition. These items cannot be thrown away in the trash in accordance with Oregon law. Read more about OSU electronics disposal here. Each department must fill out a surplus pick-up request (SPR) form online. This form must be filled out whether you need Surplus to pick up items or if your department will be dropping items off. If you wish to drop off yourself, drop-off hours at the warehouse are Monday, Wednesday and Thursday 9 am – 4 pm. Due to space constraints, drop-offs without prior communication may not be accepted, so please make prior arrangements by calling the Surplus warehouse at 541-737-7347. All OSU inventory stickers on items must be noted on the SPR form. The form is audited against the inventory records to confirm ownership and eligibility for sale. Pick-ups are made as soon as possible, based on the current workload and available storage space. This process normally takes an average of 10 working days. Please do NOT place surplus items in hallways, as it is a violation of the Oregon Fire Code (Section 1030, 2010 Edition) to place material in an exit hallway or corridor. Civil penalties may be issued for such offenses. Submit a Pick-Up Request button-surplus-pick-up.png If you have difficulties or questions, please contact us. ‹ Departments and Agencies up Department Purchases › Contact Info Office of Finance and Administration Oregon State University Corvallis, OR 97331-4501 Contact us with your comments and questions Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer