Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Finance and Administration » Campus Recycling Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search About Us Contact Us Recycling FAQ Student Employment Opportunities Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Fees and Rates Services Service Requests Event Recycling Event Recycling Request Form Composting OSU Compost Policy Composting in Departments Department Compost Request Department Compost FAQ Confidential Shredding Trash Disposal "All in the Hall" Program Resources OSU Recycle Guide Bottles & Cans Paper Cardboard Dining Facilities & Special Events Special Recyclables All Recyclables Schedule and Bin Locations Signage and Documents Recycle Bin Options Waste Hierarchy Learning Resources Reusables Guide Events and Opportunities Volunteer Opportunities Beyond Earth Day Eco-Justice Challenge Grads Give Back The Great Move Out Res. Hall Move-Out Donation Drive Res. Hall Donation Drive How-To's Res. Hall Move-Out History Off-Campus Move Out Donation Drive Master Recycler Class Master Recycler Class Documents Volunteer Hours Log 2022 Community Recycling Presentation Request Master Recyclers for Your Event Campus Race to Zero Waste at OSU About Campus Race to Zero Waste Past Campus Race to Zero Waste Results Repair Fairs DIY Demo Library Related Sites Office of the Controller Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift About Us Contact Us Recycling FAQ Student Employment Opportunities Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Fees and Rates Services Service Requests Event Recycling Event Recycling Request Form Composting OSU Compost Policy Composting in Departments Department Compost Request Department Compost FAQ Confidential Shredding Trash Disposal "All in the Hall" Program Resources OSU Recycle Guide Bottles & Cans Paper Cardboard Dining Facilities & Special Events Special Recyclables All Recyclables Schedule and Bin Locations Signage and Documents Recycle Bin Options Waste Hierarchy Learning Resources Reusables Guide Events and Opportunities Volunteer Opportunities Beyond Earth Day Eco-Justice Challenge Grads Give Back The Great Move Out Res. Hall Move-Out Donation Drive Res. Hall Donation Drive How-To's Res. Hall Move-Out History Off-Campus Move Out Donation Drive Master Recycler Class Master Recycler Class Documents Volunteer Hours Log 2022 Community Recycling Presentation Request Master Recyclers for Your Event Campus Race to Zero Waste at OSU About Campus Race to Zero Waste Past Campus Race to Zero Waste Results Repair Fairs DIY Demo Library Related Sites Office of the Controller Previous story‹ Next story"› All Stories × Upcoming service delay: To support the end of year student move-out and Commencement, Campus Recycling will not be picking up special materials requests June 1-15. Please submit your requests early or consider if we can assist you after June 15th. We thank you for your consideration. Our Mission Campus Recycling develops and maintains a cost effective and efficient waste management program that focuses on reducing, reusing and recycling with trash disposal as a last resort. About Us Services Resources Events and Opportunities Related Sites Office of the Controller About Us › Campus Recycling News OSU WordPress Feed Eco-Reps Take First Place at Food Future Hackathon - May 10, 2022 This March, a team of five OSU Eco-Reps was awarded first place in the Best Idea category at the Food Future Hackathon, hosted by Arizona State University, the Food Conservation Alliance, and the Environmental Protection Agency, among other organizations. The Food Future Hackathon challenges teams of high school and university students across the country to […] Student Staff Spotlight - May 5, 2022 In order to foster camaraderie and community between colleagues and celebrate individual and collective employee success, the OSU Sustainability Office and Materials Management department have begun a student staff spotlight series. We want to build a sense of belonging for all who are employed by our organizations and to support the diversity of our backgrounds. […] Student Staff Spotlight - Mar 10, 2022 In order to foster camaraderie and community between colleagues and celebrate individual and collective employee success, the OSU Sustainability Office and Materials Management department have begun a student staff spotlight series. We want to build a sense of belonging for all who are employed by our organizations and to support the diversity of our backgrounds. Meet Lane Walter, our student policy coordinator! Sustainability Events Contact Us Campus Recycling Property Services Bldg 644 SW 13th St. Corvallis, OR 97331 Send E-mail Phone: 541-737-7347 Facebook Twitter Instagram Contact Info Office of Finance and Administration Oregon State University Corvallis, OR 97331-4501 Contact us with your comments and questions Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer