Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Office of Facilities Submit a Request Services Types of Service Requests Facilities Building Contacts Contractors & Consultants Design Standards Invoices Staff Resources Sustainability All Yale buildings are open and operating at full pre-COVID occupancy. This return plan includes all Yale spaces such as classrooms, seminar rooms, lecture halls, studios, open workplaces, laboratories, common areas, lounge spaces, bathrooms, and elevators, among others. This operating mode also applies to all properties leased by the University. Learn more about Returning to Yale. Questions? Visit the Facilities (FAQs). Facilities contractors and vendors will need to continue daily check-ins. Yale University Office of Facilities Featured Updates Making the Yale campus festive for graduates and their families May 24, 2022 It takes many hands to get the campus prepped and pretty for Commencement weekend. A dedicated team of supervisors and staff work tirelessly to ready the buildings, grounds,... Training for AssetWorks transition scheduled in June May 24, 2022 A reminder that the Office of Facilities is replacing its current management system (FAMIS) with AssetWorks on July 1, 2022. The new system will provide asset management,... Spring Salvage and food drive redirect waste from Yale move-out May 19, 2022 After a two-year hiatus due to COVID-19, Spring Salvage returned in earnest this year with a companion food drive that redirected unneeded provisions to New Haven families in... More news... How can we help you? Types of service requests Emergency repairs: 203-432-6888 Urgent or routine: Submit a request Find your building’s Facilities service contacts Facilities employees FAMIS online billing and space management (profile required) Lockshop key request form Outages or shutdowns Search buildings at Yale School of Medicine space request Thank a Facilities staff member Inside Facilities, and more Read the blog Subscribe to the newsletter Get to know your colleagues Search Facilities jobs Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Facebook Twitter Flickr iTunes YouTube