Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Infrastructure and Sustainability Main navigation About About Location Awards & History Culture Leadership Team News Sustainable Infrastructure at Georgia Tech Administration Analytics & Communication Business Office Contacts Internal Information IT Support Organizational Structure Sharepoint Link to Standard Forms and Templates Standard Forms and Templates Certificate of Insurance and More Construction_COVID Services Building Engineering and Energy Strategies Building Maintenance Custodial Design & Construction Environmental Health & Safety Event Staging Fleet Management Keys & Locks Landscaping & Grounds Recycling & Waste Utilities Infrastructure Maps and GIS Submit a Request Custodial Service Key Policy Landscaping Requests Lighting Request Locate Utilities Request Maintenance Requests Pest Control Request Project Requests Disinfectant Webform Phone Line Repair Request Covid-19 & Infrastructure and Sustainability FAQ User account menu Contact Us Open Search Search Search Student Center Exhibition Hall Check out the features of the newly reopened pathway connecting the arts plaza with Tech Green. Learn More about the Student Center Renovation Home Infrastructure and Sustainability (I&S) is a unit of the Division of Administration and Finance. We support operational excellence through innovative and efficient physical infrastructure services for the Georgia Institute of Technology. The unit is comprised of 14 departments that service the campus: Building Engineering and Energy Strategies (BEES), Building Maintenance, Capital Planning and Space Management, Custodial, Data Analytics, Design & Construction, Environmental Health & Safety, Fleet Services, Keys & Locks, Landscape Services, Solid Waste and Recycling, Staging, Sustainability, and Utilities & Engineering. We are a team of dedicated professionals responsible for providing sustainable, safe and well-maintained facilities throughout the campus. Notice: Covid-19 Resources for employees The USG Human Resources office aims to assure employees understand the benefits and resources available related to Covid-19. Please keep in mind, guidance is changing rapidly as the situation evolves. Additional information and updates will be posted on the USG Human resources website at https://www.usg.edu/hr/benefits/coronavirus as they are received. For any questions regarding construction projects on campus, please contact Assoc. Director, Construction Services - Chris Sanders at chris.sanders@facilities.gatech.edu or 470-494-0083. Construction Notices Ferst Drive Traffic Impacted by Water Line Installation May 23 - June 6 Traffic will be impacted on Ferst Drive due to the installation of a new water line. Rerouting of Communication Lines Affects W02 Parking Beginning Wednesday, May 11, contractors will be onsite outside the Smithgall Student Services Building and W02 Student Center Parking Deck to reroute communication lines. Steam Line Replacement Project Impacts Pedestrian Walkways Beginning May 9. Pedestrian walkways will be impacted between the Boggs Building, Love Manufacturing Building, the IC Lawn, and the Manufacturing Related Disciplines Complex beginning May 9 for a steam replacement project. Infrastructure and Sustainability News A Banner Year for Brodzik Emma Brodzik, campus sustainability project manager, earns her master's this weekend. Down to Earth — Every Day Georgia Tech will celebrate its 25th annual Earth Day with a 4-day schedule of events this week. Who’s Down for Earth Day? A few events have opened registration or are already collecting items — so get a head start on your Earth Day plans. Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN