Skip to main content Link to TU homepage × Close Menu College of Arts & Sciences College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Business College of Health Sciences College of Law Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Faculty & Adjuncts Aila Hoss Aila Hoss Assistant Professor of Law College of Law Law aila-hoss@utulsa.edu 918-631-2442 Website College of Law Room 230 Curriculum Vitae Education JD – University of Oregon School of Law BA – Emory University Bio Aila Hoss is an Assistant Professor of Law at the University of Tulsa College of Law where she teaches and researches Indian law and health law. Professor Hoss practiced public health law as a staff attorney with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s Public Health Law Program, where she worked to improve public health through the development of legal tools and the provision of legal technical assistance to state, Tribal, local, and territorial governments. Her work at CDC included supporting the agency’s Ebola Emergency Operations Center and serving as a faculty member for the agency’s Working Effectively with Tribal Governments course. Prior to joining TU Law, she was a visiting assistant professor at Indiana University McKinney School of Law in Indianapolis. Her research explores topics in health law and Indian law, particularly Tribal public health law and the impact of federal Indian law on health outcomes. She is an active member of the Indiana bar. Research Interests Public Health Law Federal Indian Law Tribal Public Health Law Teaching Interests Federal Indian Law American Indian Health Law Public Health Law Food and Drug Law Legislation Property Publications Law Reviews Indiana’s Indian Laws: Indigenous Erasure and Racism in the Land of the Indians, 30 Kan. J. L. & Pub. Pol’y 184 (2021). COVID-19 and Tribes: The Structural Violence of Federal Indian Law, 2 Ariz. St. Law J. Online 162 (2020) (invited). Decriminalization as Substance Use Disorder Prevention, 51 U. Tol. L. Rev. 477 (2020) (invited). A Framework for Tribal Public Health Law, 20 Nev. Law J. 113 (2019). Introduction: Exploring the Intersection of Immigration Law and Health Policy, 16 Ind. Health L. Rev. 173 (2019) (invited). Legalizing Harm Reduction, 80 Ohio State Law J. 825 (2019) (invited). Tribal Public Health Data And Surveillance, 44 S. Ill. U. L.J. 27 (2019) (invited). Public Use of Recreational Marijuana: A Legal Landscape of State Law, 41 Seton Hall Legis. J. 283 (2017) (with Dawn Pepin, Gillian Schauer, and Carissa Baker Holmes). Emergency Declarations and Tribes: Mechanisms Under Tribal and Federal Law, 24 Mich. St. Int’l L. Rev. 33 (2015) (with Gregory Sunshine). Book Chapters Public Health Law and American Indians and Alaska Natives Public Health Law: Concepts and Case Studies for Practitioners (2021) (with Michelle Castagne) The US Legal System and Sources of Authority for Public Health Laws Public Health Law: Concepts and Case Studies for Practitioners (2021) (with Lauren Tonti) Journal Articles Water is Life: Law, Systemic Racism, and Water Security in Indian Country, Health Security, Vol 19(S1) (2021) (with Heather Tanana and Julie Combs). Receiving Recognition: A Case for occupational therapists as mental and behavioral health providers, American Journal of Occupational Therapy, vol. 75(5) (2021) (with Victoria Garcia-Wilburn, Meghan Pudeler, Emily Beukema, Candice Rothenbuhler, and Hannah Stoll). Yes, You Need a Lawyer: Integrating Legal Epidemiology Into Health Research, Public Health Reports, Vol 135(6), 856-858 (2020) (with Corey Davis and Scott Burris). Association of State Laws with Increased Influenza Vaccination among Hospital-Based Healthcare Personnel, American Journal of Preventative Medicine, 56(6):e177−e183 (2019) (with Megan Lindley, Yi Mu, Dawn Pepin, Elizabeth Kalayil, Katharina van Santen, Jonathan Edwards, and Daniel Pollock). Federal Indian Law as a Structural Determinant of Health, Journal of Law, Medicine, and Ethics, 47 S4: 34-42 (2019). Predicting pharmacy naloxone stocking and dispensing following a statewide standing order, Indiana 2016, Drug and Alcohol Dependence 188(1):187-192 (2018) (with Beth Meyerson, Jon Agley, Alissa Davis, Wasantha Jayawardene, DJ Shannon, Priscilla Ryder, Karleen Ritchie, and Ruth Gassman). State Statutes and Regulations Related to Human Papillomavirus Vaccination, Human Vaccines and Immunotherapeutics, 15(7-8):1519-1526 (2019) (with Beth Meyerson and Gregory Zimet). State Laws Requiring Hand Sanitation Stations at Animal Contact Exhibits-United States, March-April 2016, Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report, 66(1):16-18 (2017) (with Colin Basler, Lauren Stevenson, Kelly Gambino-Shirley, Misha Park Robyn, and Megin Nichols). The Latest in Vaccine Policies: Selected Issues in School Vaccinations, Healthcare Worker Vaccinations, and Pharmacist Vaccination Authority Laws, Journal of Law, Medicine, and Ethics, 45(S1):16-19 (2017) (with Leila Barraza and Cason Schmit). State Public Health Enabling Authorities: Results of a Fundamental Activities Assessment Examining Core and Essential Services, Journal of Public Health Management and Practice, 22(6):529-536 (2016) (with Akshara Menon and Liza Corso). Tribal Water Rights: Exploring Issues in Dam Construction and Sovereignty, Journal of Law, Medicine, and Ethics, 43(1):60-63 (2015) (with Jerilyn Church, Chinyere Ekechi, and Anika Larson). Other Federal Indian Law is Racist (reviewing Adam Crepelle, Lies, Damn Lies, And Federal Indian Law: The Ethics of Citing Racist Precedent in Contemporary Federal Indian Law, 44 N.Y.U. Review of Law & Social Change 529 (2021)), JOTWELL (2022). Beyond the Pandemic: Historical Infrastructure, Funding, and Data Access Challenges in Indian Country, COVID-19 Policy Playbook: Legal Recommendations for a Safer, More Equitable Future (2021) (with Heather Tanana). Critical Race Theory and the Trust Responsibility, The Regulatory Review, University of Pennsylvania Program on Regulation (2021). Tribal Opioid Litigation: February 2021 Update, Issue Brief Prepared for the Great Lakes Inter-Tribal Epidemiology Center (2021) (with Julie Combs). Tribes are Public Health Authorities: Protecting Tribal Sovereignty in Times of Public Health Crisis, Issue Brief Prepared for the Great Lakes Inter-Tribal Epidemiology Center (2021). Changing the Narrative in Federal Indian Law, Oklahoma Center for the Humanities (2020). Upholding Tribal Sovereignty and Promoting Tribal Public Health Capacity During the COVID-19 Pandemic, Assessing Legal Responses to COVID-19 (2020) (with Heather Tanana). Getting realistic about your endless list of writing projects, The Research Whisperer (2019). Introduction: Exploring the Intersection of Immigration Law and Health Policy, 16 Ind. Health L. Rev. 173 (2019) (invited). Not Another Scott County?, Bill of Health, Harvard Law Petrie-Flom Center (2019) (with Emily Beukema and Nicolas Terry). Opioid Use Disorder and Overdose-Related Legislation in the 2019 Indiana Legislative Session, Indiana University Grand Challenge: Responding to the Addictions Crisis (2019) (with Colleen Whiting, Emily Beukema, Anthony Singer, and Nicolas Terry). Indiana hit hard by opioid overdose epidemic, Indianapolis Star (2018) (with Nicolas Terry). Innovations in Opioid Law and Policy Interventions Workshop: Summary of Proceedings, Indiana University Grand Challenge: Responding to the Addictions Crisis (2018) (with Nicolas Terry, Ross Silverman, and Emily Beukema). Legal and Policy Best Practices in Response to the Substance Abuse Crisis: A Preliminary Report, Indiana University Grand Challenge: Responding to the Addictions Crisis (2018) (with Nicolas Terry, Ross Silverman, Rebecca Crister, Emily Beukema, and Catherine Sterling). Many State Laws Undermine Harm Reduction Strategies in the Opioid Crisis, Bill of Health, Harvard Law Petrie-Flom Center (2018). On Opioids, We Found a Consensus Among Hoosier Experts: It’s Time to Act, Inside Indiana Business (2018) (with Nicolas Terry and Ross Silverman). Opioid Litigation Proceeds: Cautionary Tales From The Tobacco Settlement, Health Affairs Blog (2018) (with Nicolas Terry). State Healthcare Facility Measles, Mumps, and Rubella (MMR) Laws, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Public Health Law Program (2018) (with Alexandra Bhatti, Lauren Tonti, and Dawn Pepin). State Healthcare Facility Pertussis Vaccinations Laws, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Public Health Law Program (2016) (with Alexandrea Bhatti, Michele Nakata, Dawn Pepin, and Jennifer Black). Marijuana Legalization in Indian Country: Selected Resources, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Public Health Law Program (2017) (with Austin Charles and Hillary Li). Selected Tribal Laws Related to Occupational Safety and Health, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Public Health Law Program (2017). State Ambulatory Care Facility Influenza Vaccination Laws, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Public Health Law Program (2017) (with Alexandra Bhatti, Hillary Li, and Dawn Pepin). State Ambulatory Care Facility Pneumococcal Vaccination Laws, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Public Health Law Program (2017) ( with Alexandra Bhatti, Adebola Popoola, and Dawn Pepin). State Healthcare Facility Hepatitis B Vaccination Laws, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Public Health Law Program (2017) (with Adebola Popoola, Alexandra Bhatti, Rachel Hulkower, Dawn Pepin). State Long-Term Care Facility Influenza Vaccination Laws, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Public Health Law Program (2017) (with Hillary Li, Alexandra Bhatti, and Dawn Pepin). State Long-Term Care Facility Pneumococcal Vaccination Laws, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Public Health Law Program (2017) (with Alexandra Bhatti, Dawn Pepin, and Adebola Popoola). Tribal Emergency Preparedness Law, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Public Health Law Program (2017) (with Gregory Sunshine). Selected Tribal Laws Related to Mosquito and Vector Control, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Public Health Law Program (2016) (with Dawn Pepin). Senators Introduce Bill on Tribal Healing to Wellness Courts, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Public Health Law Program (2016). State Hand Sanitation Laws for Animal Contact Exhibits, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Public Health Law Program (2016). State Healthcare Facility Varicella Vaccination Laws, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Public Health Law Program (2016) (with Alexandra Bhatti, Christian Adkins, and Dawn Pepin). Tribal Consultation Selected Readings and Resources, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Public Health Law Program (2016). Tribal Public Health and the Law: Selected Readings and Resources, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Public Health Law Program (2016). Selected Tribal Laws Related to Motor Vehicle Safety, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Public Health Law Program (2015). State Batterer Intervention Program Laws, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Public Health Law Program (2015) (with Dawn Pepin). State Hospital Influenza Vaccination Laws, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Public Health Law Program (2015) (with Alexandra Bhatti, Dawn Pepin, and Jennifer Black). State Hospital Pneumococcal Vaccinations Laws, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Public Health Law Program (2015) (with Alexandra Bhatti, Dawn Pepin, and Jennifer Black). State School Immunization Requirements and Vaccine Exemption Laws, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Public Health Law Program (2015) (with Alexandra Bhatti, Cason Schmit, and Matthew Penn). State Turtle-Associated Salmonellosis Laws, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Public Health Law Program (2015) (with Don Benken). The Affordable Care Act and American Indian and Alaska Native Communities: Selected Readings and Resources, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Public Health Law Program (2015). Tribal Epidemiology Centers Designated as Public Health Authorities Under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Public Health Law Program (2015). State Public Health Department Accreditation Laws, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Public Health Law Program (2014). Tribal Laws Related to Infectious Disease Control, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Public Health Law Program (2014). Courses Taught Property Seminar Federal Indian Law Legislation 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT