Home Faculty Life Prospective Faculty Appointments & Promotions Support & Development Work/Life Retirement News & Events Provost Office Events for Faculty Campus Talks, Lectures, Events Other Campus Events Juneteenth Newsletter Archives Resources COVID-19 Resources Faculty Associations Funding Faculty Handbook Interfolio Forms Diversity Recruitment Affirmative Action Guidelines Data & Reports Faculty Engagement Resource Database Provost’s Lecture on Diversity Resources & Funding Excellence through Diversity Fund Initiatives Penn Faculty Fellows Predoctoral Fellows Penn Mellon Fellows Visiting Faculty Fellowships PIK Professors Visiting Scholar Spring 2022 Awards Contacts Names & Contact Info Contact Form Home Faculty Life Prospective Faculty Appointments & Promotions Support & Development Work/Life Retirement News & Events Provost Office Events for Faculty Campus Talks, Lectures, Events Other Campus Events Juneteenth Newsletter Archives Resources COVID-19 Resources Faculty Associations Funding Faculty Handbook Interfolio Forms Diversity Recruitment Affirmative Action Guidelines Data & Reports Faculty Engagement Resource Database Provost’s Lecture on Diversity Resources & Funding Excellence through Diversity Fund Initiatives Penn Faculty Fellows Predoctoral Fellows Penn Mellon Fellows Visiting Faculty Fellowships PIK Professors Visiting Scholar Spring 2022 Awards Contacts Names & Contact Info Contact Form Search: 27 May What I’ve learned: Wharton’s Anita Summers 23 May Talking admissions with Whitney Soule 06 May With plants as a model, studying the ‘complexity and reproducibility’ of developmental biology 28 Apr Six from Penn elected to American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2022 25 Apr Supporting education in Ghana 21 Apr How universities can support mid-career faculty of color 20 Apr Climate resilience, economic competitiveness, and equity at the megaregional level 18 Apr Elizabeth Heller’s lab uncovers how drug addiction can create lasting changes in genes 15 Apr Earth Week offers immersive opportunities to connect with nature 08 Apr Four Penn faculty awarded Guggenheim Fellowships Faculty Life Resources for Every Stage of Your Career Prospective Faculty Prospective Faculty Prospective Faculty Open positions, benefits, living in Philadelphia Appointments & Promotions Appointments & Promotions Appointments & Promotions Policies and procedures Support & Development Support & Development Support & Development Pandemic resources, teaching, academic integrity, leadership, mentorship, PhD resources, engagement Work/Life Work/Life Work/Life Workshops, family life, caregiving, mental health, faculty leaves Retirement Retirement Retirement Staying engaged, PASEF, ASEF, resources News & Events Faculty in the News Coping tips for parents and teachers after the Uvalde school shooting Howard Stevenson of the Graduate School of Education provides tips on coping in the aftermath of the shootings in Uvalde, Texas. Axios on May 31, 2022 How Elon Musk’s Twitter takeover may help change stock market rules Jill Fisch of the Law School comments on allegations that Elon Musk ripped off Twitter shareholders to the tune of $143 million. Politico.com on May 30, 2022 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter The coronavirus will likely evade Paxlovid eventually. What that will mean for the pandemic is unclear Sara Cherry of the Perelman School of Medicine argues that researchers weren’t monitoring enough rebound cases of COVID for possible resistance. “PBS NewsHour” on May 30, 2022 Brittney Griner’s supporters have a new strategy to free her: Make noise Ph.D. candidate& Kimberly St. Julian-Varnon of the School of Arts & Sciences is quoted on the need to put pressure on Russia to release a detained W.N.B.A. player. The New York Times on May 28, 2022 More Faculty in the NewsMore Faculty in the News Featured Event Class of 2022 – 266th Commencement On May 16th, Penn will be celebrating its 266th Commencement for the class of 2022. All are welcome to attend the ceremony live (10:15 am start) in Franklin Field or via webcast. A Commencement ceremony for the Class of 2020 and Class of 2021 Master’s and Doctoral Degree Recipients will be held May 22. Upcoming Deadlines No upcoming deadlines this month to showcase Learn MoreLearn More Faculty Handbook Policies governing faculty life at Penn HandbookHandbook Interfolio Software for managing faculty recruitment, appointments, and promotions InterfolioInterfolio U@Penn Portal for accessing Workday, benefits, and other University resources U@PennU@Penn Faculty Senate The representative voice for Penn’s full-time teaching faculty. Faculty SenateFaculty Senate A Penn Commitment Diversity & Inclusion “Faculty diversity, complemented by inclusion and equity, contribute to the mix of ideas, priorities and methods that constitute excellence in research and scholarship. Diversity, inclusion and equity are critical for preparing undergraduate, graduate, and professional school students to flourish as citizens who live and lead in a global society.” –2019 Update to Action Plan for Diversity Recruitment DSAs, search process steps, addressing bias, funding. Faculty Engagement Presidential and PIK Professors, Provost Lecture on Diversity, Excellence through Diversity Fund Data & Reports Faculty surveys, action plan, inclusion reports, School diversity plans Resources & Funding Faculty guides, fellowships, anti-racism readings, University offices As Vice Provost for Faculty, I work to advance the recruitment, retention, development, promotion, happiness, and well-being of Penn faculty, with special attention to equity, diversity, and inclusion. I am honored to work with colleagues across the University to advance our shared goals. - Laura W. Perna, Vice Provost for Faculty & GSE Centennial Presidential Professor of Education As Provost, I am proud to work closely with my faculty colleagues to advance our shared academic mission. Penn has a historic tradition of faculty-driven leadership, which we see today across every part of our university, from deans and the Faculty Senate to hundreds of diverse departments, graduate groups, programs, centers, and institutes. - Wendell Pritchett, Provost & James S. Riepe Presidential Professor of Law and Education As Senior Vice Provost for Research, I work with faculty colleagues, students and postdoctoral fellows to advance research at Penn by targeting emerging opportunities that define new frontiers, supporting collaborative initiatives and multi-disciplinary centers, and providing infrastructure that underpins Penn’s research, innovation and commercialization. - Dawn A. Bonnell, Senior Vice Provost for Research & Henry Robinson Towne Professor of Engineering As Vice Provost and Director of the Penn Libraries, I am proud to partner with faculty, researchers, and students to produce, preserve, and provide access to knowledge. The Penn Libraries is committed to delivering resources, services, and expertise to the Penn Community at point of need, anytime, anywhere. - Constantia Constantinou, H. Carton Rogers III Vice Provost & Director of the Penn Libraries As Penn’s Ombuds, I am committed to providing a safe, confidential place for all in the Penn community to air concerns about work-related issues and to help identify solutions. I believe firmly in the importance of work-life balance for both physical and mental health. - Jennifer A. Pinto-Martin, Penn's Ombuds & MacInnes Professor of Nursing Since my days as an undergraduate student here at Penn, I've tried to serve and improve our beloved university and to serve and improve our society through our beloved university. - Charles Howard, Vice President for Social Equity and Community & University Chaplain As Vice Provost for Global Initiatives, I provide strategic direction for Penn’s global endeavors, with a focus on providing the widest range of opportunities for global engagement in education and research for Penn’s students and faculty. - Ezekiel J. Emanuel, Vice Provost for Global Initiatives & Special Advisor to the World Health Organizaiton Penn's tradition of strong faculty governance has served the university and its faculty and students well. I encourage the faculty to watch their inboxes for word of upcoming Faculty Senate Seminars which provide a venue for the faculty to engage the university's leadership in discussion of ways to make Penn an even better place to work and learn. - Kathleen Hall Jamieson, Immediate Past Chair, Faculty Senate, Director of the Annenberg Public Policy Center As Deputy Provost, I coordinate and oversee the academic policies and programs that govern education across the undergraduate and graduate levels, including student and faculty related issues. As a Penn graduate and faculty member, I am devoted to making Penn as inclusive as possible and contributing to the success of Penn’s students both academically and personally. - Beth A. Winkelstein, Interim Provost, Deputy Provost & Eduardo D. Glandt President's Distinguished Professor Bioengineering Penn's tradition of strong faculty governance has served the university and its faculty and students well. I encourage the faculty to watch their inboxes for word of upcoming Faculty Senate Seminars which provide a venue for the faculty to engage the university's leadership in discussion of ways to make Penn an even better place to work and learn. - William W. Braham, Faculty Senate Chair, Professor of Architecture & Director of MSD-EBD Program Penn's tradition of strong faculty governance has served the university and its faculty and students well. I encourage the faculty to watch their inboxes for word of upcoming Faculty Senate Seminars which provide a venue for the faculty to engage the university's leadership in discussion of ways to make Penn an even better place to work and learn. - Vivian L. Gadsden, Faculty Senate Chair-Elect, Director of National Center on Fathers and Families & Associate Director of National Center on Adult Literacy Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty The Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty facilitates every stage of a faculty member’s life at Penn, from appointment through post-retirement. It manages academic appointments and promotions; supports initiatives to enhance faculty recruitment, mentoring, climate, retention, and leadership; provides resources, policies, and information; collaborates with peer institutions on important initiatives for faculty; and advances Penn’s commitment to equity, diversity, and inclusion. Other Penn Offices University Diversity Website Ombuds Title IX Officer Human Resources Faculty Affairs Coordinators by School Contact the OVPF 1 College Hall, Suite 119 University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104-6303 USA TEL: 215-746-4771 EMAIL: provost-fac@upenn.edu © Copyright 2022 - University of Pennsylvania - Provost's Center - Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty / Privacy Policy / Report accessibility issues & get help