Skip to Main Content Brown University Faculty Club Secondary Navigation Navigation Member Portal Search Menu Site Navigation Home Private Events Private Dining Rooms Service Policies Room Reservations Meeting & Event Accompaniments Food Allergies Menus Luncheon à La Carte Barbara's Bar Private Event Menus Membership Member Events Contact Search Faculty Club Contact Us Questions or Reservations? Call or email us for a la carte dining reservations or general inquiries. Contact Us Questions or Reservations? Call or email us for a la carte dining reservations or general inquiries. 1 Bannister St Providence, RI 02912-1870 (directions and map) Phone: (401) 863-3023 Fax: (401) 863-9110 *Private Event Inquiries* Email: Cheryl_Carberry@brown.edu *General Inquiries* Email: Faculty_Club@brown.edu Mailing Address Brown Faculty Club Brown University Box 1870 1 Bannister Street Providence, RI 02912 Meet The Staff Andrew Geoghegan Assistant Director Faculty Club and Catering Operations Andrew_Geoghegan@brown.edu (401) 863-3404, (401) 863-6527 Following Culinary school, Andrew worked in a number of restaurants in his hometown of Coventry England. Moving to London, he held various Management positions in the hospitality sector, notably as an Operations Manager at The Barbican Center, home of the Royal Shakespeare Company and The Royal Philharmonic Orchestra. This position included development of hospitality at The National Gallery. Additional experience was gained working in high volume eateries in Beverly Hills and Santa Monica, as an Operations Manager at The University of Warwick for the Warwick Arts Center in the UK overseeing events and hospitality, and as Operations Manager for Panera bread, overseeing Catering operations in three states. Andrew joined the Brown community in 2017, working in the retail arm of Dining Services, and accepted the role of Assistant Director of Faculty Club and Catering Operations in October 2019. Cheryl Carberry Sales & Event Manager Cheryl_Carberry@brown.edu (401) 863-3403 Cheryl has served a number of roles at The Brown Faculty Club since 1989. In 1992, Cheryl was appointed the Club's Function Manager and in June 2018 named the Sales and Event Manager. Throughout her career, she has had the pleasure of planning countless exceptional and memorable events with University departments, external organizations, our club members, families and friends. Cheryl denotes a commitment to superior customer service and plans each event to personally reflect your expectations. She constantly explores new and creative ideas, suggesting local, seasonal, ethnic, and theme menus. Her diverse event designs include: Weddings, Bar/Bat Mitzvahs, Anniversaries, Baby and Bridal Showers, Graduation Celebrations, Retirements, Workshops, Conferences, Business meetings and more. Cheryl's daily objective is to make each event significant and unique in every way imaginable. Kristen DePetro Financial Coordinator Kristen_DePetro@brown.edu (401) 863-1908, (401) 863-3023 Financial Coordinator for the Faculty Club, Kristen has been at the club for the past five years. She is the point person for all member services and any financial inquiries. Kristen has an extensive background in hospitality, communications and financial management. Prior to joining the Faculty Club she lived and worked in New York City and now resides, with her family, in East Greenwich, Rhode Island. Kristen is a graduate of Rhode Island College with a bachelor's degree in Business Administration and Communications. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Private Events Private Dining Rooms Service Policies Room Reservations Meeting & Event Accompaniments Food Allergies Menus Luncheon à La Carte Barbara's Bar Private Event Menus Membership Member Events Contact Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Member Portal This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Contact Us Open details for Contact Us Bookmark this Page