Faculty Distinction 2021/22 Humanities Art History and Archaeology Classics East Asian Languages and Cultures English and Comparative Literature French and Romance Philology Germanic Languages Italian Latin American and Iberian Cultures Middle Eastern, South Asian and African Studies Music Philosophy Religion Slavic Languages Natural Science Astronomy Biological Sciences Chemistry Earth and Environmental Sciences Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology Mathematics Physics Psychology Statistics Social Science African American and African Diaspora Studies Anthropology Economics History Political Science Sociology School of the Arts Film Program Theatre Program Visual Arts Program Writing Program School of Professional Studies School of Professional Studies Additional Years Faculty Distinction 2020/21 Faculty Distinction 2019/20 Previous Years’ Booklets Faculty Distinction 2021/22 Humanities Art History and Archaeology Classics East Asian Languages and Cultures English and Comparative Literature French and Romance Philology Germanic Languages Italian Latin American and Iberian Cultures Middle Eastern, South Asian and African Studies Music Philosophy Religion Slavic Languages Natural Science Astronomy Biological Sciences Chemistry Earth and Environmental Sciences Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology Mathematics Physics Psychology Statistics Social Science African American and African Diaspora Studies Anthropology Economics History Political Science Sociology School of the Arts Film Program Theatre Program Visual Arts Program Writing Program School of Professional Studies School of Professional Studies Additional Years Faculty Distinction 2020/21 Faculty Distinction 2019/20 Previous Years’ Booklets Search for: Faculty Distinction 2021/22 Celebrating the awards, honors, and recognition of the Faculty of Arts & Sciences Panagiota Daskalopoulos Professor of Mathematics Elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Thomas DiPrete Giddings Professor of Sociology; Director, Institute of Social and Economic Research and Policy Elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Andreas Huyssen Villard Professor Emeritus of German and Comparative Literature Elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Saidiya Hartman University Professor Elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Michael Harris Professor of Mathematics Elected to the National Academy of Sciences Jennifer Lee Julian Clarence Levi Professor of Social Sciences Elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Mae Ngai Lung Family Professor of Asian American Studies and Professor of History; Co-Director Center for Study of Race and Ethnicity Elected to the American Acadmey of Arts & Sciences Mario Small Quetelet Professor of Social Science Elected to the National Academy of Sciences As the intellectual heart of Columbia University, the Faculty of Arts and Sciences anchors a longstanding tradition of academic excellence and a world class approach to undergraduate, graduate, and professional education. Each year, it is our privilege to recognize and celebrate the professors who advance a tradition of excellence that dates back to Columbia’s founding in 1754. As we gather to graduate in person the first class since the start of the pandemic, the Executive Committee would like to take this opportunity to acknowledge the rigorous commitment to pedagogy and scholarly excellence that these awards and honors represent. Our remarkable faculty go above and beyond to foster the extraordinary research and learning environment of which our students are the proud beneficiaries as they make their way into the world. Carlos J. Alonso Dean of the Graduate School of Arts & Sciences Vice President for Graduate Education Morris A. and Alma Schapiro Professor in the Humanities Amy E. Hungerford Executive Vice President for Arts & Sciences Dean of the Faculty of Arts & Sciences Ruth Fulton Benedict Professor of English and Comparative Literature James J. Valentini Dean of Columbia College Vice President for Undergraduate Education Henry L. and Lucy G. Moses Professor Faculty Distinction 2021/22 Celebrating the awards, honors, and recognition of the Faculty of Arts & Sciences Panagiota Daskalopoulos Professor of Mathematics Elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Thomas DiPrete Giddings Professor of Sociology; Director, Institute of Social and Economic Research and Policy Elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Andreas Huyssen Villard Professor Emeritus of German and Comparative Literature Elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Saidiya Hartman University Professor Elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Michael Harris Professor of Mathematics Elected to the National Academy of Sciences Jennifer Lee Julian Clarence Levi Professor of Social Sciences Elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Mae Ngai Lung Family Professor of Asian American Studies and Professor of History; Co-Director Center for Study of Race and Ethnicity Elected to the American Acadmey of Arts & Sciences Mario Small Quetelet Professor of Social Science Elected to the National Academy of Sciences As the intellectual heart of Columbia University, the Faculty of Arts and Sciences anchors a longstanding tradition of academic excellence and a world class approach to undergraduate, graduate, and professional education. Each year, it is our privilege to recognize and celebrate the professors who advance a tradition of excellence that dates back to Columbia’s founding in 1754. As we gather to graduate in person the first class since the start of the pandemic, the Executive Committee would like to take this opportunity to acknowledge the rigorous commitment to pedagogy and scholarly excellence that these awards and honors represent. Our remarkable faculty go above and beyond to foster the extraordinary research and learning environment of which our students are the proud beneficiaries as they make their way into the world. Carlos J. Alonso Dean of the Graduate School of Arts & Sciences Vice President for Graduate Education Morris A. and Alma Schapiro Professor in the Humanities Amy E. Hungerford Executive Vice President for Arts & Sciences Dean of the Faculty of Arts & Sciences Ruth Fulton Benedict Professor of English and Comparative Literature James J. Valentini Dean of Columbia College Vice President for Undergraduate Education Henry L. and Lucy G. Moses Professor Faculty Distinction 2021/22 Celebrating the awards, honors, and recognition of the Faculty of Arts & Sciences Panagiota Daskalopoulos Professor of Mathematics Elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Thomas DiPrete Giddings Professor of Sociology; Director, Institute of Social and Economic Research and Policy Elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Andreas Huyssen Villard Professor Emeritus of German and Comparative Literature Elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Saidiya Hartman University Professor Elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Michael Harris Professor of Mathematics Elected to the National Academy of Sciences Jennifer Lee Julian Clarence Levi Professor of Social Sciences Elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Mae Ngai Lung Family Professor of Asian American Studies and Professor of History; Co-Director Center for Study of Race and Ethnicity Elected to the American Acadmey of Arts & Sciences Mario Small Quetelet Professor of Social Science Elected to the National Academy of Sciences As the intellectual heart of Columbia University, the Faculty of Arts and Sciences anchors a longstanding tradition of academic excellence and a world class approach to undergraduate, graduate, and professional education. Each year, it is our privilege to recognize and celebrate the professors who advance a tradition of excellence that dates back to Columbia’s founding in 1754. As we gather to graduate in person the first class since the start of the pandemic, the Executive Committee would like to take this opportunity to acknowledge the rigorous commitment to pedagogy and scholarly excellence that these awards and honors represent. Our remarkable faculty go above and beyond to foster the extraordinary research and learning environment of which our students are the proud beneficiaries as they make their way into the world. Carlos J. Alonso Dean of the Graduate School of Arts & Sciences Vice President for Graduate Education Morris A. and Alma Schapiro Professor in the Humanities Amy E. Hungerford Executive Vice President for Arts & Sciences Dean of the Faculty of Arts & Sciences Ruth Fulton Benedict Professor of English and Comparative Literature James J. Valentini Dean of Columbia College Vice President for Undergraduate Education Henry L. and Lucy G. Moses Professor