Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Faculty House Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Events Spaces Services Request Information Currently at Faculty House About Weddings Wedding Packages St. Paul's Chapel Social Events Social Event Packages Conferences, Seminars and Meetings Meeting Packages Event Gallery & Testimonials 1st Floor: Garden Level Garden Room 1 Garden Room 2 Ivy Lounge 2nd Floor: Seminar Level Seminar Level Event Space (Full Floor) Seminar Room 1 Seminar Room 2 Seminar Rooms 3 & 4 3rd Floor: Presidential Level Presidential Ballroom (Full Floor) Presidential Room 1 Presidential Room 2 Presidential Room 3 1754 Boardroom 4th Floor: Skyline Level Dining Room & Terrace St. Paul's Chapel View All Spaces Audio Visual Services Virtual Event Services Catering Services All Packages & Menus Daily Luncheons in the Faculty Dining Room Services From Our Partners Cakes from Ron Ben-Israel Additional Partner Services For Faculty, Staff & Outside Guests Current Faculty House Promotions Daily Luncheons in the Faculty Dining Room Exclusively for Columbia Faculty & Staff Columbia Community Hour Our Team Learn More About Columbia University Event Management Faculty House History Artwork at Faculty House University Seminars Sustainability Directions Faculty House You are here: Home About Sustainability Sustainability Columbia's sustainability plan, Plan 2030, commits to align with New York City’s goal of sending zero waste to landfill by 2030. Through continual waste diversion efforts, seeking strategic procurement partnerships, and the facilitation of sustainable events, Faculty House is helping Columbia get there. A LEED Gold Certified Facility Faculty House has been renovated to standards set by the U.S. Green Building Council’s LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) program. LEED promotes a whole-building approach to sustainability by recognizing performance in five key areas of human and environmental health: sustainable site development, water savings, energy efficiency, materials selection and indoor environmental quality. Faculty House was awarded LEED Gold certification in April 2010. Our team continues to pursue green initiatives to protect our environment and to support the University's sustainability plan. Visit Sustainable Columbia to learn more. OUR SUSTAINABLE MENU Inspired by work with the Earth Institute, Faculty House offers the Blue Menu offering a sustainable menu curated to feature local ingredients with a focus on vegan and vegetarian options. Menu selections are updated frequently to reflect fresh and seasonal options. Learn more about the menu. LEARN HOW TO HOST MORE SUSTAINABLE EVENTS Members of the Faculty House team participate in Columbia's Sustainable Events working group, which was originally formed to create content for Plan 2030. The group conducted a survey of event planners on campus to establish a baseline of existing event sustainability practices and identify areas for improvement. From this came the Sustainable Event Guidelines: a checklist of best practices event planners across the University can use to host greener events. Helping Create a Greener Today & Tomorrow Below are just some of the initiatives, projects and improvements we have undertaken at Faculty House: tint icon Water Conservation Integrated energy-efficient and water-conserving utilities, appliances, fixtures and insulation. snowflake icon Air Quality Installed a new energy-efficient HVAC system, ensuring pure, high-quality air within our event spaces. pagelines icon Recycled, Healthy & Locally Sourced Selected recycled, low-emission furnishings, materials and finishes as well as locally made materials. recycle icon Reuse, Not Refuse Restored original details, repurposed old materials, donated used equipment and recycled construction waste. cutlery icon Linen-Free Tables Introduced elegant, linen-free tables for events on the 1st, 2nd, and 4th floors, resulting in less linen use and therefore less water use and pollution from laundering. Learn more about Columbia Event Management's efforts to supports sustainability and a greener future. STUDENT CAPSTONE PROJECT EXPLORES SUSTAINABILITY AT FACULTY HOUSE In Fall of 2019 the School of Professional Studies’ Master of Science in Sustainability Management Program tasked a capstone group with evaluating and advancing sustainability at Faculty House. Read the full report here. Faculty House64 Morningside Drive, Mail Code 2301 · New York, NY 10027 Phone phone: 212-854-1200 fax: 212-851-1043 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close