Skip to main content Link to TU homepage × Close Menu College of Arts & Sciences College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Business College of Health Sciences College of Law Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Faculty & Adjuncts Jim Sorem, PhD Jim Sorem, PhD Dean of College of Engineering and Natural Sciences Professor of Mechanical Engineering College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Mechanical Engineering james-sorem@utulsa.edu 918-631-2288 Keplinger Hall Room 2420 Curriculum Vitae Education PhD – University of Kansas MS – University of Kansas BS – University of Kansas Research Interests Machine Design Experimental Stress Analysis Computer Modeling and Analysis Positive Displacement Pump Design and Analysis Teaching Interests Statics Finite Element Analysis Mechanics of Materials Experimental Stress Analysis Mechanisms Publications Journal Articles Henshaw, John M., Sorem, James R., Jr., and Glaessgen, Edward H., “Finite Element Analysis of Ply-by-Ply and Equivalent Stress Concentrations in Composite Plates with Multiple Holes under Tensile and Shear Loading”, Composite Structures, Volume 36, pp. 45-58, 1996. Conference Proceedings Sorem , J. Fatigue Durability Enhancement by Controlled Overloading. ASTM Special Technical Publication, 1999, pp. 584-98. Professional Affiliations American Society of Engineering Education American Society of Mechanical Engineers Society of Petroleum Engineers Awards & Honors Fylde Electronics Prize Professor of the Month Best Paper in Session 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT