Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Faculty Revision of Faculty Evaluation Processes Current Faculty New Faculty Orientation Why Georgia Tech Colleges and Schools Life at Tech Resources Diversity & Accessibility Relocation Visit Campus Deans, Chairs, & Directors Policies & Handbooks Faculty Hiring Promotion & Tenure Mentoring Handling Grievances Internal Resources Legal Affairs Diversity & Accessibility Faculty Affairs Reps Banner Access Faculty Hiring Time Away Faculty Relocation Offer Letter Templates Internal Resources Promotion & Tenure Faculty Professional Development About Us Programs and Services Coaching and Consulting APL Mentoring Program Mentoring Resources Resources Recognition and Awards News & Events About Us Directory Contact Us EU GDPR Privacy Notice Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Faculty Why Georgia Tech We know that you have a number of choices when it comes to selecting a place to work. So, we've gathered a few resources to help you with your decision. Here's a brief video highlighting Tech's research contributions (opens new window). Third, we've asked some of our faculty members why they decided to join the Tech community. Read on to find out what they said. Dana Randall, ADVANCE Professor, Computing "After completing a Ph.D. in Computer Science at the University of California, Berkeley, I spent two years in Princeton, N.J., in the School of Mathematics at the Institute for Advance Study and the Computer Science Department at Princeton University. I searched for academic jobs in both mathematics and computer science, so when Georgia Tech offered a joint position in both schools, each extremely highly rated in my research areas of theoretical computer science and discrete mathematics, it was an easy decision to accept. The main draws for me were the excellence and strengths of my colleagues in both departments, and a clear upward trajectory showing that Tech was quickly headed to the top 10 in theoretical computer science. I also was drawn by the openness to interdisciplinary research." Read More M.G. Finn, Professor and Chair, Chemistry and Biochemistry "Two years ago, I was recruited from The Scripps Research Institute to help Georgia Tech’s continuing development in the molecular biosciences. This followed initial contact some years before during a different search. At that time, I wasn't interested in moving, but got to know the institution and my department. But it wasn’t a difficult decision the second time around. I love engineers — or, more generally, the engineering mindset, which I characterize as the drive to get useful things done. In my world, that means making useful molecules and molecular processes. But a commitment to the important and the practical underpins much activity here. I really like that. It comes down to being at a place in which I find many, many interesting and engaging colleagues doing fabulous work. Who wouldn’t want to be here?" Read More Sara Dommer, Assistant Professor, Business "Georgia Tech was one of many schools I initially applied to in my last year of my Ph.D. program. After the first round of interviews, it was one of my favorite schools. And after my campus visit, it was at the top of my list. When I received the offer, I was thrilled. First, Georgia Tech’s outstanding national and international reputation was really attractive to me. Second, during my interviews and from my research on the school, I really got the sense that the business school is on an upward trajectory. I found it very appealing to be a part of that growth and development. Finally, the location of the school couldn’t be better. Being able to work for a top university and live in a thriving and exciting city allows you to be happy both professionally and personally." Read More Jason Freeman, Associate Professor, Music "I came to Georgia Tech straight from graduate school — in fact I defended my dissertation one afternoon, and the movers arrived the next morning. At the time, music technology was a new field here, and the university was just starting a new degree program. I saw an exciting opportunity to impact education and research in the field, both at the university and beyond, and Georgia Tech seemed ideally situated to become an international leader in this area. I’ve been here for 10 years, and I’m proud to say it now has." Read More Iris Tien, Assistant Professor, Civil and Environmental Engineering "I received my Ph.D. in Civil Systems Engineering from the University of California, Berkeley, in May 2014. I thought long and hard about where I wanted to go next. I even had a spreadsheet that listed different factors — potential collaborations, funding sources, quality of students, location, etc. — along with ratings and weights for each. In the end, though, it came down to a feeling I had about Georgia Tech being the right place. I joined the faculty in the School of Civil and Environmental Engineering in July 2014." Read More Richard Barke, Associate Professor, Public Policy "I published a book called Science, Technology, and Public Policy, and a few months later Georgia Tech advertised for a faculty member specializing in 'science, technology, and public policy!' Being here offered far more flexibility for doing interdisciplinary research than many other universities. It is a place where people in nonengineering fields cannot be complacent, because there are always new questions to be pursued. Also, I grew up in Atlanta and was happier about raising our daughter here than in many other places. So, I’ve been here since 1987." Read More Accessibility Information Per accessibility compliance standards, this page may have links to files that would require the downloading of additional software: Download Adobe Reader Download Microsoft Products Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Georgia Institute of Technology 237 Uncle Heinie Way, Suite 111 Atlanta, GA 30332-0740 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login