Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Faculty House Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Events Spaces Services Request Information Currently at Faculty House About Weddings Wedding Packages St. Paul's Chapel Social Events Social Event Packages Conferences, Seminars and Meetings Meeting Packages Event Gallery & Testimonials 1st Floor: Garden Level Garden Room 1 Garden Room 2 Ivy Lounge 2nd Floor: Seminar Level Seminar Level Event Space (Full Floor) Seminar Room 1 Seminar Room 2 Seminar Rooms 3 & 4 3rd Floor: Presidential Level Presidential Ballroom (Full Floor) Presidential Room 1 Presidential Room 2 Presidential Room 3 1754 Boardroom 4th Floor: Skyline Level Dining Room & Terrace St. Paul's Chapel View All Spaces Audio Visual Services Virtual Event Services Catering Services All Packages & Menus Daily Luncheons in the Faculty Dining Room Services From Our Partners Cakes from Ron Ben-Israel Additional Partner Services For Faculty, Staff & Outside Guests Current Faculty House Promotions Daily Luncheons in the Faculty Dining Room Exclusively for Columbia Faculty & Staff Columbia Community Hour Our Team Learn More About Columbia University Event Management Faculty House History Artwork at Faculty House University Seminars Sustainability Directions Faculty House You are here: Home Spaces 2nd Floor: Seminar Level Seminar Rooms 3 & 4 Seminar Rooms 3 & 4 Other Seminar Level Spaces: Seminar Level Event Space Seminar Room 1 Seminar Room 2 About This Space: Seminar Rooms 3 and 4 are located on the east side of the house, overlooking Morningside Drive and the park. Ideal For: Best used separately or combined for meetings, lectures and presentations. Occupancy: Depending on the room layout chosen, Seminar Room 3 can accommodate 10-33 people and Seminar Room 4 can accommodate 8-22 people. The rooms may also be combined to accommodate up to 55 guests. Additional Views of This Space: Image Carousel with 5 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: Seminar Rooms 3 and 4 set for a presentation Slide 2: Seminar Rooms 3 and 4 with no furniture Slide 3: A whiteboard is set in Seminar Room 4 Slide 4: A whiteboard is set in Seminar Room 4 Slide 5: A whiteboard is set in Seminar Room 4 Previous Next Now Booking for 2022 We look forward to hosting weddings and special celebrations again in 2022. Contact our team for more information about planning. We're looking forward to working with you to put together an amazing event! Click the button below to complete our brief quote request form. We'll get back to you within 48 hours of your request. Click floor diagram above for a larger view. Click here for a printable version. Suitable For Meetings, Seminars & Conferences Level Seminar Level Faculty House64 Morningside Drive, Mail Code 2301 · New York, NY 10027 Phone phone: 212-854-1200 fax: 212-851-1043 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close