Skip to main content Link to TU homepage × Close Menu College of Arts & Sciences College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Business College of Health Sciences College of Law Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Faculty & Adjuncts Rachel Hildebrand, PhD, LAT, ATC, CBIS Rachel Hildebrand, PhD, LAT, ATC, CBIS Director of the Athletic Training Program Chapman Clinical Associate Professor of Athletic Training College of Health Sciences Kinesiology and Rehabilitative Sciences rachel-hildebrand@utulsa.edu 918-631-3204 Oxley Health Sciences Facility Room 405 Education PhD – Oklahoma State University MEd – Xavier University BS – The University of Tulsa Bio Dr. Rachel Hildebrand is a Clinical Assistant Professor and serves as the Athletic Training Education Program Director at The University of Tulsa. She received her BS in Athletic Training from The University of Tulsa, her MEd in Sport Administration from Xavier University, and completed her PhD in Health, Leisure and Human Performance from Oklahoma State University. She has been a Certified Athletic Trainer since 2006. Most recently she obtained her Certified Brain Injury Specialist certification. Clinically she was a graduate assistant at Xavier University and has continued in clinical practice providing contract and pro bono health care to Oklahoma City and Tulsa area high schools. Additionally, she serves on several state, regional, and national committees. Her current area of research is in the impact of repetitive head trauma on cognition, balance, reaction time, and symptoms in athletes. Research Interests Vitamin D and Performance Concussion/Return to Learn Teaching Interests Clinical Evaluation and Intervention Pathophysiology Interprofessional Education/Practice Publications Journal Articles Jennifer Volberding PhD, A. T. C., & Rachel Hildebrand PhD, A. T. C. (2018). The Influence of Gender on Peer Assisted Learning in Athletic Training Students. Oklahoma State Medical Proceedings, 1(3). Hildebrand, R., Volberding, J., & Carr, W. D. (2012). Examining emotional intelligence differences in athletic training undergraduates students and first-year graduate assistants. Journal of the Oklahoma Association for Health, Physical Education, Recreation, and Dance, 49(1), 47-56. 1. Hildebrand R. The Effect of Gender on Peer Tutor/Tutee Relationships. Manuscripts Hildebrand, R. A., Miller, B., Warren, A., Hildebrand, D., & Smith, B. J. (2016). Compromised vitamin D status negatively affects muscular strength and power of collegiate athletes. International journal of sport nutrition and exercise metabolism, 26(6), 558-564. Courses Taught Supervised Practice II Pathophysiology for the Health Professional Strategies for Healthy Living Clinical Evaluation and Therapeutic Intervention I Clinical Evaluation and Therapeutic Intervention I (with Lab) Supervised Practice III Clinical Evaluation and Therapeutic Intervention III (with Lab) Foundations of Therapeutic Intervention Prevention and Treatment of Athletic Injuries First Year Experience Supervised Practice IV Independent Study Professional Affiliations National Athletic Trainers Association Association of Athletic Training Education National Academies of Practice Oklahoma Athletic Trainers Association Mid-America Athletic Trainers’ Association Awards & Honors Thank you from student 2015-2016 Excellence in Teaching Award Letter from Student Letter from a Student 2018-2019 Excellence in Teaching Award Email from Student Most Valuable Professor 2019-2020 Excellence in Teaching Award 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT