Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Faculty House Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Events Spaces Services Request Information Currently at Faculty House About Weddings Wedding Packages St. Paul's Chapel Social Events Social Event Packages Conferences, Seminars and Meetings Meeting Packages Event Gallery & Testimonials 1st Floor: Garden Level Garden Room 1 Garden Room 2 Ivy Lounge 2nd Floor: Seminar Level Seminar Level Event Space (Full Floor) Seminar Room 1 Seminar Room 2 Seminar Rooms 3 & 4 3rd Floor: Presidential Level Presidential Ballroom (Full Floor) Presidential Room 1 Presidential Room 2 Presidential Room 3 1754 Boardroom 4th Floor: Skyline Level Dining Room & Terrace St. Paul's Chapel View All Spaces Audio Visual Services Virtual Event Services Catering Services All Packages & Menus Daily Luncheons in the Faculty Dining Room Services From Our Partners Cakes from Ron Ben-Israel Additional Partner Services For Faculty, Staff & Outside Guests Current Faculty House Promotions Daily Luncheons in the Faculty Dining Room Exclusively for Columbia Faculty & Staff Columbia Community Hour Our Team Learn More About Columbia University Event Management Faculty House History Artwork at Faculty House University Seminars Sustainability Directions Faculty House You are here: Home Events Weddings Wedding Packages Wedding Packages Planning a wedding is a balancing act—let us help with these pre-configured wedding packages designed to take your worries...and your breath...away. Get Wed Packages Customize a delicious menu of unique creations and classic favorites to add your personal touch to your reception. Base package includes: Butler-passed signature cocktail and sparkling mineral water as guests arrive for your reception Five-hour open bar with premium-brand liquors One-hour cocktail reception with butler-passed hors d’oeuvres (choice of eight) Four-hour dinner dance Champagne toast Custom wedding cake with your choice of design and filling by Ron Ben Israel Coffee, tea, and brewed decaffeinated coffee House ivory or white table linens and matching napkins House specialty selection of china, flatware, glassware House tables and chairs A variety of options that rival the downtown and midtown venues in both price and quality are available starting at $190 per guest. Download our wedding catering menu / kosher menu The Perfect Pair Package Reserve Saint Paul's Chapel for your ceremony & Faculty House for your reception—it's the perfect pair for...well...the perfect pair. St. Paul’s Chapel is a non-denominational chapel located steps away from Faculty House. This architectural gem is one of Columbia’s historic locations and can hold ceremonies up to 400 guests. Wedding Reception Packages start at $190 per guest. The Faculty House Wedding Package includes: Open bar cocktail hour with butler-passed hors d’oeuvres Dinner service Wedding cake by Ron Ben Israel Complimentary bridal & groom suites $1000 off the Chapel price for 150 guests or less $2000 off the Chapel price for more than 150 guests Download a printable summary of this package. Now Booking for 2022 We look forward to hosting weddings and special celebrations again in 2022. Contact our team for more information about planning. We're looking forward to working with you to put together an amazing event! Click the button below to complete our brief quote request form. We'll get back to you within 48 hours of your request. Faculty House64 Morningside Drive, Mail Code 2301 · New York, NY 10027 Phone phone: 212-854-1200 fax: 212-851-1043 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close