Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Faculty House Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Events Spaces Services Request Information Currently at Faculty House About Weddings Wedding Packages St. Paul's Chapel Social Events Social Event Packages Conferences, Seminars and Meetings Meeting Packages Event Gallery & Testimonials 1st Floor: Garden Level Garden Room 1 Garden Room 2 Ivy Lounge 2nd Floor: Seminar Level Seminar Level Event Space (Full Floor) Seminar Room 1 Seminar Room 2 Seminar Rooms 3 & 4 3rd Floor: Presidential Level Presidential Ballroom (Full Floor) Presidential Room 1 Presidential Room 2 Presidential Room 3 1754 Boardroom 4th Floor: Skyline Level Dining Room & Terrace St. Paul's Chapel View All Spaces Audio Visual Services Virtual Event Services Catering Services All Packages & Menus Daily Luncheons in the Faculty Dining Room Services From Our Partners Cakes from Ron Ben-Israel Additional Partner Services For Faculty, Staff & Outside Guests Current Faculty House Promotions Daily Luncheons in the Faculty Dining Room Exclusively for Columbia Faculty & Staff Columbia Community Hour Our Team Learn More About Columbia University Event Management Faculty House History Artwork at Faculty House University Seminars Sustainability Directions Faculty House You are here: Home About Our Team Our Team Experienced Professionals Who Love What We Do Whether you want to start planning an event or just have questions, you can reach our team in the following ways. In every case we will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible. phone icon Phone 212-854-1200 fax icon Fax 212-851-1043 at icon Email [email protected] envelope icon Mail Faculty House 64 Morningside Drive Mail Code 2301 New York, New York 10027 paper-plane icon Online Submit an inquiry form on our website FACULTY HOUSE LEADERSHIP TEAM Steve Francis Self-employed as a music producer and studio owner for over 30 years, Steve brings an entrepreneurial spirit to Event Management. He has designed, built and operated three recording studios in New York City and has a dogged commitment to quality and customer service. Never satisfied with mediocrity, Steve strives for every endeavor to be succinct and executed flawlessly. Scott Buonomo A graduate of the Culinary Institute of America, Scott’s passion for the hospitality industry extends beyond the dining room. As General Manager of Faculty House Scott oversees hundreds of events each year ranging from weddings and social events to student groups and corporate functions. Scott loves the family feel provided by the Columbia Community and the ability to interact with every client that comes to Faculty House. Before joining Columbia, Scott worked for the prestigious Harvard Club of New York and the Metropolitan Museum of Art. He was able to build his culinary knowledge while working in the kitchens of The Park Avenue Café in New York City and Knickerbocker Country Club in New Jersey. Sanjay Mahajan Sanjay brings to the table 27 years of versatile hospitality experience, planning and executing events ranging from large conventions to galas and weddings. He enjoys producing customized offerings, using locally sourced vendors and foods. Sanjay is passionate about collaborating with events and meeting planners within and outside Columbia University. Before joining Columbia, Sanjay worked with Hyatt, Hilton, Millennium and Hotel Plaza Athénée in New York City. Columbia event management supports over 35K events a year for student groups, industry events, meetings and more. Michael DeMartino Chef Mike is responsible for the overall operations and culinary experience at Columbia University. Born in Brooklyn and raised in Staten Island, he grew up in a home where good food was integral to daily life. He started cooking himself at an early age and later pursued his professional culinary degree at Johnson and Wales University for Culinary Arts in Providence, RI. His experience includes the Intercontinental Hotel in New York City, where he also traveled the hotel’s Asia network; Corporate Foods providing service to clients like Citibank, US Today, and Entertainment Weekly; and Fordham University where he served as the Dining Services Executive Chef for 18 years. Leo Michel A driven Chef who thrives on challenges, Leo Michel crafts innovative dishes to complement each event. He instills in others a passion for excellent cuisine, inspiring his team to pursue perfection. His discipline for the arts can be attributed to the French Culinary Institute and the mentorship of several renowned culinarians. Leo offers more than three decades of experience in the hotel industry and executive dining. Emerald Currie Emerald has been a part of the Event Management team for over eight years and currently oversees social events on campus. She is a graduate of Columbia’s School of the Arts and uses her creative background to ensure that every campus event is memorable and unique. Born and raised in Connecticut, Emerald began her career in commercial real estate before moving to New York City and transitioning to event planning. no photo photo of edit edit Faculty House and our team are part of Columbia Event Management. In addition to Faculty House, Event Management books, plans and facilitates events in Lerner Hall, Low Library, Earl Hall, Saint Paul's Chapel, and on outdoor campus grounds. We also partner with colleagues across the University who manage event venues on Columbia's other NYC campuses. Faculty House64 Morningside Drive, Mail Code 2301 · New York, NY 10027 Phone phone: 212-854-1200 fax: 212-851-1043 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close