Skip to main content Link to TU homepage × Close Menu College of Arts & Sciences College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Business College of Health Sciences College of Law Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Faculty & Adjuncts Angus Lamar, PhD Angus Lamar, PhD Associate Professor of Chemistry and Biochemistry College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Chemistry and Biochemistry angus-lamar@utulsa.edu 918-631-3024 Website Keplinger Hall Room 2135 Education PhD – The University of Oklahoma Postdoctoral Research Fellow – Emory University BS – The University of Science and Arts of Oklahoma – Emory University Bio Originally from Verden, Oklahoma, Dr. Angus Lamar attended the University of Science and Arts of Oklahoma in Chickasha to obtain his chemistry degree. Dr. Lamar then earned his Ph.D. at The University of Oklahoma working in the organic/organometallic research group of Prof. Kenneth M. Nicholas. During this time, Dr. Lamar’s primary focus was on the nitrogenation of hydrocarbons via transition-metal and non-metal catalysis. Upon completion of his Ph.D., Dr. Lamar joined the research group of Prof. Lanny S. Liebeskind at Emory University as a postdoctoral fellow investigating a novel approach to amide/peptide bond formation along with a project to employ enantiomeric organometallic scaffolds towards the synthesis of medicinally/biologically relevant molecules. Dr. Lamar then joined Hanover College as an Assistant Professor of Chemistry where he taught Organic and General Chemistry, a number of special topics courses, and conducted research with undergraduate students. Dr. Lamar and his family moved back to Oklahoma to join the Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry at The University of Tulsa in Fall, 2015. Current research projects under investigation include: 1) Nitrogen-centered radical amination of chemical feedstocks via non-metal activation; 2) Development of novel molecular agents as potential anticancer drugs; 3) Discovery of new visible-light photoredox catalysts (VLPC) and organic methods that utilize them; 4) The design of molecularly imprinted polymers to be applied towards the adsorption of organic molecules from either drinking water or air. Research Interests Organic Reaction Discovery and Design Visible-Light Photoredox Catalysis (VLPC) Organometallic Synthesis and Catalysis Synthesis of Biologically Relevant Molecules Polymer Encapsulation Teaching Interests Organic Chemistry General Chemistry Art Conservation Science Medicinal Chemistry Advanced Organic Reaction Mechanisms Publications Journal Articles Hopkins , M., G. Ozmer, R. Witt, Z. Brandeburg, D. Rogers, C. Keating, P. Petcoff, R. Sheaff, and A. Lamar. PhI(OAc)2 and Iodine-Mediated Synthesis of N-Alkyl Sulfonamides Derived from Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbon Scaffolds and Determination of Their Antibacterial and Cytotoxic Activities. Vol. 19, Org. Biomol. Chem., 2021, pp. 1133-44. Abebe , F., M. Hopkins, S. Vodnala, R. Sheaff, and A. Lamar. Development of a Rapid In Vitro Screening Assay Using Metabolic Inhibitors to Detect Highly Selective Anticancer Agents. Vol. 6, ACS Omega, 2021, pp. 18333-4. Ostrander , J., L. Wang, T. Ali Kizi, J. Dajani, A. Carr, D. Teeters, and A. Lamar. Enhanced Conductivity via Extraction of Hydrocarbon Templates from Nanophase-Separated PEO–LiOTf Polymer Electrolyte Films. Vol. 5, ACS Omega, 2020, pp. 20567-74. Rogers , D., M. Hopkins, N. Rajagopal, D. Varshney, H. Howard, G. LeBlanc, and A. Lamar. U.S. Food and Drug Administration-Certified Food Dyes As Organocatalysts in the Visible Light-Promoted Chlorination of Aromatics and Heteroaromatics. Vol. 5, ACS Omega, 2020, pp. 7693-04. Rogers , D., A. Bensalah, A. Espinosa, J. Hoerr, F. Refai, A. Pitzel, J. Alvarado, and A. Lamar. Amplification of Trichloroisocyanuric Acid (TCCA) Reactivity for Chlorination of Arenes and Heteroarenes via Catalytic Organic Dye Activation. Vol. 21, Organic Letters, 2019, pp. 4229-33. Wirth , D., M. Sheaff, J. Waldman, M. Symcox, H. Whitehead, J. Sharp, J. Doerfler, A. Lamar, and G. LeBlanc. Electrolysis Activation of Fused-Filament-Fabrication 3D-Printed Electrodes for Electrochemical and Spectroelectrochemical Analysis. Vol. 91, Analytical Chemistry, 2019, pp. 5553-7. Hopkins , M., F. Abebe, K. Scott, G. Ozmer, A. Sheir, L. Schroeder, R. Sheaff, and A. Lamar. Synthesis and Identification of Heteroaromatic N-Benzyl Sulfonamides As Potential Anticancer Agents. Vol. 17, Org. Biomol. Chem., 2019, pp. 8391-02. Rogers , D., J. Gallegos, M. Hopkins, A. Lignieres, A. Pitzel, and A. Lamar. Visible-Light Photocatalytic Activation of N-Chlorosuccinimide by Organic Dyes for the Chlorination of Arenes and Heteroarenes. Vol. 75, Tetrahedron, 2019, p. 130498. Rogers , D., R. Brown, Z. Brandeburg, E. Ko, M. Hopkins, G. LeBlanc, and A. Lamar. Organic Dye-Catalyzed, Visible-Light Photoredox Bromination of Arenes and Heteroarenes Using N-Bromosuccinimide. Vol. 3, ACS Omega, 2018, pp. 12868-77. Hopkins , M., Z. Brandeburg, A. Hanson, and A. Lamar. Visible-Light, Iodine-Promoted Formation of N-Sulfonyl Imines and N-Alkylsulfonamides from Aldehydes and Hypervalent Iodine Reagents. Vol. 23, Molecules, 2018. Hopkins , M., K. Scott, B. DeMier, H. Morgan, J. Macgruder, and A. Lamar. Formation of N-Sulfonyl Imines from Iminoiodinanes by Iodine-Promoted, N-Centered Radical Sulfonamidation of Aldehydes. Vol. 15, Org. Biomol. Chem., 2017, pp. 9209-16. Brueckner , A., E. Hancock, E. Anders, M. Tierney, H. Morgan, K. Scott, and A. Lamar. Visible-Light-Mediated, Nitrogen-Centered Radical Amination of Tertiary Alkyl Halides under Metal-Free Conditions to Form [alpha]-Tertiary Amines. Vol. 14, Org. Biomol. Chem., 2016, pp. 4387-92. Lamar, Angus A.; Liebeskind, Lanny S. Carboxyl Activation via Silylthioesterification: One-Pot, Two-Step Amidation of Carboxylic Acids Catalyzed by Non-Metal Ammonium Salts. Tetrahedron Letters 2015, 56, 44, 6034. Lamar , A., and L. Liebeskind. Carboxyl Activation via Silylthioesterification: One-Pot, Two-Step Amidation of Carboxylic Acids Catalyzed by Non-Metal Ammonium Salts. Vol. 56, Tetrahedron Letters, 2015, pp. 6034 -37. Lamar, Angus A.; Nicholas, Kenneth M. Iodine-Catalyzed Aminosulfonation of Hydrocarbons by Imidoiodinanes. A Synthetic and Mechanistic Investigation. Journal of Organic Chemistry 2010, 75, 7644. Lamar, Angus A.; Nicholas, Kenneth M. Direct Synthesis of 3-Arylindoles via Annulation of Arylhydroxylamines with Alkynes. Tetrahedron 2009, 65, 3829. Kalita, Biswajit; Lamar, Angus A.; Nicholas, Kenneth M. Hydrous zinc halide-catalyzed aminosulfonation of hydrocarbons. Chemical Communications 2008, 4291. Book Chapters Garnier-Amblard, Ethel, C.; Lamar, Angus A.; Liebeskind, Lanny S. Cross-Coupling with Organosulfur Electrophiles: the Liebeskind-Srogl Coupling Reaction, Organic Reactions, John Wiley and Sons, to be published in 2016. Courses Taught Organic Chemistry II Laboratory Undergraduate Research Medicinal Chemistry Organic Chemistry I Laboratory Organic Chemistry II Independent Study Organic Chemistry I Professional Affiliations Indiana Academy of Science Phi Lambda Upsilon American Chemical Society Awards & Honors Kermit E. Brown Award for Teaching Excellence Baccalaureate Scholar Hypatia Honor Society USAO Faculty Association Outstanding Graduate Award Outstanding graduate research in organometallic chemistry/Jerry J. Zuckerman Award Outstanding graduate research in organometallic chenmistry/Jerry J. Zuckerman Award Young Alumni Award 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT