Skip to main content Link to TU homepage × Close Menu College of Arts & Sciences College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Business College of Health Sciences College of Law Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Faculty & Adjuncts Ben Peters, PhD Ben Peters, PhD Department Chairperson of Media Studies Hazel Rogers Associate Professor of Media Studies College of Arts & Sciences Media Studies ben-peters@utulsa.edu 918-631-3466 Website Oliphant Hall Room 128 Curriculum Vitae Education PhD – Columbia University MA – Stanford University BA – Brigham Young University Bio Benjamin Peters is an author, editor, and media scholar. Raised in the Midwest, educated on both coasts, and trained in Russian, he speaks and writes publicly about media from the big bang to big data. Research Interests How do media, and digital media in particular, take shape differently across regimes of space, time, and power? Teaching Interests Courses related to history and theory of digital media, with emphases on the former Soviet Union and the West. Courses Taught Independent Study Internship Media Theory Cyber & Society Seminar Cyber and Society Seminar Introduction to Media Studies Media Inquiry Topics in Communication Inquiry in Communication Theories of Communication Communication Systems Professional Affiliations International Communication Association The Society for Social Studies of Science The Society for the History of Technology Association of Internet Researchers Consortium for the Science of Socio-Technical Systems Association for Slavic, Eastern European, & Eurasian Studies 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT