Skip to main content Link to TU homepage × Close Menu College of Arts & Sciences College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Business College of Health Sciences College of Law Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Faculty & Adjuncts > Faculty & Adjuncts > Accounting and Computer Information Systems Accounting and Computer Information Systems Sal Aurigemma PhD, CDR USN (Ret) Associate Professor Accounting and Computer Information Systems Akhilesh Bajaj B. Tech., M.B.A., Ph.D. Director of the School of Accounting and CIS Professor Accounting and Computer Information Systems Wray Bradley CMA, JD, PhD Emeritus Accounting and Computer Information Systems Karen Cravens PhD, CPA, CMA Professor Accounting and Computer Information Systems Kailing Deng PhD Assistant Professor Accounting and Computer Information Systems Ben Holman CPA, MAcc Assistant Professor Accounting and Computer Information Systems Stephanie Horine MBA Assistant Professor Accounting and Computer Information Systems Lori Leonard PhD Professor Accounting and Computer Information Systems Tracy Manly PhD, CPA Professor Accounting and Computer Information Systems Michael McCrary MS, CPA Director of Accreditation (CCB) Associate Professor Accounting and Computer Information Systems Jose Miranda Lopez PhD Assistant Professor Accounting and Computer Information Systems Li Sun PhD Program Director of Master of Accountancy Associate Professor Accounting and Computer Information Systems Marc Cogman Adjunct Faculty Accounting and Computer Information Systems Ryan Haight Adjunct Faculty Accounting and Computer Information Systems Elaine Jolly CPA Adjunct Faculty Accounting and Computer Information Systems 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT