Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Faculty Revision of Faculty Evaluation Processes Current Faculty New Faculty Orientation Why Georgia Tech Colleges and Schools Life at Tech Resources Diversity & Accessibility Relocation Visit Campus Deans, Chairs, & Directors Policies & Handbooks Faculty Hiring Promotion & Tenure Mentoring Handling Grievances Internal Resources Legal Affairs Diversity & Accessibility Faculty Affairs Reps Banner Access Faculty Hiring Time Away Faculty Relocation Offer Letter Templates Internal Resources Promotion & Tenure Faculty Professional Development About Us Programs and Services Coaching and Consulting APL Mentoring Program Mentoring Resources Resources Recognition and Awards News & Events About Us Directory Contact Us EU GDPR Privacy Notice Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Faculty Affairs Reps Time Away Georgia Tech offers various programs who require time away from campus or modified duties to accommodate the needs of our faculty. General Procedures Absences fewer than five days should be reported in the appropriate time-reporting system. FMLA: Absences of 5 consecutive days or more due to illness of the employee or an immediate family member require a doctor's note and FMLA paperwork to be submitted. Absence from Campus: Any absence longer than 2 weeks but shorter than 8.5 weeks, or half of the semester, require an Absence from Campus Form. The employee is responsible for submitting the form, which must be approved by the School Chair and Dean, and submitted via GT-TRACS to Faculty Affairs for review and acknowledgement. Leave of Absence: A Leave of Absence is required anytime a faculty member is absent for more than half of the semester. This includes all intermittent absences. All leaves of absence not related to FMLA require a Leave of Absence Form submitted via GT-TRACS and must include letters of strong support from the School Chair/Lab Director and Dean/VP, be cleared by the Office of Sponsored Programs, and must be routed to Faculty Affairs for approval on behalf of the Provost. Leaves of Absence greater than a year, or any extension beyond one year, requires approval by the Provost and the University System of Georgia. Active Service: Modified Duties: A course release provided to faculty who may need to construct a modified workload and flexible schedule for a short time due to family commitments. These circumstances — which inhibit only the manner of work assignments and not the ability to undertake a full-time workload — include the birth or adoption of a child, or the severe illness of a parent, spouse, or child. ASMD is approved at the discretion of the Provost. Faculty participating in the Program still work 100% time and are requeired to undertake new additional duties to replace the course for which the teaching release was awarded. Refer to the ASMD Program page for additional details. Educational and Professional Leave Extensions According to BOR Policy Manual 8.2.7.4 on Educational and Professional Leave, LOAs that go beyond one year — with or without pay — require the approval of the chancellor or his designee. At Georgia Tech, the LOA extension request is made by the Office of the President after approvals within the Office of the Provost have been obtained. Please submit LOA extension requests at least two months in advance of the start date. In order to qualify for an LOA extension, the following must be submitted to Faculty Affairs via GT-TRACS, tagging OSP in a note for review, and selecting Orgs 609 and 600 as approvers: LOA form Strong letters of recommendation by the dean and school chair outlining a) how ongoing duties and responsibilities will be covered, b) the benefit to the Institute, and c) faculty accomplishments during the leave for which an extension is requested. Once the materials have been received and have undergone review, Faculty Affairs will notify the schools and colleges of the request status. Because extension approvals are contingent upon the chancellor, careful consideration should be made by the schools and colleges before advancing these requests. Resources Absence from Campus Form Leave of Absence Form OSP Leave of Absence Checklist Export Control Form - Paid/Partial Leaves of Absence Export Control Form - Unpaid Leaves of Absence ASMD Form ASMD Program Policy References Georgia Tech Office of Human Resources Policy Manual 2.11 Leave of Absence Board of Regents (BOR) Policy Manual 8.2.7 Leave Accessibility Information Per accessibility compliance standards, this page may have links to files that would require the downloading of additional software: Download Adobe Reader Download Microsoft Products Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Georgia Institute of Technology 237 Uncle Heinie Way, Suite 111 Atlanta, GA 30332-0740 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login