Skip to Main Content Brown University Faculty Club Secondary Navigation Navigation Member Portal Search Menu Site Navigation Home Private Events Private Dining Rooms Service Policies Room Reservations Meeting & Event Accompaniments Food Allergies Menus Luncheon à La Carte Barbara's Bar Private Event Menus Membership Member Events Contact Search Faculty Club Food Allergies We are committed to meeting the needs of guests who have special dietary restrictions (such as a food allergy, intolerance or other medically restricted diet) and recognize that many of our guests may also adhere to a vegetarian or vegan diet. Breadcrumb Home Private Events Sub Navigation In This Section Private Dining Rooms Service Policies Room Reservations Meeting & Event Accompaniments Food Allergies The Brown Faculty Club is able to safely and reasonably guide event planners in booking events and making menu selections which can accommodate their guests. In most instances, food allergies and intolerances can be managed independently at events, however, please note: The Brown Faculty Club does not label all allergens at functions. With advance notice, The Brown Faculty Club can generally accommodate guests who must avoid the most common food allergens, as well as gluten. The Brown Faculty Club is unable to accommodate individual dietary preferences. Dietary preferences can be made directly to the event planner. It is the event planner's decision to modify the event menu based on guest preference. The Brown Faculty Club is unable to accommodate for therapeutic diets (i.e. diabetic diet, cardiac diet, renal diet, etc.) Request an Accommodation Event planners should submit a formal request to The Brown Faculty Club Sales & Event Manager for each guest requiring a meal accommodation. These should be submitted no later than four (4) business days from the event date. The guest(s) should then identify themselves to the Manager at the event. Faculty Club Event - Guest Allergen Form Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Private Events Private Dining Rooms Service Policies Room Reservations Meeting & Event Accompaniments Food Allergies Menus Luncheon à La Carte Barbara's Bar Private Event Menus Membership Member Events Contact Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Member Portal This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Food Allergies Open details for Food Allergies Bookmark this Page