Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Faculty Revision of Faculty Evaluation Processes Current Faculty New Faculty Orientation Why Georgia Tech Colleges and Schools Life at Tech Resources Diversity & Accessibility Relocation Visit Campus Deans, Chairs, & Directors Policies & Handbooks Faculty Hiring Promotion & Tenure Mentoring Handling Grievances Internal Resources Legal Affairs Diversity & Accessibility Faculty Affairs Reps Banner Access Faculty Hiring Time Away Faculty Relocation Offer Letter Templates Internal Resources Promotion & Tenure Faculty Professional Development About Us Programs and Services Coaching and Consulting APL Mentoring Program Mentoring Resources Resources Recognition and Awards News & Events About Us Directory Contact Us EU GDPR Privacy Notice Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Faculty New Faculty Orientation Information about the Fall 2022 New Faculty Orientation will be available in early Summer 2022. Fall 2021 New Faculty Orientation Event Schedule Event Date Time Location Registration Fall Teaching Kickoff Workshops Aug. 16 9 a.m.- 4:30 p.m. Online and in person REGISTER (opens new window) New Faculty Orientation *^ Aug. 17 8:30 a.m.- 4:30 p.m. Price Gilbert Library REGISTER (opens new window) Canvas and Other Classroom Tools Training Sessions Aug. 18-20 Multiple Sessions Virtual REGISTER (.xlsx) New Faculty Benefits Orientation (Office of Human Resources) On Demand On Demand On-Demand Webinar: https://youtu.be/5qgcBvVYxT8 (opens new window) No registration required President's Dinner for New Faculty *^ Aug. 26 5-8pm Georgia Tech Hotel REGISTER (opens new window) Part-time New Faculty Welcome Event * Sep. 1 4:30-6 p.m. Online and in person REGISTER (opens new window) New Faculty Research Orientation (Office of Sponsored Programs) Aug. 25 1:30-3pm Online and in person REGISTER (opens new window) (login with GT credentials then search for class by title) Each August, the Office of Faculty Professional Development hosts New Faculty Orientation and the Center for Teaching and Learning hosts a Fall Teaching Kickoff event. Additional events for new faculty are hosted by Human Resources and the Office of Information Technology. Please see the full schedule above for the details and registration links. *Hosted by the Office of Faculty Professional Development and the Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty. ^Newly hired full-time “permanent” academic faculty are invited to these events, which includes tenure-track or tenured assistant, associate, and full professors, Lecturers, Academic Professionals at all ranks, and Professors of the Practice. Brittain fellows and some visiting assistant professors have their own new faculty orientation organized by the schools of Literature, Media, and Communications (LMC); Modern Languages; and Math, respectively. New Faculty Orientation 2021 Slides (.pdf) Accessibility Information Per accessibility compliance standards, this page may have links to files that would require the downloading of additional software: Download Adobe Reader Download Microsoft Products Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Georgia Institute of Technology 237 Uncle Heinie Way, Suite 111 Atlanta, GA 30332-0740 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login