Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Chancellor's Faculty Excellence Program Think and Do The Extraordinary The Campaign for NC State About News Our Clusters Bioinformatics Carbon Electronics Data-Driven Science Digital Transformation of Education Emerging Plant Disease and Global Food Security Environmental Health Science Forensic Sciences Genetic Engineering and Society Geospatial Analytics Global Environmental Change and Human Well-Being Global Water, Sanitation and Hygiene High-dimensional Integration of Biological Systems Leadership in Public Science Microbiomes and Complex Microbial Communities Modeling the Living Embryo Precision Medicine Sustainable Energy Systems and Policy Synthetic and Systems Biology Translational Regenerative Medicine Visual Narrative Our Faculty Faculty Resources Contact Think and Do The Extraordinary The Campaign for NC State About Our Clusters Our Faculty Faculty Resources Contact Full Site Navigation About News Our Clusters Bioinformatics Carbon Electronics Data-Driven Science Digital Transformation of Education Emerging Plant Disease and Global Food Security Environmental Health Science Forensic Sciences Genetic Engineering and Society Geospatial Analytics Global Environmental Change and Human Well-Being Global Water, Sanitation and Hygiene High-dimensional Integration of Biological Systems Leadership in Public Science Microbiomes and Complex Microbial Communities Modeling the Living Embryo Precision Medicine Sustainable Energy Systems and Policy Synthetic and Systems Biology Translational Regenerative Medicine Visual Narrative The Chancellor's Faculty Excellence Program brings world-class faculty in diverse fields to NC State. Our faculty clusters place NC State at the forefront of interdisciplinary education. Dr. Randy Woodson Chancellor, NC State University Explore Our Program Creating a Culture of Excellence See how we successfully developed our faculty cluster-hiring program. View the White Paper Supporting Our Faculty Expanding Our Vision We’re in the midst of a second cohort of faculty cluster hiring. Learn More Research Meets Practice Our clusters support the efforts of research centers in finding solutions to real-world issues. Learn More Campus Collaboration University Libraries works with cluster faculty to provide research, teaching and outreach support. Learn More Outstanding Faculty At NC State, world-class academic minds come together to solve problems through interdisciplinary research. Work With Us News More News Researchers Engineer Probiotic Yeast to Produce Beta-Carotene The work shows how a suite of genetic engineering tools can be used to modify the yeast. Read More New Framework Improves Performance of Deep Neural Networks A new framework for building deep neural networks – called AOGNets – outperforms existing state-of-the-art artificial intelligence frameworks, including the widely-used ResNet and DenseNet systems, in visual recognition tasks. Read More Human, Swine Waste Pose Dual Threats to Water Quality After Flooding People in eastern NC face multiple water pollution hazards after hurricanes. Read More Creating Cluster Success Strong Faculty Support The Provost’s Office provides comprehensive support for all our cluster faculty. Learn More Strategic Investment NC State’s strategic plan shapes our commitment to interdisciplinary excellence. Learn More Upcoming Events Full Calendar Jun2 Thursday 04:00 PM M^3 Seminar Series Chancellor's Faculty Excellence Program 2220 Hillsborough Street Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Copyright Diversity Faculty Development Libraries Office of the Executive Vice Chancellor and Provost Research Strategic Plan Campus Map © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.