Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Office of Faculty Affairs Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search About Communications from the Vice Provost Faculty Affairs Team Faculty Profile Organizational Chart Portfolio Faculty Development Academic Faculty Academic Faculty Workshop Series Professional Faculty Professional Faculty Workshop Series Leadership Development Academic Leadership Academy Academic Leadership Workshop Series Communities of Practice Provost Fellows Program Recognition and Awards Authors and Editors Distinguished Professors Newly Promoted and Tenured Faculty Annual University Awards Recruitment Pre-Doctoral Scholars Program Provost Dual Career Hiring Initiative Tenured Faculty Diversity Initiative Office of Work-Life / GO HERC Living in Corvallis Policies and Resources Academic Appointment Guidelines Faculty Handbook Human Resources Policies New Faculty Orientation Promotion and Tenure Guidelines University-Wide Policies Global Engagement Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift You are here Home » Faculty Union Bargaining Faculty Union Bargaining professor.jpg The initial Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) between UAOSU and the University was concluded in spring 2020 during the early stages of the pandemic. Given substantial financial uncertainties associated with University operations at that time, the Parties mutually agreed to re-open bargaining regarding only specified aspects of the Compensation article. The agreement states that either the Union or the University may initiate negotiations in spring 2021. On Feb. 27, 2021, UAOSU provided written notice of its desire to begin bargaining. Current negotiations relate to the original CBA agreement and were anticipated by both Parties as a continuation of their previous work together. Campus Reopening Discussions Oregon State University and United Academics signed a Collective Bargaining Agreement on June 15, 2020, which remains in effect until June 30, 2024. United Academics requested to bargain over the impacts of implementing a University vaccination program, with the announcement of the program implementation, on May 4, 2021. This launched a 90-day period for mandatory negotiations over the impact of the requirement for employees to comply with this new vaccination program. The basic tenets of the vaccination program have not been challenged by UAOSU, although the Union bargaining team has sought to specify the types of data about vaccination rates that the University would make public. In particular, the Union has requested that data be released “at the finest level of aggregation possible.” The University and Union bargaining teams have discussed approaches to this question that provide information without compromising individual privacy. The Union has also made several additional requests related to campus reopening, involving remote and flexible work arrangements, as well as the position that individual faculty should be able to set public health requirements for classrooms that supersede University policies. The University has engaged in discussion of these matters with the Union. Bargaining Principles Oregon State University is committed to collaboratively, accountably, prudently and transparently reaching a collective bargaining agreement with United Academics of Oregon State University that: Supports the university’s land grant mission and values as Oregon’s statewide university; Supports the recruitment, retention and success of excellent faculty engaged in OSU teaching, research, and outreach and engagement; Takes into account the tuition burden borne by students and their families to pay increasingly more for their higher education while state financial support declines and employee benefit costs increase; Allows the university’s operations to remain financially sustainable; Aligns with university priorities, such as Strategic Plan 4.0; and Takes into account university responsibilities to invest in and provide safe, resilient and improved university teaching, research, and outreach and engagement facilities. Faculty Union Bargaining - Additional Resources Faculty Union Bargaining Faculty Union Bargaining Faculty Union Bargaining Faculty Union Bargaining - Additional Resources › Collective Bargaining Agreement Faculty Union Bargaining Additional Resources Bargaining Updates Tentative Agreements Bargaining Team Contact Heather Horn Associate Vice Provost and Senior Director Employee and Labor Relations heather.horn@oregonstate.edu This website will be updated to serve as an Academic Faculty Resource site. Contact Info For questions, try our directory of staff. Office of Faculty Affairs 628 Kerr Admin Bldg Corvallis, OR 97331 Ph: 541-737-0732 Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer