Skip to Main Content Brown University Faculty Club Secondary Navigation Navigation Member Portal Search Menu Site Navigation Home Private Events Private Dining Rooms Service Policies Room Reservations Meeting & Event Accompaniments Food Allergies Menus Luncheon à La Carte Barbara's Bar Private Event Menus Membership Member Events Contact Search Faculty Club Service Policies These policies apply to all events at the Brown Faculty Club. Your event manager will professionally assist with any questions that may arise during the planning process. Breadcrumb Home Private Events Sub Navigation In This Section Private Dining Rooms Service Policies Room Reservations Meeting & Event Accompaniments Food Allergies Member and Member-Sponsored Events The Brown Faculty Club is a private, non-profit club. Tax considerations make it necessary that outside groups or individuals wishing to hold events must be sponsored by a member or approved by the Club’s Board of Directors or Management. Individuals who are eligible for membership must become members of the Club in their own right before any booking can be accepted. Letter of Sponsorship Sponsoring members are required to sign a letter of sponsorship and accept full financial responsibility for the sponsored event. Members who are in a delinquent status will not be allowed to charge events to their accounts. In the case of sponsored events, full payment in cash or certified check must be received by the Club at least 72 hours in advance of the event. No event will take place unless such payment has been arranged and/or received. Reservation Confirmation A reservation confirmation form must be signed and returned within 72 hours of the initial request. This document confirms the date, time, estimated guest count, room assignment and the required food and beverage minimum sales amount. Event Specification Sheet A Event Specification Sheet will be provided to you, summarizing the details of your event. The signed Event Specification Sheet must be returned and received by the Club within 14 working days of your event. We request that each event designate one person to conduct all business with the Club. The contact person should have the authority to make decisions on behalf of your group and be available to answer any questions we may have pertaining to your event. Head Count and Payment The guaranteed number to be served must be provided by 3:00 p.m. at least 3 business days prior to your event. If no guaranteed number has been received by the Club as required, the last highest estimate will become the guaranteed count. Full payment for the guaranteed number must be arranged at least 72 hours prior to the event. Billing will be for the guaranteed number. The Club will be prepared to serve no more than 5% above the guaranteed number. Service Charge and Sales Tax Sales tax (currently 7%) will be added to all non tax exempt groups. A 1% city sales tax will be added to all food and beverage items and is reflected in the tax total. Any group claiming a tax exemption must provide a State of Rhode Island sales tax exemption certificate at the time of booking. A service charge (currently 18%) will be added to all event billings. State law mandates that service charges are subject to sales tax. Food and Beverage Entree Selection Events utilizing private rooms are required to have a pre-selected menu. You must inform the Club when providing the guaranteed guest count, of the number of each meal required, if your menu consists of more than one entree. Entree selection cards must be provided to assist the waitstaff in serving the appropriate meals. Each card should indicate the guest name and his/her selection. This does not require that a seating arrangement be used. Outside Food/Beverage No food or beverage items may be brought into the Club without the prior approval of Club management. All food and beverage items prepared by the Club and not consumed must remain on the property of the Club and may not be taken after the event. Wedding and celebratory cakes may be brought into the Club. A Cake Plating Charge of $1.50 per person will apply. While every attempt will be made to ensure that the price for food and beverage items remains consistent, the volatility of markets makes it impossible to guarantee pricing beyond 30 days. In compliance with Rhode Island State Law, all red meats are prepared medium unless you specify otherwise. Disclaimer Consumption of raw or undercooked foods of animal origin may increase your risk of foodborne illness. Consumers who are especially vulnerable to foodborne illness should only eat food from animals thoroughly cooked. Food Allergens The Brown Faculty Club is committed to meeting the needs of guests who have special dietary restrictions (such as a food allergy, intolerance or other medically restricted diet) and recognizes that many of our guests may also adhere to a vegetarian or vegan diet. Event planners must submit a formal request to the Sales & Event Manager for each guest requiring a meal accommodation. A completed Guest Allergen Form must be submitted no later than four business days prior to the event date. More Information Cancellations Events cancelled less than 72 business hours prior to the scheduled event date; all related food and room charges may be applied. The Club must receive written notice of the cancellation. Hours of Operation Event Requests We encourage you to always consider the Club as we are happy to accommodate all requests. Private breakfast events requested 8:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m. Monday through Friday require a minimum guarantee of $150.00 in food and beverage sales. Please inquire regarding food and beverage minimum sales requirements during the non academic calendar year. Weekends We will gladly open on Saturday and Sunday for private events meeting the required minimum food and beverage sales. Events requested on Saturdays require a minimum guarantee of $1,500.00 in food and beverage sales. Events requested on Sundays require a minimum guarantee of $3,750.00 in food and beverage sales. Holiday weekends are subject to an increased food and beverage minimum. Severe Weather Closing Policy The Brown Faculty Club will close due to severe weather conditions when Brown University closes. Brown University announces closings by recording a message at (401) 863-3111. If Brown University is open and the scheduled event is cancelled at any time, all related food and room charges may be applied. In the event weather conditions improve during the day, the Club will consider opening for evening events. A recorded message will be available at (401) 863-3023. Events cancelled less than 72 business hours in advance; all related food and room charges may be applied. Parking Parking is available on Bannister Street for Club patrons. Please inquire within upon arrival to obtain the required parking placard. More information regarding parking in and around campus is available on the Brown Transportation website. Lost and Found Items left and found following your event will be stored in the third floor lost and found closet. Items will be stored for a maximum of 30 days. The Club will not be responsible for any lost item. Please contact us with any inquiries. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Private Events Private Dining Rooms Service Policies Room Reservations Meeting & Event Accompaniments Food Allergies Menus Luncheon à La Carte Barbara's Bar Private Event Menus Membership Member Events Contact Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Member Portal This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Service Policies Open details for Service Policies Bookmark this Page