Skip to Main Content Brown University Faculty Club Secondary Navigation Navigation Member Portal Search Menu Site Navigation Home Private Events Private Dining Rooms Service Policies Room Reservations Meeting & Event Accompaniments Food Allergies Menus Luncheon à La Carte Barbara's Bar Private Event Menus Membership Member Events Contact Search Faculty Club Brown Faculty Club The Faculty Club is open for in-person dining, 11:30 A.M. - 2:00 P.M. Monday-Friday. Please call 401.863.3023 for reservations or to place your take-out order. Brown Faculty Club The Faculty Club is open for in-person dining, 11:30 A.M. - 2:00 P.M. Monday-Friday. Please call 401.863.3023 for reservations or to place your take-out order. The Club will be closed on Friday, June 3rd, a University Employee Appreciation Day, and Saturday, June 25th through Sunday, July 17, 2022 for summer vacation. Enjoy the many benefits of club membership: Exceptional cuisine Multiple private meeting and event spaces Professional event staff A unique and historic venue Centrally located on the Brown campus Hours of Operation Please note: The Club will be closed on Friday, June 3rd, a University Employee Appreciation Day, and Saturday, June 25th through Sunday, July 17, 2022 for summer vacation. A La Carte Lunch — Monday through Friday, 11:30 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. Please note: The Club will be closed on Friday, June 3rd. Barbara's Bar — Monday through Friday, 4:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. Please note: The Club will be closed on Friday, June 3rd. The Club's well-appointed, flexible interior provides excellent facilities for private parties, wedding receptions, banquets and departmental meetings. We are pleased to partner with local vendors including Community Harvest and Farm Fresh Rhode Island. We invite you to enjoy the elegant experience that awaits you at the Brown Faculty Club. Discover the benefits of membership; call 401-863-3023 to learn more. Reciprocal Clubs As a member of the Brown Faculty Club, you have reciprocal privileges at ACUC Clubs. Search the directory Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Private Events Private Dining Rooms Service Policies Room Reservations Meeting & Event Accompaniments Food Allergies Menus Luncheon à La Carte Barbara's Bar Private Event Menus Membership Member Events Contact Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Member Portal This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Brown Faculty Club Open details for Brown Faculty Club Bookmark this Page