Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Faculty House Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Events Spaces Services Request Information Currently at Faculty House About Weddings Wedding Packages St. Paul's Chapel Social Events Social Event Packages Conferences, Seminars and Meetings Meeting Packages Event Gallery & Testimonials 1st Floor: Garden Level Garden Room 1 Garden Room 2 Ivy Lounge 2nd Floor: Seminar Level Seminar Level Event Space (Full Floor) Seminar Room 1 Seminar Room 2 Seminar Rooms 3 & 4 3rd Floor: Presidential Level Presidential Ballroom (Full Floor) Presidential Room 1 Presidential Room 2 Presidential Room 3 1754 Boardroom 4th Floor: Skyline Level Dining Room & Terrace St. Paul's Chapel View All Spaces Audio Visual Services Virtual Event Services Catering Services All Packages & Menus Daily Luncheons in the Faculty Dining Room Services From Our Partners Cakes from Ron Ben-Israel Additional Partner Services For Faculty, Staff & Outside Guests Current Faculty House Promotions Daily Luncheons in the Faculty Dining Room Exclusively for Columbia Faculty & Staff Columbia Community Hour Our Team Learn More About Columbia University Event Management Faculty House History Artwork at Faculty House University Seminars Sustainability Directions Faculty House You are here: Home Currently at Faculty House Exclusively for Columbia Faculty & Staff Community Hour Community Hour Columbia is more than a University – it’s a community. Long a center of campus academic and social activity, the Faculty House team has been proud to host gatherings for members of campus to come together. Whether it’s daily lunch, mid-day concerts, an afternoon lecture series, or special evening events, we’re here to make every day moments a special occasion. One of the small ways we support coming together is through a tradition called Community Hour. During the academic year (and sometimes in summer too!) the Faculty House team hosts a monthly community hour - a time to wind down and socialize with your colleagues and other Columbia community members. Community hour is typically held in the Ivy Lounge or in the summer on the Skyline Level terrace. We look forward to welcoming back the campus community for the 2021-22 Academic Year. Stay tuned for opportunities to get together again. Subscribe to Receive Emails Be the first to hear about sales, promotions and Community Hour events. Sign Up 212-854-1200 [email protected] Faculty House64 Morningside Drive, Mail Code 2301 · New York, NY 10027 Phone phone: 212-854-1200 fax: 212-851-1043 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close