Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Dean of the Faculty Dean of the Faculty Contact Us Dean.Faculty@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About A&S People Meet the Dean Academic Leadership Team Administrative Staff Offices Centers, Institutes, and Programs DOF Org Chart Faculty Directory Academic Deans & Divisions Departments & Programs Administrative Areas Arts & Sciences Finance Center Chief of Staff Finance and Research Administration The Frank J. Guarini Institute for International Education Office of the Registrar Undergraduate Advising & Research Event Coordination Faculty Recruitment Back to Top Nav Research & Teaching Support Internal Awards and Fellowships Quick Reference List of Faculty Resources Awards and Funding (T/TT) Conferences DOF Computer Upgrade Program Roth Visiting Scholar Award Other Dartmouth Sources External Funding Other Dartmouth Support Mentoring & Professional Development Undergraduate & Staff Research Assistance IT Support Back to Top Nav Governance & Service Faculty Governance at Dartmouth Arts & Sciences Committees Faculty Balloting Faculty Handbook Retirement Handbook Organization of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences of Dartmouth College Policies & Procedures Academic Honor Principle Curriculum & Course Development Faculty Evaluation Forms Faculty Leave Organization of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences of Dartmouth College (OFASDC) Recruitment Student Accommodations Charge to departments/programs for external reviews Back to Top Nav Inclusive Excellence Inclusive Excellence A&S Inclusive Excellence Reports Back to Top Nav News & Events Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Top Stories Previous Next David Kotz ’86 Named Dartmouth Provost The computer scientist has served as interim provost since July 2021. Montgomery Hosts 'A Celebration of Making' Three master craftspeople will be on campus as Montgomery Fellows this winter. Elizabeth F. Smith Reappointed Arts and Sciences Dean Smith has been appointed to a second five-year term. Faculty and Staff Named to Top N.H. Business Leaders List The "New Hampshire Business Review" list recognizes leaders across major industries. C-REX2 launched from Andoya Research Range, Norway Sounding rocket C-REX2 launched December 1st from Andoya Research Range, Norway. Grad student Magda Moses from the 317 lab, and UAF/GI grad student Matt Blandin, are in the field for this. First reports are excellent science conditions and instrument performance. The mission studies the Earth's auroral cusp. Dartmouth to Partner With Coursera on Online Learning The collaboration will launch six Dartmouth-Coursera programs through 2022. Mysterious Footprints in Tanzania Made by Early Humans, Not Bears Study shows that multiple species of hominins co-existed there 3.7 million years ago. Dartmouth News Jeremy Manning Elected to Memory Disorders Research Society Assistant Professor Jeremy Manning was elected as a member of the Memory Disorders Research Society! MDRS is a professional honors society dedicated to the study of how memory works and why it breaks. Membership to the society is by invitation only. Kudos: Harnessing the Human Heartbeat and More Dartmouth faculty, students, and staff are recognized for their achievements. Six Arts and Sciences Faculty Named to Endowed Chairs The honors recognize faculty members' outstanding research and teaching. Internal Awards & Fellowships Find funding for research, courses, professional development, information regarding faculty leaves, and more.learn more Faculty Handbook The policies and operating principles of the Arts & Sciences.learn more Academic Deans and Divisions Learn about the four associate deans who oversee our divisions.learn more Events view all Jun 07 11:30AM Faculty Lunch Today Paganucci Lounge, Class of 1953 Commons Co-sponsored by the President's Office and the Dean of the Faculty Office. Sep 23 9:00AM Workshop on Constitutional Theory and General Jurisprudence To be announced This workshop aims to examine the philosophical foundations of some of the most pressing debates in contemporary American constitutional theory. Sep 24 9:00AM Workshop on Constitutional Theory and General Jurisprudence To be announced This workshop aims to examine the philosophical foundations of some of the most pressing debates in contemporary American constitutional theory. Main menu Dartmouth College Dean of the Faculty About A&S People Meet the Dean Academic Leadership Team Administrative Staff Offices Centers, Institutes, and Programs DOF Org Chart Faculty Directory Academic Deans & Divisions Departments & Programs Administrative Areas Arts & Sciences Finance Center Chief of Staff Finance and Research Administration The Frank J. Guarini Institute for International Education Office of the Registrar Undergraduate Advising & Research Event Coordination Faculty Recruitment Research & Teaching Support Internal Awards and Fellowships Quick Reference List of Faculty Resources Awards and Funding (T/TT) Conferences DOF Computer Upgrade Program Roth Visiting Scholar Award Other Dartmouth Sources External Funding Other Dartmouth Support Mentoring & Professional Development Undergraduate & Staff Research Assistance IT Support Governance & Service Faculty Governance at Dartmouth Arts & Sciences Committees Faculty Balloting Faculty Handbook Retirement Handbook Organization of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences of Dartmouth College Policies & Procedures Academic Honor Principle Curriculum & Course Development Faculty Evaluation Forms Faculty Leave Organization of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences of Dartmouth College (OFASDC) Recruitment Student Accommodations Charge to departments/programs for external reviews Inclusive Excellence Inclusive Excellence A&S Inclusive Excellence Reports News & Events Ribbon Footer Faculty Handbook The Handbook of the Faculty of Arts & Sciences contains the policies, regulations and benefits within Arts & Sciences. Organization of the Faculty of Dartmouth College Descriptions of the College's committees, councils, departments and divisions. Policies and Procedures The Academic Honor Principle, curriculum development, faculty leave and records, recruiting, and student accommodations. Close About the Program Our graduate program is more intimate than at the big research universities with unparalleled access to leaders in their fields. Fields of Study Dartmouth offers 16 programs leading to a PhD, 12 masters programs, and an increasing number of interdisciplinary programs. Apply to the Graduate Program The graduate programs admit the most highly qualified applicants whose academic backgrounds and personal and professional experiences have prepared them for achievement and excellence. Close People Dean of the Faculty of Arts & Sciences Elizabeth F. Smith elizabeth.f.smith@dartmouth.edu 603-646-3999 Executive Assistant to the Dean of the Faculty Leslie Tait Leslie.R.Tait@Dartmouth.edu (603) 646-3999 Visit the Department People page. Find Us Address 6045 Wentworth Hall Hanover, NH 03755Come find us! Phone: 646-3999 HB: HB 6045 Email: Dean.Faculty@Dartmouth.edu More Contact Information Close Faculty Handbook and Policies School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Contact Us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback