Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Faculty Revision of Faculty Evaluation Processes Current Faculty New Faculty Orientation Why Georgia Tech Colleges and Schools Life at Tech Resources Diversity & Accessibility Relocation Visit Campus Deans, Chairs, & Directors Policies & Handbooks Faculty Hiring Promotion & Tenure Mentoring Handling Grievances Internal Resources Legal Affairs Diversity & Accessibility Faculty Affairs Reps Banner Access Faculty Hiring Time Away Faculty Relocation Offer Letter Templates Internal Resources Promotion & Tenure Faculty Professional Development About Us Programs and Services Coaching and Consulting APL Mentoring Program Mentoring Resources Resources Recognition and Awards News & Events About Us Directory Contact Us EU GDPR Privacy Notice Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Faculty Professional Development Office of Faculty Professional Development Programs and Services First Director of Office of Faculty Professional Development The Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty is pleased to announce that Dr. Rebecca Pope-Ruark will serve as the first Director of the Office of Faculty Professional Development, effective April 15. Pope-Ruark joins OFPD from the Center for Teaching and Learning (CTL) and will be coordinating efforts for all non-teaching-related professional development for faculty in this new role. Learn more Summer 2022 Faculty Development Opportunities The Office of Faculty Professional Development (OFPD) offers professional development workshops and webinars, writing retreats, a burnout support group for women+ faculty, and 1:1 professional development coaching and consultations. Mentoring Reading Group For faculty, mentoring is a feature of the research, teaching, and service work we do. Yet faculty are not often taught how to be an effective mentor or how to receive mentoring. Over the course of three meetings during June and July, we will read and discuss excerpts from W. Brad Johnson's On Being a Mentor: A Guide for Higher Education Faculty and Johnson and Charles R. Ridley's practical guide, The Elements of Mentoring. Join us for one discussion or all three. Register here. Wednesday June 1, 2-3:30pm, Foundations of Mentoring Wednesday, June 29, 2-2:30pm, Mentoring Students Wednesday, July 27, 2-3:30pm, Mentoring Peers Faculty Writing Retreats Join other faculty writers this fall for twice-monthly, three-hour virtual writing retreats to move forward the writing project(s) of your choice. In each three-hour writing retreat, participants will identify concrete, achievable writing goals for the retreat; receive structure and support in achieving those goals; learn tips and strategies for enhancing your writing productivity; and spend 2.5 hours making progress on the writing project of their choice. Register here. Thursday, June 16, 9am-Noon (Virtual) Thursday, July 21, 9am-Noon (Virtual) Women+ Faculty Burnout Support Group Join the Office of Faculty Professional Development for a monthly support and conversation group for women+ faculty to address burnout and well-being. This support group offers support for women+ faculty, safe space to discuss challenges and solutions, opportunities to connect with other women+ faculty, and strategies and resources for moving through and beyond burnout, overwhelm, and other challenges to well-being. Participation is open to any women+ identified faculty member at Tech, including tenure-track faculty, lecturers, academic professionals, research scientists, librarians, and contingent faculty from any school or unit at Tech. No preparation or special experience needed; register for as many or as few sessions as your schedule and bandwidth allow. Read more about the group and register for sessions using this webform. Past Programming Promotion and Tenure Workshops The Office of Faculty Professional Development and the Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty are offering workshops to support faculty as they prepare for promotion and/or tenure reviews. For Academic Professionals: This workshop discuss candidate strategies for the Academic Professional promotion process, including how to determine when to go up, how to prepare successful packages, how to have conversations with supervisors about the process, and how to map job accomplishments to the promotion criteria. Q&A session to follow. Tuesday, March 15, 11:30am-1pm (virtual) For Lecturers: This workshop discuss candidate strategies for the Lecturer promotion process, including how to determine when to go up, how to prepare successful packages, how to have conversations with supervisors about the process, and how to map job accomplishments to the promotion criteria. Q&A session to follow. Monday, March 14, 12-1:30 pm (virtual) For Tenure-Track Faculty: A workshop to discuss candidate strategies for the tenure-track promotion and tenure process, including how to prepare successful packages and how to map scholarly accomplishments to promotion and tenure criteria. Q&A session to follow. Wednesday, March 2, 2:30-3:30pm (virtual) Register for OFPD webinars and workshops using this webform (opens new window). Faculty Writing Retreats Join other faculty writers this fall for twice-monthly, three-hour virtual writing retreats to move forward the writing project(s) of your choice. In each three-hour writing retreat, participants will identify concrete, achievable writing goals for the retreat; receive structure and support in achieving those goals; learn tips and strategies for enhancing your writing productivity; and spend 2.5 hours making progress on the writing project of their choice. Thurs, Jan 6, 9am-Noon (Virtual) Wed, Jan 19, 1-4pm (Virtual) Thurs, Feb 3, 9am-Noon (Virtual) Wed, Feb 16, 1-4pm (Virtual) Thurs, Mar 3, 9am-Noon (Virtual) Wed, Mar 16, 1-4pm (Virtual) Thurs, Apr 7, 9am-Noon (Virtual) Wed, Apr 20, 1-4pm (Virtual) Registration for writing retreats fills on a first-come, first-served basis. Register for as many or as few writing retreats as your schedule and bandwidth allow using this webform (opens new window). Faculty Coffee and Conversation Hours Sponsored by the Office of Faculty Professional Development, monthly faculty coffee and conversation hours focused on a different faculty group each month provide opportunities for faculty connection and community. In-person gatherings will be resumed Fall 2022. Professional Development Programs The Provost Fellows for Faculty Development (PFFD) program brings together a cohort of faculty who envision and help expand professional development initiatives that are for faculty, by faculty, and about faculty. The program runs from January to December 2022. Each fellow receives $5,000 for program development support and/or to participate in a faculty development activity. Participants for 2022 are Alex Duncan, Andy Frazee, Joy Harris, Gabi Steinbach, Jan Uelzmann, and Eunhwa Yang. The Faculty Leadership Apprenticeship (FLA) program fosters and develops faculty members for leadership by providing access to Vice Provost Office leadership and their decisions; offering close, and accessible, mentoring; and participating in the formulation of solutions and policies related to real problems and on-going issues. The apprenticeship runs from January to June 2022. Each participant receives $5,000 for program development support and/or to participate in a faculty development activity. Participants for 2022 are Suchismita Dutta, Kyriaki Kalaitzidou, and Juergen Rauleder. The ACC Academic Leaders Network (ACC ALN) is designed to facilitate cross-institutional networking and collaboration among academic leaders while building leadership capacity for the participating institutions. The target audience is faculty who have received foundational leadership training and who have at least 1-2 years of experience in their current leadership role, such as department chairs/heads, assistant/associate deans, and assistant/associate provosts (or similar titles as they may vary across institutions). Participants must be able to attend all three on-site sessions over the course of the calendar year, each hosted at a different participating university campus. Participants for 2022 are Pamela Bhatti, Michelle Rinehart, and Jake Soper. Faculty Development Consultations The Office of Faculty Professional Development Programs and Services (OFPD) offers one-on-one consultations to faculty across campus. In consultations, we identify your needs and work with you to provide resources, guidance, and coaching to support your professional development. Read more and register. New Faculty Orientation Each fall, OFPD offers New Faculty Orientation and the Center for Teaching and Learning hosts a Fall Teaching Kickoff. Information about the next new faculty orientation will be updated over the summer. New Faculty Leaders Orientation Each fall, faculty in new leadership positions are invited to participate in New Faculty Leaders Orientation as well as a year-long workshops series focused on helping faculty leaders develop leadership skills, understand the Georgia Tech and University System of Georgia landscape, and become more effective and efficient leaders. Georgia Tech Leadership and Development Programs The Emerging Leaders Program is designed for associate and full professors who have attained tenure. Over the course of nine months, participants take part in several activities including a fall weekend workshop, monthly workshops, small-group work, and a 360-degree assessment. The program is a collaboration among the Office of the Provost, the Institute for Leadership and Social Impact, and the Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty. The Faculty Executive Leadership Academy (FELA) is designed to identify, foster, and develop senior faculty members for leadership. This program will build on individuals’ previous leadership development experiences by providing first access to senior leadership and their decisions; offering close, and accessible, mentoring; and participating in the formulation of solutions and policies related to real problems and on-going issues. EXTERNAL FACULTY DEVELOPMENT OPPORTUNITIES NCFDD. Tech faculty have free access to the resources and webinars of the National Center for Faculty Development and Diversity (NCFDD) through Tech’s institutional membership. NCFDD provides webinars, workshops, and resources to support teaching, research and writing, and well-being for faculty. LinkedIn Learning. Faculty have free access to LinkedIn Learning through Tech’s institutional membership. LinkedIn Learning offers an extensive online library of high-quality instructional videos on a wide range of professional development skills. Accessibility Information Per accessibility compliance standards, this page may have links to files that would require the downloading of additional software: Download Adobe Reader Download Microsoft Products Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Georgia Institute of Technology 237 Uncle Heinie Way, Suite 111 Atlanta, GA 30332-0740 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login