Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Faculty House Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Events Spaces Services Request Information Currently at Faculty House About Weddings Wedding Packages St. Paul's Chapel Social Events Social Event Packages Conferences, Seminars and Meetings Meeting Packages Event Gallery & Testimonials 1st Floor: Garden Level Garden Room 1 Garden Room 2 Ivy Lounge 2nd Floor: Seminar Level Seminar Level Event Space (Full Floor) Seminar Room 1 Seminar Room 2 Seminar Rooms 3 & 4 3rd Floor: Presidential Level Presidential Ballroom (Full Floor) Presidential Room 1 Presidential Room 2 Presidential Room 3 1754 Boardroom 4th Floor: Skyline Level Dining Room & Terrace St. Paul's Chapel View All Spaces Audio Visual Services Virtual Event Services Catering Services All Packages & Menus Daily Luncheons in the Faculty Dining Room Services From Our Partners Cakes from Ron Ben-Israel Additional Partner Services For Faculty, Staff & Outside Guests Current Faculty House Promotions Daily Luncheons in the Faculty Dining Room Exclusively for Columbia Faculty & Staff Columbia Community Hour Our Team Learn More About Columbia University Event Management Faculty House History Artwork at Faculty House University Seminars Sustainability Directions Faculty House You are here: Home About Directions Directions Faculty House is located on Columbia University’s East Campus on Morningside Drive, north of 116th Street. Just a 20-minute subway ride from Midtown Manhattan, Faculty House offers a stimulating Ivy League setting in New York, NY. To access Faculty House, enter campus through the gates at 116th and Broadway, then follow College Walk across Amsterdam Avenue towards Morningside Drive. After passing Jerome Greene Hall on the left, enter Wien courtyard through the gates. Follow the courtyard around to the right. Faculty House will be the last building on the right. View a full campus map online or download directions to print. Google Map Location SUBWAY Take the #1 train to 116th Street (Columbia University) stop. BUS Four bus lines (M4, M11, M5 and M104) serve the Columbia/Morningside Heights area. View a city bus map. CAR From South Exit the Henry Hudson Parkway at 96th Street and proceed east, crossing Broadway, and turn left (north) at the next light, Amsterdam Avenue. Proceed north on Amsterdam for 20 blocks to campus. In addition to street parking on Broadway and Amsterdam Avenue (metered), on Morningside Drive and on side streets, there is a garage on 114th Street between Broadway and Amsterdam Avenue (close to Amsterdam) on the south side of the street. From North Exit the Henry Hudson Parkway at 125th Street and proceed east, crossing Broadway, and turn right (south) at the next light, Amsterdam Avenue. Proceed south on Amsterdam for nine blocks to campus. See above for parking recommendations. 212-854-1200 [email protected] Faculty House64 Morningside Drive, Mail Code 2301 · New York, NY 10027 Phone phone: 212-854-1200 fax: 212-851-1043 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close