Skip Top Navigation Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Dartmouth Directory Arts & Sciences Faculty ← Back to faculty directory Amie L. Thomasson Academic Appointments Chair, Philosophy Department and Daniel P. Stone Professor of Intellectual and Moral Philosophy Amie L. Thomasson is Professor of Philosophy. She specializes in metaphysics, metametaphysics, philosophy of art and literature, philosophy of mind, and phenomenology. She has also done work on artifacts, fictional characters, and social and cultural objects. At the moment, she is most interested in questions about what metaphysics, and philosophy more generally, can legitimately do, and how we can do it. She is the author of a lot of articles, and three books: Fiction and Metaphysics (Cambridge University Press, 1999), Ordinary Objects (Oxford University Press, 2007), and Ontology Made Easy (Oxford University Press, 2015). The last of these was awarded the Sanders Book Prize by the American Philosophical Association. Before coming to Dartmouth in 2017, she has held positions at the University of Miami, the University of Hong Kong, and Texas Tech University. She was recently named one of the "50 most influential living philosophers". Personal Website amie.l.thomasson@dartmouth.edu 208A Thornton, Department of Philosophy HB 6035 Department(s): Philosophy Education: Ph.D. University of California, Irvine M.A. University of California, Irvine B.A. Duke University Areas of expertise Metaphysics, Philosophy of Mind, Philosophy of Art, Phenomenology My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback