University of Southern California USC Faculty Portal Main Navigation Skip to content Skip to secondary content New Faculty Working At USC Campus Organizations for Faculty Before You Arrive Research Teaching For International Faculty Faculty Practitioners Living in Los Angeles Your First Few Months Research Teaching For International Faculty Faculty Practitioners School Contacts Dual Careers Dual Career Assistance Dual Career Resources Frequently Asked Questions Academic Resources Teaching Definition of Excellence in Teaching Classroom Administration Faculty Resources FAQs: Return to Campus Fall 2021 Instruction Interdisciplinary Teaching Grant Program Interdisciplinary Teaching Grant Program Recipients Maintaining Classes in an Emergency Online Instruction Student Services and Referrals Syllabus Design Teaching Policies Academic Review Advancing Scholarship in the Humanities and Social Sciences ASHSS Early Sabbatical Research and Creative Project Grants ASHSS Grant Writing Mentorship Program Checklists Research Policies Research Resources USC Funding Development & Mentoring Resources Diversity & Inclusion USC Mentoring Awards 2022 Mentoring Awards Recipients Past Award Recipients Recipients by School Provost’s Mentoring Award Provost’s Mentoring Award Recipients Appointments, Promotion & Tenure Workshops Promotion to Full Professor Tenure-Track Faculty Faculty Governance Committees Retirement Benefits & Work/Life Retirement Choices: Immediate and Phased Retirement Faculty Retirement Presentations 2021-2022 Frequently Asked Questions Contacts and Related Links Retirement Planning Pre-Retirement Checklist Retirement Healthcare Income Options in Retirement Return to Content USC Ukraine Assistance Hub If you are a faculty member, postdoc, or student who has left or is considering leaving Ukraine because of the war, USC may offer you a place to continue your research and studies. Funding, visa support, accommodation, mentoring, and other resources are available. Please see general pathways as well as specific opportunities that the University of Southern California offers for students and scholars listed below. Even if you do not see an existing opening, please submit your information through the Interest Form. We will strive to connect you with specific faculty and programs at USC. Over 350 USC-based faculty have expressed interest in supporting Ukrainian students and academics, and resources are continually being updated internally! For USC Faculty: If you’d like to add your resources or collaboration interests, please use this form. This is an effort led by USC faculty members with support by various administrative units within the Office of the Provost. For more information, please visit: https://www.ukraineassistance.usc.edu. Eileen Crimmins, Manuel Pastor elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences Noted USC faculty members Eileen Crimmins and Manuel Pastor have been elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. They join more than 250 accomplished individuals in this year’s academy class, which celebrated authors Sandra Cisneros and Salman Rushdie, Brookings Institution President and retired United States Marine Corps four-star general John R. Allen, Indigenous Canadian-American singer-songwriter and Oscar-winning composer Buffy Sainte-Marie, and multi-award-winning actor Glenn Close. Including Crimmins and Pastor, 37 USC faculty members have now received this distinction. Congratulations to all awardees! To read the full article, please click here. Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) – Official messages and status updates from USC You must be logged out of a personal Gmail account, and logged in to your USC account, in order to access this site. Use your primary USC NetID; school/unit-based subdomain accounts (“med,” “law,” “marshall,” etc.,) will cause you to see a 404 error. For instructions on how to log in to USC Google G-Suite apps using your USC NetID, visit the ITS instruction page. USC has taken several significant actions to help reduce the spread of COVID-19, similar to steps the city of Los Angeles and other local municipalities have announced. We are continuing to monitor the rapidly evolving situation in light of information from the Los Angeles County Department of Public Health about the community spread of the virus in the county. The university’s leadership will continue to monitor the situation closely and will continue to provide updates as the situation evolves. COVID-19 updates for faculty link: https://coronavirus.usc.edu/category/faculty/ Academic FAQ’s for students link: https://arr.usc.edu/services/grades/faq.html Academic FAQ’s for faculty link: https://sites.usc.edu/coronavirus/faqs-academics/ Community Messages – Official Messages from USC link: https://sites.usc.edu/coronavirus/announcements/ Faculty in the Classroom FAQ’s link: https://www.provost.usc.edu/covid-19/fall-2021-faculty-faq/ Roadmap to Return: Our Current Phase link: https://we-are.usc.edu/ Information Careers at USC Compliance: Who Do I Call If? Deans’ Portal Faculty Affairs School Contacts Faculty Data Faculty Handbook FERPA (Family Educational Rights & Privacy Act) Sexual Misconduct Conversation Guide TrojansAlert UCAPT Manual USC Definition of Excellence in Teaching USC Policies VPAFA Home Page Information Faculty Leaves of Absense Information USC Employee Gateway USC Events Calendar USC Jobs USC News USC Press Room USC Provost Blog USC Provost Office USC’s Strategic Vision USC Vision and Voices Office of the Executive Vice Provost University of Southern California 3551 Trousdale Parkway -- ADM 204 Los Angeles, CA 90089-4019 (213) 740-6715 vpafa@usc.edu Contact Information: Faculty Affairs Staff