Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Faculty House Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Events Spaces Services Request Information Currently at Faculty House About Weddings Wedding Packages St. Paul's Chapel Social Events Social Event Packages Conferences, Seminars and Meetings Meeting Packages Event Gallery & Testimonials 1st Floor: Garden Level Garden Room 1 Garden Room 2 Ivy Lounge 2nd Floor: Seminar Level Seminar Level Event Space (Full Floor) Seminar Room 1 Seminar Room 2 Seminar Rooms 3 & 4 3rd Floor: Presidential Level Presidential Ballroom (Full Floor) Presidential Room 1 Presidential Room 2 Presidential Room 3 1754 Boardroom 4th Floor: Skyline Level Dining Room & Terrace St. Paul's Chapel View All Spaces Audio Visual Services Virtual Event Services Catering Services All Packages & Menus Daily Luncheons in the Faculty Dining Room Services From Our Partners Cakes from Ron Ben-Israel Additional Partner Services For Faculty, Staff & Outside Guests Current Faculty House Promotions Daily Luncheons in the Faculty Dining Room Exclusively for Columbia Faculty & Staff Columbia Community Hour Our Team Learn More About Columbia University Event Management Faculty House History Artwork at Faculty House University Seminars Sustainability Directions Faculty House You are here: Home Services The Faculty Dining Room The Faculty Dining Room Returning soon to the Faculty Dining Room! Lunch is an important part of each day – to recharge over a meal, but also to step away from the day’s activities to refresh your spirit and mind. Join the Faculty House team at our grand eatery for the Columbia community located on the Skyline Level of Faculty House. Enjoy lunch in our bright and open space boasting vaulted ceilings and windows overlooking Morningside Park or sit on our seasonal outdoor terrace overlooking the city. Join colleagues and students to discuss ongoing work or come for a quiet minute on your own to eat and reflect on your day. Our delightful daily lunch features globally inspired cuisine with numerous options. Added emphasis is on use of regionally grown and accessible ingredients. To make a lunch reservation, please call the Dining Room at 212-854-7199. The Dining Room is also available for private events after lunch service. Contact us for more information. Join Us For Lunch Our Daily Luncheon will begin again soon. Reservations are available Monday - Friday by calling 212-854-7199. An acapella group from Columbia entertains the crowd after lunch at the Faculty Dining Room. Faculty House64 Morningside Drive, Mail Code 2301 · New York, NY 10027 Phone phone: 212-854-1200 fax: 212-851-1043 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close