Skip to main content Link to TU homepage × Close Menu College of Arts & Sciences College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Business College of Health Sciences College of Law Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Faculty & Adjuncts Ido Kilovaty, SJD, LLM Ido Kilovaty, SJD, LLM Frederic Dorwart and Zedalis Family Fund Associate Professor of Law College of Law Law ido-kilovaty@utulsa.edu 918-631-3052 Website College of Law Room 231 Curriculum Vitae Education LL.B – Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Faculty of Law SJD – Georgetown University Law Center LLM – University of California, Berkeley, School of Law Bio Ido Kilovaty is the Frederic Dorwart and Zedalis Family Fund Associate Professor of Law. He comes to the College of Law after two years as a Research Scholar in Law at Yale Law School. At Yale, he was a Cyber Fellow at the Center for Global Legal Challenges, and a Resident Fellow at the Information Society Project, where he remains an affiliated fellow. Professor Kilovaty is also a 2018-19 Cybersecurity Policy Fellow at New America. He specializes in the intersection of technology, law, and society, with a focus on cybersecurity – both domestic and international. His specific areas of research include cybersecurity law, computer crime law, and domestic and global technology regulation. His research appeared in the UC Irvine Law Review, Ohio State Law Journal, Tennessee Law Review, Harvard National Security Journal, Berkeley Law and Technology Journal, and more. Professor Kilovaty’s op-eds and essays appeared at Harvard Law Review Blog, Lawfare, Just Security, WIRED, and TechCrunch. Research Interests Cybersecurity Law and Policy Technology Law Computer Crime Law Privacy Law National Security Law International Law Teaching Interests Cybersecurity Law and Policy Technology Law Computer Crime Law Criminal Procedure Privacy Law National Security Law International Law Publications Law Reviews Ido Kilovaty, Cybersecuring the Pipeline, 60 Houston Law Review (2023). Ido Kilovaty, Psychological Data Breach Harms, 23 North Carolina Journal of Law & Technology (2021). Ido Kilovaty, Privatized Cybersecurity Law, UC Irvine Law Review (2020). Ido Kilovaty, Availability’s Law, Tennessee Law Review (2020). Ido Kilovaty, An Extraterritorial Human Right to Cybersecurity, Notre Dame Journal of International & Comparative Law (2020). Ido Kilovaty, Legally Cognizable Manipulation, 34 Berkeley Technology Law Journal (2019). Ido Kilovaty, The Elephant in the Room: Coercion, 113 American Journal of International Law Unbound (2019). Ido Kilovaty, Freedom to Hack, 80 Ohio State Law Journal (2019). Ido Kilovaty, Doxfare – Politically Motivated Leaks and the Future of the Norm on Non – Intervention in the Era of Weaponized Information, 9 Harvard National Security Journal 146 (2018). Ido Kilovaty, ICRC, NATO, and the U.S. – Direct Participation in “Hacktivities” – Targeting Private Contractors in Cyberspce Under the Law of Armed Conflict, 15 Duke Law and Technology Law Review 1 (2016). Ido Kilovaty, Virtual Violence – Disruptive Cyberspace Operations as “Attacks” under International Humanitarian Law, 22 Michigan Telecommunications and Technology Law Review 113 (2016). Ido Kilovaty, World Wide Web of Exploitations: The Case of Peacetime Cyber Espionage Operations Under International Law: Towards a Contextual Approach, 18 Columbia Science and Technology Law Review 42 (2016). Ido Kilovaty, Report of the Commission of Inquiry on Human Rights in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea: Green Light for Humanitarian Intervention?, 6 Creighton International and Comparative Law Journal 1 (2015). Ido Kilovaty, Rethinking the Prohibition on the Use of Force in the Light of Economic Cyber Warfare: Towards a Broader Scope of Article 2(4) of the UN Charter, 4(3) Journal of Law and Cyber Warfare 210 (2015). Ido Kilovaty, Cyber Warfare and the Jus ad Bellum Challenges: Evaluation in Light of the Tallinn Manual on the International Law Applicable to Cyber Warfare, 5 American University National Security Brief 91 (2014). Ido Kilovaty, Legally Cognizable Manipulation, Berkeley Technology Law Journal. Book Chapters Ido Kilovaty, Cyber Conflict and the Thresholds of War, in Is The International Legal Order Unraveling? (2022). Ido Kilovaty, Cybersecurity Abroad: Election Interference and the Extraterritoriality of Human Rights Treaty Obligations (2021). Ido Kilovaty, The International Law of Cyber Intervention (2021). Blog Posts Ido Kilovaty, Are Tech Companies Becoming the Primary Legislators in International Cyberspace? (2019). Conference Proceedings Yale Cyber Leadership Forum: Bridging the Divide: The Law, Technology, and Business of Cyber Security – Conference Report, (July 31, 2018, co-editor with Oona Hathaway and Ted Wittenstein) Dissertation Projects Ido Kilovaty, Conflict in Cyberspace and International Law. Other Data Breach Through Social Engineering,, Har. L. Rev. Blog (March 21, 2018). The Cambridge Analytica Debacle is Not a Facebook “Data Breach.” Maybe It Should Be, TechCrunch (March 17, 2018). If it talks like a government and acts like a government, it must be a tech giant, TechCrunch, March 31, 2017. Repealing Net Neutrality, National Security, and the Road to a Dictatorial Internet, Harv. L. Rev. Blog (December 22, 2017). The Equifax Aftermath – We Need More Hacking, Lawfare (October 6, 2017). The World is on the Verge of a Cyber War, The Jerusalem Post (January 7, 2017). Violence in Cyberspace: Are Disruptive Cyberspace Operations Legal under International Humanitarian Law, Just Security, March 3, 2017. Want to Keep Hackers Out of Gadgets? Try International Law, WIRED.com (February 7, 2017). First of its Kind U.S. Indictment of Iranian Hackers – the Future of Cyber Accountability, University of Haifa Cyber Forum Blog (March 15, 2016). Legal Blackout – Thoughts on Due-Diligence in Cyberspace and the Legality of Cyber-Espionage in the Aftermath of the Ukrainian Power Outage Cyber-Attack, University of Haifa Cyber Forum Blog (December 4, 2016). The Democratic National Committee Hack: Information as Interference, Just Security (August 1, 2016). The Double-Edged Sword of Vehicle Software Tinkering under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act Exemption, University of Haifa Cyber Forum Blog (December 4, 2016). Thoughts on Apple’s Refusal to Unlock San Bernardino Gunman’s iPhone, University of Haifa Cyber Forum Blog (February 20, 2016) Towards a Cyber-Security Treaty (with Itamar Mann, August 3, 2016). Will “Cyber Bonds” Mitigate Transnational Cyberspace Threats, Just Security (June 15, 2016). Anonymous to Launch “Massive Cyber Attacks” Against ISIS in the Aftermath of the Paris Terrorist Attacks, University of Haifa Cyber Forum Blog (November 18, 2015). The Cyber-Attack on U.S. Office of Personnel Management – What are the Challenges?, University of Haifa Cyber Forum Blog (July 9, 2015). “Balkanization” of the Internet as a Response to Cybersecurity Threats – a Viable Solution or a Serious Obstacle for the Future of the Net, University of Haifa Cyber Forum Blog (May 11, 2015). “Sophisticated Cyberattack” against the Pentagon Demonstrates the Biggest Gaps in Inter-State Cyberspace Activities Regulation, University of Haifa Cyber Forum Blog (August 13, 2015). War: The Next Generation, Ha’Aretz (December 22, 2014). LGBTI Asylum Seekers May Still Face Hardships in the EU, Despite Recent ECJ Decision Ruling in Favor of Gay Asylum Seekers, Berkeley Journal of International Law Online, Berkeley Travaux (December 16, 2013). Courses Taught Criminal Procedure: Police Practices Computer Crime Law International Law Cybersecurity Law and Policy Cybersecurity Law & Policy Technology Law Professional Affiliations New America American Society of International Law 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT