Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Faculty House Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Events Spaces Services Request Information Currently at Faculty House About Weddings Wedding Packages St. Paul's Chapel Social Events Social Event Packages Conferences, Seminars and Meetings Meeting Packages Event Gallery & Testimonials 1st Floor: Garden Level Garden Room 1 Garden Room 2 Ivy Lounge 2nd Floor: Seminar Level Seminar Level Event Space (Full Floor) Seminar Room 1 Seminar Room 2 Seminar Rooms 3 & 4 3rd Floor: Presidential Level Presidential Ballroom (Full Floor) Presidential Room 1 Presidential Room 2 Presidential Room 3 1754 Boardroom 4th Floor: Skyline Level Dining Room & Terrace St. Paul's Chapel View All Spaces Audio Visual Services Virtual Event Services Catering Services All Packages & Menus Daily Luncheons in the Faculty Dining Room Services From Our Partners Cakes from Ron Ben-Israel Additional Partner Services For Faculty, Staff & Outside Guests Current Faculty House Promotions Daily Luncheons in the Faculty Dining Room Exclusively for Columbia Faculty & Staff Columbia Community Hour Our Team Learn More About Columbia University Event Management Faculty House History Artwork at Faculty House University Seminars Sustainability Directions Faculty House You are here: Home Spaces 1st Floor: Garden Level Ivy Lounge Ivy Lounge Other Garden Level Spaces: Garden Room 1 Garden Room 2 About This Space: The Ivy Lounge is a comfortable, yet professional space that is perfect for small, private events. The bar, fireplace, and ambience make it especially well suited for a cocktail hour or pre-event reception. The room is also excellent for small luncheons, meetings, or intimate dinners. Ideal For: Best suited for pre-event meeting space, cocktail hours, intimate receptions, and dinners. Occupancy: The Ivy Lounge can accommodate up to 132 people depending on the room layout chosen. Additional Views of This Space: Image Carousel with 4 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: The bar in the Ivy Lounge Slide 2: Love seats and bookshelves sit near windows in the Ivy Lounge Slide 3: The Ivy Lounge features a bar, fireplace and ample seating Slide 4: Seating near a bookshelf in the Ivy Lounge Previous Next Now Booking for 2022 We look forward to hosting weddings and special celebrations again in 2022. Contact our team for more information about planning. We're looking forward to working with you to put together an amazing event! Click the button below to complete our brief quote request form. We'll get back to you within 48 hours of your request. Click floor diagram above for a larger view. Click here for a printable version. Suitable For Small Lunches & Dinners Small Receptions Cocktail Hours Meetings, Seminars & Conferences Level Garden Level Faculty House64 Morningside Drive, Mail Code 2301 · New York, NY 10027 Phone phone: 212-854-1200 fax: 212-851-1043 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close