Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Faculty House Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Events Spaces Services Request Information Currently at Faculty House About Weddings Wedding Packages St. Paul's Chapel Social Events Social Event Packages Conferences, Seminars and Meetings Meeting Packages Event Gallery & Testimonials 1st Floor: Garden Level Garden Room 1 Garden Room 2 Ivy Lounge 2nd Floor: Seminar Level Seminar Level Event Space (Full Floor) Seminar Room 1 Seminar Room 2 Seminar Rooms 3 & 4 3rd Floor: Presidential Level Presidential Ballroom (Full Floor) Presidential Room 1 Presidential Room 2 Presidential Room 3 1754 Boardroom 4th Floor: Skyline Level Dining Room & Terrace St. Paul's Chapel View All Spaces Audio Visual Services Virtual Event Services Catering Services All Packages & Menus Daily Luncheons in the Faculty Dining Room Services From Our Partners Cakes from Ron Ben-Israel Additional Partner Services For Faculty, Staff & Outside Guests Current Faculty House Promotions Daily Luncheons in the Faculty Dining Room Exclusively for Columbia Faculty & Staff Columbia Community Hour Our Team Learn More About Columbia University Event Management Faculty House History Artwork at Faculty House University Seminars Sustainability Directions Faculty House You are here: Home Spaces St. Paul's Chapel St. Paul's Chapel St. Paul’s Chapel at Columbia University provides a venue for hundreds of religious and campus events each year, including worship services, concerts, university and private ceremonies. Visitors come from around the world to see the chapel, one of the first buildings in New York City to be designated as an official historic landmark. Designed by architect I. N. Phelps Stokes in 1904 as part of the McKim, Mead & White campus plan, the Chapel was fully restored in 2019. The Chapel is non-denominational, so people of all faiths are welcome to request use of the space. CHAPEL GALLERY In addition to the photos below, a virtual tour is available on the Columbia University Academics website. Image Carousel with 14 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: A happy couple, just wed at Saint Paul's Chapel. Slide 2: Saint Paul's Chapel Slide 3: Saint Paul's Chapel Slide 4: Saint Paul's Chapel Slide 5: A mother of the bride having a special moment with her daughter. Slide 6: Saint Paul's Chapel Slide 7: The wedding party at Saint Paul's Chapel Slide 8: Saint Paul's Chapel Slide 9: A couple making their way to the altar. Slide 10: Saint Paul's Chapel's unique tile-work dome. Slide 11: Stained glass at Saint Paul's. Slide 12: Saint Paul's Chapel Slide 13: Saint Paul's Chapel's amazing organ. Slide 14: Getting a group shot outside of Saint Paul's Chapel. Previous Next Hover over the gallery to reveal arrows on the left and right side that will allow you to scroll through the photos. RECENT RENOVATIONS Columbia Facilities & Operations oversaw a large-scale renovation of the Chapel's roof and stained glass in a project that spanned two years, beginning in 2017. Click here for full details and watch the brief video below showing workers carefully removing the stained glass for restoration. View the restoration of the stained glass at St. Paul's Cathedral. We're looking forward to working with you to put together an amazing event! Click the button below to complete our brief quote request form. We'll get back to you within 48 hours of your request. Easy Walking Distance to Faculty House The map below shows the close proximity between the Chapel and Faculty House. The yellow line indicates the walking path possible between the two venues, which allow guests to avoid walking across Amsterdam Avenue by using the Ancell Plaza overpass, a peaceful section of campus featuring several sculptures by well-known artists. Faculty House64 Morningside Drive, Mail Code 2301 · New York, NY 10027 Phone phone: 212-854-1200 fax: 212-851-1043 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close