Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Faculty House Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Events Spaces Services Request Information Currently at Faculty House About Weddings Wedding Packages St. Paul's Chapel Social Events Social Event Packages Conferences, Seminars and Meetings Meeting Packages Event Gallery & Testimonials 1st Floor: Garden Level Garden Room 1 Garden Room 2 Ivy Lounge 2nd Floor: Seminar Level Seminar Level Event Space (Full Floor) Seminar Room 1 Seminar Room 2 Seminar Rooms 3 & 4 3rd Floor: Presidential Level Presidential Ballroom (Full Floor) Presidential Room 1 Presidential Room 2 Presidential Room 3 1754 Boardroom 4th Floor: Skyline Level Dining Room & Terrace St. Paul's Chapel View All Spaces Audio Visual Services Virtual Event Services Catering Services All Packages & Menus Daily Luncheons in the Faculty Dining Room Services From Our Partners Cakes from Ron Ben-Israel Additional Partner Services For Faculty, Staff & Outside Guests Current Faculty House Promotions Daily Luncheons in the Faculty Dining Room Exclusively for Columbia Faculty & Staff Columbia Community Hour Our Team Learn More About Columbia University Event Management Faculty House History Artwork at Faculty House University Seminars Sustainability Directions Faculty House You are here: Home Services Services From Our Partners Cakes from Ron Ben-Israel Cakes from Ron Ben-Israel Ron Ben-Israel Cakes is one of the finest couture cake studios of our time, known for innovative and impeccable creations. We are proud to work with Ron to provide our guests with the finest cakes in New York City and beyond. www.weddingcakes.com Founded by Ron Ben-Israel in 1999, the company’s flagship design studio and bakery called Manhattan’s fashionable SoHo neighborhood home for over 15 years. At the end of 2014, the bakery and studio relocated to a new, expansive location with over 4,500 square feet in the heart of Manhattan’s Garment District. The collections of trendsetting cakes have been featured in countless books, TV shows, films and publications and can also be spotted in many of New York’s premiere hotels and venues. The bakery received additional acclaim in 2011, when Ron became host and judge of the Food Network’s hit show Sweet Genius for three seasons, which has since been syndicated around the world, as well as a judge for three seasons on the FN’s show Cake Wars as well as several holiday specials. Now Booking for 2022 We look forward to hosting weddings and special celebrations again in 2022. Contact our team for more information about planning. We're looking forward to working with you to put together an amazing event! Click the button below to complete our brief quote request form. We'll get back to you within 48 hours of your request. Faculty House64 Morningside Drive, Mail Code 2301 · New York, NY 10027 Phone phone: 212-854-1200 fax: 212-851-1043 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close