Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Faculty House Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Events Spaces Services Request Information Currently at Faculty House About Weddings Wedding Packages St. Paul's Chapel Social Events Social Event Packages Conferences, Seminars and Meetings Meeting Packages Event Gallery & Testimonials 1st Floor: Garden Level Garden Room 1 Garden Room 2 Ivy Lounge 2nd Floor: Seminar Level Seminar Level Event Space (Full Floor) Seminar Room 1 Seminar Room 2 Seminar Rooms 3 & 4 3rd Floor: Presidential Level Presidential Ballroom (Full Floor) Presidential Room 1 Presidential Room 2 Presidential Room 3 1754 Boardroom 4th Floor: Skyline Level Dining Room & Terrace St. Paul's Chapel View All Spaces Audio Visual Services Virtual Event Services Catering Services All Packages & Menus Daily Luncheons in the Faculty Dining Room Services From Our Partners Cakes from Ron Ben-Israel Additional Partner Services For Faculty, Staff & Outside Guests Current Faculty House Promotions Daily Luncheons in the Faculty Dining Room Exclusively for Columbia Faculty & Staff Columbia Community Hour Our Team Learn More About Columbia University Event Management Faculty House History Artwork at Faculty House University Seminars Sustainability Directions Faculty House You are here: Home Events Weddings Weddings TIMELESS STYLE MARRIES IVY LEAGUE CHARM From the ceremony to the reception, our team of seasoned event professionals is here to guide you through every step of the planning process. STUNNING CEREMONIES Recently restored, Saint Paul's Chapel is a non-denominational ceremony space situated just steps from our front door. This architectural gem is one of the University's historic venues and can accommodate ceremonies of up to 400 guests. Couples who book Faculty House for their reception are eligible to enjoy our Perfect Pair Package, which offers a discount on the cost of renting the chapel. For couples who prefer a more modern setting, Faculty House is also available for ceremonies. Both locations offer a seamless transition from ceremony to reception. RECEPTIONS WITH A VIEW After the ceremony, it's time to celebrate. Invite guests to take in the sights of the city from the privacy of our Skyline Terrace, or enjoy dinner and dancing in one of our two ballrooms. We are here to help you craft the perfect wedding. Allow us to see to every detail. THE FINISHING TOUCHES Exquisite Catering Our catering team has devised an impressive, multi-course menu featuring fresh, locally-sourced ingredients. Review our Wedding Packages to begin building your ideal dining experience. Custom Cakes Our Wedding Package includes a custom wedding cake designed by renowned pastry chef, Ron Ben-Israel, whose talented team will guide you in creating the perfect cake. Entertainment Whether you dream of dancing along to a live performance or a DJ who spins the latest hits, our team of talented event professionals is here to turn up the volume with AV services and by connecting you with a host of fantastic vendors. Amazing Spaces From the restored First Floor reception area featuring original terrazzo floors to the Skyline Level that showcases glittering views of Upper Manhattan, Faculty House is a versatile venue that is uniquely suited to host weddings of all sizes. Meet some of our happy couples Andrea & Justin Andrea originally hails from Texas, Justin's family from Romania -- but New York City brought them together. Elegant white flowers and candle light accented their special ceremony and dinner celebration on the Presidential and Skyline Levels of Faculty House. But what topped the evening was a special surprise orchestrated by the bride: Andrea arranged to have Justin's grandmother flown in from Romania for the memorable event. Photography credit: Jose Reyes Kathryn & Jordan Kathryn and Jordan celebrated their marriage with a ceremony and stroll through Morningside Heights, followed by a classic party on the Skyline Level of Faculty House. Take a peek at some of the special moments from their day. Photograph credit: Joshua Brown Jane and Reuben Jane and Reuben met while pursuing their MBA at Columbia Business School, so St. Paul's Chapel and Faculty House were a natural choice as a location for the couple to host their celebration. During their reception on the Skyline Level of Faculty House, Jane and Reuben honored their Korean culture with a tea ceremony. What a gorgeous celebration! Check out their story in Style Me Pretty. Photography credit: Wayne Yuan Faculty House was recognized as one of Manhattan Bride's “Best of 2022” bridal vendors for our superior service and quality. Faculty House64 Morningside Drive, Mail Code 2301 · New York, NY 10027 Phone phone: 212-854-1200 fax: 212-851-1043 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close