Skip to Main Content Brown University Faculty Club Secondary Navigation Navigation Member Portal Search Menu Site Navigation Home Private Events Private Dining Rooms Service Policies Room Reservations Meeting & Event Accompaniments Food Allergies Menus Luncheon à La Carte Barbara's Bar Private Event Menus Membership Member Events Contact Search Faculty Club Private Dining Rooms The Brown Faculty Club offers a variety of private dining rooms, from spaces for large events, to small informal areas. Breadcrumb Home Private Events Sub Navigation In This Section Private Dining Rooms Service Policies Room Reservations Meeting & Event Accompaniments Food Allergies Huttner/Twaddell Rooms and Cornell Courtyard The spacious Huttner Room and connected Twaddell Room are located on the first floor. These rooms combined seat up to 108 guests, and are ideal for a private banquet or wedding reception. Dining Capacity: 108 Reception Capacity: 142 Huttner Room Dining Capacity: 96 Reception Capacity: 130 Twaddell Room Capacity: 12 (limited availability) Picerne and Class of '52 Rooms Located on the south side of the first floor, the Picerne and Class of '52 Rooms underwent renovation in 1993. The result is Victorian charm at its most elegant. These rooms provide an excellent atmosphere that rivals the finest venues in the area for ambiance, cuisine, and personal service. Picerne Room Capacity: 24 (limited availability) Class of '52 Room Capacity: 30 (limited availability) Carberry Room The Carberry Room is located directly above the front portico of the Club on the second floor. This room seats up to 6 guests and is primarily used for small, intimate events. Capacity: 6 Kapstein Room The Kapstein Room is located in the Northwest corner of the second floor of the Club. Seating up to 24 guests, it is a prime location for private luncheons or dinners. Dining Capacity: 24 Reception Capacity: 28 Landscape Room The Landscape Room is located on the south side of the second floor of the Club. Seating up to 51 guests, it is ideal for medium sized gatherings. Dining Capacity: 51 Reception Capacity: 70 Conference Room The Conference Room is located on the south side of the Club's third floor and used primarily for business meetings and small gatherings. This room is available for self-service events only. Capacity: 32 Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Private Events Private Dining Rooms Service Policies Room Reservations Meeting & Event Accompaniments Food Allergies Menus Luncheon à La Carte Barbara's Bar Private Event Menus Membership Member Events Contact Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Member Portal This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Private Dining Rooms Open details for Private Dining Rooms Bookmark this Page