Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Faculty Revision of Faculty Evaluation Processes Current Faculty New Faculty Orientation Why Georgia Tech Colleges and Schools Life at Tech Resources Diversity & Accessibility Relocation Visit Campus Deans, Chairs, & Directors Policies & Handbooks Faculty Hiring Promotion & Tenure Mentoring Handling Grievances Internal Resources Legal Affairs Diversity & Accessibility Faculty Affairs Reps Banner Access Faculty Hiring Time Away Faculty Relocation Offer Letter Templates Internal Resources Promotion & Tenure Faculty Professional Development About Us Programs and Services Coaching and Consulting APL Mentoring Program Mentoring Resources Resources Recognition and Awards News & Events About Us Directory Contact Us EU GDPR Privacy Notice Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Faculty Development Coaching and Consultations Coaching and consulting sessions with Dr. Rebecca Pope-Ruark are available to all faculty, academic and research, of all ranks. What’s the Difference between Coaching and Consulting? Coaching and consulting are different points on the continuum of professional development. When we think of professional development, we often think of working with mentors who share their expertise and advise, or with sponsors who champion us to others. In consulting, you work with an expert in an area to improve an aspect of your work. In consultations, we identify your needs and work with you to provide resources, guidance, and support for your professional development. Working with Rebecca in a consulting role, we might engage in activities such as Developing a semester, 3-year, and 5-year strategic plan Developing maximally productive writing practices Building a research and publication pipeline Being a good mentor Learning academic project management, time management, and organization strategies*. Consulting meeting are available as one-off conversations or extended engagements to work through your needs as desired. Sign up for a 45-minute consulting meeting with Rebecca. Coaching, on the other hand, is a process of working through opportunities and challenges with a “thinking partner,” the coach, whose role is to ask good questions that allow you to think through your situation, goals, and strategies for moving forward. Rebecca is an expert in a process, and you are the expert on your life and work. By working together, we can creatively approach a variety of topics to enhance your professional self, such as Identifying values and goals that guide your academic and professional commitments Navigating conflicts and challenging conversations Creating and sustaining effective self-care practices and cultivate work-life balance Troubleshooting areas of work where you feel stuck Transitioning to different career and life stages successfully Imagining future career steps and leadership possibilities. Generating new ideas for your research and scholarship. Coaching is often a longer commitment than consulting, often in 3-6 60-minute sessions. For Summer 2022, coaching is available on Tuesdays from 12-4 and on Fridays from 8-12. Sign up for a session. *Topics related to teaching and learning can be directed to the Center of Teaching and Learning. Who is the Coach? Dr. Rebecca Pope-Ruark is an ACC-credentialed coach through the International Coaching Federation. I work exclusively with faculty in higher education and practice values-based coaching. I have nearly 20 years of experience in higher ed as a graduate instructor, tenure-track and tenured professor, faculty teaching and learning specialist, and now as the Director of the Office of Faculty Professional Development. Learn more about me. Register Consultations are offered on a first-come, first-served basis, and scheduled at a time convenient for you. Register for an initial professional development consultation (opens new window). Accessibility Information Per accessibility compliance standards, this page may have links to files that would require the downloading of additional software: Download Adobe Reader Download Microsoft Products Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Georgia Institute of Technology 237 Uncle Heinie Way, Suite 111 Atlanta, GA 30332-0740 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login