Skip to main content Link to TU homepage × Close Menu College of Arts & Sciences College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Business College of Health Sciences College of Law Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Faculty & Adjuncts Danielle Macdonald, PhD Danielle Macdonald, PhD Associate Professor of Anthropology College of Arts & Sciences Anthropology danielle-macdonald@utulsa.edu 918-631-2351 Website Harwell Hall Room 201 Curriculum Vitae Education PhD – University of Toronto MA – University of Victoria BA – University of Toronto Bio Danielle Macdonald is an anthropological archaeologist, specializing in Near Eastern Prehistory and lithic analysis. Her current research project explores hunter-gatherer aggregation through material culture at the Terminal Pleistocene site of Kharaneh IV, Jordan. Macdonald is currently the co-director of the Kharaneh IV excavation project in the Azraq Basin, Jordan (Kharaneh IV website). Further information on her current research in Jordan can be found at The Laboratory of Lithic Artifacts from the Near East website. Macdonald's other interests include method development for lithic microwear analysis and the applications of 3D microscopy for archaeological research. Her research develops new methods for the quantification of microwear traces through the use of microscopes developed for the field of surface metrology. Further information can be found on the Lithic Microwear and Technology Laboratory website. Research Interests Lithic analysis Microwear analysis Epipalaeolithic Material culture theory Origins of Agriculture Teaching Interests Archaeological method and theory Lithic analysis Near Eastern Prehistory Material culture theory Publications Journal Articles Macdonald, Danielle A., Adrian A. Evans, Robert Harman (2018). Replicating Surface Texture: Preliminary Testing of Molding Compound Accuracy for Surface Measurements. Journal of Archaeological Science: Reports. 18, 839-846 Ramsey, Monica N., Arlene Rosen, Dani Nadel, Danielle A. Macdonald, Lisa A. Maher (2018). Sheltered by Reeds and Settled on Sedges: Construction and Use of a Twenty Thousand-Year-Old Hut According to Phytolith analysis from Kharaneh IV, Jordan. Journal of Anthropological Archaeology. 50, 85-97. Macdonald, Danielle A., Adam Allentuck, Lisa A. Maher (2018). Technological Change and Economy in the Epipalaeolithic: Assessing the Shift from Early to Middle Epipalaeolithic at Kharaneh IV Through Lithic and Faunal Evidence. Journal of Field Archaeology. 43, 437-456. 2016. Ramsey, Monica N., Lisa A. Maher, Danielle A. Macdonald, and Arlene Rosen. Risk, Reliability and Resilience: Phytolith Evidence for Alternative ‘Neolithization’ Pathways at Kharaneh IV in the Azraq Basin, Jordan. PLoS ONE 11 (10):e0164081. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0164081. 2016. Maher, Lisa, Danielle A. Macdonald, Adam Allentuck, Louise Martin, Anna Spyrou, and Matthew Jones. Occupying Wide Open Spaces? Late Pleistocene Hunter-Gatherer Activities in the Eastern Levant. Quaternary International. 396, 79-94 2016. Jones, Matthew, Lisa Maher, Danielle A. Macdonald, Conor Ryan, Claire Rambeau, Stuart Black, Tobias Richter. The Environmental Setting of Epipalaeolithic Aggregation Site Kharaneh IV. Quaternary International. 396, 95-104 2016. Macdonald, Danielle A., Michael Chazan, and Joel Janetski. The Geometric Kebaran Occupation and Lithic Assemblage of Wadi Mataha, Southern Jordan. Quaternary International. 396, 105-120. 2014. Evans, Adrian A., Harry Lerner, Danielle A. Macdonald, W. James Stemp, Patricia C. Anderson. Standardization, Calibration and Exploration: An Introduction to a Special Issue on Lithic Microwear Method. Journal of Archaeological Science 48, 1-4. 2014. Macdonald, Danielle A. and Adrian A. Evans. Evaluating Surface Cleaning Techniques of Stone Tools Using Laser Scanning Confocal Microscopy. Microscopy Today 22 (3), 22-26. 2014. Macdonald, Danielle A. The Application of Focus Variation Microscopy for Lithic Use-Wear Quantification. Journal of Archaeological Science 48, 26-33. 2014. Maher, Lisa A., Danielle A. Macdonald, Aleksa Alaica, J.T. Stock, E.B. Banning. Two Early Epipalaeolithic Sites in Wadi Taiyiba, Northern Jordan. Paléorient 40 (1), 73-97 2012. Maher, Lisa A., Tobias Richter, Danielle A. Macdonald, Matthew Jones, Louise Martin, and Jay T. Stock. Twenty Thousand-Year-Old Huts at a Hunter-Gatherer Settlement in Eastern Jordan. PLoS ONE 7 (2), e31447. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0031447 2011. Evans, Adrian A. and Danielle A. Macdonald. Using Metrology in Early Prehistoric Stone Tool Research: Further Work and a Brief Instrument Comparison. Scanning 33 (5), 294-303. 2014. Evans, Adrian A., Danielle A. Macdonald, Claudiu L. Giusca, and Richard K. Leach. New Method Development in Prehistoric Stone Tool Research: Evaluating Use Duration and Data Analysis Protocols. Micron 65, 69-75 Book Chapters Jones, Matthew, Lisa Maher, Tobias Richter, Danielle A. Macdonald, and Louise Martin (2017). Human-Environment Interactions through the Epipalaeolithic of Eastern Jordan. Chapter in The Archaeology of Human-Environment Interactions: Strategies for Investigating Anthropogenic Landscapes, Dynamic Environments, and Climate Change in the Human Past. Edited by Daniel Contreras. Routledge Studies in Archaeology Series. Pages 121-140. 2014. Macdonald, Danielle A. and Adrian A. Evans. The Effects of Cleaning on Surface Roughness: Evaluating Sample Preparation Using Use-Wear Quantification. In J. Marreiros, N. Bicho, & J.G. Bao (Eds.), International Conference on Use-Wear Analysis: Use-Wear 2012. Cambridge Scholars Publishing, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK, 116-123. 2017. Jones, Matthew, Lisa Maher, Tobias Richter, Danielle A. Macdonald, and Louise Martin. Human-Environment Interactions through the Epipalaeolithic of Eastern Jordan. Chapter in The Archaeology of Human-Environment Interactions: Strategies for Investigating Anthropogenic Landscapes, Dynamic Environments, and Climate Change in the Human Past. Edited by Daniel Contreras. Routledge Studies in Archaeology Series. Pages 121-140 2013. Maher, Lisa A., and Danielle A. Macdonald. Assessing Typo-Technological Variability in Epipalaeolithic Assemblages: Preliminary Results from Two Case Studies from the Southern Levant. In F. Borrell, J. J. Ibanez & M. Molist (Eds.), Stone Tools in Transition: From Hunter-Gatherers to Farming Societies in the Near East. 7th Conference on PPN Chipped and Ground Stone Inductries of the Fertile Crescent. Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona. Servei de Publicacions, Barcelona, 29-44. Book Reviews 2015. Macdonald, Danielle A. Book Review: Beyond the Fertile Crescent: Late Paleolithic and Neolithic Communities of the Jordanian Steppe. The Azraq Basin Project, Vol. 1. By Andrew Garrard and Brian Byrd (2013). Levant Supplementary Series 13, Oxbow Books, Oxford UK. Geoarchaeology 30 (5), 452-453. Courses Taught Independent Study Research & Thesis Research and Dissertation Seminar in Archeological Theory: Archaeology As Anthropology Culture, People and Nature: General Anthropology Independent Research Archaeological Analysis Seminar in the Design and Administration Of Archaeological Research The Liberal Arts and Real Life Archaeological Science: Laboratory Analysis of Lithic Artifacts Professional Affiliations Council for British Research in the Levant Society for American Archaeology Association of Archaeological Wear and Residue Analysts 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT