Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Faculty House Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Events Spaces Services Request Information Currently at Faculty House About Weddings Wedding Packages St. Paul's Chapel Social Events Social Event Packages Conferences, Seminars and Meetings Meeting Packages Event Gallery & Testimonials 1st Floor: Garden Level Garden Room 1 Garden Room 2 Ivy Lounge 2nd Floor: Seminar Level Seminar Level Event Space (Full Floor) Seminar Room 1 Seminar Room 2 Seminar Rooms 3 & 4 3rd Floor: Presidential Level Presidential Ballroom (Full Floor) Presidential Room 1 Presidential Room 2 Presidential Room 3 1754 Boardroom 4th Floor: Skyline Level Dining Room & Terrace St. Paul's Chapel View All Spaces Audio Visual Services Virtual Event Services Catering Services All Packages & Menus Daily Luncheons in the Faculty Dining Room Services From Our Partners Cakes from Ron Ben-Israel Additional Partner Services For Faculty, Staff & Outside Guests Current Faculty House Promotions Daily Luncheons in the Faculty Dining Room Exclusively for Columbia Faculty & Staff Columbia Community Hour Our Team Learn More About Columbia University Event Management Faculty House History Artwork at Faculty House University Seminars Sustainability Directions Faculty House You are here: Home About Artwork at Faculty House Artwork at Faculty House The art exhibited in Faculty House features colorful contemporary work in all media by artists Stephen Ellis, Nina Katchadourian, Julian Kreimer, Abelardo Morrell, Michal Nachmany, David Row, Jacinta Stewart and others. In addition, the collection includes a curated selection of over sixty vintage images selected from Columbia University Archives. THE COLLECTION Garden Room 2: Living Monuments On display in Garden Room 2 is a collection of collages celebrating Columbia's Manhattanville and Morningside campuses. Ivy Lounge Collection Our Ivy Lounge features work featuring books and bookshelves, meant to lend a cozy atmosphere to the space. The Skyline Dining Room Collection Our Skyline Dining Room features a collection of work from various artists. Garden Room 2: Living Monuments In 2017, Living Monuments by Michal Nachmany was installed in Garden Room 2. In this series, Nachmany celebrates the continued growth of Columbia University’s Manhattanville Campus, while paying tribute to the Morningside Campus and to landmarks and history of a nearby section of Manhattan’s Riverside Park. Nachmany's work has been exhibited in several solo shows in New York City and New York State. Her first international solo exhibit was in Taipei, Taiwan in late 2016, followed by a show in Krakow, Poland in the spring of 2017. Learn more about the artist. Grant's Tomb Multilayered photolithography and collage with hand-painted elements. Grant’s Tomb is the resting place of Ulysses S. Grant (1822–1885), the 18th President of the United States, and his wife, Julia Boggs Dent Grant. Completed in 1897, the tomb stands in Riverside Park in the Morningside Heights neighborhood. Northeast of the monument is Columbia University’s Manhattanville Campus. Soldiers’ and Sailors’ Memorial Monument Multilayered photolithography and collage with hand-painted elements. The monument commemorates Union Army soldiers and sailors who served in the American Civil War. Completed in 1902, the monument is located about one mile south of Columbia University’s campus, at 89 Street and Riverside Drive. The Low Memorial Library Multilayered photolithography and collage. This print captures the iconic image of the Low Memorial Library, built in 1895 by Seth Low, Columbia University President, 1890-1901. The Historical Claremont Inn Multilayered photolithography and collage with hand-painted elements. Just south of the Manhattanville Campus, the Claremont Inn was built in the early 19th century along the Hudson River, north of what is now Grant’s Tomb. The Inn saw its glory days from the 1890s to the 1920s, and was demolished in 1951. Butler Library Multilayered photolithography and collage. This print combines historical images from inside and outside the Butler Library building. Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler followed President Seth Low in serving as Columbia University’s president, 1902-1945. As president, Butler carried out a major expansion of the campus, adding many new buildings, schools, and departments. After he died, Columbia’s main academic library, previously known as South Hall, was renamed to Butler Library. In 1931 Dr. Butler was the co-recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize. Alma Mater (Latin alma "nourishing/kind" mater "mother”): Multilayered photolithography and collage. The bronze sculpture of the goddess Athena by Daniel Chester French was installed in September 1903 on the steps leading up to the Low Memorial Library. Since then, the sculpture has become known internationally as one of the most significant and recognizable symbols of the University. St. Paul’s Chapel Multilayered photolithography and collage. St. Paul's Chapel, on Columbia’s Morningside Heights campus, was built from 1903-1907. In the background of the piece is a letter dated 1918 sent to the chaplain from a former student, Lieutenant J.H. Donaldson. The soldier writes to thank the chaplain for a letter he sent Donaldson, who carried the chaplain’s letter with him during a battle in France: “I had it [the chaplain’s letter] with me during the five days of fighting at Soissons, July 18-23, 1918 – Sincerely, J.H. Donaldson.” Manhattanville Urban Campus II Manhattanville Urban Campus II Multilayered photolithography and collage with hand-painted elements. The former Studebaker automobile finishing plant, constructed in the 1920s, is one of the few remnants of the old industrial West Harlem neighborhood that is now the site of Columbia's Manhattanville campus. Today the Studebaker building houses several of Columbia’s administrative departments. The artwork incorporates the images of the Studebaker building, an original stock certificate for the Studebaker Corp., vintage Studebaker cars, the 125th Street Viaduct, original street maps, Harlem’s Cotton Club and more. Manhattanville Urban Campus I Multilayered photolithography and collage with hand-painted elements. The center image shows the Jerome L. Greene Science Center. In the background is a view of Manhattanville in 1860, as well as images of historical subway tracks, the neighborhood’s old map and more. America is Beautiful Mixed-media woodcut of a map of the United States. This work includes images of Riverside Park and the Hudson River, and incorporates architectural elements from the neighborhood near Riverside Park and Manhattanville. The Ivy Lounge Collection The Ivy Lounge features a collection of pieces from Special Collections Revisted from the series The Sorted Books series, by Nina Katchadourian. The artist began this series in 1993 and continues to add to it. The books highlighted come from private homes and specialized book collections. Also displayed is Bookshelf, by Julian Kreimer. All You Need to Know Completed in 1996/2008 by Nina Katchadourian. What is Art? Completed in 1996/2008 by Nina Katchadourian. Why Spiders Spin Completed in 1996/2008 by Nina Katchadourian. David Completed in 1996/2008 by Nina Katchadourian. Leonardo da Vinci as a Musician Completed in 1996/2008 by Nina Katchadourian. Bookshelf Bookshelf Completed by 2007 by Julian Kreimer. The Skyline Dining Room Collection The Skyline Dining Room features a collection of artwork from various artists. Books: Pile XXVII Completed in 2008 by Ephraim Ruberstein. Two Open Books: Ellen Ternan and Charles Dickens Completed in 2000 by Abelardo Morell. Untitled Completed in 2005 by Stephen Ellis. Untitled Untitled By Jacinta Stewart. Faculty House64 Morningside Drive, Mail Code 2301 · New York, NY 10027 Phone phone: 212-854-1200 fax: 212-851-1043 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close