Skip to main content Link to TU homepage × Close Menu College of Arts & Sciences College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Business College of Health Sciences College of Law Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Faculty & Adjuncts Kaveh Ashenayi, PhD, PE Kaveh Ashenayi, PhD, PE Department Chair of Electrical and Computer Engineering Hans S. Norberg Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Electrical and Computer Engineering kash@utulsa.edu 918-631-3278 Rayzor Hall Room 1110 Education PhD – Oklahoma State University BS – Oklahoma State University Bio Kaveh Ashenayi's areas of research are Robotics and Automation (including autonomous devices), Alternate Energy Sources, Power Electronics, Power Engineering, Soft Computing (neural net, fuzzy logic, etc.) and its applications in Biomedical and Power Engineering. He is a senior member of IEEE and has served as the national chairman of Control, Robotics, and Automation Special Interest Group within INNS. Currently he is member of IEEE PES Energy Development and Power Generation (EDPG) Committee. He is also the Technical Committee Program Chair (TCPC) for EDPG. Research Interests Power and Energy Systems Smart Grid Robotics Autonomous Vehicles Power Electronics Teaching Interests Power and Energy Systems Intelligent Systems/Controls Robotics Power Electronics Digital Systems Publications Journal Articles K. H-Sedighi, K. Ashenayi, T.W. Manikas, and R.L. Wainwright, “A Genetic Algorithm for Autonomous Navigation Using Variable-Monotone Paths”, International Journal of Robotics and Automation, vol. 24, no.4, 2009, pp.367-373. Theodore W. Manikas, Kaveh Ashenayi, Roger L. Wainwright, “Genetic Algorithms for Autonomous Robot Navigation”, IEEE Instrumentation & Measurement Magazine, Vol. 10, No. 6, December, 2007. Aditia Hermanu, Kaveh Ashenayi, Theordore Manikas, and Roger L. Wainwright, “Autonomous Robot Navigation Using a Genetic Algorithm with an efficient Genotype Structure”, Intelligent Engineering Systems Through Artificial Neural Networks, Volume 14. Smart Engineering System Design: Neural Networks, Fuzzy Logic, Evolutionary programming, Complex Systems and Artificial Life, Cihan H. Dagli, Anna L. Buczak, David L. Enke, Mark J. Embrechts, and Okan Ersoy, Editors, ASME Press, New York, pp. 319- 324, 2004 Tai, Heng-Ming, Junli Wang, and Kaveh Ashenayi. “A Neural Network-Based Tracking Control System.” Industrial Electronics, IEEE Transactions on 39.6 (1992): 504–510. Print. Ashenayi, Kaveh et al. “Single-Layer Perception Capable of Classifying 2N+ 1 Distinct Input Patterns.” International journal of modelling & simulation 10.4 (1990): 124–128. Print. Conference Proceedings Andrew Hand, Jagruthi Godugu, Kaveh Ashenayi, Theodore W. Manikas, Roger L. Wainwright, “Benchmarking Robot Path Planning”, ANNIE 2005, November, 2005. Kamran Sedighi, Kaveh Ashenayi, Theodore Manikas, Roger L. Wainwright, and Tai, Heng-Ming, “Autonomous Local Path-Planning for a Mobile Robot Using a Genetic Algorithm”, Proceedings of the 2004 IEEE Congress on Evolutionary Computation, pp. 1338-1345, June 20-23, 2004, Portland, Oregon, USA. Tai, Heng-Ming, Junli Wang, and Kaveh Ashenayi. “Motor Speed Regulation Using Neural Networks.” Industrial Electronics Society, 1990. IECON’90., 16th Annual Conference of IEEE. 1990. 1215–1220. Print. Singh, Surendra, Kaveh Ashenayi, and H-M Tai. “Reconstruction of Pictures from Projections.” System Theory, 1988., Proceedings of the Twentieth Southeastern Symposium On. 1988. 317–321. Print. Courses Taught Research & Dissertation Sustainable Energy Electrical and Computer Engineering Design Project I Independent Study Power Electronics Basic Electrical Measurements Laboratory Digital Systems Principles Research and Dissertation Power Systems Analysis Electronics Laboratory Professional Affiliations Institute of Electrical and ELectronics Engineers 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT