Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Faculty House Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Events Spaces Services Request Information Currently at Faculty House About Weddings Wedding Packages St. Paul's Chapel Social Events Social Event Packages Conferences, Seminars and Meetings Meeting Packages Event Gallery & Testimonials 1st Floor: Garden Level Garden Room 1 Garden Room 2 Ivy Lounge 2nd Floor: Seminar Level Seminar Level Event Space (Full Floor) Seminar Room 1 Seminar Room 2 Seminar Rooms 3 & 4 3rd Floor: Presidential Level Presidential Ballroom (Full Floor) Presidential Room 1 Presidential Room 2 Presidential Room 3 1754 Boardroom 4th Floor: Skyline Level Dining Room & Terrace St. Paul's Chapel View All Spaces Audio Visual Services Virtual Event Services Catering Services All Packages & Menus Daily Luncheons in the Faculty Dining Room Services From Our Partners Cakes from Ron Ben-Israel Additional Partner Services For Faculty, Staff & Outside Guests Current Faculty House Promotions Daily Luncheons in the Faculty Dining Room Exclusively for Columbia Faculty & Staff Columbia Community Hour Our Team Learn More About Columbia University Event Management Faculty House History Artwork at Faculty House University Seminars Sustainability Directions Faculty House You are here: Home Events Event Gallery Event Gallery Great Memories of Amazing Events Enjoy our gallery featuring photos provided by guests to feature on the site. If you have photos you would like to share from your event at Faculty House, we'd love to hear from you. Image Carousel with 38 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: Nothing is better than the first dance. Slide 2: One of the exquisite wedding cakes created for our guests by Ron Ben-Israel. Slide 3: The Presidential Ballroom was the perfect size for our 110 guest wedding. Set up for the reception and ceremony were superb- fast and efficient. The staff were extremely courteous and professional. Slide 4: Invite guests to join in an elegant champagne toast. Slide 5: Make unforgettable memories with family and friends. Slide 6: Our Morningside Heights location serves as a breathtaking backdrop for nuptials. Slide 7: Say yes to forever in the recently restored, non-denominational St. Paul's Chapel. Slide 8: A gorgeous couple leaving Saint Paul's Chapel after just being wed. Slide 9: The cost of everything was reasonable, especially considering we were holding a wedding in Manhattan. Slide 10: The mother of the bride having a moment with her daughter before the ceremony. Slide 11: Saint Paul's Chapel is at once grand and intimate—a perfect backdrop for a wedding or other religious ceremony. Slide 12: Host a party that friends and family will remember for years to come. Slide 13: A couple surrounded on both sides by their groomsmen and bridesmaids as they are wed at Saint Paul's Chapel. Slide 14: Showcase your unique style with bespoke decor. Slide 15: The exquisite tile work within the dome of the historic Saint Paul's Chapel. Slide 16: Celebrate love in an unparalleled setting in New York City. Slide 17: Everyone loves the first kiss. Slide 18: One of the magnificent stained glass windows of Saint Paul's Chapel. Slide 19: A couple cutting a slice of their custom wedding cake by Ron Ben-Israel. Slide 20: A view of Saint Paul's chapel, showing its unique tilework arches and domes. Slide 21: A happy couple about to cut into their cake, adorned with flowers and encased in gold ribbon. Slide 22: A couple poses for a photo in front of Columbia University's Butler Library. Columbia's campus provides a wealth of beautiful settings for photos. Slide 23: Saint Paul's Chapel features one of New York City's finest pipe organs, featuring 5,348 pipes. Slide 24: It's time for a selfie. Slide 25: This couple entered the reception ready to have some fun. Slide 26: Fun for all ages — this group is sure to remember this bat mitvah. Slide 27: Everything was done according to what was discussed. Food and drink in the bride's ands groom's suites exceeded our expectations - we never had to ask for any refills. Slide 28: Time to celebrate. Slide 29: Smiles are always a good sign. Slide 30: He's not ready to go home yet. Slide 31: Simple and beautiful place settings with fresh wildflowers. Slide 32: Saint Paul's Chapel's excellent acoustics make it the perfect location to feature live music. Slide 33: Our happy grooms making their way back down the aisle at Saint Paul's Chapel. Slide 34: The makings of a monumental group photo outside of Saint Paul's Chapel. Slide 35: Time to have a cocktail and let loose. Slide 36: Food was excellent...and the cake was set up so beautifully. Slide 37: A wedding dress hangs next to a gilded mirror in the Faculty House Bridal Suite. Slide 38: A romantic cake in a romantic setting. Nothing is better than the first dance. One of the exquisite wedding cakes created for our guests by Ron Ben-Israel. Invite guests to join in an elegant champagne toast. Make unforgettable memories with family and friends. Our Morningside Heights location serves as a breathtaking backdrop for nuptials. Say yes to forever in the recently restored, non-denominational St. Paul's Chapel. A gorgeous couple leaving Saint Paul's Chapel after just being wed. The mother of the bride having a moment with her daughter before the ceremony. Saint Paul's Chapel is at once grand and intimate—a perfect backdrop for a wedding or other religious ceremony. Host a party that friends and family will remember for years to come. A couple surrounded on both sides by their groomsmen and bridesmaids as they are wed at Saint Paul's Chapel. Showcase your unique style with bespoke decor. The exquisite tile work within the dome of the historic Saint Paul's Chapel. Celebrate love in an unparalleled setting in New York City. Everyone loves the first kiss. One of the magnificent stained glass windows of Saint Paul's Chapel. A couple cutting a slice of their custom wedding cake by Ron Ben-Israel. A view of Saint Paul's chapel, showing its unique tilework arches and domes. A happy couple about to cut into their cake, adorned with flowers and encased in gold ribbon. A couple poses for a photo in front of Columbia University's Butler Library. Columbia's campus provides a wealth of beautiful settings for photos. Saint Paul's Chapel features one of New York City's finest pipe organs, featuring 5,348 pipes. It's time for a selfie. This couple entered the reception ready to have some fun. Time to celebrate. Smiles are always a good sign. He's not ready to go home yet. Simple and beautiful place settings with fresh wildflowers. Saint Paul's Chapel's excellent acoustics make it the perfect location to feature live music. Our happy grooms making their way back down the aisle at Saint Paul's Chapel. The makings of a monumental group photo outside of Saint Paul's Chapel. Time to have a cocktail and let loose. A wedding dress hangs next to a gilded mirror in the Faculty House Bridal Suite. A romantic cake in a romantic setting. Previous Next Hover over an image to reveal captions. Photos advances automatically but you can also use the left and right arrows to scroll at your own pace. Faculty House64 Morningside Drive, Mail Code 2301 · New York, NY 10027 Phone phone: 212-854-1200 fax: 212-851-1043 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close