Skip to content Faculty & Staff Ombuds Office Toggle navigation Faculty Ombuds Office Staff Ombuds Office Meet the Ombuds Blog Resources Principles and Practices Office Materials – Reports Conflict Self Help Be Nice Campaign Case Examples What people are saying about ombuds services FAQ Contact the Ombuds Faculty Ombuds Office Roy Baroff, the current Faculty & Staff ombuds, is retiring from the Ombuds Office at the end of this academic year. After 40 years in the conflict resolution field as a mediator, attorney, educator and ombuds he is going to take a well deserved break! As a result, ombuds services for new cases will be temporarily unavailable starting May 13, 2022 in order to finish up current cases and services. NC State supports continued faculty and staff ombuds services and will provide an update as to next steps when plans are finalized. Contact the ombuds at rjbaroff@ncsu.edu / 919-515-7685. According to the International Ombuds Association, in today’s workplace of accelerated change, the organizational ombuds is your trusted navigator. The ombuds empowers people and the university to reach their full potential. The ombuds engages with people and the university to help inform critical decisions. The ombuds helps people build and strengthen relationships across the university. The ombuds surveys the university terrain, monitors trends and promotes fair process. IOA Ombuds Brochure The faculty ombuds office is independent, impartial, informal and confidential. Here’s a description of the ombuds role that is provided to every visitor to the office. The office operates pursuant to Standards and Ethics from the International Ombuds Association – the IOA Code of Ethics and IOA Standards of Practice. Learn more about our Principles & Practices or seek answers to common questions. – FAQ Contact the NC State Faculty Ombuds for more information, to discuss an issue or situation confidentially, or to set up an appointment. Here’s a link if you are a student or want to contact Student Ombuds Services. Provide Feedback to the Faculty Ombuds Office. If you are not sure where to go for help – GO OMBUDS ! Check out this short video from the International Ombuds Association (2 minutes) explaining the role of today’s ombuds: Contacting the NC State Faculty & Staff Ombuds Office or the Faculty & Staff Ombuds is not notice to NC State of any issue, complaint, grievance or claim. Search for: Search Recent Posts Being an ombuds is an interesting job! May 24, 2022 Ombuds Retiring – NC State 68th Faculty Senate Thank You April 28, 2022 Ombuds Retiring April 19, 2022 A Reminder to Be Nice – hard on problems and soft on people March 28, 2022 Let’s Go Fishing – BrainFishing March 4, 2022 NC State University Faculty & Staff Ombuds Office 919-515-7685 Faculty & Staff Ombuds Office Copyright © 2022 · NC State University · Accessibility · Privacy · University Policies · Log in NC State University North Carolina State University Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011