Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Faculty Development & Diversity Home Diversity Resources Demographics For Search Committees Provost Faculty Openings Home > Demographics Faculty Demographics Ladder Non-Ladder Instructional Non-Ladder Research All Faculty Notes and Definitions Click here for guidance on accessing this dashboard using assistive technology. The race/ethnicity and gender composition of the applicant/nominee pool is required under applicable laws and regulations of the U.S. Department of Labor’s Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs (OFCCP) and the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC). Revised Federal Race / Ethnicity Categories American Indian or Alaska Native – A person having origins in any of the original peoples of North and South America (including Central America), and who maintain cultural identification through tribal affiliation or community attachment. Asian – A person having origins in any of the original peoples of the Far East, Southeast Asia, or the Indian Subcontinent, including, for example, Cambodia, China, India, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Pakistan, the Philippine Islands, Thailand, and Vietnam. Black or African American – A person having origins in any of the black racial groups of Africa. Hispanic or Latino – A person of Cuban, Mexican, Puerto Rican, South or Central American, or other Spanish culture or origin, regardless of race. Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander – A person having origins in any of the original peoples of Hawaii, Guam, Samoa, or other Pacific Islands. White – A person having origins in any of the original peoples of Europe, the Middle East, or North Africa Notes on Rank: In 2007, the Faculty of Arts and Sciences adjusted its tenure and promotions process in response to recommendations by the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Tenure and Promotions Committee. The report is available here http://www.yale.edu/sites/default/files/files/fas_tenure_report.pdf For more information, go to Office of Institutional Research. Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Facebook Twitter iTunes YouTube Sina Weibo Tumblr