Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Faculty House Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Events Spaces Services Request Information Currently at Faculty House About Weddings Wedding Packages St. Paul's Chapel Social Events Social Event Packages Conferences, Seminars and Meetings Meeting Packages Event Gallery & Testimonials 1st Floor: Garden Level Garden Room 1 Garden Room 2 Ivy Lounge 2nd Floor: Seminar Level Seminar Level Event Space (Full Floor) Seminar Room 1 Seminar Room 2 Seminar Rooms 3 & 4 3rd Floor: Presidential Level Presidential Ballroom (Full Floor) Presidential Room 1 Presidential Room 2 Presidential Room 3 1754 Boardroom 4th Floor: Skyline Level Dining Room & Terrace St. Paul's Chapel View All Spaces Audio Visual Services Virtual Event Services Catering Services All Packages & Menus Daily Luncheons in the Faculty Dining Room Services From Our Partners Cakes from Ron Ben-Israel Additional Partner Services For Faculty, Staff & Outside Guests Current Faculty House Promotions Daily Luncheons in the Faculty Dining Room Exclusively for Columbia Faculty & Staff Columbia Community Hour Our Team Learn More About Columbia University Event Management Faculty House History Artwork at Faculty House University Seminars Sustainability Directions Faculty House Home Image Carousel with 9 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1 Slide 2 Slide 3 Slide 4 Slide 5 Slide 6 Slide 7 Slide 8 Slide 9 Previous Next WELCOME TO FACULTY HOUSE For almost 100 years, Faculty House has provided an elegant space for academic and philosophical discourse, meetings, seminars, conferences, banquets and social events of all scales. Now, as the first event venue in New York to be LEED Gold certified, we continue to provide a unique option for events on campus and in the city - all while taking steps to maximize the sustainability of our events. Experience the warm welcome of our gracious and skilled staff, our exquisite cuisine, and ivy league charm that have been a Faculty House hallmark since 1923. A CAMPUS LANDMARK In 1923 McKim, Mead and White designed our building located in the heart of Morningside Heights. Within minutes of Central Park and midtown Manhattan, Faculty House is the perfect venue to escape urban distractions and experience the energy of the vibrant Columbia campus community. In addition to social events like weddings and bar mitzvahs, Faculty House has been the host facility for Columbia's University Seminars series for decades as well as presentations and speeches delivered by thought leaders across the past century. Martin Luther King, Jr., with "Owl" editor Wally Wood '88GS (center) and other students. Photo by Lawrence J. Howell, courtesy of Wally Wood. One of our notable guests was Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. seen here visiting Faculty House in 1961 after a day in the community in Morningside Heights. TAKE A VIRTUAL TOUR Faculty House is divided into 4 levels, each featuring spaces of different sizes with a distinct elegance meshed with a warm, traditional ivy league ambience. 1st Floor The Garden Level 2nd Floor The Seminar Level 3rd Floor The Presidential Level 4th Floor The Skyline Level LET US BE PART OF YOUR HISTORY Let our team show you how we bring together historic beauty, warm hospitality, amazing cuisine and the latest technology to create events that you'll remember for years to come. (Scroll through the images below to learn more about our services.) MEETINGS WITHOUT BOUNDS Our traditionally elegant yet high tech meeting spaces are perfect for anything from small, intimate meetings, to large conferences, to virtual events reaching thousands. In fact, Faculty House hosts a number of Columbia events including the University Seminar series. WEDDINGS WITH A VIEW Faculty House, the Columbia campus and surrounding area provide magical backdrops as you say "I do" with the whole city as your witness. ST. PAUL'S CHAPEL This recently-restored historic landmark sits just steps away from our entrance on Columbia's Morningside campus and provides a breathtaking and convenient setting for weddings and other religious ceremonies. The Chapel is non-denominational and welcoming to all. SOCIAL EVENTS Celebrate a milestone moment in one of our spaces. Whether you're celebrating an anniversary, a bar or bat mitvah, a birthday or anything else, we'll help you make it a cherished memory. Lunch Available Daily in Our Dining Room Returning to the Faculty Dining Room soon! Faculty & Staff and guests are welcome to join us for lunch every weekday, beautifully set in the Faculty House Dining Room. We also host a monthly Community Hour, providing time for our faculty and staff to relax and catch-up with one another. Faculty House is a LEED Gold Certified Facility. Learn more about our commitment to sustainability. Faculty House64 Morningside Drive, Mail Code 2301 · New York, NY 10027 Phone phone: 212-854-1200 fax: 212-851-1043 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close