Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Faculty Revision of Faculty Evaluation Processes Current Faculty New Faculty Orientation Why Georgia Tech Colleges and Schools Life at Tech Resources Diversity & Accessibility Relocation Visit Campus Deans, Chairs, & Directors Policies & Handbooks Faculty Hiring Promotion & Tenure Mentoring Handling Grievances Internal Resources Legal Affairs Diversity & Accessibility Faculty Affairs Reps Banner Access Faculty Hiring Time Away Faculty Relocation Offer Letter Templates Internal Resources Promotion & Tenure Faculty Professional Development About Us Programs and Services Coaching and Consulting APL Mentoring Program Mentoring Resources Resources Recognition and Awards News & Events About Us Directory Contact Us EU GDPR Privacy Notice Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Faculty Relocation Getting Started If relocation has been specified in the offer letter, the faculty member should submit the signed Relocation Repayment Agreement (.doc) to the hiring department. The departmental administrator will then submit the Relocation Initiation Form, and the Office of Faculty Affairs will initiate the relocation process. For information about self-moves or what is covered under relocation, please refer to the appropriate policy above. In order to move household and office goods using Georgia Tech relocation services, faculty should contact their school/unit administrator to begin the process once an official offer has been accepted. Relocation Assistance Beginning July 1, 2018, any offer of relocation assistance will be processed via lump-sum payment, in conjunction with the PolicyLibrary.gatech.edu/Academic-Affairs/Relocation-Assistance-Policy. Employees will be required to sign a Relocation Repayment Agreement (.pdf) and the department will be required to submit a Relocation Lump-Sum Payment form (.pdf). These forms should be submitted to Faculty Affairs through GT-TRACS no later than 10 days prior to payroll running for the month. All lump-sum payments will be paid through a departmental account. For tenured, tenure-track, and research faculty, a commitment to 616 for the lump-sum amount will need to be processed via GT-TRACS. Please contact your departmental administrator in the hiring unit with any questions about the offer. Pending Relocations Offered Prior to July 1 Any new tenured or tenure-track faculty member starting on or after July 1, 2018 who have already received an offer letter referencing the old relocation policies will have the option of moving under the old policy or the new lump-sum policy. If the employee chooses to move under the new policy, they will be reimbursed at the new rates outlined in the Guidelines for Faculty Relocation. If the employee chooses to move under the old policies, which can be found in the relocation policy (.pdf) and moving expense policy (.pdf), the process below should be used: Once a faculty member is ready to initiate the relocation process, a departmental administrator should Submit a Relocation Initiation Form, attaching a signed Relocation Repayment Agreement (.doc). Faculty Affairs will then authorize the move with the relocation company, and a customer service representative will contact the faculty member to make arrangements. After the move, the faculty member should submit receipts to the departmental administrator, who will complete the Relocation Reimbursement Expense Request (.pdf) and the request to Faculty Affairs. Requests should arrive in Faculty Affairs no later than 50 days after the move. Reimbursement For relocation-related expenditures, reimbursement can be processed once all receipts have been received. To prevent delays in repayment, forms and receipts should be received by Faculty Affairs within 50 days of the move’s completion. The following information will need to be submitted: Completed Relocation Reimbursement Expense Request (.pdf) GT ID# (the nine-digit number on your BuzzCard) Travel-related receipts such as airplane tickets, lodging, and tolls Mileage map (e.g., MapQuest or Google) of the most direct route (if driving), including total mileage, from the previous residence to the new residence in the Metro Atlanta area Still have Questions? We're here to help! Contact Us! Accessibility Information Per accessibility compliance standards, this page may have links to files that would require the downloading of additional software: Download Adobe Reader Download Microsoft Products Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Georgia Institute of Technology 237 Uncle Heinie Way, Suite 111 Atlanta, GA 30332-0740 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login