Skip to Navigation Skip to UConn Search Skip to Content Our websites may use cookies to personalize and enhance your experience. By continuing without changing your cookie settings, you agree to this collection. For more information, please see our University Websites Privacy Notice. UConn University of Connecticut school of University of Connecticut Search University of Connecticut Search UConn A to Z Index UConn A to Z Index Faculty & Staff Search this SiteSearch in https://facultystaff.uconn.edu/>Search Toggle navigation Faculty & Staff Home About UConn Academics Academic Calendar Academic Majors & Programs Advising Bursar Classroom Buildings Commencement Financial Aid Services Global Affairs Graduate School Libraries Office of the Registrar Student Health and Wellness Administration Board of Trustees Community Outreach Faculty and Staff Handbook Office of the President Office of the Provost Student Affairs University Administration University Senate University Policies Research Office of the Vice President for Research Centers & Institutes Research & Clinical Trials OpenCommons@UConn Undergraduate Research Services Bookstore Covid Guidelines Document Production Center Environmental Health and Safety EHS Environmental Programs Facilities Operations General Counsel Human Resources Office of Institutional Equity One Card Office Parking Services Purchasing Public Safety Recreation Travel Office University Design Services Tech Support Computer System Status NetID ITS Tech Support Internet Access (Guests) Search this SiteSearch in https://facultystaff.uconn.edu/>Search Quick Resources TimeCard Email Login Phonebook Maps ITS Husky CT Student Admin Alerts / Closings Covid-19 Tools Covid Dashboard Faculty and Staff Resources Remote Learning Employee Testing Business Resources Library Conference & Event Planning Brand Standards University Design Services Faculty Consulting Social Media Consultation Workorder Processing Employee Tools Arts & Culture Dining Core CT Time-Reporting Codes Labor Contracts and Unions Employee Benefits UConn Jobs Upcoming Events May 31 Doctoral Defense Of Shiv Shah - "Development Of A Synthetic Artificial Stem Cell System As A Regenerative Therapy For Oseoarthritis"9:45am × Doctoral Defense Of Shiv Shah - "Development Of A Synthetic Artificial Stem Cell System As A Regenerative Therapy For Oseoarthritis" Tuesday, May 31st, 2022 09:45 AM - 12:00 PM UConn Health Low Learning Center & Zoom - link in description Abstract: Stem cell therapy has gained much interest in regenerative engineering. The regenerative potential of stem cells comes from two main mechanisms: 1) multipotent ability to differentiate into multiple cell lineages and replace injured tissue and 2) secretion of bioactive factors to signal regenerative processes in surrounding cells. However, stem cell therapy faces limitations such as limited availability and spontaneous phenotypic and genetic changes during expansion. The paracrine action of stem cells has been attributed as one of the major contributing factor to regeneration, though the composition of the secretome is highly dynamic and dependent on the cell’s microenvironment. This dissertation evaluates the feasibility of a synthetic artificial stem cell. The goal is to harness the paracrine action of stem cells, capable of controlled release of a tailored secretome factors at the site of injury. Osteoarthritis, a highly prevalent degenerative disease characterized by inflammation followed by subsequent matrix degeneration, is used as a disease model. In an in vitro co-culture model with inflamed chondrocytes, the anti-inflammatory and chondro-protective potential of SASC is found to be comparable to adipose derived stem cells (ADSCs), with a more potent short term effect. Further, the regenerative potential of two injections of SASC was observed in a rat osteoarthritis model, with SASC attenuating matrix degeneration similar to ADSC treatment. The resulting cartilage in the SASC treated group was also found to be biomechanically competent and similar to ADSC treated cartilage. A second treatment injection was observed to increase joint swelling, i.e. local inflammation. Therefore, a further study was done to evaluate the feasibility of a single SASC injection and identified a higher dose needed to achieve similar histological outcomes compared to the two injection system. Finally, the impact of SASC treatment on immune and inflammatory response in the joint space is studies and in vitro studies are done to show how SASC modulates the major inflammatory pathway involved in osteoarthritis: the NF- κβ pathway. By taking a specific approach to engineer disease modification, SASC compositions can be tailored for other tissues and the system and be expanded to create a tailored stem cell substitute. Zoom link: https://zoom.us/j/91925139973?pwd=UXhBVDdSVlorSHV1VGtKVDJBUnVIZz09 Contact Information: Katie O'Keefe, katie.okeefe@uconn.edu, (860) 486-6096 More May 31 Tuesday Tours at Spring Valley Student Farm2:00pm × Tuesday Tours at Spring Valley Student Farm Tuesday, May 31st, 2022 02:00 PM - 06:00 PM Storrs Campus 104 Spring Manor Road, Storrs CT We invite you to visit Spring Valley Student Farm during the summer! Tours are open to all. The students living and working at SVSF will lead guided tours of the fields, greenhouses, and edible forest garden where we cultivate a wide variety of sustainably grown vegetables, herbs, edible flowers, and small fruits. You will also have the opportunity to learn about our ongoing projects and sustainability initiatives and stay to volunteer if you desire. Please email the farm manager at Jessica.larkin-wells@uconn.edu or call 203-215-9345 so that we can expect you. Contact Information: jessica.larkin-wells@uconn.edu More May 31 Infectious Diseases Intercity Grand Rounds4:30pm × Infectious Diseases Intercity Grand Rounds Tuesday, May 31st, 2022 04:30 PM - 05:30 PM UConn Health Zoom Meeting The ID Intercity Grand Rounds are held every Tuesday afternoon Time: 4:30 – 5:30 PM Zoom Conference Link: ID Intercity Grand Rounds Meeting ID: 994 3035 0214 Passcode: 940559 Learning Objectives: Participants will (be able to): 1. Recite the evidence or expert opinion associated with the most critical aspect of the case presented or journal article discussed. 2. Identify one or more barriers to implementing the evidence or expert opinion in practice. 3. Describe one or more strategies necessary either to implement the evidence/expert opinion or overcome any barrier to implementation. Accreditation: The University of Connecticut School of Medicine is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education (ACCME) to provide continuing medical education for physicians. The University of Connecticut School of Medicine designates this live activity for a maximum of 1.0 AMA PRA Category 1 Credit(s)™. Physicians should claim only the credit commensurate with the extent of their participation in the activity. Conflict of Interest Policy: All faculty members participating in CME activities provided by the University of Connecticut School of Medicine are required to disclose to the program audience any actual or apparent conflict of interest related to the content of their presentations. Program planners have an obligation to resolve any actual conflicts of interest and share with the audience any safeguards put in place to prevent commercial bias from influencing the content. Contact Information: Kim Hackett - hackett@uchc.edu More Jun 1 Writing Hartford Undergraduate Prize12:00am × Writing Hartford Undergraduate Prize Wednesday, June 1st, 2022 12:00 AM - 11:59 PM Hartford Campus HTB Last day to submit Writing Hartford Undergraduate Prize submissions. Contact Information: Scott Campbell, scott.campbell@uconn.edu More Jun 1 Frontiers In Playful Learning12:00am × Frontiers In Playful Learning Wednesday, June 1st, 2022 12:00 AM - 11:59 PM Storrs Campus varied Games scholars at the University of Connecticut are pleased to announce the inaugural Frontiers in Playful Learning Conference to be held at the UConn Storrs campus from Wednesday, 1 June 2022 through Friday, 3 June 2022. For more information, and to register, visit http://frontiers.education.uconn.edu Contact Information: stephen.slota@uconn.edu More Jun 1 Neurosurgery M&M Cranial And Spine 6:15am × Neurosurgery M&M Cranial And Spine Wednesday, June 1st, 2022 06:15 AM - 07:15 AM UConn Health Virtual Event / ASB- Third Floor-Conf Rm These are educational monthly rounds presented by Ketan Bulsara, MD, CME credits are granted. These take place on the first Wednesdays of each month. Virtual Event: https://uchc.WebEx.com/meet/Neurosurgery Contact Information: dhpatel@uchc.edu More Jun 1 Inclusive Classroom: Facilitating The Success Of International Students10:00am × Inclusive Classroom: Facilitating The Success Of International Students Wednesday, June 1st, 2022 10:00 AM - 11:00 AM Other Oline What are some ways to make courses work better for international students? How can instructors foster belonging and activate diversity to enhance learning? In this interactive workshop, we will share experiences, scenarios, and opportunities that often arise when students and instructors from diverse parts of the world gather in a class. Tools and strategies will be suggested for promoting interaction and helping international students learn. The goal of the workshop is to enhance participants' recognition of: • cultural and linguistic diversity • implicit bias • international students' challenges • effective course activities for openness and trust • tools and strategies for equitable participation Depending upon the interests of participants, the discussion may also include: • Dual-language learning, thinking, and note taking • Difficult dialogues and teaching in the context of geopolitical conflict • Things that are on your mind Register- https://fins.uconn.edu/secure_inst/workshops/workshop_view.php?ser=2480 Contact Information: stacey.valliere@uconn.edu More Jun 1 Graduate Assistant Payroll Procedures11:00am × Graduate Assistant Payroll Procedures Wednesday, June 1st, 2022 11:00 AM - 12:00 PM Storrs Campus WebEx A great opportunity to ask any questions staff may have about the process of adding incoming or continuing grads to payroll for Fall 2022. We will talk about SmartHR templates, important dates and deadlines, payroll overrides, tuition waiver issues, and supplemental employment, and we will go through the payroll audit process and discuss the most common mistakes and ways to prevent them so that your grad payroll transactions are processed as smoothly as possible. Register through this link: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfmfqQe8kr53WtXBHgrwpRmwp_gcCzOpF4g1U_emLANebxRWw/viewform Facilitators: Gena Twarz, Graduate Payroll Manager, Payroll Department Megan Petsa, Director of Graduate Student Administration, The Graduate School Contact Information: Megan Petsa, megan.petsa@uconn.edu More Faculty/Staff Daily Digest Important University-Wide Announcements Support for Students -- Recent Mass Shootings As the news outlets continue to provide updates about the status of the recent mass shootings in Uvalde, Texas and Buffalo, NY, and the impact on the world;... [Read More] Training and Professional Development Class Activities Demo Series (With Opportunity to Class Activities Demo Series (With Opportunity to Practice!) Wednesday, June 1, 2:00-3:15 Online Presenter: Xiaochen Liu, CETL-Faculty DevelopmentIn... [Read More] Inclusive Classroom: Facilitating the Success of.. Inclusive Classroom: Facilitating the Success of International Students Online Wednesday, June 1, 10:00-11:00 Presenter: Xiaochen Liu, CETL-Faculty DevelopmentWhat... [Read More] TGS Timely Topics - GA Payroll Procedures The Graduate School’sSpring 2022Timely Topics Series Timely Topics is a series of opportunities to engage with subject matter experts on... [Read More] CME/CPE Public Health Data Exchange Making the Connection:Local & National Perspectives on Public Health Data ExchangeProvided by University of Connecticut School of Pharmacy &... [Read More] Appointments, Retirements, and Searches AmeriCorps (10-Month CT Position)--Gap/Other Year Health360 is currently accepting applications for the CT Area Health Education Center (AHEC) Network HEALTHForward AmeriCorps program. The HEALTHForward... [Read More] Call for Faculty Director Women in STEM LC Office of First Year Programs & Learning Communities * University of Connecticut Internal Call for Faculty Director WiMSE House Learning CommunityThe... [Read More] Institute of the Environment Names Deputy Director Dear Colleagues:I am pleased to announce the appointment of Dr. Ashley M. Helton as the Deputy Director of the Institute of the Environment (IoE). Dr.... [Read More] Job Opening: BUSN External & Alumni Rel., Stamford Job Opening UConn Tech Park: Academic Assistant 1 Receive or Submit Announcement UConn Today Outstanding Undergraduate Advising Awards go to Pharmacy Faculty and Staff Read 2022 Pharmacy Student Health Fair Now on YouTube Read An Online Program Supports Mental Wellbeing for Parents and Children Affected by Divorce Read Electronic Health Record Coming to UConn Health’s NICU Read More News on UConn Today If you encounter a broken link or problem with this website, please submit a request to the Webmanager. University Communications Lakeside Building 34 North Eagleville Road, Storrs CT, 06269 Maps & Directions 860.486.3530 communications@uconn.edu Quick Resources Timecard Email Login Phonebook Maps ITS Husky CT Student Admin Alerts/Closings Helpful Links UConn UConn Health UConn Foundation UConn Handbook Academic Calendar Human Resources Research Technology Services Connect with Us Social Media Directory © University of Connecticut Disclaimers, Privacy & Copyright Accessibility Webmaster Login UConn Home A-Z Index Recovery Act / Stimulus Information