Skip Top Navigation Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Dartmouth Directory Arts & Sciences Faculty ← Back to faculty directory César Alvarez Assistant Professor Academic Appointments Assistant Professor of Music CÉSAR ALVAREZ (they/them/theirs) is a composer, lyricist, playwright, and performance maker. They create large experimental musicals as non-normative possibility spaces for embodiment, inter-dimensionality, socio-political transformation, kinship and coexistence. With a background as a jazz saxophonist, band leader and sound artist, César's work inhabits a space between the worlds of theater, music, performance art and social practice. César was a 2018-20 Princeton Arts Fellow, 2020-22 Hermitage Fellow, a recipient of The Jonathan Larson Award, The Kleban Prize in Musical Theatre for lyrics and a Guggenheim Fellowship in 2022. César is currently under commissions from Playwrights Horizons and Denver Theater Center. [show more] César has written five full-length musicals: FUTURITY World Premiere: A.R.T/Walker Art Center Off-Broadway: Soho Rep/Ars Nova 2016 Lucille Lortel Award for Outstanding Musical Off-Broadway Alliance Award for Best New Musical The Elementary Spacetime Show Development: New York Stage & Film, Polyphone, FringeArts/UArts, NYU/Playwrights Horizons Theater School, Ensemble Studio Theater, Ars Nova The Universe is a Small Hat Development: Berkeley Rep Ground Floor, The Civilians R&D Group, Babycastles, PRELUDE, Sarah Lawrence College, Princeton University NOISE Development: NYU/Playwrights Horizons Theater School, The Public Theater. Commission of The Public Theater and NYU/PHTS. The Potluck Commission of Barbara Whitman and Beth Williams César also composed the music for Branden Jacobs-Jenkins' An Octoroon (Soho Rep, TFANA. Drama Desk Nomination), The Foundry Theater's Good Person of Szechwan (LaMaMa, The Public Theater. Drama Desk Nomination) and released four albums with The Lisps. In 2015 César co-founded Polyphone, a festival of new and emerging musicals at the University of the Arts in Philadelphia. They served as Artistic Director for five seasons. César has developed work in residencies and workshops with Soho Rep, Ars Nova, New York Theater Workshop, The Public Theater, The Civilians, A.R.T., MassMoCA, HERE, Ensemble Studio Theater, Playwrights Horizons Theatre School/NYU, Sarah Lawrence College, The University of the Arts, Princeton University, Adelphi University, PRELUDE, Joe’s Pub, Ucross/Sundance, SPACE at Ryder Farm, and The Vineyard Arts Project. [show less] Curriculum Vitae Personal Website cesar.alvarez@dartmouth.edu Hallgarten 105 HB 6187 Department(s): Music Education: B.M. Oberlin Conservatory M.F.A. Bard College Areas of expertise Songwriting, New Musicals, Participatory Theater, Music Production My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback