Skip to main content Link to TU homepage × Close Menu College of Arts & Sciences College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Business College of Health Sciences College of Law Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Faculty & Adjuncts Andy Tracy, PhD, MSN, CRNA Andy Tracy, PhD, MSN, CRNA Assistant Director, Nurse Anesthesia Program Clinical Assistant Professor of Nursing College of Health Sciences Nursing ant7946@utulsa.edu 918-631-3120 Website Oxley Health Sciences Facility Room 519 Curriculum Vitae Education PhD – University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee MSN – Rush University BSN – University of Minnesota Bio Dr. Tracy is originally from rural Wisconsin where he grew up on a dairy farm. He is a Veteran having served in the US Army as an aviation mechanic, flight engineer, and technical inspector. Dr. Tracy earned his BSN from the University of Minnesota-Twin Cities, his MSN from Rush University (Chicago, IL), and his PhD from the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee. His research interests include role transition of nurse anesthetists, pain management, and whole health. Research Interests Qualitative and quantitative methodologies including online/digital methods. Role transition from RN to SRNA to CRNA and factors affecting successful transition. Regional, complementary, and alternative therapies for acute and chronic pain management Teaching Interests Pathophysiology & Pharmacology Principles of Anesthesia Simulation Airway techniques and devices Regional techniques Publications Book Chapters Tracy, A. (2021). The certified registered nurse anesthetist. In D. Gillespie. The Many Roles of the Registered Nurse. (pp. 359-364). Cambridge Scholars Publishing. (Chapter 31: ISBN-13: 978-1527561571). Chapter submitted to editors, awaiting final publication/printing Textbook Chapters Tracy, A. (2021). The certified registered nurse anesthetist. In D. Gillespie. The Many Roles of the Registered Nurse. (pp. 359-364). Cambridge Scholars Publishing. (Chapter 31: ISBN-13: 978-1527561571). Courses Taught Advanced Principles of Nurse Anesthesia Practice II Anesthesia Clinical Practicum I Advanced Pharmacology for Nurse Anesthet Advanced Physiology and Pathophysiology For Nurse Anesthetist II Advanced Principles of Nurse Anesthesia Practice I Advanced Physiology and Pathophysiology For Nurse Anesthetist I Basic Principles of Anethesia Basic Principles of Anesthesia For Nurse Anesthetist I Professional Affiliations Oklahoma Association of Nurse Anesthetists GLMA Health Professionals American Association of Nurse Anesthetists Awards & Honors NBCRNA Visiting Research Fellow Nurse Excellence Award Nursing Daisy Award 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT