Skip to main content Link to TU homepage × Close Menu College of Arts & Sciences College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Business College of Health Sciences College of Law Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Faculty & Adjuncts Betsy Rosenblatt Betsy Rosenblatt Professor of Law College of Law Law betsy-rosenblatt@utulsa.edu Curriculum Vitae Education JD – Harvard Law School BA – Williams College Bio Professor Betsy Rosenblatt teaches intellectual property courses including Copyright Law, Trademark Law, Patent Law, and Video Game Law, as well as Civil Procedure. Before coming to Tulsa, Prof. Rosenblatt spent two years teaching at U.C. Davis Law School and nine years on the faculty of Whittier Law School in Southern California. She has also taught at USC Gould School of Law, UCLA Law School, Loyola Law School (Los Angeles), and University of Maastricht (Netherlands). After graduating from Harvard Law School, Prof. Rosenblatt practiced intellectual property litigation at the firm of Irell & Manella in Los Angeles, where she specialized in the areas of entertainment, copyright, trademark, and patent law. She represented clients in television, video game, film, semiconductor, DNA microarray, consumer electronics, and other industries. She currently volunteers as the Chair of the Legal Committee of the Organization for Transformative Works (www.transformativeworks.org). Professor Rosenblatt's scholarship focuses on intellectual property theory and intersections between intellectual property law and social justice. Her work has been published by the U.C. Irvine Law Review, U.C. Davis Law Review, Florida Law Review, Florida State Law Review, DePaul Law Review, Colorado Law Review, Columbia Journal of Law & the Arts, Harvard Journal of Law & Gender, and University of Ottawa Press, among others. She is a frequent speaker at scholarly conferences as well as more popular venues like San Diego Comic Con and South by Southwest. Research Interests Intellectual Property Law & Theory Entertainment Law & Theory Social Justice Popular Culture and Fandom Gender & Sexuality Teaching Interests Copyright Law Trademark Law Patent Law Intellectual Property Law Video Game Law Civil Procedure Publications Law Reviews Copyright’s One-Way Racial Appropriation Ratchet, 53 U.C. Davis L. Rev. 591 (2019). Fair Use as Resistance, 9 U.C. Irvine L. Rev. 377 (2019). Who Will Speak for The Slender Man?: Dialogism and Dilemmas in Character Copyright, 70 Fla. L. Rev. Forum 69 (2019). Belonging as Intellectual Creation, 82 Missouri L. Rev. 91 (2017). The Adventure of the Shrinking Public Domain, 86 Colo. L. R. 561 (2015). Fear and Loathing: Shame, Shaming and Intellectual Property, 63 DePaul L. R. 1 (2014). Intellectual Property’s Negative Space: Beyond the Utilitarian, 40 Florida State Law Rev. 441 (Spring 2013). A Theory of IP’s Negative Space, 37:3 Columbia J. Law & the Arts 317 (2011). Rethinking the Parameters of Trademark Use in Entertainment, 61 Florida L.R. 1011 (Dec. 2009). Deborah A. Widiss, Elizabeth L. Rosenblatt, and Douglas NeJaime, Exposing Sex Stereotypes in Recent Same-Sex Marriage Jurisprudence, Harvard Journal of Law and Gender, Vol. 30:2 (Summer 2007). Book Chapters “What one man can invent another can discover”: The British Patent Controversy and the Sherlock Holmes Canon, in Canon Law (BSI Press, 2018). A Good Practical Knowledge of British Law: Intellectual Property and Copyright Issues (with Jonathan Kirsch), in Sherlock Holmes: Behind the Canonical Screen Transformative Works: Young Women’s Voices on Fandom and Fair Use (with Rebecca Tushnet), in eGirls, eCitizens: Girls’ Experiences of Gender, Privacy and Equality Online (U. Ottowa Press, 2015). Stained Vows: “The Second Stain” and English Matrimonial Law, Irregular Stain (R. Katz & A. Solberg, eds, 2014). Book Reviews What’s Law Got to Do With It? (Book review of Creativity Without Law (NYU Press, Aaron Perzanowski and Kate Darling, eds.)) 30 I.P.J. 407 (2018) Journal Articles The Great Game and the Copyright Villain, 23 Transformative Works & Cultures (2017) A Pretty Little Intellectual [Property] Problem: Understanding the “Free Sherlock” Ruling, 64:1 The Baker Street Journal 28 (Spring 2014). Sherlock Holmes Fan Fiction, 62:3 The Baker Street Journal 33 (Winter 2012). Courses Taught Tulsa Law Review Civil Procedure II Civil Procedure I Intellectual Prop Law 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT